November 10, 2020||India||Srinagar DM asks HC bar to clarify if it sees Kashmir as ‘a dispute’||SRINAGAR: The J&K High Court Bar Association on Monday received a notice from the Srinagar district magistrate, asking it to "clarify" whether it sees Kashmir "as a dispute or an integral part of the country". The communication, which came a day ahead of the bar association's scheduled internal election, left the office-bearers stumped, sources said. In its reply to the DM, the association said it would "deliberate on the issue tomorrow" and send a formal response. According to the notice, the administration has taken note of the fact that the bar association's constitution mentions taking "steps to resolve issues concerning the public, including the larger issue of peaceful settlement of the Kashmir dispute" as being part of its "primary objective". "You are required to explain your position on the subject, since it's not in consonance with the Constitution of India, whereby J&K is an integral part of the country and not a dispute; and also in conflict with the Advocates Act of 1961, which governs the subject vis-à-vis administrative legal points," states the notice received by the president and the election committee of the bar association. Besides giving an "explanation", the bar association has been asked to submit certain documents and certificates to the administration. Senior advocate Mudasir Ahmad, who is the association's election commissioner, said the notice appeared to be "a threat" to the bar. "My job is to conduct the election. As far as the notice is concerned, we will deliberate on it. There are 2,000 lawyers affiliated to the bar."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/srinagar-dm-asks-hc-bar-to-clarify-if-it-sees-kashmir-as-a-dispute/articleshow/79136944.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 10, 2020||India||Sovereignty, terror on agenda as Modi joins Xi, Imran for SCO meet||PM Narendra Modi will for the first time come face to face with Chinese President Xi Jinping, since the ongoing military standoff was reported in May this year, at the 20th SCO heads of state summit that will be held virtually on Tuesday. Cross-border terrorism, Afghanistan, economic cooperation with focus on connectivity, energy and efforts to contain Covid-19 are among the issues on top of Modi's agenda for the Eurasian group meeting that will be chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin and also see the participation of Pakistan PM Imran Khan. While the meeting will be held virtually because of the global pandemic, it will still provide Modi an opportunity to reiterate in the presence of Xi the need for all to respect sovereignty and regional integrity and also to ensure transparency while pursuing connectivity initiatives. The virtual format though also means that the 2 leaders won't be able to have a bilateral meeting, unlike when they met at the Bishkek SCO summit last year and discussed issues related to the border. India and China remain locked in a tense standoff in eastern Ladakh and, while the situation seems to be calming down, efforts to arrive at a breakthrough in 8 rounds of talks for disengagement and de-escalation are yet to yield any result. With Khan watching, Modi is also likely to call for action against countries who support terrorism. The last SCO summit saw Modi calling for an international conference to combat terrorism. Interestingly, while Khan has confirmed his participation for the summit that will be held by Russia on Tuesday, Islamabad is yet to convey to India who will represent Pakistan in the SCO heads of the government meeting that will be hosted virtually by India on November 30. India has invited Khan as per the SCO Charter but he's likely to stay away, like with the Saarc Covid meeting hosted by Modi earlier this year, and ask instead one of his ministers to represent him. Official sources said that apart from the Moscow Declaration on Tuesday, there will be SCO statements on issues like the commemoration of the 75th Anniversary of World War II, digital economy, covid-19, countering the spread of terrorism, Including on the Internet, and drug threat. "There will also be other decisions relating to major projects and initiatives in trade and economic sphere of activities. The report of the activities of the SCO Secretariat and the SCO RATS (Regional Anti-Terrorist Structure) will also be adopted," said a source. Afghanistan remains one of the major focus areas for SCO and with the country in the middle of another peace process, Modi is likely to reiterate India's support for an Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled inclusive peace process. A prompt resolution of the situation in Afghanistan is seen as essential by member states for enhancing peace and stability in the SCO space. Modi has participated in all SCO heads of state summit since 2017, when India, and also Pakistan, became a full member of the group. The summit deals with all issues related to the group including political, security, trade, economic and cultural. The annual heads of summit will be held for the first time in virtual format. Russia is the current Chair of SCO. Heads of states of all 8 member states – Russia, China, India, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan will be present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sovereignty-terror-on-agenda-as-modi-joins-xi-imran-for-sco-meet/articleshow/79136995.cms||Sachin Parashar
November 10, 2020||World||Azerbaijan says it shot down Russian helicopter over Armenia||YEREVAN: Azerbaijan said Monday that it shot down a Russian military helicopter that was flying over Armenia. Two Russian servicemen were killed. The helicopter was shot down as it flew near the border with the Azerbaijani exclave of Nakhchivan, which is surrounded by Armenia, Iran and Turkey. The area is distant from Nagorno-Karabakh, the region where Armenian and Azerbaijani forces have been fighting heavily since late September. The Russian Defense Ministry said earlier that the aircraft was outside the conflict area. But a statement from the Azerbaijani Foreign Ministry said the conflict was a factor in the incident. The ministry noted that the helicopter was flying in the dark at low altitude and ``in the context of these factors and in light of the tense situation in the region and increased combat readiness in connection with possible provocations of the Armenian side, the duty combat crew decided to open fire to kill.'' Azerbaijan has been making advances in Nagorno-Karabakh and seemingly scored a major victory on Monday. A spokesman for the Nagorno-Karabakh region's government said Azerbaijani forces took control of a strategic city in the separatist territory and were nearing its capital. The seizure of Shushi _ which Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev had claimed a day earlier _ is the most significant military development since fighting between Azerbaijani and Armenian forces over Nagorno-Karabakh restarted in September. The region lies in Azerbaijan but has been under control of ethnic Armenian forces backed by Armenia. THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. AP's earlier story follows below. YEREVAN, Armenia (AP) _ Azerbaijani forces took control of a strategic city in the separatist territory of Nagorno-Karabakh and were nearing its capital, a spokesman for the region's government confirmed Monday. The seizure of Shushi _ which Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev had claimed a day earlier _ is the most significant military development since fighting between Azerbaijani and Armenian forces over Nagorno-Karabakh restarted in September. The region lies in Azerbaijan but has been under control of ethnic Armenian forces backed by Armenia. Reflecting the strategic importance of the city, Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinian insisted that ``the fight for Shushi is continuing,'' indicating Armenian forces were either trying to retake the city or prevent advances toward the capital. Shushi's position just 6 miles (10 kilometers) from the regional capital of Stepanakert gives strategic advantage to whoever holds it. The city also lies along the main road connecting Stepanakert with Armenia. Long lines of vehicles jammed the territory's main road on Sunday as Nagorno-Karabakh residents fled the fighting into Armenia. ``Unfortunately, we are forced to admit that a series of failures still haunt us, and the city of Shushi is completely out of our control,'' Vagram Pogosian, a spokesman for the president of the government in Nagorno-Karabakh, said in a statement on Facebook. ``The enemy is on the outskirts of Stepanakert.'' In an episode that will likely add to the tensions in the region, a Russian military helicopter was shot down in Armenia near the border with Azerbaijan. Two servicemen were killed, but the Russian Defense Ministry said the aircraft was outside the conflict area. The helicopter was downed near the border with Nakhcivan, an exclave of Azerbaijan surrounded by Armenia, Turkey and Iran. It was not clear who shot it down. The ministry said the helicopter was accompanying a military convoy, but did not say what the purpose of the convoy was. Russia maintains a large military base in northern Armenia, about 90 miles (150 kilometers) from the site where the helicopter was downed. Nagorno-Karabakh was an autonomous republic during the Soviet era. As the Soviet Union began to break apart, there were clashes and then full-scale war erupted after the Soviet collapse in 1991. An estimated 30,000 people died in the fighting, which ended with a 1994 truce. Since then, international mediation efforts to determine the region's final status faltered, and the region was separated from the rest of Azerbaijan by a demilitarized zone. The current fighting has continued despite the declaration of several cease-fires. Armenia says more than 1,200 Armenian troops have been killed in the war; Azerbaijan has not stated its losses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/azerbaijan-says-it-shot-down-russian-helicopter-over-armenia/articleshow/79138161.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||India will need 6 crore vials for Covid-19 shots in first 6 months||NEW DELHI: India would require around 6.10 crore glass vials to pack Covid-19 vaccines for the first six months once a vaccine is available and pharma companies developing the shots have indicated they have sufficient stock to cater to the immediate demand. There is also an additional capacity to manufacture 9.3 crore vials over next six months, while some of the vial-makers are also planning to further augment capacity, official sources said. A government sub-committee — under the National Expert Group for Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 — which is examining supply chain and logistics has prepared a blueprint with projected demand, inventory, spare capacity and the plans of companies to ramp up. Read AlsoPfizer's Covid-19 vaccine: All you need to knowNEW DELHI: A vaccine jointly developed by Pfizer and BioNTech was 90 per cent effective in preventing Covid-19 infections in ongoing Phase 3 trials, the companies announced Monday. The statement was released as soaring coronavirus cases across the world have forced many millions of people back intoThis plan has been drawn after consultations with vaccine manufacturers and vial-makers to ensure there is full preparedness while expectations are rife that a vaccine against Covid-19 will be ready for rollout in early 2021, a senior official said. “The three vaccine makers — Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute and Cadila — which are working on Covid-19 vaccines have indicated that they will together need around 6.10 crore glass vials to store the vaccine in the first six months and that they have sufficient stock with them to cater to this demand. We have also held meetings with vial-makers who have indicated their spare capacity to manufacture more,” the official said. Major players in the vial manufacturing segment include Schottkaisha, Saint Gobain, Borosil Klasspack and Gerresheimer India. The health ministry has indicated that once the Covid-19 vaccine is approved, it will be administered to 20-25 crore people including healthcare and front-line workers by mid-2021. A two-dose vaccine would mean around 50 crore doses in the first phase. Coronavirus in India: Complete coverage Vaccine manufacturers say the vaccine can be stored in multi-dose vials and one vial can store up to 10 doses, significantly bringing down the requirement for vials. However, the government has asked vial manufacturers to expand the capacity, if required. The government also has an inventory of vials under its universal immunisation programme which can also be utilised in case of shortages, officials said. Meanwhile, vial-makers are also looking at innovative technology to develop vials that can carry even more doses. This can be helpful in future as India is likely to cater to a huge export demand too along with its local requirements for vaccine once it is launched, industry executives said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-will-need-6-crore-vials-for-covid-19-shots-in-first-6-months/articleshow/79138394.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Why are COVID cases increasing in Delhi unlike other parts of India? It is because of the killing air pollution: Docs||With the onset of winters, chances of getting a common flu are higher. And as COVID-19 cases rise in the city and the poor air quality continues to choke citizens, doctors suggest the next few months be taken seriously. People with respiratory illnesses have a hard time as air quality worsens, so the last thing you’d want to expose yourself to is COVID. Apart from taking serious precautionary measures, doctors say one shouldn’t forget that we are in the middle of a pandemic, and poor air quality will not make the situation better for NCR residents. ‘Government needs to ban crackers across the country’ Dr Arvind Kumar, Chairman, Centre for Chest Surgery, and Director, Institute of Robotic Surgery, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, says that he’s already seeing the effects of cold air and pollution with respect to COVID. “In the last two weeks, there has been a steep rise in the number of people testing COVID positive. In our hospital, about eight-ten doctors have tested positive in 10 days, which is a far bigger weekly number than we’ve witnessed in the last few months. I’ve been operating since May, and we’ve been conducting regular tests on our patients before surgery. Till now, about one in 50 would be COVID positive but in the last two weeks, 10% of the patients are testing positive. We need to take drastic measures to reduce pollution. In the OPD, there’s a sudden rise in the people coming with cough, cold and breathlessness. Till about two weeks back, national figures were going down. The national figures are still low but Delhi is witnessing a steep rise. It is because of pollution,” he says. Dr Arvind Kumar adds that we need to take serious measures to control pollution. “There are so many vehicles out on the streets. People seem to have forgotten that COVID’s still around. If this continues, Diwali will be disastrous for us. I was choking on the day of Karwa Chauth because people were bursting crackers. Add to this tonnes of more crackers, and we will choke to death. The government needs to issue an order that due to coronavirus, crackers will be banned across the country. If that is not done, we are in for serious times and the worst affected will be our new-borns,” he points out. Increasing pollution levels in the capital is also making people more vulnerable to COVID, say expertsIn areas with higher pollution, more people fall sick due to COVID: StudiesDr Vivek Nangia, Principal Director & HOD, Institute of Respiratory Pulmonary Intensive Care (Saket Complex) at Max Super Speciality Hospital, says there are enough studies showing that in areas with higher pollution, the number of COVID cases rise significantly, and so does the mortality rate. A Harvard study shows that someone who lives for decades in a county with high levels of fine particulate pollution is 8% more likely to die from COVID-19 than someone who lives in a region that has just one unit (one microgram per cubic meter) less of such pollution.“This happens primarily because whenever PM2.5 particles increase, the COVID virus tends to stick to them remain suspended in the air for a longer period. As a result, the virus’ survival chances in air is higher, and this is when the disease starts to spread more,” he says. The doctor adds, “Another mechanism also is that air pollution results in inflammation of the airways which makes an individual more susceptible to catching COVID.” Be extra careful this winter“You should be more careful during this time because it’s the flu season and with the weather changing, if you get a common cold, you start thinking about COVID. This winter, you need to be extra careful,” says Dr Anupam Sibal, Group Medical Director and Senior Pediatrician, Apollo Hospitals Group. Talking about what one can do to stay protected, the doctor shares, “Individuals can get flu shots that protect you from influenza. Follow SMS – sanitisation, mask wearing and social distancing – which has to be taken all the more seriously with rising COVID cases. There’s a need for reinforcement of basic precautions that need to be taken, and it’s extremely important that people realise it.” Wearing masks properly is a must to keep oneself safe from COVID as well as pollution||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-are-covid-cases-increasing-in-delhi-unlike-other-parts-of-india-it-is-because-of-the-killing-air-pollution-docs/articleshow/79131739.cms||Riya Sharma
November 10, 2020||Delhi||#LocalWaliDiwali: Visit Uttam Nagar’s Kumhar Colony for diyas and decor items||Diwali is supposed to be the peak season for pottery makers of Kumhar Colony in Uttam Nagar. But as buyers remain elusive amid the pandemic, pottery makers – while they are gearing up for the festival – are doubtful if it will at all be a ‘Happy Diwali’ for them. The area has hundreds of families who have learnt the art of pottery making from their forefathers. The houses remain open for tourists to click pictures, buyers to take a closer look of what they are buying and to give a visitor a first-hand experience of how a potter works. Kishori Lal makes 2,000 diyas, approx, a day. He says that COVID-19 pandemic has badly impacted his business this yearKishori Lal | 72Kishori Lal, 72, who makes approx 2,000 diyas a day, tells us, “This pottery wheel has been my source of income all my life. I learnt this work from my forefathers. As the coronavirus hit us, people stopped coming to the market. We had hopes from Karwa Chauth but most of our stock is still here. Pehle Diwali ki sale se humare 6 mahine nikal jate thay, par ab log humse Diwali ke diye nahi lenge toh hum kya khayenge?” Rajesh Kumar lives with 21 other family members in a home where other members are also in the pottery making businessRajender Kumar | 45While Kishori Lal mentions that his kids teach pottery making in schools, Rajender Kumar, a 45-year-old potter from the same market, lives with 21 other family members in a home where other members of his family are also in the business of pottery making. “It has been 25 years since I learnt the art of pottery making from my father.  Ghar mein sab yahi kaam karte hain,” he shares as he makes Diwali diyas inside his home. “We all work inside our homes, and till now, I am unsure of Diwali. Kaam aa bhi sakta hai, aur nahi bhi,” he shares. She sells a regular diya for Rs 1.5 and a decorated one for Rs 3Sheela | 60As we walk towards the other side of the market, we find Sheela, a 60-year-old, painting diyas. She shares that while she makes and paints diyas, everyone in the family takes turns to switch work. “ Abhi toh paint kar rahi hoon, phir jab Diwali khatam ho jayegi, toh mitti ka kaam hi karenge. Ye kaam koi sikhata nahi hai, bas aa jata hai kyunki zindagi bhar yahi dekha hai. We sell these earthen diyas for rs 1.5 if it’s a regular diya and the decorated ones are sold for Rs 3,” she says. Ask her if she has any hopes from Diwali that sales will pick up and she replies, “ Iss saal, kya hi Diwali hai! Par kuch samaan bik jaye toh kaafi hoga.” From clay wind chimes to decorated pots and colourful diyas, Uttam Nagar’s Kumhar Colony has variety of options to choose from Watch #LocalWaliDiwali: Visit Uttam Nagar's Kumhar Colony for diyas and decor items||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/localwalidiwali-visit-uttam-nagars-kumhar-colony-for-diyas-and-decor-items/articleshow/79132392.cms||Riya Sharma
November 10, 2020||Patna||Will Tejashwi get to open CM innings? Bihar polls verdict today||PATNA: D-Day is here. All eyes are on Bihar, waiting for the counting of votes to begin on Tuesday for the 243 assembly seats in the state and one Lok Sabha bypoll in Valmiki Nagar. Is Bihar politics on the cusp of a generational shift? This question, which is uppermost on the minds of the state’s voters, will be answered when the counting begins at 8 am across 55 centres in the state and the results start flashing on TV. If the exit polls are correct, Bihar is on the threshold of a seismic shift as the Mahagathbandhan, led by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, is predicted by a majority of pollsters to win the polls. However, if the results belie the exit poll results, the people of Bihar will have reposed their faith in the “sushashan” of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Read AlsoBihar readies for D-day amid predictions of changeBihar might be on the cusp of a major generational shift in politics as it braced for Tuesday's counting of votes for the assembly election, with most pollsters predicting a landslide for the Grand Alliance led by the RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. Counting will be taken up at 55 centres across 38Ashish Sinha, a BSc student from Biharsharif, wrote on his Facebook page on Monday: “Lalten wale kahte hain Nitish ne kya kiya? Maine kaha tum jis ghar mein jhakas bulb jala rahe ho na, ye Nitish ne hin kiya (RJD supporters ask what Nitish did? I tell them that it was because of Nitish that your house is illuminated with electric bulbs).” Pat came the reply from Ashish’s FB friend from Katihar, Sandip Rai: “Bijli jalane se pet bharta hai to bolo. Rojgar kise diya hai bolo (Can electricity satisfy hunger? Tell me who got jobs from Nitish).” More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerA JD(U) leader, preferring anonymity, said it was the same as a young son telling his parents that they did nothing for him. As Tejashwi turned 31 on Monday, RJD workers raised slogans at the party office: “Bihar mein raftaar hai, Tejashwi Sarkar hai, Nitishe jimeddar hai (Bihar has speed, Tejashwi is to govern and Nitish is responsible for that).” Inadvertently, the last part of the slogan is loaded with meaning: that it was Nitish who not only revived the RJD but also launched Tejashwi in Bihar politics in a big way as his deputy by joining hands with Lalu Prasad and forming government in 2015. Bihar elections 2020: Complete coverage Tejashwi impressed people as a keen learner, active politician and ambitious administrator as deputy CM under Nitish before the JD(U) chief dumped RJD and formed government with BJP in 2017, which earned him the epithet of ‘paltu chacha’. But even the critics of Nitish cannot deny turnaround he brought about in Bihar, which had become synonymous with lawlessness (jungle raj) and was bereft of any development worth the name before 2005, be it during Lalu and Rabri Devi rule or the previous governments mostly run by Congress. However, as the exit polls show, the people of the state appear to have denied Nitish another term as he hinted recently that this election could be his last. Or, the aspiring youths and first-time voters, who had not seen such a situation prevailing before 2005 in Bihar, found the 15 years versus 15 years of Lalu-Rabri and Nitish meaningless as much water has flown down the Ganga in the last 30 years, which is greater than the age of many of them. Only the poll results will tell whether PM Narendra Modi and his BJP were unable to set a new agenda despite losing power in many states in the recent past, or if Nitish’s JD(U) missed the writing on the wall by harping on “jungle raj”. The people of Bihar have already voted on this issue in 2005 and 2010, and it had lost its meaning after Nitish and Lalu joined hands after their dismal performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Read AlsoBihar will give you birthday gift: Lalu Yadav to TejashwiRJD chief Lalu Prasad wished his son Tejashwi Yadav on his 31st birthday, saying the people of Bihar will give him a gift on Tuesday, when state election results are announced. Almost all the exit polls have predicted a win for the RJD-led Grand Alliance, which has projected Tejashwi Yadav as its CMThe results will also prove whether BJP is still the party with a difference. Many of its hardcore loyalists have queered the pitch for many NDA candidates by either joining the fray as Independents or staying neutral as the alliance fielded someone against whom they had fought hard in the 2015 assembly election and 2019 parliamentary polls. If Tejashwi forms government, the biggest challenge for him will be to rein in diehard Lalu loyalists and supporters to prove that he meant it when he said in his election rallies that “sab ko sath leke chalenge”, a difficult promise in a caste-volatile state like Bihar. That Tejashwi is aware of the fear was evident from his appeal to RJD supporters to “behave themselves and accept the mandate, whatever it may be, with grace”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/is-bihar-on-cusp-of-seismic-shift-election-verdict-today/articleshow/79139078.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 10, 2020||---||Will Tejashwi get to open CM innings? Bihar polls verdict today||PATNA: D-Day is here. All eyes are on Bihar, waiting for the counting of votes to begin on Tuesday for the 243 assembly seats in the state and one Lok Sabha bypoll in Valmiki Nagar. Is Bihar politics on the cusp of a generational shift? This question, which is uppermost on the minds of the state’s voters, will be answered when the counting begins at 8 am across 55 centres in the state and the results start flashing on TV. If the exit polls are correct, Bihar is on the threshold of a seismic shift as the Mahagathbandhan, led by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, is predicted by a majority of pollsters to win the polls. However, if the results belie the exit poll results, the people of Bihar will have reposed their faith in the “sushashan” of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Read AlsoBihar readies for D-day amid predictions of changeBihar might be on the cusp of a major generational shift in politics as it braced for Tuesday's counting of votes for the assembly election, with most pollsters predicting a landslide for the Grand Alliance led by the RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav. Counting will be taken up at 55 centres across 38Ashish Sinha, a BSc student from Biharsharif, wrote on his Facebook page on Monday: “Lalten wale kahte hain Nitish ne kya kiya? Maine kaha tum jis ghar mein jhakas bulb jala rahe ho na, ye Nitish ne hin kiya (RJD supporters ask what Nitish did? I tell them that it was because of Nitish that your house is illuminated with electric bulbs).” Pat came the reply from Ashish’s FB friend from Katihar, Sandip Rai: “Bijli jalane se pet bharta hai to bolo. Rojgar kise diya hai bolo (Can electricity satisfy hunger? Tell me who got jobs from Nitish).” More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerA JD(U) leader, preferring anonymity, said it was the same as a young son telling his parents that they did nothing for him. As Tejashwi turned 31 on Monday, RJD workers raised slogans at the party office: “Bihar mein raftaar hai, Tejashwi Sarkar hai, Nitishe jimeddar hai (Bihar has speed, Tejashwi is to govern and Nitish is responsible for that).” Inadvertently, the last part of the slogan is loaded with meaning: that it was Nitish who not only revived the RJD but also launched Tejashwi in Bihar politics in a big way as his deputy by joining hands with Lalu Prasad and forming government in 2015. Bihar elections 2020: Complete coverage Tejashwi impressed people as a keen learner, active politician and ambitious administrator as deputy CM under Nitish before the JD(U) chief dumped RJD and formed government with BJP in 2017, which earned him the epithet of ‘paltu chacha’. But even the critics of Nitish cannot deny turnaround he brought about in Bihar, which had become synonymous with lawlessness (jungle raj) and was bereft of any development worth the name before 2005, be it during Lalu and Rabri Devi rule or the previous governments mostly run by Congress. However, as the exit polls show, the people of the state appear to have denied Nitish another term as he hinted recently that this election could be his last. Or, the aspiring youths and first-time voters, who had not seen such a situation prevailing before 2005 in Bihar, found the 15 years versus 15 years of Lalu-Rabri and Nitish meaningless as much water has flown down the Ganga in the last 30 years, which is greater than the age of many of them. Only the poll results will tell whether PM Narendra Modi and his BJP were unable to set a new agenda despite losing power in many states in the recent past, or if Nitish’s JD(U) missed the writing on the wall by harping on “jungle raj”. The people of Bihar have already voted on this issue in 2005 and 2010, and it had lost its meaning after Nitish and Lalu joined hands after their dismal performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. Read AlsoBihar will give you birthday gift: Lalu Yadav to TejashwiRJD chief Lalu Prasad wished his son Tejashwi Yadav on his 31st birthday, saying the people of Bihar will give him a gift on Tuesday, when state election results are announced. Almost all the exit polls have predicted a win for the RJD-led Grand Alliance, which has projected Tejashwi Yadav as its CMThe results will also prove whether BJP is still the party with a difference. Many of its hardcore loyalists have queered the pitch for many NDA candidates by either joining the fray as Independents or staying neutral as the alliance fielded someone against whom they had fought hard in the 2015 assembly election and 2019 parliamentary polls. If Tejashwi forms government, the biggest challenge for him will be to rein in diehard Lalu loyalists and supporters to prove that he meant it when he said in his election rallies that “sab ko sath leke chalenge”, a difficult promise in a caste-volatile state like Bihar. That Tejashwi is aware of the fear was evident from his appeal to RJD supporters to “behave themselves and accept the mandate, whatever it may be, with grace”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/is-bihar-on-cusp-of-seismic-shift-election-verdict-today/articleshow/79138811.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||Arnab Goswami interrogated as CJM allows cops to question him for 3 hours daily||MUMBAI: The Alibaug chief judicial magistrate on Friday granted permission to police to interrogate Arnab Goswami and the two other accused in judicial custody for three hours daily, it emerged on Monday. As Goswami was sent to judicial custody last Wednesday, police had sought permission from the magistrate to question him and the other two accused in the Anvay Naik abetment to suicide case, saying without police custody, their probe had halted as their revision application against grant of judicial custody before the sessions court was pending. The court granted permission to interrogate the three, as otherwise under law, police do not have access to an accused who is in jail custody without an order of the court. A 10-member squad of Raigad police on Monday interrogated Goswami and two others who are now lodged in Taloja jail for three hours, inspector Jamil Shaikh of Raigad crime branch, who is the investigating officer, said. The officer said three teams interrogated Goswami, Firoz Shaikh and Neetish Sarda in the afternoon. Goswami, Firoze Shaikh and Sarda were shifted to Taloja Central prison on Sunday after the Raigad police claimed Goswami was active on social media over phone while in judicial custody at the makeshift quarantine centre at Alibaug civic school. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeIn the hearing on the police’s revision application before sessions court challenging rejection of a 14-day police custody plea, defence counsel Vijay Aggarwal for Sarda argued at length on Monday. His argument was on the maintainability of the revision application, which also sought orders to prohibit the magistrate from hearing and passing bail orders in the matter. Aggarwal cited three SC judgments to state that the remand order was an interlocutory order and hence no revision plea could be entertained. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat, in turn, cited a judgment of the Gujarat HC, which had explained what the SC meant, to argue that it was a final order of remand and hence the revision plea ought to be heard on merit. Read AlsoBombay HC rejects Arnab Goswami's interim bail pleaThe Bombay high court on Monday rejected the interim bail plea of Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami in an alleged abetment to suicide case. Goswami and two others - Feroze Shaikh and Nitish Sarda - were arrested by Alibaug police on November 4 in connection with the suicide ofGoswami’s counsel Aabad Ponda argued that both revision and bail applications be heard simultaneously. The sessions court will pass orders first on the preliminary maintainability issue raised by Aggarwal on the revision plea on Tuesday. The bail pleas will also be taken up on Tuesday. Inspector Shaikh said, “Interrogating the accused Arnab Goswami lodged at Taloja jail will be a time-consuming affair as we will have to travel daily for two hours from Alibaug to reach Taloja jail and will have restrictions to interrogate him only for three hours as per the CJM order. Police custody would be convenient to carry out the interrogation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arnab-goswami-interrogated-as-cjm-allows-cops-to-question-him-for-3-hours-daily/articleshow/79139123.cms||George Mendonca
November 10, 2020||---||Bihar post-poll survey predicts 139 seats for Mahagathbandhan||NEW DELHI: A day before Bihar assembly poll results are declared, a CSDS-Lokniti post-poll survey indicated a victory for the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan while the NDA was seen falling far short of the halfway mark. A pre-poll survey by CSDS-Lokniti had shown the Mahagathbandhan winning 131 seats, a comfortable majority in the 243-seat assembly. The post-poll survey showed the alliance bettering its prospects with a forecast of 139 seats. The NDA tally, which was 92 in the pre-poll survey, showed a slight improvement with the coalition predicted to win 100 seats in the post-poll survey. The Chirag Paswan-led LJP, which fielded candidates against the JD(U) and walked out of the NDA in the state on the eve of polls, is likely to face a drubbing, with the survey predicting four seats for it, up from the two it currently holds. The party had contested around 130 seats. The CSDS-Lokniti survey showed that the 10-lakh job promise, the key poll plank of the RJD, helped the Mahagathbandhan in a big way. It also showed that barely half the traditional BJP voters chose the JD(U), yet another factor working in favour of the RJD and its allies. Read AlsoWill Tejashwi get to open CM innings? Bihar polls verdict todayD-Day is here. All eyes are on Bihar, waiting for the counting of votes to begin on Tuesday for the 243 assembly seats in the state and one Lok Sabha bypoll in Valmiki Nagar. Is Bihar politics on the cusp of a generational shift? This question, which is uppermost on the minds of the state’s voters,The CSDS-Lokniti conducted surveys in two phases before the polls started and also during the three phases of the polls. The pre-poll surveys were conducted from October 10 to 17 and the post-poll surveys were held from October 29 to November 9. More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerThe two surveys show that the Mahagathbandhan’s graph soared after electioneering began. The alliance was ahead of the NDA in both phases of the surveys and consolidated its lead further. In the pre-poll surveys, the Mahagathbandhan was expected to fetch 32% votes but registered an impressive gain, ending up with the likelihood of getting 39% of the vote share in the post-poll surveys. The NDA, which looked ahead in the pre-poll surveys, was seen getting around 38% of votes but looks to be going down with 36% in post-poll findings. The post-poll surveys found that RJD leader and face of the Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Yadav, was the most popular choice to take over as chief minister with over 40% people supporting him. Only 27% had plumped for Yadav in the pre-poll surveys. In case of CM Nitish Kumar, 36% people in the post-poll surveys supported another term for him, up from his pre-poll rating of 31%. Only 5% voters in both the phases of surveys rooted for Paswan. Development, unemployment, inflation, poverty and education were key issues on which respondents were queried. Development was the key issue for 29% respondents in the pre-poll phase, which soared to 36% in the post-poll surveys. 20% respondents in the pre-poll phase termed unemployment a key issue and 23% in the post-poll phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-post-poll-survey-predicts-131-seats-for-mahagathbandhan/articleshow/79139415.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar post-poll survey predicts 139 seats for Mahagathbandhan||NEW DELHI: A day before Bihar assembly poll results are declared, a CSDS-Lokniti post-poll survey indicated a victory for the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan while the NDA was seen falling far short of the halfway mark. A pre-poll survey by CSDS-Lokniti had shown the Mahagathbandhan winning 131 seats, a comfortable majority in the 243-seat assembly. The post-poll survey showed the alliance bettering its prospects with a forecast of 139 seats. The NDA tally, which was 92 in the pre-poll survey, showed a slight improvement with the coalition predicted to win 100 seats in the post-poll survey. The Chirag Paswan-led LJP, which fielded candidates against the JD(U) and walked out of the NDA in the state on the eve of polls, is likely to face a drubbing, with the survey predicting four seats for it, up from the two it currently holds. The party had contested around 130 seats. The CSDS-Lokniti survey showed that the 10-lakh job promise, the key poll plank of the RJD, helped the Mahagathbandhan in a big way. It also showed that barely half the traditional BJP voters chose the JD(U), yet another factor working in favour of the RJD and its allies. Read AlsoWill Tejashwi get to open CM innings? Bihar polls verdict todayD-Day is here. All eyes are on Bihar, waiting for the counting of votes to begin on Tuesday for the 243 assembly seats in the state and one Lok Sabha bypoll in Valmiki Nagar. Is Bihar politics on the cusp of a generational shift? This question, which is uppermost on the minds of the state’s voters,The CSDS-Lokniti conducted surveys in two phases before the polls started and also during the three phases of the polls. The pre-poll surveys were conducted from October 10 to 17 and the post-poll surveys were held from October 29 to November 9. More on Bihar pollsComplete coverageNitish MeterData HubThis will make you cry for Bihar all over again ...30 years of 25 CMs or 30 years of 3 CMs: Bihar keeps getting poorerThe two surveys show that the Mahagathbandhan’s graph soared after electioneering began. The alliance was ahead of the NDA in both phases of the surveys and consolidated its lead further. In the pre-poll surveys, the Mahagathbandhan was expected to fetch 32% votes but registered an impressive gain, ending up with the likelihood of getting 39% of the vote share in the post-poll surveys. The NDA, which looked ahead in the pre-poll surveys, was seen getting around 38% of votes but looks to be going down with 36% in post-poll findings. The post-poll surveys found that RJD leader and face of the Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Yadav, was the most popular choice to take over as chief minister with over 40% people supporting him. Only 27% had plumped for Yadav in the pre-poll surveys. In case of CM Nitish Kumar, 36% people in the post-poll surveys supported another term for him, up from his pre-poll rating of 31%. Only 5% voters in both the phases of surveys rooted for Paswan. Development, unemployment, inflation, poverty and education were key issues on which respondents were queried. Development was the key issue for 29% respondents in the pre-poll phase, which soared to 36% in the post-poll surveys. 20% respondents in the pre-poll phase termed unemployment a key issue and 23% in the post-poll phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-post-poll-survey-predicts-131-seats-for-mahagathbandhan/articleshow/79139442.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||7 properties of Dawood kin on the block today||MUMBAI: Seven properties belonging to underworld don Dawood Ibrahim’s family in Ratnagiri will be auctioned by authorities on Tuesday. These properties were in the name of Dawood’s mother, Amina Bi, and late sister, Haseena Parker and are in the family village, Mumbake, and Lote village in Khed taluka of Ratnagiri district. These properties were confiscated under the provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and a section of the Smugglers And Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture Of Property) Act (Safema), 1976. Dawood aide late Iqbal Mirchi’s 1,245sqft flat in Milton Apartments on Juhu Tara Road in Santacruz (west) will also be auctioned and the reserve price is Rs 3.45 crore. Though officials concerned with the Safema properties had said that they wanted to auction all the 13 properties of Dawood’s family, it has been decided that as of now only seven properties would be auctioned. The auction will be conducted through video-conferencing and supervised by Hari Govind Singh, administrator and competent authority under Safema. The Dawood-linked properties include a ground-plus-two-storey bungalow on 27 gunthas (29,403sqft) of land that has a reserve price of Rs 5.4 lakh. Dawood was a frequent visitor at the bungalow. Another 30 gunthas (32,670sqft) with a petrol pump structure and one more building has a reserve price of Rs 61.5 lakh. It is registered in the name of Haseena. The properties are said to have been bought with the proceeds of crimes. While two properties are registered under Haseena’s name, the remaining are in the name of Amina Bi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/7-properties-of-dawood-kin-on-the-block-today/articleshow/79139480.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 10, 2020||India||DRDO develops fire-fighting system for buses||NEW DELHI: The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) has developed a fire mitigation system in buses, which can detect fires in less than 30 seconds and extinguish it within a minute. The wider rollout of this technology will come as a big help to check mishaps, which often result in claiming multiple lives, particularly in sleeper buses. A live demonstration of the technology, “Fire Detection and Suppression System (FDSS)”, was given on Monday at an event attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Road Transport Minister Nitin Gadkari. The road transport ministry said demonstrations were given on water mist-based FDSS for passenger compartment and aerosol-based FDSS for engine fire. The FDSS for passenger compartment comprises a water tank of 80 litre capacity, a 6.8 kg nitrogen cylinder pressurised to 200 bar and a network of tubing with 16 number of atomizers, the ministry said. FDSS for the engine comprises an aerosol generator with which the fire suppression could be achieved within 5 seconds of the system activation. The active fire protection system has been developed by the Centre for Fire, Explosive and Environment Safety (CFEES), a DRDO laboratory. The transport ministry said CFEES has unique competency in the areas of fire risk assessment, fire suppression using different extinguishing mediums, modelling and simulation. It has developed systems for battle tanks, ships and submarines. Although the fire threat is present in all the vehicles, the concern is more for school buses and sleeper coaches for long distance travel. In August this year, at least five persons were killed in a bus fire in Karnataka while another 20 were killed in another similar bus fire in Kannuaj in Uttar Pradesh. There have been several fatal fire accidents in sleeper buses across states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/drdo-develops-fire-fighting-system-for-buses/articleshow/79139569.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||Nation-wide positivity rate down but dip in testing worries Centre||NEW DELHI: Even though India’s Covid-19 positivity rate has been steadily declining over the last three weeks and has come down to 7.19% on November 8 from 7.94% on October 18, the health ministry raised concerns over dip in daily tests in some states like Punjab, Assam and Rajasthan and over delayed hospitalisation in Himachal Pradesh resulting in more deaths. Warning against any complacency, the Centre said respiratory viruses have a tendency to spread rapidly during winters. Moreover, the long festival season poses a significant risk that could threaten the gains made so far in fighting Covid-19. The health ministry held a review meeting with officials of 10 states on Monday to draw attention to problems in their management strategy. These states included Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Kerala, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Haryana, Assam, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. The Centre raised concerns about Punjab’s case fatality ratio (CFR) which is currently at 3.15 — the highest in the country and more than double the national average of 1.49. Within Punjab, the CFR is higher in some districts such as Fatehgarh Sahib (4.7), Roopnagar (4.8), Tarn Taran (4.5), Kapurthala (4.1) and Ludhiana (4.07). The Centre asked the state to examine the causes for high fatalities in these districts. Daily average tests in Punjab have also declined in the last few weeks, officials said. During the review meeting, the health ministry also highlighted considerable decline in testing in Assam and asked state authorities to explore the reasons. “The testing numbers show a sharp fall in Assam,” a senior health ministry official said. “Our data shows that on October 22, 42,452 tests were conducted. That number fell to 28,884 on November 4. Though the number of daily cases has decreased across all districts, the decreased testing is a cause for concern,” he added. Similarly, in Rajasthan, positivity rate is higher in districts like Ganganagar, Alwar, Bikaner, Jodhpur and Jaipur. Raising concerns over delayed hospitalisation leading to death of Covid patients in Himachal, the Centre asked the state to strengthen monitoring of patients who are in home isolation and ensure their quick hospitalisation if their situation worsened. In Himachal, 50% of deaths were found to happen within 48 hours of hospitalisation, most of these within 24 hours, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nation-wide-positivity-rate-down-but-dip-in-testing-worries-centre/articleshow/79139578.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 10, 2020||Business||India is a tremendous market for Hyperloop: Walder||Virgin Hyperloop undertook the first passenger ride in their system at testing facility in the US on Monday, bringing it closer to reality as a mass transport system. In an interview to TOI, Jay Walder, CEO of the company talks about the results of the test run and its implication for its projects in India. Excerpts:How was the test run?We put real people, our own team, our co-founder, went into the Hyperloop pod today. We showed people that it is safe. This really is a major step forward, a major breakthrough, an ability for us to show what’s here and we’re showing that it’s something that people have been waiting for. Could you give us a sense of the event?The test run used our DevLoop test facility, outside of Las Vegas. It’s a tube that is 500 metres, and we ran in that tube. We achieved a top speed of 48 metres per second. We rode for 6.4 seconds, and the total distance travel was 395 metres. We were at the top speed for about 6.4 seconds, the total runtime was about 15 seconds. The passengers were in the Hyperloop the entire time and the total distance travelled was about 400 meters on this. We have one of our engineers, who will be in the second group of passengers riding in the pod tomorrow and he is from Pune. And I think we’re answering the question about when you see someone from India riding in a Hyperloop. Tomorrow. What’s the progress on your India project?We’re very much more than on track. We’re now moving forward on the basis that we expect to have Hyperloop projects completed before end of the decade. We believe India is a tremendous market for Hyperloop. Hyperloop gives us transportation at the speed of an airplane, up to about 1,000 kilometers an hour, it gives us high capacity and the Mumbai-Pune project that we have looked at, we look at carrying up to 150 million people a year. It gives us the ability to have people and cargo operating simultaneously. It allows us to do all of this without polluting the air we breathe, it’s cleaner and greener. We’ll take out about 150,000 ton of carbon out of the air in the project from Mumbai to Pune. We had the impact of Covid. Projects are slower. We’ve been able to kick off some terrific work in Bangalore with the Bangalore International Airport. India has great promise, and it has the opportunity for private investment to be a big part of this. I’ve seen the Prime Minister, speaking recently about private investment in infrastructure in India. This is exactly the kind of example that fits with that. Have more states approached you for such projects?We’ve also been in discussions with some other states about how to be able to do things. But they’re not -- they haven’t moved forward to the point that I’d like to talk about them publicly yet. There are discussions taking place in a number of places across the country. Could you elaborate on the Mumbai-Pune project?The project has made a lot of progress. It’s gone through an awful lot of work to be able to evaluate the route to look at the opportunities to understand what it would mean to be able to do that to take what is today, a four-hour trip between Mumbai and Pune and turn it into a trip that would be 26 minutes. What would be the pricing?We see this as a mass transportation system and it has to be affordable for the masses to be able to have demand. We see the fares as comparable to the cost of a train ticket, probably and being able to do it. But it is a little early to put precision around that but there’s absolutely no question that it has to be an affordable system for people to be able to use and people to be able to use regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-is-a-tremendous-market-for-hyperloop-walder/articleshow/79139646.cms||Surojit Gupta
November 10, 2020||---||Gala time for florists & sweetshops in Bihar||PATNA: With the Election Commission set to announce state assembly election results on Tuesday, florists, sweetshop owners are raking in the moolah. Bouquets, heavy garlands and different varieties of sweets are in high demand. Abhishek Kumar, a flower dealer near Patna Junction, said, “We have received orders from various parties. The RJD has placed an order for a 51kg garland. Bouquets are also finding many takers. We have hired experts from Bengal to lend us a helping hand,” he added. Owner of Poonam Misthaan, a sweetshop near Patna Junction, said the bookings started around a week back. “This is festive season when we generally record rise in sales. This year, elections have further increases sales,” he added. “We have taken special care of hygiene as parties take note of it while placing orders,” he added. Firecracker traders, though, are wary of Covid-19 pandemic. “The pandemic has affected sales. Unlike in the past, we don’t expect parties to go whole hog as far as purchase of firecrackers on the day of election results is concerned,” said Rehan, a firecracker trader in Patna City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/gala-time-for-florists-sweetshops-in-state/articleshow/79136097.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Patna||At party offices in Bihar, workers wait for election results with bated breath||PATNA: With most exit polls predicting victory for RJD-led Mahagathbandhan in the state, the alliance partners were upbeat on the eve of poll results on Monday. Apart from RJD, Congress and Left parties like CPI, CPI-M and CPI-ML are constituents of the alliance. It was jovial environment at Sadaquat Ashram, the headquarters of state Congress, with party workers thronging the office in anticipation of a victory. A pandal has been set up at the office for the workers to sit and watch the poll results on LED screens. Party’s IT cell incharge-cum-state general secretary Sanjeev Singh said the exit polls have given a clear edge to Mahagathbandhan and its victory is imminent. Singh said the party workers have started preparations for the result day. “We have also placed an order for 400kg ladoos,” he said. At the RJD office on Beerchand Patel Marg, arrangements have been made to accommodate party workers. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said the party workers have been warned against use of fireworks, celebratory firing and gulal. “All the party workers have been warned against resorting to uncivil behaviour. If the alliance wins, the celebrations will be peaceful. The main celebration will take place only after the return of party chief Lalu Prasad,” he added. Meanwhile, the JD(U) workers too claimed the NDA would win the polls. “There is no doubt that the NDA will win the polls. The celebrations, however, will be a low-key affair in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. BJP workers were also seen thronging the party office on Beerchand Patel Marg. “Our campaign highlighted achievements of the government and we are sure of party’s victory, no matter what the exit polls say,” a party worker said. BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel too said the NDA would win the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/at-party-offices-workers-wait-for-election-results-with-bated-breath/articleshow/79135946.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 10, 2020||Patna||Covid-19 cases register alarming rise in Patna||PATNA: The number of Covid-19 cases rose alarmingly in Patna on Monday with the district accounting for 432 of 867 cases recorded in the state in the last 24 hours. The 867 fresh cases have taken the state’s Covid tally to 2,23,477. With the virus claiming seven more lives in the last 24 hours, the state’s Covid toll has risen to 1,151. However, with 2,15,587 recoveries, there are 6,737 active cases in the state. While Patna recorded just 166 cases on November 2, it accounted for 306 cases on Sunday, 262 on Saturday and 432 on Monday. The rise in Covid cases in the district this week has worried health experts. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar has blamed recently concluded assembly elections for rise in Covid cases. “Since the incubation period is 2 to 14 days, cases have started emerging now. Changing weather has further complicated the situation. Smog provides surface to the virus to spread its wings. Also, people are not taking necessary precautions these days,” he added. Apart from Patna, Bhagalpur recorded 110 new Covid-19 cases on Monday and Begusarai 68. AIIMS-Patna reported three fresh deaths on Monday. The victims were a 62-year-old man from Pankha Toli in Muzaffarpur, a 65-year-old man from Nalanda and an 85-year-old man from Barao village in Rohtas. Eight new patients were admitted to the hospital and 18 discharged on Monday. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital reported one fresh death on Monday. A 50-year-old man from Chittaur Nagar in Aurangabad died at the hospital. State health minister Mangal Pandey tweeted that 851 people recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate, according to the minister, has touched 96.47%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/corona-cases-register-alarming-rise-in-patna/articleshow/79136124.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 10, 2020||Business||Debt flows take MF assets to record high of Rs 28L cr||MUMBAI: Strong inflows in debt schemes lifted mutual fund industry assets to a record high at Rs 28.2 lakh crore at the end of October, although the rise was partially limited by outflows from equity funds, data from industry body AMFI showed. With a net inflow of Rs 1.1 lakh crore in debt schemes and a net outflow of Rs 2,725 crore from equity funds, the fund industry recorded an overall positive flow of Rs 98,576 crore in October, the industry trade body said. After showing a declining trend for seven consecutive months, SIP inflows showed a marginal uptick during the month. In October, monthly contribution from SIPs was at Rs 7,800 crore — up marginally from Rs 7,788 crore in September. At the end of the month, total SIP AUM rose to a little over Rs 3.4 lakh crore, AMFI data showed In the debt segment, the surge in assets came mainly from liquid, money market, short duration, corporate bond and ultra-short duration funds. On the equity side, while sectoral & thematic funds witnessed net flows, multi-cap and value & contra funds witnessed outflows. Multi-cap funds saw outflows as the Sebi-imposed deadline for these schemes to rejig their portfolio neared, industry observers said. Flows into debt funds usually remain volatile due to substantial corporate investments in schemes with extremely short durations, equity funds usually show a steady trend. Industry players feel it would take a while for the trend of outflow from equity schemes to reverse. According to Jean-Christophe Gougeon, director (investment solutions), Sharekhan — an arm of French financial house BNP Paribas, for four months in a row starting July this year, equity flows have been negative, while in June net collections were marginally positive. Seen in the light of huge flows into debt funds, this is “an obvious signal that MF investors are currently cautious”. “The improvement on the Covid-19 front could help MF investors to come back step by step to equity MFs,” Gougeon said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/debt-flows-take-mf-assets-to-record-high-of-rs-28l-cr/articleshow/79138772.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Patna||SpiceJet to launch direct flight between Patna and Pune today||PATNA: Budget-carrier SpiceJet is all set to launch direct flight services between Patna and Pune from November 10 under the winter schedule of Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport. The flight will operate twice a week – on Tuesdays and Fridays. A SpiceJet official said the Pune-Patna-Pune flight (SG-757/756) would land here at 1.30pm and depart for Pune at 2.05pm. The Boeing 737-700 aircraft, which has the capacity to accommodate 149 passengers, will cover the distance between Patna and Pune in two hours and 15 minutes. According to an airline executive, many people from the state living in Pune have already booked tickets in view of Diwali and Chhath festivals. “The direct SpiceJet flight between Pune and Patna, introduced in 2018, had been withdrawn due to unforeseen circumstances,” the executive said, adding one can fly to Pune in a SpiceJet flight by shelling out just Rs 5,542. Meanwhile, two more special flights – a Vistara flight to Bengaluru and a GoAir flight to Delhi – will be operated from Patna airport to cope with rush of passengers during festivals. The airport’s deputy general manager (air traffic management), Santosh Kumar, said the special flights would be operational for short duration. With the addition of new flights, the number of flights operating from Patna airport will increase to 47 from 44. IndiGo will operate 17 flights, SpiceJet 15, GoAir eight, Vistara four and Air India three. Patna airport has direct connectivity to cities like Delhi, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Chennai, Mumbai, Amritsar, Hyderabad, Lucknow, Guwahati and Varanasi. Maximum 15 flights are operating on Delhi route, closely followed by seven on Bengaluru, five on Mumbai and four on Hyderabad routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/spicejet-to-launch-direct-flight-between-patna-and-pune-today/articleshow/79136213.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 10, 2020||Patna||Woman kills husband over liquor addiction in Lakhisarai||PATNA: A woman allegedly killed her unemployed husband by smashing his face and head with a brick over his liquor addiction. He used to thrash her frequently under the influence of liquor, police said. The incident took place at village Kishanpur under Medni Chowk police station area in Lakhisarai district on Sunday. SHO Rubykant Kachhap said the deceased was identified as Sanjay Patel (45). “The accused, Rinki Devi (40), is an anganwadi sevika,” she said. The SHO said Rinki was arrested on Monday after an FIR was lodged against her with Medni Chowki police station by Sanjay’s physically challenged brother Ajay Kumar. Someone had informed the excise department control room about Sanjay creating ruckus under the influence of liquor. The SHO said a police patrolling team was sent to the village to arrest Sanjay. “When police asked Rinki about Sanjay’s whereabouts, she said her husband had fled towards the fields. We suspect Rinki had killed him by that time and kept his body in their single-storey house under construction,” Rubykant said. The SHO said on Monday police received information about Sanjay’s body kept in front of his residence. “Police entered her house and found bloodstains and broken bangles there,” she said. “Rinki confessed that Sanjay had started thrashing her in an inebriated state. She retaliated with equal force and killed him by smashing his face and head with a brick,” the SHO said, adding Sanjay had been to jail at least thrice for his drinking habits. Sanjay was unemployed and sold his land to spend money on consumption of liquor, which is banned in Bihar. She said the couple has two daughters — one married and another studying in Class VIII — and a son with physical disability. “Rinki would be forwarded to jail on Tuesday,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/woman-kills-husband-over-liquor-addiction/articleshow/79136230.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Patna||AIIMS-Patna recommends module to check Covid||PATNA: In a new scientific approach to check further spread of Covid-19 pandemic, the All India Institute of Medical Science-Patna ( AIIMS-P) has recommended a new module involving community participation at district level. This module is said to be equally effective for control of other epidemics and health disasters due to natural or unnatural causes. Published in the Indian journal of medical sciences this week, the module suggested setting up of 10 Community Care Centres ( CCCs), each with 10 beds and necessary medical equipment, in every district of the country for managing patients and providing treatment under the supervision of the district administration. The DMs concerned will be the nodal officer of these CCCs while one doctor of a nearby government medical college would be appointed as the medical officer. AIIMS-P director Dr P K Singh said many states including Bihar have been fighting against a host of diseases like dengue, Japanese Encephalitis, typhoid, malaria, diarrhoea and now the Covid-19 virus and in most of the cases patients had to rush to hospitals for recovery and relief. ‘The CCCs concept, if adopted by the state governments, would not only lessen the load of patients on hospitals in this era of pandemic but would also get treatment at their doorsteps,” said Dr Singh. “We are ready to provide our faculty members to act as medical officers in case of CCCs getting established at district level,” added Dr Singh. The researcher, Dr Anil Kumar, head of trauma and emergency of AIIMS-P said the module proposed that all medical colleges of the states concerned should provide training to resource persons, who could be Asha workers, telemedicine operators, paramedical staff and other health workers. Every CCC would provide a WhatsApp number for sharing of problems by people seeking medical care for Covid-19 or outbreak of other diseases. The CCC should be set up in marriage halls, schools, colleges, panchayat bhawan or other places having an approximate area of 15000 square feet and have proper water, power and sanitation facilities. Dr Anil said the sick and serious patients of Covid or other diseases would be sent to higher centres for treatment but those with mild symptoms can be treated at CCCs. The financial help to purchase the entire fixture and meet consumables may be provided by the state government, NGOs or even individuals willing to serve the ailing humanity. “ It is a module having equally important role of the DMs, doctors, NGOs, paramedics and even local persons joining hands against the hazardous diseases”, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aiims-p-recommends-module-to-check-covid/articleshow/79136159.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Patna||Voter turnout in Bihar assembly polls 0.39% more than in 2015 election: EC||PATNA: The voter turnout in the 2020 state assembly polls was more compared to the 2015 election despite Covid-19 fear, the Election Commission (EC) said on Monday. According to the EC data released after the three-phase election, the overall voter turnout this time has been 57.05%, which is 0.39% more than the 56.66% in 2015 assembly polls. In the 2019 parliamentary election, around 54.90% of male and 59.58% of the female voters had exercised their franchise. The EC officials attributed the reason for rise in the voter turnout to more polling booths set up to follow Covid-19 safety norms. “The number of polling booths was increased from 72,723 in 2015 to 1,06, 515. Similarly, the number of voters at each polling booth was reduced from an average 1400 to 1000 in order to maintain social distancing and Covid guidelines,” a senior official said. He said an intensive voter awareness campaign was launched to ensure maximum people’s participation in the voting process amid Covid-19 pandemic. “We tried to ensure that no voter is left out or miss the opportunity to exercise franchise,” he added. Altogether 5.31 lakh polling personnel and 1.80 lakh security personnel were pressed into service to ensure free, fair and peaceful polling in the state, which has around 7.3 crore electors. Masks, hand sanitisers, gloves, thermal screening, face shields etc were also provided for the safety of polling personnel as well as voters, the official said. Sharing details of voters’ participation in the democratic exercise, he said female voter turnout was comparatively better than their male counterparts. While in the 2015 election, 60.48% of female voters exercised their franchise compared to 53.32% among men. In the 2020 election, while 59.58% of female voters turned up at the polling booths to cast their votes, only 54.68% men exercised their franchise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/voter-turnout-0-39-more-than-in-2015-election-ec/articleshow/79136183.cms||Ramashankar
November 10, 2020||---||Voter turnout in Bihar assembly polls 0.39% more than in 2015 election: EC||PATNA: The voter turnout in the 2020 state assembly polls was more compared to the 2015 election despite Covid-19 fear, the Election Commission (EC) said on Monday. According to the EC data released after the three-phase election, the overall voter turnout this time has been 57.05%, which is 0.39% more than the 56.66% in 2015 assembly polls. In the 2019 parliamentary election, around 54.90% of male and 59.58% of the female voters had exercised their franchise. The EC officials attributed the reason for rise in the voter turnout to more polling booths set up to follow Covid-19 safety norms. “The number of polling booths was increased from 72,723 in 2015 to 1,06, 515. Similarly, the number of voters at each polling booth was reduced from an average 1400 to 1000 in order to maintain social distancing and Covid guidelines,” a senior official said. He said an intensive voter awareness campaign was launched to ensure maximum people’s participation in the voting process amid Covid-19 pandemic. “We tried to ensure that no voter is left out or miss the opportunity to exercise franchise,” he added. Altogether 5.31 lakh polling personnel and 1.80 lakh security personnel were pressed into service to ensure free, fair and peaceful polling in the state, which has around 7.3 crore electors. Masks, hand sanitisers, gloves, thermal screening, face shields etc were also provided for the safety of polling personnel as well as voters, the official said. Sharing details of voters’ participation in the democratic exercise, he said female voter turnout was comparatively better than their male counterparts. While in the 2015 election, 60.48% of female voters exercised their franchise compared to 53.32% among men. In the 2020 election, while 59.58% of female voters turned up at the polling booths to cast their votes, only 54.68% men exercised their franchise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/voter-turnout-0-39-more-than-in-2015-election-ec/articleshow/79140684.cms||Ramashankar
November 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Political parties not in hurry to react, keep fingers crossed||PATNA: The political parties on Monday appeared to be in a state of suspended animation, as they waited for the counting of polled votes to begin on Tuesday morning and hoped their combine will form the next government in Bihar. They have been put in this peculiar situation because most of the exit poll outcomes on Saturday predicted a tight finish or ‘kante ki takkar’ between the NDA mainly comprising JD(U) and BJP and the RJD-led grand alliance, which includes Congress and the three Left parties. The poll pundits, taking into account the exit poll results, have even been visualizing a hung assembly scenario with the minor parties or the alliances of such parties sniffing their chance of being the most sought-after entities once the results are out. However, one of the agencies has almost predicted a sweep for the grand alliance. The RJD had earlier called such an eventuality as “victory of the people of the state”. In that situation, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, an ally of CM Nitish Kumar in the NDA, was the first to give his reaction. “Those grand alliance leaders who are in celebratory mood after the exit poll results, it is requested that they should strongly celebrate it for the time being only,” Manjhi said. Predicting the net outcome of the formal counting of votes on Tuesday, Manjhi also said though not devoid of stray shot at the BJP, “Tomorrow belongs to Bihar, tomorrow belongs to Nitish (Kumar), tomorrow belongs to NDA combine. If there is faith, it is due to Nitish. NDA will win, Bihar will win.” Incidentally, the poll slogan of the BJP was: ‘BJP hai to bharosa hai”. In contrast to Manjhi, his bitter rival Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) continued to throw acerbic remarks against Nitish even on Monday. “We go by the thinking of our leader (Chirag Paswan) that the next government will be the BJP-led government, but it will be ‘Nitish-mukt’ and it is ‘asambhav Nitish’. The LJP will join the BJP-led government, but minus Nitish Kumar,” LJP spokesman Ashraf Ansari said. He, however, said it will depend on the number of seats the LJP wins as it had only two MLAs in the outgoing assembly. “They were elected when we contested in alliance with BJP in 2015,” Ansari said, adding: “It will not affect us, if we do not win even a single seat this time.” However, among the bigger parties, state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said, “We have faith in our silent voters and on the actual counting of polled votes that will be held on Tuesday. We don’t go even by the tight finish that most of the exit polls have predicted. People of the state know the development work that the BJP has done as part of the NDA government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-political-parties-not-in-hurry-to-react-keep-fingers-crossed/articleshow/79135915.cms||Abhay Singh
November 10, 2020||Patna||Votes polled to be counted at 55 centres across Bihar today||PATNA: Arrangements have been made at 55 centres across the state for counting of votes polled in the 243 assembly constituencies. The counting would commence at 8am on Tuesday. Altogether 144 companies of central armed police force (CAPF) and Bihar military police (BMP) are guarding the 55 premises where altogether 1,06,524 EVMS have been stored after people cast their votes to elect their MLAs. CCTV cameras are installed at all the counting centres and halls room for surveillance. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on Monday told TOI that all the strongrooms and counting centres have three-tier foolproof security. “Altogether 19 companies of CISF have been deployed for the security in the innermost cordon while 60 more companies of CAPF and 65 companies of BMP are in and outside the counting centres. Rest of the companies of CAPF and BMP have been deployed to maintain law and order across the state, especially for counting day and afterwards so that no untoward incidents take place,” Kumar said. “DMs and SPs have been directed to change the deployment as per requirements in their respective areas. Joint chief electoral officer Mithilesh Kumar Sahu said candidates or their counting or  agents would be allowed inside the counting centres only if they have been authorized by the returning officers. He said no other unauthorized vehicle or person would allowed to move even around the counting premises. “Traffic will be restricted around the counting centres,” he said. Sahu also said no cellphone, matchbox, tobacco, betel nut or any other such item would be allowed inside the counting centres. East Champaran, Siwan, Begusarai, Gaya have three counting centres each while Madhubani, Purnia, Saharsa, Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Bhagalpur, Banka, Nalanda and Nawada have two centres each. Rest of the districts have one counting centre each. Patna’s AN college has the biggest strongroom-cum-counting centres where votes of 14 assembly constituencies would be counted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/votes-polled-to-be-counted-at-55-centres-across-state-today/articleshow/79136126.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Robots to clean sewers in Gandhinagar||AHMEDABAD: Gandhinagar became the second city in the state after Surat to use a robot for cleaning manholes. The robot can clean manholes up to 8.5 m. The robot has been gifted to the capital project department, which oversees works in Gandhinagar, by Sabarmati Gas Company under its corporate social responsibility. Speaking on the occasion, deputy CM Nitin Patel said that once the results of this robot are analysed, the state government will make it available for corporations and municipalities in the state. The robot can attend to at least 10 manholes in a day. It will also give input on gases present inside. Patel said that the state government, as per the SC directive, has stopped the practice of people being lowered in the manhole for the cleaning work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/robots-to-clean-sewers-in-gnagar/articleshow/79138931.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Unidentified woman found hanging on Nainital NH||NAINITAL: The body of an unidentified woman was found hanging from a tree on the Haldwani-Nainital national highway early on Monday. It was discovered just two km away from Nainital town by locals who were on a morning walk. A local Mamata Rawat, who was one of the first to spot the body, said, “We were strolling on the stretch early in the morning when we discovered the body among the bushes. We alerted the police immediately who rushed to the spot and recovered the body.” Nainital circle officer Vijay Thapa said that the body of the woman, estimated to be around 30 years, has been sent for postmortem to ascertain the cause of death. “Prima facie, it is a murder. As we had suspicion that the woman is a labourer from Nepal, we sought help from some Nepalese workers in the area but to no avail,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unidentified-woman-found-hanging-on-nainital-nh/articleshow/79135614.cms||Prashant Jha
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Rudrapur: Three held with smack worth Rs 30 lakh||RUDRAPUR: The Kumaon unit of a Special Task Force (STF) on Monday arrested three persons for possessing 330 grams of smack, valued at around ₹30 lakh in the international market, according to an estimate given by the police. The alleged drug peddlers used to source the narcotic substance from a supplier in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh and sell it in small quantities in the city and across the Kumaon region. The accused have been identified as Bablu Ali, Nadeem Khan, both residents of Bareilly, and Furqan Ali, resident of Transit Camp area in Rudrapur. STF inspector Mahendra Pal Singh said that prima facie, the probe has revealed that they had been peddling drugs for the past few years. According to Singh, the police team received a tip-off, following which they cordoned off an area near Oriental Bank turn in Matkota farm area on Nainital-Delhi highway. “A bike on which the accused were riding was stopped and during the search, a packet containing 330 grams of smack was recovered from their possession. The accused said that their main supplier — Affaq Khan — was in Bareilly and their job was to peddle the contraband in Udham Singh Nagar district and in the Kumaon area for a portion of the profit from the sales. We are questioning them to trace their aides,” said inspector Singh. The motorbike of the accused has been impounded and the arrested men have been booked under relevant sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/three-held-with-smack-worth-rs-30l/articleshow/79135631.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Father of Kubernagar building collapse victim sets himself ablaze||AHMEDABAD: Santosh Charan, 55, of Kubernagar, father of Prem Charan who had died in a building collapse in Kubernagar on August 28 night, set himself ablaze at the building collapse site on Monday evening, at about 5.30pm. “Santosh Charan suffered burns and has been shifted to Civil Hospital for treatment,” said H B Patel, inspector of Sardarnagar police station. Two workers, Vijay Charan and Kunal Udani had been rescued in the incident, but Prem Charan had died in the collapse of Prem Complex in August.  Police took until Monday, November 9, to register an FIR against Ghanshyam Sindhi, who had removed pillars of to widen floor space and thus weakened the structure, investigation had found. Patel said in August, they had registered a case of accidental death at the time of the incident and Sindhi’s role was discovered in the investigation. “We have registered a case under Section 304 of IPC against Sindhi and held him,” Patel said. Police officials said that on Monday they had called Sindhi to the police station and registered an FIR against him. “At that time Santosh Charan also came there. There was a heated argument between Sindhi and Charan after which Charan went to the site of the building collapse and attempted suicide by pouring kerosene on his body and then setting himself on fire. However, local residents called up the 108 emergency service and got him shifted to Civil Hospital,” Patel said. According to police sources, Vijay Charan who is the owner of the shop used to run a hosiery clothing business and had got an urgent order of about 500 pieces, for which three of them had been working overnight when the building collapsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/father-of-kubernagar-building-collapse-victim-sets-himself-ablaze/articleshow/79139164.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Varanasi||Go ‘local for Diwali’, make India ‘atmanirbhar’: PM Modi||VARANASI: Prime Minister gifted projects worth Rs 614 crore to his parliamentary constituency of Varanasi four days ahead of Diwali, and urged people to go ‘Local for Diwali’ to give a boost to the economy and show the way of helping the country in attaining ‘atmanirbharta’ (self reliance). Addressing people through videoconferencing on Monday morning, PM Modi said, “One of the oldest civilisations having given message about culture, religion and spirituality to the whole world, Kashi now needs to show the way to help attain ‘Atmanirbharta’.” “Today along with ‘Vocal for Local’, the mantra of ‘Local for Diwali’ is echoing everywhere. Celebrate Diwali with local products to give a boost to the economy. I appeal to the people of Varanasi and all countrymen to promote ‘Local for Diwali’ this year,” he said. “Buying local products will reinforce local identity and also brighten up Diwali for those who make them,” the PM added. “Going for local doesn’t mean just buying the clay ‘diyas’ but everything you use in Diwali,” he said, and in a lighter vein, added, “By appealing to go local, I am not asking you to dump previously purchased products or stop buying those articles, which are not produced in the country.” Buying local products this Diwali will encourage local artisans and this will go a long way in setting an example for self-reliance before the country, he added. “Do mouth publicity of local products to promote them as it will boost sales and encourage their makers besides being a contribution in the growth of the economy,” said Modi. Highlighting how Varanasi has witnessed growth in infrastructure, health, education, agriculture, industry and other fronts, he said these developments have reduced dependency of people from eastern parts of the country on centres like Delhi and Mumbai as they are now coming here to avail advanced facilities. Invoking ‘Maa Ganga’, the PM said that Kashi never stops like the flow of Ganga, and it has proved this in Covid-19 pandemic. He praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his team for working hard to ensure the all-round development of Varanasi at an accelerated pace in fields like education, health, civil aviation, sports, farmers’ welfare, better connectivity and urban development. Earlier, PM remotely inaugurated 16 completed projects worth Rs 219.89 crore and laid foundation of 14 development projects worth Rs 394.11 crore. Speaking about the light and sound show on the life of Lord Buddha at Sarnath, work done at Dashashwamedh Ghat and other projects, PM said, “When tourism will revive after the end of Covid-19 pandemic, there will be many new attractions to greet tourists and pilgrims.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-go-local-for-diwalimake-india-atmanirbhar/articleshow/79137170.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 10, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur to rename Azam Khan’s favourite varsity gates to those of war heroes||Rampur: The city administration is gearing up to change the names of the huge gates near Gandhi Samadhi at the entrance of Mohammad Ali Jauhar University, set up by local strongman Azam Khan, to names of Indian war heroes. From now on, the Bab-e-Nijat gate will be known as Colonel Sahabzada Muhammad Yunus Ali Khan gate and Bab-e-Hayat gate as martyr Major Abdul Rafey Khan gate.Col. Sahabzada Yunus had fought in the war with Pakistan over Kashmir in 1948, and was later ADC to India’s first president Rajendra Prasad. Major Abdul Rafey Khan was martyred in the Indo-Pak war of 1965, and was awarded the Vir Chakra. The huge, arched gates, modeled on Delhi’s India Gate and Mumbai’s Gateway of India were constructed in 2014 and were personal favourites of Azam Khan. The move is expected to be a setback for the jailed Samajwadi Party leader. Earlier in 2019, Rampur administration had demolished another Azam Khan favourite, the Urdu Gate, after it was declared to have been built on illegally encroached land.Speaking with TOI, Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh said, “The present generation should not only be inspired by politicians, but also be aware of great personalities who have contributed to the nation. So we have decided the gates should be attributed to the memories of Col. Khan and Major Rafey Khan, both of whom fought wars against Pakistan. The major was also posthumously awarded the Vir Chakra.”He added, “Bab-e-Nijat will now be known as Col. Sahabzada Muhammad Yunus Ali Khan Gate, while Bab-e-Hayat will be renamed Major Abdul Rafey Khan Gate. Another gate, known as Bab-e-Ilm, will be attributed to Maulana Imtiaz Ali Khan Arshi, former director of the Rampur Raza Library. All three personalities had devoted their lives to the nation in their respective fields.” The Rampur DM further said, “The earlier names, etched on the walls of the gates, will however not be deleted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-to-rename-azam-khans-favourite-varsity-gates-to-those-of-war-heroes/articleshow/79133590.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 10, 2020||Rajkot||Runaway BSF jawan booked for Rs 26L fraud||Rajkot: An assistant in-charge of ration fund of the Border Security Force (BSF) in Kutch district was booked on Sunday for allegedly siphoning off Rs 26.11 lakh before becoming untraceable in 2016. The accused Muhammed Umar Yasin was later declared absconder by the BSF. According to the FIR lodged by the BSF at Gandhidham ‘A’ division police station on Sunday night, Yasin was taking care of ration procurement and managing funds as assistant in-charge of ration fund at the BSF campus in Gandhidham in 2016. Yasin used to procure bills from grocery shops, got them cleared by the BSF authorities and siphoned off the amount, instead of making the payment to the grocers or traders, said police. “He (Yasin) had committed the fraud between January 3, 2016 and June 18, 2016,” said J N Chawda, sub-inspector with Gandhidham A division police station. Yasin had gone absconding since June 18, 2016. The accused is from Asara village of Bagpat taluka in Uttar Pradesh. A complaint against him was lodged after grocery store owners started making inquiries for their due payments. Yasin has been booked under sections 409 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code. According to police, after Yasin became untraceable, the BSF instituted an inquiry against him for his unauthorised absence from duty and had also informed the police back then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/runaway-bsf-jawan-booked-for-rs-26l-fraud/articleshow/79135293.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Business||Logistics co Xpressbees raises $110mn||Madhav.Chanchani@timesgroup.com Bengaluru: New-age logistics startup Xpressbees has raised a fresh round of $110 million from Norwest Venture Partners, Investcorp and Gaja Capital. The move comes as demand for e-commerce delivery services has reached a new high due to the pandemic. The latest round will value the Pune-based company at close to $400 million. The transaction will also give an exit to mobile payments company Paytm, which invested in Xpressbees in 2015, with 3-4 times returns. Some other financial investors like Vertex Ventures and NEA have also taken an exit in this round. About $30 million from the $110 million has been used to buy shares from existing investors. Nearly three years ago, Xpressbees had raised capital from Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba. Investors have been looking to back logistics players which have been benefiting from the online shopping boom. Xpressbees plans to use the new capital to rapidly expand its delivery network from about 12,000 pin codes across the country to over 20,000 before the start of sale season in 2020, said its co-founder and CEO Amitava Saha. The company currently ships 7-8 lakh parcels a day, up over five times from about 1.4 lakh parcels a day when it raised capital from Alibaba in early 2018. Xpressbees expects to hit Rs 1,100-1,200 crore in revenues this financial year with ebitda profitability, and has a target of Rs 2,000 crore for FY22. Xpressbees sees a huge opportunity to help traditional retailers and consumer brands sell their products online, as customer habits have shifted during the pandemic. “The area that we want to focus on is omni-channel because we understand that well, given that we came out of FirstCry (which has a network of 400 stores besides e-commerce sales). We want to help companies to do both business-to-consumer (B2C) and business-to-business (B2B) deliveries from the same stock or warehouse,” said Saha. He added that the company plans to offer a “premium service” with an emphasis on technology. Xpressbees also operates through a different model, where it works with small local entrepreneurs that have a background in logistics to run service centres and warehouses. Out of over 2,000 centres on its network, more than 1,500 are run by these local entrepreneurs themselves, while the remaining are owned by the company. This allows it to leverage its technology and expand the network without taking on capex. “We started on this model 3-4 years ago as it can scale fast and be executed cost-effectively. We have been able to expand during the lockdown from 9,200 to 12,000 pin codes, which is not possible in a traditional model,” said Saha. This is what investors feel differentiates it from other players in the market. “The company has been able to scale to profitability by utilising a fraction of the funds raised by similar companies. Xpressbees has also been able to utilise technology to seamlessly weave its owned, franchised and outsourced delivery infrastructure to provide exceptional customer experience driven by tech, which ensures complete visibility, analytics and real-time tracking at a micro-transaction level,” said Niren Shah, MD and head of Norwest Venture Partners in India. The company competes with other online retail-focused logistics services providers like SoftBank-backed Delhivery and Warburg Pincus-backed Ecom Express. Xpressbees is the logistics business that, in September 2015, was spun out of baby and maternity products retailer FirstCry, which was co-founded by Saha and Supam Maheshwari in 2010. FirstCry had started the logistics business in 2012 when it decided to start express deliveries of its products. The unit then forayed into third-party logistics (3PL) at the beginning of 2015, finally becoming an independent business. Since then Saha runs Xpressbees while Maheshwari runs FirstCry, which is backed by SoftBank. Both had worked together at e-learning startup Brainvisa, where Maheshwari was the co-founder and Saha was a senior executive. “Amitava and Supam are proven entrepreneurs and they have the benefit of recycling their experience from their earlier stints, their frugality, not going after vanity metrics. They have built Xpressbees with one of the most diversified customer base in the sector,” said Gopal Jain, managing partner at Gaja Capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/logistics-co-xpressbees-raises-110mn/articleshow/79138728.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Biman Bangladesh suspends ops||Bangladeshi national carrier Biman Bangladesh has suspended the four-times-a-week flights between Kolkata and Dhaka citing poor load. Sources said the reason behind the low passenger count was the requirement to undergo Covid test before arrival in Kolkata. At present, the test-on-arrival facility is only available to passengers on Air India flights from London. With Biman Bangladesh withdrawing flights, the sector will be serviced by US Bangla Air, IndiGo and SpiceJet. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/biman-bangladesh-suspends-ops/articleshow/79136589.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||BJP names new district, city presidents||Gandhinagar: State BJP president C R Paatil on Monday announced the names of 33 new district and nine new city presidents of the party, paving the way for the announcement of a new body at the state organizational level. The decision to appoint new city and district presidents of the party was long overdue.A key BJP source said, “The state party president is likely to announce his state-level team before Diwali.” The source went on to say: “The new team will continue in office until the 2022 state assembly election. The newly constituted team will lead in the upcoming local body elections.”Paatil has attempted to strike a balance between caste and community equations while appointing new district and city presidents. However, the name of the new Ahmedabad city BJP president has not been announced yet||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bjp-names-new-district-city-presidents/articleshow/79138907.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||2 A’bad trains diverted||Ahmedabad: The Gurjar agitation in the neighbouring states has once again resulted in the diversion of trains from various parts of Gujarat. The railways announced that two trains originating from Ahmedabad have been diverted.Railway officials said that the Ahmedabad- Hazrat Nizamuddin train which left Ahmedabad on Monday has been diverted through the Madhopur-Jaipur-Rewari route. The Ahmedabad-Patan train which also left on Monday was diverted along the Madhopur-Jaipur-Bharatpur route. The trains will reach their destinations behind schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-abad-trains-diverted/articleshow/79139070.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Six-year-old sets new Guinness record||AHMEDABAD: A Class II student, Arham Talsania of Udgam School For Children in Ahmedabad, has set a Guinness World Record by clearing the powerful Python programming language exam at the age of six. The exam was conducted at the Pearson VueTest Center authorized by Microsoft on January 23, according to a press statement issued by the school. The test, which is difficult to crack for many engineers, has been passed by this incredible boy, who thus becomes the world’s youngest computer programmer, it said.Arham had the record set by seven-year-old Muhammad Hamza Shahzad, a British boy of Pakistani origin. In an exam where a candidate needed 700 out of 1,000 marks to get the certificate, ArhamTalsania, now 7, scored 900 and got recognized as a ‘Microsoft Technology Associate’, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/six-year-old-sets-new-guinness-record/articleshow/79138977.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Popularity of Congress turncoats to be tested||AHMEDABAD: The public acceptance of the former Congress MLAs who quit the party earlier this year and joined the BJP, will be gauged on Tuesday, as counting of votes will be taken up for the eight assembly seats where byelections were held earlier this month. The bypolls were necessitated because of the eight Congress MLAs resigned ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls, which helped the BJP get its three nominees elected to the upper house of Parliament. Five of the eight turncoat MLAs who subsequently joined the BJP, have been fielded from the same seats they won on Congress tickets in 2017. An official release said that counting of votes will begin at 8am at the designated places in the eight assembly constituencies, where the average voter turnout was 60.75 %. Byelections were held at Abdasa (Kutch), Limbdi (Surendranagar), Morbi (Morbi district), Dhari (Amreli), Gadhada (Botad), Karjan (Vadodara), Dang (Dang district) and Kaprada (Valsad) assembly seats on November 3. Some 81 candidates including those from the BJP and Congress and lesser-known political outfits and independents contested the bypolls. The byelections were held in the shadow of Covid-19. Elaborate precautions were taken by the administration during voting and similar arrangements have been put into place at all eight counting centres, officials said. The byelections will not only be an acid test for the five Congress MLAs who defected to the BJP, they will be the first real leadership test for state BJP president C R Paatil, who campaigned extensively in all eight constituencies. Sources in the ruling party said that there could be a reshuffle in the state cabinet soon and some of the newly elected MLAs could get berths in the Vijay Rupani government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/popularity-of-congress-turncoats-to-be-tested/articleshow/79138900.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Business||Rate war by PSBs sees NBFCs lose car loan marketshare||Chennai: NBFCs are losing market share to banks in car and SUV financing and are shifting their focus to used cars, two-wheelers and commercial vehicles instead. A combination of capital constraints among NBFCs and renewed aggression from public sector banks have led to this situation, said, auto financiers. In a bid to grow their retail portfolio PSU banks are offering auto loans at 7.25% to 7.7% compared to NBFCs whose rates range from 8.75% to 11%. While State Bank of India is offering auto loans starting from 7.7% others are even cheaper with Central Bank of India offering loans at 7.25% followed by Canara Bank (7.3%). United Bank of India (7.4%) and Indian Overseas Bank (7.55%). "In recent times NBFCs have lost market share to PSU banks which have become more aggressive and that includes Tata Motor Finance” said Said Tata Motors group CFO PB Balaji. Unlike banks, NBFCs rely on wholesale funds. Banks are now going slow in lending to finance companies with RBI encouraging banks to take the co-lending model to take advantage of NBFCs network. According to M Ramaswamy, chief financial officer at Sundaram Finance banks are flush with liquidity and can bring down rates. “We are facing pressure in some markets depending on how aggressive they turn. It is a mixed bag for us — we mostly cater to individuals with higher risk profiles and because of our good ratings our cost of funds has also come down so in certain regions we have lost market share and in others, we have gained." Sundaram Finance saw a 20% gap in loan disbursements in the September-ended quarter, 2020. Cholamandalam Inv. & Fin. (CIFC) saw total disbursements down 30% year on year in its vehicle finance segment for the September 2020 quarter And according to research reports of brokerage firm Motilal Oswal. This excludes the tractor and construction equipment (CE) segments. Shriram Transport Finance, disburse Rs 650 crore of loans which was half of last year. Also, 97% of disbursements were in the used vehicle segment. “Our focus is on individual and small truck owners who prefer to buy used vehicles. Normally banks do not lend to used vehicles because it is time-consuming, requires vehicle valuation and ownership transfer paperwork,” said Umesh Revankar, MD & CEO, Shriram Transport Finance. There are nearly 10,000 small and medium NBFCs and 30,000-40,000 private lenders. Ditto for Muthoot Capital Services which, said COO Madhu Alexiouse is into two-wheeler and pre-owned car business and not in new cars or trucks. The PSU bank aggression is beginning to show up on balance sheets as well. Car loans sanctioned by PSU banks like SBI went up by 27% year on year, in the second quarter, and 7% on a sequential basis. For Indian Bank, disbursement of auto loans grew from Rs 3,243 crore in the June quarter, 2020, to Rs 3,353 crore in the September quarter. A senior official at the SBI (Tamil Nadu and Puducherry circle) said “Unlike pre-Covid times, we saw demand and disbursement of car loans doubled even in hill stations like Ooty, in Tamil Nadu. The purchasing trend is unchanged with most of the demand is for cars below Rs 20 lakh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rate-war-by-psbs-sees-nbfcs-lose-car-loan-marketshare/articleshow/79137070.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 10, 2020||Business||Equitas Q2 profit doubles at Rs 103 crore||Chennai: Equitas Small Finance Bank saw its net profits double year-on-year to Rs 103 crore for the September quarter, 2020 due to improved asset quality. Gross non-performing assets ratio of the bank declined to 2.48% in September, 2020, from 2.9% in September, 2019. Net NPA ratio fell to 1.03% from 1.6% in the same period. Its deposit growth of 31% YoY and 10% QoQ at 12,588 crore as on September 30, 2020. Cost to Income has improved to 58.2% in the second quarter, 2020, as compared to 68.4% on a yearly basis and 67.3% sequentially. It has made an additional Covid provision of Rs 26 crore in the second quarter, 2020. The bank now carries Rs 170 crore of Covid related provisions (other than standard and NPA provisions), which constitutes 1.02% of total gross advances. On the capital front, total capital adequacy ratio (CRAR) was above minimum regulatory requirements at 20.9% and Tier-I CRAR of 20.2, as against RBI rules for small finance bank’s CRAR to be at 15% and 7.5% respectively. It reported a collection efficiency growth of upto 94.3% for the month of October, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/equitas-q2-profit-doubles-at-rs-103-crore/articleshow/79137122.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 10, 2020||Business||Equitas Q2 profit doubles at Rs 103 crore||Chennai: Equitas Small Finance Bank saw its net profits double year-on-year to Rs 103 crore for the September quarter, 2020 due to improved asset quality. Gross NPA ratio of the bank declined to 2.48% in September, 2020, from 2.9% in September, 2019. Net NPA ratio fell to 1.03% from 1.6% in the same period. Its deposit growth of 31% YoY and 10% QoQ at Rs 12,588 crore as on September 30, 2020. It has made an additional Covid provision of Rs 26 crore in the second quarter, 2020. The bank now carries Rs 170 crore of Covid related provisions (other than standard and NPA provisions), which constitutes 1.02% of total gross advances. TNN October Gold ETF inflows lowest at Rs 384 cr: Gold ETF inflows touched the lowest level at Rs 384 crore in October, at the back of highest ever monthly repurchase of investment at 140 crore in this financial year. Fund mobilized for the month was at Rs 524 crore. Himanshu Srivastava, associate director- manager research, Morningstar India said, “Those who invested in late 2019 and early 2020 would have wanted to book their profit. Even if they are making profit on investing in Gold ETFs, ever since the gold rate started falling from its peak in August, 2020, investors started to feel uncertain over the profitability of Gold ETFs.” Total number of Gold ETF folios stood at 7.82 lakh — Mamtha A Banks report lower NPAs for Q2: The ratio of NPAs to total loans has improved during the quarter ended in September 2020. According to a report by Care Ratings, the ratio of gross NPAs of banks has fallen to 7.7% from 8.2% in June and 7.9% in March 2020. At the end of Q2 PSBs (including IDBI Bank), reported their gross NPA ratio at 9.7% compared to 10.2% in June 2020. — Mayur Shetty||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/equitas-q2-profit-doubles-at-rs-103-crore/articleshow/79137116.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata's Lalbazar issues SOP for action against violators||KOLKATA: There might not be too many firecracker sellers visible across the city, but the sound of odd shells and chocolate bombs being burst on the fringes after sundown is keeping cops on tenterhooks. Sources at Lalbazar accepted the aberrations, but indicated that a “comprehensive plan” to win the cat-and-mouse game has been launched. Lalbazar issued an SOP on Monday for all OCs asking to plan intense action against bursting of crackers and suggesting a five-point action plan. The instructions — shared on WhatsApp from DCPs — asked OCs to launch awareness campaigns against all crackers. “The OCs have been told there are no legal crackers. Everything has to be confiscated,” said a joint CP. For the first time, it is the detective department that is acting as the nodal agency for making seizures. “It is a combination of persecution and awareness creation,” said an officer. Times ViewThe vigil needs to be stepped up as we enter the home-stretch before Diwali, Kali Puja and Chhath. We should seize this opportunity to push through key reforms to make future festival seasons less harmful for ourselves.The SOP has asked OCs to carry out regular seizures and advertise the same. Cops have been asked to meet residents of high-rises and encourage them to act as eyes and ears of the police and PCB. They must also help all organizations trying to spread word of “no-cracker Diwali”. All seizures and prosecutions must be intimated to headquarters so they can monitor the work. Sources said they have planned interactions with high-rises under every police station on Tuesday. Centrally, Lalbazar has asked all dealers to produce details about production. They must explain if sellers have returned their stocks. “It is clear that the sellers will not stick to one place. We have re-calibrated our plans and have decided to employ flying squads,” a source said. For the past three days, residents have complained about crackers going off in pockets of Garia, Purba Jadavpur, Sarsuna, Maheshtala and Sonarpur. Lalbazar control room, though, said there are no complaints yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lalbazar-issues-sop-for-action-against-violators/articleshow/79136557.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 10, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav celebrates birthday with family||PATNA: RJD workers and politicians from across the country greeted the Mahagathbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on his 31st birthday on Monday, a day before state assembly election results are to be announced to decide the next chief minister of Bihar. Even those who had been critical of Tejashwi also extended their greetings on his birthday. The younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, however, kept his birthday celebration a family and low-key affair. Midnight photos shared by his elder sister and RJD Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti showed Tejashwi cutting a cake with his close family members. In one of the frames, he can be seen offering a cake piece to his elder brother Tej Pratap, while mother Rabri Devi and his niblings were there with altogether three cakes and a lantern (RJD poll symbol) on a table. Those siblings who could not make it to Patna took to social media to wish their younger brother, whom the exit polls have projected as the next chief minister of Bihar. “Happy birthday tutu #HBD_CM Tejashwi,” tweeted Tej Pratap. While talking to the media, he said people have already presented a gift to Tejashwi, referring to the exit poll predictions. Among senior leaders who wished Tejashwi on his birthday included Congress’s former president Rahul Gandhi, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, Congress Rajya sabha member Raj Babbar, Congress leader Sachin Pilot and former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Singh. Leaders like RLSP’s Upendra Kushwaha and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi also wished him a long and blessed life. LJP chief Chirag Paswan extended his birthday greetings through Twitter handle to which Tejashwi replied: “Dhanyvad bhai”. RJD spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the party had already asked its workers to let the birthday celebration be a simple affair. A day before, RJD through a tweet had asked its supporters not to gather at Tejashwi’s residence to wish him in person. Keeping in mind the instruction from the party, RJD youth wing members celebrated Tejashwi’s birthday amongst themselves. “Bhayya (Tejashwi) did not want any pomp and show. So, respecting his feelings, we celebrated his birthday among ourselves. He is an ideal and hope for youths like us,” said RJD youth wing member Akash Rai, who with other members cut a cake and distributed sweets among the poor. In spite of a request from the party not to reach the 10, Circular Road residence of Rabri Devi, several workers could be spotted with bouquets and cake outside it. Posters had also donned the state capital with birthday wishes to Tejashwi, who was portrayed in some of the posters as an avatar of Lord Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-celebrates-birthday-with-family/articleshow/79136158.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 10, 2020||---||NDA, GA gird up their loins for Bihar polls results today||PATNA: Which political combine — the NDA or the Mahagathbandhan — will celebrate a more illuminated Diwali this year? With most exit polls indicating a neck and neck fight or a hung assembly, both sides are girding up their loins to form the next government in the state. Political observers assert that formation of the new government will not be a smooth affair this time because no coalition is expected to get a clear majority. With a fractured verdict, the NDA will hardly allow its opponents to form the government. The RJD-Congress-Left combine, on the other hand, will be able to form a government only when it gets a clear-cut majority, they say. Former principal of Patna College, Nawal Kishore Chaudhary, feels that both the sides are equally placed and, hence, the NDA is likely to have a greater advantage. “The central leadership will try its best to install its own government in the state by hook or by crook. Some parties may also be fragmented to help the NDA form the government. But everything will depend on the difference of seats won by both the coalitions,” he claims. Leaders of the Mahagathbandhan are quite elated over the predictions made by exit polls and are confident of forming the next government. RJD MLC Ram Bali Singh says, “The Mahagathbandhan will sweep the polls and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will be sworn in as the next chief minister (CM). Someone from the Congress will be made deputy CM or the Speaker of the state assembly. Winners from the Left parties will also be included in the ministry.” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra claims that the Mahagathbandhan has already registered its victory at the hustings and only the results are to be announced officially. “People of the state have voted for a better Bihar. The RJD and the Congress will get the lion’s share in the results of the assembly elections to be announced by Tuesday afternoon. The new government will try its best to fulfil all its commitments made to its electorate and help create an atmosphere conducive to the state’s economic growth,” he adds. JD (U) spokesperson Suheli Mehta, on the other hand, asserts that the NDA will continue to rule the state. “There will hardly be any problem in the formation of the government. Even if the BJP gets the larger number of seats, Nitish Kumar will continue to be the CM,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-ga-gird-up-their-loins-for-polls-results-today/articleshow/79140799.cms||B K Mishra
November 10, 2020||Patna||NDA, GA gird up their loins for Bihar polls results today||PATNA: Which political combine — the NDA or the Mahagathbandhan — will celebrate a more illuminated Diwali this year? With most exit polls indicating a neck and neck fight or a hung assembly, both sides are girding up their loins to form the next government in the state. Political observers assert that formation of the new government will not be a smooth affair this time because no coalition is expected to get a clear majority. With a fractured verdict, the NDA will hardly allow its opponents to form the government. The RJD-Congress-Left combine, on the other hand, will be able to form a government only when it gets a clear-cut majority, they say. Former principal of Patna College, Nawal Kishore Chaudhary, feels that both the sides are equally placed and, hence, the NDA is likely to have a greater advantage. “The central leadership will try its best to install its own government in the state by hook or by crook. Some parties may also be fragmented to help the NDA form the government. But everything will depend on the difference of seats won by both the coalitions,” he claims. Leaders of the Mahagathbandhan are quite elated over the predictions made by exit polls and are confident of forming the next government. RJD MLC Ram Bali Singh says, “The Mahagathbandhan will sweep the polls and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav will be sworn in as the next chief minister (CM). Someone from the Congress will be made deputy CM or the Speaker of the state assembly. Winners from the Left parties will also be included in the ministry.” Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra claims that the Mahagathbandhan has already registered its victory at the hustings and only the results are to be announced officially. “People of the state have voted for a better Bihar. The RJD and the Congress will get the lion’s share in the results of the assembly elections to be announced by Tuesday afternoon. The new government will try its best to fulfil all its commitments made to its electorate and help create an atmosphere conducive to the state’s economic growth,” he adds. JD (U) spokesperson Suheli Mehta, on the other hand, asserts that the NDA will continue to rule the state. “There will hardly be any problem in the formation of the government. Even if the BJP gets the larger number of seats, Nitish Kumar will continue to be the CM,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-ga-gird-up-their-loins-for-polls-results-today/articleshow/79136029.cms||B K Mishra
November 10, 2020||Business||CCI will probe Google’s billing policy, GPay app||BENGALURU: The Competition Commission of India (CCI) has ordered a probe into Google’s dominance in multiple areas. These are in relation to its app store, the Android operating system, the billing policy mandating a 30% commission, and favouring its own payments app Google Pay through a pre-installation agreement with smartphone manufacturers. The internet search giant is also under the scanner for denial of market access to other payments apps on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI). The competition regulator will be investigating the US-based tech titan under section 4 of the Competition Act, which relates to abuse of dominant position even as the company has been facing more scrutiny globally. The order of probe comes following weeks of agitation from Indian startup founders, including Paytm CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma, who even took the matter to the government over Google’s “arbitrary” policies in India. It was triggered by Google mandating its billing system for in-app purchases on apps in the business of subscription, education, dating and others. Now the director general of CCI will start the investigation and submit a report within 60 days from the receipt of the order. CCI has prima facie found Google’s billing policy, which has been postponed in India to April 2022 following a backlash, “unfair” and that it can increase cost for Google’s competitors’ abilities in the market. “..the commission is of prima facie view that mandatory use of application store’s payment system for paid apps & in-app purchases restricts the choice available to the app developers to select a payment processing system of their choice especially considering when Google charges a commission of 30% (15% in certain cases) for all app purchases and in-app purchases. Further, considering that Play is the dominant source of downloading apps in the Android OS (90% of downloads) and its condition requiring use of application store’s payment system for paid apps & in-app purchases, it appears that Google controls the significant volume of payments processed in this market,” the commission noted in its order. It added the allegedly high commission of 30% is a result of Google’s market power “due to its grip over the Android ecosystem”, on which 90-95% smartphones in India operate. For anti-competitive allegations on Google Pay, which is the market leader on UPI with a roughly 40% share, CCI has prima facie said Google’s own payments app would offer a better experience compared to others’ UPI apps. CCI said it needs to be investigated if pre-installing Google Pay in smartphones as well as it being the only UPI app for billing is anti-competitive to others in the space, resulting in “denial of market access”. CCI termed Google’s conduct as “imposition of unfair and discriminatory conditions, denial of market access for competing apps of Google Pay”. A Google India spokesperson said it is confident that the CCI will find that Google Pay operates in an extremely competitive environment, and owes its success to its ability to offer consumers a simple and secure payments experience. “Second, numerous distribution channels exist for apps on the Android platform; Play is not the only app distribution option for Android. Users choose Google Play because we ensure a safe, secure, and seamless experience. Play’s billing system is a fundamental part of meeting this user expectation and helps ensure our continued investment in the many important things needed to make developers successful,” the spokesperson added. “Although, Google has contended that such arrangements (between Google and smartphone makers) are optional, its market position in different streams of smart mobile device ecosystem cannot be discounted in the relationship with OEMs, or original equipment manufacturers. It is apparent that the market position of Google in several gateway products for web-based services makes it an indispensable partner in the smart mobile device ecosystem and such position also appears to place Google in a unique advantage compared to other UPI app developers,” the CCI said in its 39-page-order. CCI has agreed to treat UPI as a “distinct relevant market”, given its unique features and fast growth compared to other instruments like NEFT and IMPS. For example, UPI just clocked 2 billion transactions last month. While CCI has agreed these areas warrant an investigation, it also rejected an appeal to investigate allegations in areas such as search result manipulation bias to favour Google Pay, prominent placement of Google Pay in its app store, and search advertisement manipulation on the app store. Google had requested CCI to disclose the “informant” who has filed the complaint against the US-based firm, but the regulator rejected the appeal, keeping the informant anonymous.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cci-will-probe-googles-billing-policy-gpay-app/articleshow/79138888.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 10, 2020||Patna||Bahubali MLA’s wife to host feast for 20,000 supporters today in Patna||PATNA: Even before the counting of votes, don-turned-politician Anant Singh on Monday started preparations for the victory celebrations. Anant is the sitting MLA from Mokama in Patna district and defending his seat on the RJD ticket this time. His wife Neelam Devi, who is monitoring the preparations for the D-Day, said, “We are hopeful of victory by a record margin this time. So we have made arrangements for a meal for over 20,000 supporters at our official residence in Patna.” Neelam, who had campaigned for her husband, who is in jail, said the supporters and party workers from remote villages of the constituency have been invited to the feast. But they have been asked to follow the social distancing norms, she added. Anant has been representing Mokama since 2005. This time he is pitted against Rajiv Lochan Narayan Singh of JD(U). “The majority of the exit polls has given an edge to the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan,” she asserted. Preparations have also started at the official residences of some other MLAs, who are confident of their victory. However, they have preferred to keep it as a low-key affair. “We will also celebrate the occasion once the results are out,” said an MLA from a constituency in Muzaffarpur district. The police have also intensified vigil in sensitive pockets in the wake of counting of votes scheduled to begin at 8am on Tuesday. Senior police officers reviewed the security arrangements on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bahubali-mlas-wife-to-host-feast-for-20000-supporters-today/articleshow/79141660.cms||Ramashankar
November 10, 2020||Patna||Gala time for florists & sweetshops in Bihar||PATNA: With the Election Commission set to announce state assembly election results on Tuesday, florists, sweetshop owners are raking in the moolah. Bouquets, heavy garlands and different varieties of sweets are in high demand. Abhishek Kumar, a flower dealer near Patna Junction, said, “We have received orders from various parties. The RJD has placed an order for a 51kg garland. Bouquets are also finding many takers. We have hired experts from Bengal to lend us a helping hand,” he added. Owner of Poonam Misthaan, a sweetshop near Patna Junction, said the bookings started around a week back. “This is festive season when we generally record rise in sales. This year, elections have further increases sales,” he added. “We have taken special care of hygiene as parties take note of it while placing orders,” he added. Firecracker traders, though, are wary of Covid-19 pandemic. “The pandemic has affected sales. Unlike in the past, we don’t expect parties to go whole hog as far as purchase of firecrackers on the day of election results is concerned,” said Rehan, a firecracker trader in Patna City.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gala-time-for-florists-sweetshops-in-state/articleshow/79141726.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Business||Banks report lower NPAs for September quarter||MUMBAI: Contrary to expectations that there would be an increase in bad loans in the banking sector due to Covid-19, the ratio of non-performing assets (NPAs) to total loans has improved during the quarter ended in September 2020. According to a report by Care Ratings, the ratio of gross NPAs of banks has fallen to 7.7% from 8.2% in June and 7.9% in March 2020. At the end of the second quarter, public sector banks, or PSBs (including IDBI Bank), reported their gross NPA ratio at 9.7% compared to 10.2% in June 2020. This is the first time in several quarters that PSBs are reporting single-digit gross NPAs. Private sector banks too reported a decline in NPA ratio at 5% from 5.5%. “The moratorium provided till August had provided space in terms of recognition of NPAs, which could have improved the ratios. Therefore, we may have to wait for these time periods to elapse to gauge the true levels of NPAs in the system,” said Care ratings chief economist Madan Sabnavis in a report. NPAs are also subdued because of a Supreme Court order that has stayed banks from classifying defaults during the Covid period as an NPA until further orders. Although banks have followed the order, they have reported the loans that would have turned bad had the order not been there. They have also set aside additional provisions for these loans. According to the report, the biggest improvement in asset quality has come from UCO Bank, which has seen its ratio of NPAs drop from 14.4% to 11.6% — a drop of 280 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point). The Kolkata-based public sector bank reported a net profit of Rs 30 crore for the second quarter as compared to a loss of Rs 891 crore in the corresponding period last year. In absolute terms, the bank’s bad loans fell 48% year on year to Rs 16,576 crore. Other banks which reported significant improvement in NPA ratio include Bank of Maharashtra (210 basis points), J&K Bank (180 basis points) and IDBI Bank (170 basis points). The banks that reported flat asset quality include Kotak Mahindra, State Bank of India and Bandhan Bank which have seen their ratio of NPAs improve by 10 basis points or less. All the major public sector banks that have announced their results have said that most of the legacy non-performing assets have been largely provided for. Also, bankers have said that the expected clamour for a restructuring of bad loans post Covid-19 has not materialized. Most of the banks are expecting only a handful of large loans of over Rs 1,500 crore to turn up for restructuring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-report-lower-npas-for-sept-qtr/articleshow/79138701.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 10, 2020||Goa||Goa Inc questions Rs 277 crore waiver move for casinos||PANAJI: Taking objection to moves by the state government to waive off Rs 277 crore owed by the casino industry, Goa’s industry bodies shot off a terse letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant over the move. Irked with the government’s stepmotherly treatment towards MSMEs, the industry has put forth its own list of waivers and financial support that the state government should consider. The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI), Goa State Industries Association (GSIA), Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) and Verna Industries Association (VIA) issued a joint statement strongly opposing the waiver of the Rs 277 crore which is owed as part of the annual recurrence fee. “It is very disheartening that the government is contemplating to waive off huge sum of Rs 277 crore to the casino industry and allowed it to pay the annual recurrence fee on a monthly basis in spite of the fact that the state government claims to face financial crisis,” the joint statement said. The private sector pointed out that industries, small traders, restaurants, retail wine shops, transport operators and other small businesses have struggled for survival during the pandemic and consequent lockdown since March 2020. They also pointed out that several requests to the Goa government for waiver of fees during the lockdown period have been ignored on the basis that the state is facing a financial crunch. “However, the state government has now come out with a decision to waive off crores of rupees to the casino industry, which is truly unacceptable,” they said. The statement said that MSMEs and other small businesses are struggling without the support of the Goa government and yet working towards Atma Nirbhar Bharat. “The MSMEs and other industry being the major drivers of the economy are being given the last priority while consideration is being given by the Goa government to casinos,” the joint statement said. The industry bodies have demanded that if the casino industry is granted any waiver, similar benefits should be extended to MSMEs and the tourism sector. The industry pointed out that garbage was not collected for six months and thus fees paid must be adjusted for the next financial year. TTAG has asked for a 50% reduction in tourism licences and fees paid to urban and rural governing bodies. “If the government is planning to give waiver of fees during the lockdown period, the same rule must be made applicable across the board to all the sectors. The industry is confident that the government will accept the request made by the industry and apply the waiver to every sector that has been trying to sustain themselves through these pandemic times,” the joint statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-spokesperson-former-panaji-mla-taunts-govt-on-casino-fee-waiver-move/articleshow/79138474.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||PM Narendra Modi may lay foundation stone for energy park in Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit the state on November 30, which is celebrated as ‘Dev Diwali’. Modi was in Gujarat for two days last month to launch various public works at the Statue of Unity (SOU) site at Kevadiya and to inaugurate the seaplane service between Ahmedabad and Kevadiya. According to key sources in the government, a request has been sent to the PM, inviting him to visit the state on November 30 and lay the stone for the 40,000MW renewable energy park at a site in Kutch. “The state government has also requested the PM to inaugurate the new seawater desalination plant at Mandvi in Kutch on the same day,” a source said. “The state government has requested time on November 30 or any suitable time in December. The PM’s office was briefed about the project preparation. The Government of India’s agencies are also involved in the project.” In September this year, the Gujarat cabinet cleared the long-pending proposal for the biggest, 41,500MW, renewable energy (solar & wind) park at Kutch spread across 60,000 hectares. With other formalities having been completed, agencies can start ground-level work after the stone-laying by the Prime Minister. The hybrid renewable energy park is expected to attract about Rs 1.35 lakh crore investment in the coming two years. The PMO has given the deadline of 2022 for the completion of the project. The cabinet has allocated land to SECI, NTPC, GIPCL, GSEC, Adani Power and Suzlon. These companies are expected to set up 23,000MW, 5,000MW, 2,500MW, 3,500MW, 3,500MW and 4,000MW solar and wind power generation projects respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pm-may-lay-foundation-stone-for-energy-park/articleshow/79139131.cms||Kapil Dave
November 10, 2020||Business||Ashok Leyland ramps up production to hit 90% at Hosur factory||Chennai: Truck and bus maker Ashok Leyland Limited (ALL) said on Monday that it has hit more than 90% capacity utilisation at Hosur with LCV volumes hitting pre-Covid levels. “Our production is improving quarter-on-quarter and at Hosur plant we are at pre-Covid levels with full capacity utilisation for light commercial vehicles,” said Gopal Mahadevan, whole-time director & CFO, Ashok Leyland. “Our manufacturing volumes for LCV is close to 90% though our Ennore and Pantnagar plants will take longer to hit pre-Covid levels,” he added. Ashok Leyland’s LCV wholesales of 11508 units in Q2 is 95% of last year's volumes. Currently LCV, after market, exports, defence and power solutions contribute 55% of ALL’s revenue up from 43% last Q2. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ashok-leyland-ramps-up-production-to-hit-90-at-hosur-factory/articleshow/79136946.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 10, 2020||Allahabad||3 chain snatchers held after police encounter||Prayagraj: A notorious chain snatcher was injured, and two others were arrested by a joint team of Khuldabad police and crime branch during an encounter near railway overbridge road under the limits of Khuldabad police station here on Monday morning. The police have also seized two weapons including one each of 0.12 bore and 0.315 bore country-made pistols, a stolen bike and ornaments from their possession. Sub Inspector (crime branch) Brijesh Singh said a joint police team of crime branch and Khuldabad, acting upon specific inputs found that a group of three chain snatchers were moving towards railway bridge road after executing a crime near company bagh. The police cordoned the area exchanged fire with the criminals. The encounter left one of the criminals identified as Mahtab, a resident of Ghurpur injured and police also arrested two of his accomplices including Mohd Nawab and Mohd Saleem alias Nichkul, residents of Putaria. The injured chain snatcher, Mehtab, was admitted in a hospital for treatment. The city police taking a serious note of spurt in cases of chain snatching have launched a specific operation against chain snatchers in the city. Police said that chain snatchers had looted two chains in past 48 hours in different parts of the city. The bike recovered from the possession of criminal was stolen from the Mutthiganj area. The police took the help of CCTV footages and managed to ascertain the identities of criminals involved in chain snatching. Police also said that these chain snatchers were using looted bikes with fake registration and number plates to execute the crimes. Police said that over half a dozen criminal cases were registered against Mehtab in different police stations of the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3-chain-snatchers-held-after-police-encounter/articleshow/79137526.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Business||October Gold ETF inflows lowest at Rs 384 crore||Chennai: Gold ETF inflows touched the lowest level at Rs 384 crore in October, at the back of highest ever monthly repurchase of investment at Rs 140 crore in this financial year. Fund mobilized for the month was at Rs 524 crore. Himanshu Srivastava, associate director- manager research, Morningstar India said, “Those who had invested in late 2019 and early 2020 would have wanted to book their profit. Even if they are making profit on investing in Gold ETFs, ever since the gold rate started falling from its peak in August, 2020, investors started to feel uncertain over the profitability of the Gold ETF portfolio.” Total assets under management stood at Rs 13,969 crore for the October month, with a 2.7% month-on-month growth. This year so far, the category has received a net inflow of Rs 6,341 crore. Total number of Gold ETF folios stood at 7.82 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/october-gold-etf-inflows-lowest-at-rs-384-crore/articleshow/79137031.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Oye Lucky’ car grab from SG Rd showroom||Ahmedabad: In the Bollywood movie “Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye!” the hero and his friend who steal cars usually head out for their missions in a brand-new car to avoid suspicion. Similarly, two thieves arrived in an SUVand then drove away with a sedan worth Rs 13 lakh parked at a showroom on SG Road on November 5. A complaint was filed with Vastrapur police on Sunday. Harun Mirza, the operations in charge of the showroom, states that the car which was stolen by was to be delivered on November 3 butthe delivery had been postponed. The car was parked in the washing area with the keys in it. The delivery was finalized for November 6. But the staff of the showroom didn’t find the car on November 6. Later, Mirza checked the CCTV footage. He found that the two men had arrived in an SUV on November 5, one of them found the keys inside the car and drove away in the vehicle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/oye-lucky-car-grab-from-sg-rd-showroom/articleshow/79138470.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Vadodara||23 shell firms formed to evade GST||Vadodara: The GST officials have unearthed a racket of evading taxes worth Rs 73.89 crore and arrested a businessman. The officials said that the accused floated several fake firms and prepared bogus invoices to evade paying GST. Mukim Pathan, who runs MK Traders, has been arrested and produced before the chief judicial magistrate who sent him to judicial custody. Pathan created 23 shell firms and used their credentials to prepare bogus invoices and e-way bills. He cleared goods worth about Rs 432.51 crore under the cover of these fake invoices without paying GST.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/23-shell-firms-formed-to-evade-gst/articleshow/79136492.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Expecting $1 bn in investments, GIDC expands Japanese Industrial Park||Gandhinagar: The Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) has started expansion of the Japanese Industrial Park at Sanand near Ahmedabad as it expects major inflows of industrial investment from Japanese companies. The Sanand III industrial estate will be an extension of the Japanese Industrial Park.According to GIDC officials, the state government expects investments of about $1 billion from Japanese companies over the next two years and hence infrastructure arrangements are being put into place.M Thennarasan, vice chairman and managing director, GIDC, said that an exclusive Japanese Industrial Township (JIT) will come up at Khoraj (Sanand III) in Ahmedabad district for Japanese companies and joint ventures. The JIT is located near Sanand, the automotive hub of Gujarat, and is about 20km from Ahmedabad, he added.“The township is planned to provide sustainable infrastructure by adopting renewable energy, sustainable solutions and waste management techniques to create cities of the future. Sanand-III industrial township is planned across approximately 1,100 hectares of land, of which around 612 hectares will be developed as part of Phase I of the industrial township. The industrial township is planned for multi-product industrial development with key focus sectors such as defence and aerospace, automobiles and auto ancillaries, engineering, electronics and pharmaceuticals,” he added.The official added, “JIT (Sanand-III) has the potential to attract investment of approximately $1 billion in the next two to three years. Considering development beyond the planned 612 hectares, GIDC may acquire land for expansion in the future. At present, GIDC has allotted land to one Japanese company having a proposed investment of about $100 million. A number of Japanese companies have shown interest in setting up their manufacturing facilities in GIDC Sanand-III and we expect a major jump in demand in the next couple of months.’’To promote Japanese investment in the state, the government of Gujarat had earmarked and developed Gujarat’s first country-specific industrial park at Mandal, on 123 hectares near Vithalapur, in Ahmedabad district. More than nine Japanese industries have set up their manufacturing facilities including Asti Corporation, Topre India Pvt Ltd, M A Extrusion, Roki Minda, Munjal Kiriu India Private Limited, T S Tech to name a few.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/expecting-1-bn-in-investments-gidc-expands-japanese-industrial-park/articleshow/79138997.cms||Kapil Dave
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Fake women cops try to extort money from former sex worker||Ahmedabad: A woman, 50, from the Khamasa area of city on Sunday filed a complaint with Khadia police alleging that three fake women cops and her old aide tried to extort money from her while threatening to book him in a case of human trafficking and running flesh trade in the area. The complainant stated in the FIR that she had run sex trade earlier which she stopped around five years ago. The woman stated that her husband died 14 years ago after which she decided to work as sex worker to earn a livelihood for her and her family comprising a daughter and a mentally-challenged sister-in-law. She said that she has two twin sons, 24, who had renounced her while taking ‘diksha’ around 10 years ago. She said that she had started working as sex worker around 10 years ago during that time she hired a woman, 28, from Bapunagar. The woman from Bapunagar also worked as sex worker with the complainant. She claimed that she stopped working as sex worker around five years ago and the woman from Bapunagar had also not met her since then. On Sunday evening, three women wearing dupattas on their faces along with the woman from Bapunagar barged into the complainant’s house and began abusing her, alleging that she was still running sex trade from her house. She said that the trio while producing the woman from Bapunagar as witness of the sex trade began seeking Rs 30,000 from her to strike a compromise in the case and threatened that they would take her to police station and file a complaint if she would not pay them money. Suspecting this, the complainant began screaming for help and her neighbours rushed there and held the three women. Later, she called up police control room and a team of Khadia police reached and nabbed the three women identified as Priyanka Makwana, 28, Ankita Parmar, 30, and Dipali Parmar, 28—who all are residents of Saraspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fake-women-cops-try-to-extort-money-from-former-sex-worker/articleshow/79139025.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||NGT order reinforces Calcutta HC cracker ban, citizens welcome move||KOLKATA: The ban on crackers this year is total. Days after the Calcutta High Court ordered a ban on sale and use of crackers throughout November, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday reinforced it by declaring a blanket ban on use of fireworks in all cities where the average air quality index (AQI) was poor last November. AQI in excess of 200 is categorized poor. Kolkata, with AQI of 230 in November 2019, is included among the cities where the NGT embargo is applicable. In the NGT order, the bench mentioned the ban imposed by Calcutta High Court on manufacturing, storage, sale and use of firecrackers during the period from November 9 to 30, as well as by state governments in Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Union Territory of Chandigarh and Delhi Pollution Control Board. Environment activists in Kolkata welcomed the NGT order. “It is crucial for Kolkata. The NGT order only reinforced the Calcutta HC order banning all fireworks for the entire month of November. It is not the time to differentiate between green and non-green crackers. Who will decide that? Who will guarantee that non-green crackers will not be sold in the guise of green crackers. Do we have the infrastructure to check the emission levels and then certify them? Given the pandemic and the harm that can happen to people with respiratory distress, there should be no emission this Diwali,” said green crusader Subhas Datta. Senior pulmonologists like Arup Haldar and Sushmita Roy Chowdhury were also relieved to learn that the NGT had reiterated the court’s decision to ban crackers. “The HC order is crucial not just for Covid patients, but also for Covid survivors. The NGT order is a timely reiteration of the ban. We must all — government, enforcement agencies, regulatory bodies, traders, manufacturers and the common people — now join hands to ensure that it is implemented in letter and spirit,” said Roy Chowdhury. Meteorological conditions at the onset of winter in Kolkata worsens the city’s air quality due to a phenomenon known as thermal inversion. The lower radiation temperature at the ground level reduces the vertical wind movement and keeps particulate matter suspended in the air. According to the meteorologists, the vertical wind speed reduces by as much as 2m per second. This prevents the dispersal of pollutants, predominantly fine particulate matter, leading to adverse impact on health, a scientist at the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) explained. In such conditions, noxious fumes and very high level of PM2.5 particles released during the bursting of crackers during Kali Puja and Diwali nights would make the battle against Covid-19 extremely complicated as it could lead to a spike in very serious patients. “The health infrastructure is extremely stressed. Additional patients suffering from respiratory distress, be they Covid or non-Covid, would be extremely challenging,” a doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngt-order-reinforces-hc-cracker-ban-citizens-welcome-move/articleshow/79136524.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Gold prices rise by Rs 2,000 in 10 days||AHMEDABAD: Riding on global cues, gold prices have once again showed an upward trend since the past 10 days, and settled at Rs 54,200 per 10 gram in Ahmedabad on Monday. Yellow metal prices have been going up since October 30, in line with the gains in prices in the global markets. Analysts indicate that gold price went up by at least Rs 2,000 over the past 10 days, because of fears over a lockdown amid a third wave of infections being reported in the US as well as Europe. “Rise in gold price was supported by a weaker dollar, amid hopes for stimulus measures under the US President-elect Joe Biden. Moreover, fears of economic uncertainty reigned high with a third wave of coronavirus cases being reported across the world. Since gold is considered as a hedge against inflation, the prices went up,” said Haresh Acharya, director, India Bullion and Jewellers’ Association (IBJA). Jewellers however feel that the rise in yellow metal price will be a major deterrent for gold purchases on the auspicious days such as Dhanteras, Diwali and New Year. “Many people buy gold traditionally on these days as they’re considered auspicious for metal purchases. However, this time the demand will be muted due to the pandemic and if the prices go up, it will be a huge deterrent to gold demand,” said a city-based jeweller. The demand remained subdued on Pushya Nakshatra and was largely driven by pre-planned, budgeted purchases made for specific purposes such as weddings and other occasions. “Demand for wedding jewellery has remained good during the festive season and muhurats are days for which people have reserved their deliveries. However, sentimental purchases are very less and that for coins and bars have gone down drastically,” said Manoj Soni, member, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-prices-rise-by-rs-2000-in-10-days/articleshow/79139041.cms||---
November 10, 2020||---||Votes polled to be counted at 55 centres across Bihar today||PATNA: Arrangements have been made at 55 centres across the state for counting of votes polled in the 243 assembly constituencies. The counting would commence at 8am on Tuesday. Altogether 144 companies of central armed police force (CAPF) and Bihar military police (BMP) are guarding the 55 premises where altogether 1,06,524 EVMS have been stored after people cast their votes to elect their MLAs. CCTV cameras are installed at all the counting centres and halls room for surveillance. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar on Monday told TOI that all the strongrooms and counting centres have three-tier foolproof security. “Altogether 19 companies of CISF have been deployed for the security in the innermost cordon while 60 more companies of CAPF and 65 companies of BMP are in and outside the counting centres. Rest of the companies of CAPF and BMP have been deployed to maintain law and order across the state, especially for counting day and afterwards so that no untoward incidents take place,” Kumar said. “DMs and SPs have been directed to change the deployment as per requirements in their respective areas. Joint chief electoral officer Mithilesh Kumar Sahu said candidates or their counting or  agents would be allowed inside the counting centres only if they have been authorized by the returning officers. He said no other unauthorized vehicle or person would allowed to move even around the counting premises. “Traffic will be restricted around the counting centres,” he said. Sahu also said no cellphone, matchbox, tobacco, betel nut or any other such item would be allowed inside the counting centres. East Champaran, Siwan, Begusarai, Gaya have three counting centres each while Madhubani, Purnia, Saharsa, Darbhanga, Gopalganj, Bhagalpur, Banka, Nalanda and Nawada have two centres each. Rest of the districts have one counting centre each. Patna’s AN college has the biggest strongroom-cum-counting centres where votes of 14 assembly constituencies would be counted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/votes-polled-to-be-counted-at-55-centres-across-state-today/articleshow/79140708.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 10, 2020||---||Bihar: Political parties not in hurry to react, keep fingers crossed||PATNA: The political parties on Monday appeared to be in a state of suspended animation, as they waited for the counting of polled votes to begin on Tuesday morning and hoped their combine will form the next government in Bihar. They have been put in this peculiar situation because most of the exit poll outcomes on Saturday predicted a tight finish or ‘kante ki takkar’ between the NDA mainly comprising JD(U) and BJP and the RJD-led grand alliance, which includes Congress and the three Left parties. The poll pundits, taking into account the exit poll results, have even been visualizing a hung assembly scenario with the minor parties or the alliances of such parties sniffing their chance of being the most sought-after entities once the results are out. However, one of the agencies has almost predicted a sweep for the grand alliance. The RJD had earlier called such an eventuality as “victory of the people of the state”. In that situation, Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) chief and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, an ally of CM Nitish Kumar in the NDA, was the first to give his reaction. “Those grand alliance leaders who are in celebratory mood after the exit poll results, it is requested that they should strongly celebrate it for the time being only,” Manjhi said. Predicting the net outcome of the formal counting of votes on Tuesday, Manjhi also said though not devoid of stray shot at the BJP, “Tomorrow belongs to Bihar, tomorrow belongs to Nitish (Kumar), tomorrow belongs to NDA combine. If there is faith, it is due to Nitish. NDA will win, Bihar will win.” Incidentally, the poll slogan of the BJP was: ‘BJP hai to bharosa hai”. In contrast to Manjhi, his bitter rival Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) continued to throw acerbic remarks against Nitish even on Monday. “We go by the thinking of our leader (Chirag Paswan) that the next government will be the BJP-led government, but it will be ‘Nitish-mukt’ and it is ‘asambhav Nitish’. The LJP will join the BJP-led government, but minus Nitish Kumar,” LJP spokesman Ashraf Ansari said. He, however, said it will depend on the number of seats the LJP wins as it had only two MLAs in the outgoing assembly. “They were elected when we contested in alliance with BJP in 2015,” Ansari said, adding: “It will not affect us, if we do not win even a single seat this time.” However, among the bigger parties, state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said, “We have faith in our silent voters and on the actual counting of polled votes that will be held on Tuesday. We don’t go even by the tight finish that most of the exit polls have predicted. People of the state know the development work that the BJP has done as part of the NDA government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-political-parties-not-in-hurry-to-react-keep-fingers-crossed/articleshow/79140753.cms||Abhay Singh
November 10, 2020||---||At party offices in Bihar, workers wait for election results with bated breath||PATNA: With most exit polls predicting victory for RJD-led Mahagathbandhan in the state, the alliance partners were upbeat on the eve of poll results on Monday. Apart from RJD, Congress and Left parties like CPI, CPI-M and CPI-ML are constituents of the alliance. It was jovial environment at Sadaquat Ashram, the headquarters of state Congress, with party workers thronging the office in anticipation of a victory. A pandal has been set up at the office for the workers to sit and watch the poll results on LED screens. Party’s IT cell incharge-cum-state general secretary Sanjeev Singh said the exit polls have given a clear edge to Mahagathbandhan and its victory is imminent. Singh said the party workers have started preparations for the result day. “We have also placed an order for 400kg ladoos,” he said. At the RJD office on Beerchand Patel Marg, arrangements have been made to accommodate party workers. RJD spokesman Mrityunjay Tiwari said the party workers have been warned against use of fireworks, celebratory firing and gulal. “All the party workers have been warned against resorting to uncivil behaviour. If the alliance wins, the celebrations will be peaceful. The main celebration will take place only after the return of party chief Lalu Prasad,” he added. Meanwhile, the JD(U) workers too claimed the NDA would win the polls. “There is no doubt that the NDA will win the polls. The celebrations, however, will be a low-key affair in view of Covid-19 pandemic,” JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said. BJP workers were also seen thronging the party office on Beerchand Patel Marg. “Our campaign highlighted achievements of the government and we are sure of party’s victory, no matter what the exit polls say,” a party worker said. BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel too said the NDA would win the polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/at-party-offices-workers-wait-for-election-results-with-bated-breath/articleshow/79140779.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 10, 2020||Patna||Gaya administration rejigs traffic||GAYA: Entry of heavy vehicles in the town area will be banned on Tuesday in view of the counting of votes at three centres. Prominent among those whose fate will be decided include HAM(S) president and former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, former assembly Speaker and RJD candidate from Imamganj, Uday Narayan Chaudhary, former minister in state government Surendra Prasad Yadav (RJD) from Belaganj, Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC) deputy mayor Akhauri Onkarnath alias Mohan Shrivastava (Congress) and state agriculture and animal husbandry minister Prem Kumar (BJP) from Gaya town. Prem and Surendra are seeking re-election for the eighth term. The electoral fate of altogether 172 candidates will be decided at the three counting centres. Gaya DM-cum-district election officer Abhishek Singh said counting of votes from Gaya town, Gurua, Tekari, Belaganj and Wazirganj will take place at Gaya College centre while that of Sherghati, Barachatti and Imamganj will be held at Anugrah Memorial College. Jag Jeevan College is the centre for counting of votes of Bodh Gaya and Atri constituencies. “Counting will begin at 8am in two halls of each centre. Armed central paramilitary security personnel with magistrates have been deployed at the counting centres, where CCTV cameras have also been installed,” he said. No one will be allowed to carry knife, firearms, mobile phone, electronic device or any objectionable item in the counting centres. DSP (traffic) Rakesh Ranjan said parking arrangements for the supporters of candidates have been made at three places — Gaya College playground for those coming from Belaganj, Gurua, Tekari and Wazirganj, Bhusunda ground in Manpur for those coming from Atri and Bodh Gaya and Bazaar Samiti at Chandauti for vehicles from Barachatti, Imamganj and Sherghati. Those coming from Belaganj will reach Gaya College via Ramshila Mor, Bageshwari railway crossing, railway station, Kashinath Mor and police lines Mor. Supporters coming from Gurua will take Sikaria Mor and from Tekari through Delha bridge, Mirza Ghalib College, Gewal Bigha. Those coming from Wazirganj will reach the Gaya College via six-lane bridge, Kiran ghat, Kashinath Mor and Gewal Bigha and Sherghati, Imamganj and Barachatti people will reach Bazar Samiti via Sikaria Mor, Chandauti Mor and Katari hill. For supporters from Bodh Gaya, the route to Bhusunda ground will be via Ghughritand bypass. Those coming from Atri will take the Mufassil Mor route to Bhusunda ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-admn-rejigs-traffic/articleshow/79135992.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Patna||Patna: Devotees set to get ‘Gangajal’ at doorstep||PATNA: At least 100 clean tankers will supply ‘Gangajal’ (water from river Ganga) to the devotees celebrating Chhath in their houses in all the 75 wards of the district so that they can prepare ‘prasad’ and perform other rituals easily. Many of them will be stationed at important places to help people collect the water themselves. Although detailed guidelines for the festival are yet to be issued by the government, Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agrawal has urged people, especially the kids and the elderly, to celebrate Chhath at home because “medical experts fear rise in the number of Covid-19 cases during the winter season”. At a meeting held on Sunday, the representatives of different puja committees and ward counsellors also favoured the idea of celebrating Chhath at home. They decided to put up hoardings and posters that would create awareness about staying away from crowded places and ghats. “The commissioner of the Patna Municipal Corporation will initiate a special sanitation drive for the festival. Experts will tell us about the sites from where unpolluted ‘Gangajal’ can be procured,” Agarwal told this newspaper on Monday and added that individuals would be allowed to collect ‘Gangajal’ from the ghats on their own. Nearly 10 lakh people gather at various Ganga ghats on Chhath every year. Small water bodies like ponds and lakes also attract a large number of devotees during the four-day festival. “Apart from the crowded ghats, the roadside markets, which sell fruits, vegetables and baskets during the festival, are a matter of concern for the administration. We are working on some strategies to help the traders put up makeshift stalls without risking any life,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/devotees-set-to-get-gangajal-at-doorstep/articleshow/79136185.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Business||TCS to buy Deutsche Bank’s tech unit for 1 euro||MUMBAI: Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), India’s second-most valued company, agreed to acquire the technology services unit of Deutsche Bank for one euro on Monday. The move will save about 9% of the 18,000 jobs placed in jeopardy by the German giant’s decision to restructure operations and restore profitability. Deutsche’s IT services unit, Postbank Systems, has 1,578 employees, functioning mainly from the German city of Bonn and has a turnover of 555 million euros. Deutsche is already a customer of TCS and the acquisition will add to the Indian company’s scale in Germany and strengthen its growth outlook. Present in Germany since 1991, TCS offers services to more than 100 corporations there. Read AlsoIT, BPO companies' 'Work From Anywhere' rules easedIn a liberalisation measure aimed at giving flexibility and ease to IT and BPO companies to work from home, the government on Thursday removed registration and compliance requirements for companies to carry out work beyond traditional office complexes, allowing them to permanently work from anyThe Indian company said the transaction is subject to the approval of the European Commission Merger Control as the revenue of Postbank Systems will be over 250 million euros in 2021. It also requires the nod of the German government’s FDI as the target company operates critical infrastructure such as retail banking including ATM networks there. While Postbank Systems will add to TCS’s acquisition portfolio, its biggest deal, however, remains the $505-million buyout of Citigroup’s back-office unit in 2008. Prior to the Postbank Systems announcement, TCS had acquired BridgePoint, a US-based retirement service consultant, in November 2018. Read AlsoLocal hiring shield against H-1B rules: TCSTCS said the ratio of its local workforce in the US and other geographies to employees on a work visa is almost equally split. Five years ago, the former was significantly lower. The change will help the company weather the recent decision of the Trump administration to hike minimum wageDeutsche Bank said this transaction “provides clarity to Postbank Systems staff and gives them the opportunity to become part of the success and growth story of TCS”. The German giant will take a hit of 120 million euros as part of the transaction. The Indian company, with revenues of $22 billion and employees of 4.53 lakh, will route the Postbank Systems purchase through its Netherlands subsidiary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tcs-to-buy-deutsche-banks-tech-unit-for-1-euro/articleshow/79138842.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 10, 2020||---||Bahubali MLA’s wife to host feast for 20,000 supporters today in Patna||PATNA: Even before the counting of votes, don-turned-politician Anant Singh on Monday started preparations for the victory celebrations. Anant is the sitting MLA from Mokama in Patna district and defending his seat on the RJD ticket this time. His wife Neelam Devi, who is monitoring the preparations for the D-Day, said, “We are hopeful of victory by a record margin this time. So we have made arrangements for a meal for over 20,000 supporters at our official residence in Patna.” Neelam, who had campaigned for her husband, who is in jail, said the supporters and party workers from remote villages of the constituency have been invited to the feast. But they have been asked to follow the social distancing norms, she added. Anant has been representing Mokama since 2005. This time he is pitted against Rajiv Lochan Narayan Singh of JD(U). “The majority of the exit polls has given an edge to the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan,” she asserted. Preparations have also started at the official residences of some other MLAs, who are confident of their victory. However, they have preferred to keep it as a low-key affair. “We will also celebrate the occasion once the results are out,” said an MLA from a constituency in Muzaffarpur district. The police have also intensified vigil in sensitive pockets in the wake of counting of votes scheduled to begin at 8am on Tuesday. Senior police officers reviewed the security arrangements on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bahubali-mlas-wife-to-host-feast-for-20000-supporters-today/articleshow/79136093.cms||Ramashankar
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Health dept gears up for festive surge, as 398 new Covid cases reported in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: With 398 fresh Covid-19 cases reported on Monday, the coronavirus tally reached 65,677 in Uttarakhand. An alarming 10 deaths on Monday took the toll to a total of 1,075. With the festive season right around the corner, the state is gearing up to manage resources amid possibilities of a higher influx of patients in the coming days. Director general (health) Dr Amita Upreti said that all hospitals, government and private, have been asked to keep beds ready for burn victims, isolation beds for swine flu patients as well as for Covid-19 patients. “Emergency ambulances can be called in case of any accident during Diwali; we have issued instructions to have ample ambulances on standby. Both government and private hospitals have been asked to maintain adequate stocks of medicines and ointments to treat burn victims,” said DG health. Private hospitals have also been asked to have plastic surgeons and emergency staff readily available, so they can reach the hospitals as soon as possible, if the need arises. Apart from this, arrangements are also being made for patients with asthma and other breathing disorders, in view of the onset of winter. Professor Ravikant, director of AIIMS Rishikesh, said that apart from the coronavirus, the onset of winter is all the more reason for people with breathing conditions to wear a mask. “Wearing a mask will not only protect people against the coronavirus, but also prevent cold air from going into the nose directly. When cold air enters the body through breathing, the airways begin to swell. This condition is dangerous for asthma patients and in such a situation, the use of masks is the best solution,” said Ravikant. Meanwhile, among the 398 fresh cases, 90 were reported from Dehradun, followed by 61 in Pauri and 57 in Chamoli. “Nainital reported 46 cases, followed by 32 in Almora, 31 in Udham Singh Nagar, 26 in Pithoragarh, 20 in Rudraprayag, 11 in Bageshwar, 10 in Uttarkashi, 9 in Haridwar and 5 in Tehri,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room. A total of 205 patients recovered on Monday. The total number of recoveries in the state is now 205.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/health-dept-gears-up-for-festive-surge-as-398-new-covid-cases-reported-in-state/articleshow/79135638.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 10, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi to get modern infrastructure: CM Yogi Adityanath||VARANASI: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said his government is committed to ensure development of Varanasi by equipping it with modern infra and facilities while keeping the religious and cultural heritage of the ancient city intact. Yogi thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi and expressed his gratitude to him for inaugurating and laying the foundation of projects in Varanasi, while welcoming him through a video link from Lucknow. He said these projects will make the city well-equipped with civic amenities. CM Yogi said the redevelopment and improvement of Beniabagh Park, Khirkiya Ghat and Old Kashi Jagdambari ward, installation of modern surveillance system, construction of tourist plaza at Dashashwamedh Ghat, upgradation of multipurpose hall at Padmavibhushan Girija Devi Cultural Complex at Chaukaghat, and road development will make Kashi more contemporary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-to-get-modern-infrastructure-yogi/articleshow/79137174.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||3 bikes stolen near police facilities||Ahmedabad: In the space of two months, three bikes parked near police establishments have been stolen in the city. On Sunday, a complaint was registered at the Narol police station stating that a bike parked just beside a traffic police booth had been stolen. On Saturday, a complaint was lodged at the Odhav police station over an impounded bike being stolen from the compound of the police station. In August, Nilesh Parmar of Rakhial had parked his bike outside the Ellisbridge police station. It was stolen under the nose of police. As for Sunday’s case, Sureshkumarsing Rajput of Narol lodged a complaint stating that he had parked his bike beside the Narol Circle traffic police booth on November 2, as he normally does. He then took a company bus to his workplace in Sanand. Police sources said when Rajput returned from his office, he found the bike missing. Additional commissioner of police Gautam Parmar said that the number of bike thefts have gone up as winter sets in. “I have informed subordinate officers to be vigilant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/3-bikes-stolen-near-police-facilities/articleshow/79138478.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Pithoragarh: Man-eater leopard that killed 6-year-old shot dead||PITHORAGARH: A man-eater leopard, which had killed a six year-old girl in Berinag area of Pithoragarh recently, was shot dead by government-appointed hunter Joy Hukil late on Sunday night. The leopard was eight years old and seven feet long, said Naveen Pant, SDO forest, Pithoragarh. The forest department had installed a cage and a camera to track the location of the leopard after the wildlife warden had declared it a man-eater. Hunter Joy Hukil was also appointed to neutralise the animal and late on Sunday night, the leopard was killed, added Pant. Earlier on October 7, the leopard had killed a six-year-old girl when she was playing near her home. The killing had triggered a panic in the Berinag area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-eater-that-killed-6-yr-old-shot-dead/articleshow/79135639.cms||Prem Punetha
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Local services to resume tomorrow, with social distancing at stations & on trains||KOLKATA: The railway authorities have promised to take action after a social media user on Monday tweeted to them the photograph of a packed local train compartment, in which people stood shoulder to shoulder. This was a special staff train that was being used by others as well. It now remains to be seen whether this scene will be repeated on Wednesday when services resume for common people. From Wednesday, Eastern Railway (ER) and South Eastern Railway (SER) will start running 696 suburban services in the Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur divisions. Apart from sanitization of rakes, passengers will be forbidden to use the middle seats. Each row has three seats and a red cross has been painted on the middle to prevent passengers from using it. At the end of the coaches, where seats are more, alternate ones have been marked with a cross. Queue markers have also been put in place in front of the ticket counters. “This is as per guidelines being followed across the country. Even Metro Railway commuters are keeping a gap between two seats to maintain social distancing. We know that it will be a tough task to maintain discipline on the local trains but we can only appeal to people. There will be regular announcements at stations and posters have also been put up, urging people to maintain social distancing norms and wear masks,” a senior railway official in Kolkata said. Before the pandemic, four people used to squeeze into the three seats in each row. Asking people to occupy only two of the seats now may cause some problems when more people start using the services. According to the official, sufficient services are being offered to start with and there shouldn’t be any problem if people follow the guidelines. If need be, more services can be started. “I am keeping my fingers crossed. Hopefully, everybody will abide by the rules. There will be some troublemakers, but they should have little say against a majority opinion. Before the pandemic, there was a tendency among people to crowd the first 3-4 coaches of the train so that they would have to walk a shorter distance on reaching Howrah or Sealdah. Hopefully, this tendency will make way for social distancing,” Ardhendu Roy, a commuter, said. As many companies are continuing to encourage work from home and schools and colleges are yet to start, the railways believe that the number of services will suffice for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/local-services-to-resume-tomorrow-with-social-distancing-at-stations-on-trains/articleshow/79138479.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata now a hunting ground for bicycle thieves||KOLKATA: Bowbazar police recently registered an FIR on a bicycle theft. Indrajit Dutta, a resident of B B Ganguly Street found his cycle, worth Rs 15,000, stolen from his residence. So did Tangra and Kalighat police after one Rohit Agarwal and another Deep Mukherjee reported cycle thefts. While the former’s cycle had disappeared from his home at night, the latter’s went missing from the Santoshpur minibus stand. The pandemic has not only led to a rise in use of cycles, it has also led to a rise in their thefts, it seems. Since June, 87 complaints of cycle theft have reached Lalbazar. “There are no unique numbers on cycles and many of the stolen ones were new. Hence, it has become a high-profit exercise in the city,” said an officer at Lalbazar. For the first time in several decades in Kolkata Police, the watch section, along with the anti-burglary wing, is taking interest in such cases. What makes the development interesting is the sharp drop in theft of motorbikes. Figures from previous years show that there has been no rise in thefts of motorbikes and scooters, claimed a senior IPS officer. The drop — from an average of as many as 16 a month to around eight to ten — indicates the “change in priority” of thieves. “Cases have been reported from Sinthee, Behala and Sealdah-Muchipara areas. We used to have bicycle thefts early in our career. The crime index board used to have the last row dedicated to theft of cycles. Motorcycles replaced it over the years,” an officer of the anti-burglary wing said. Bicycle enthusiasts advise simple steps to prevent thefts. “Never use a cable lock; it can be easily broken. Double locks are better. Also, decent locks are expensive and heavy. Thieves tend to go for cheaper, weaker locks,” said Aritra Basu from Behala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-now-a-hunting-ground-for-bicycle-thieves/articleshow/79138481.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Dilapidated Raipur Road stretch irks commuters||DEHRADUN: Thousands of commuters using the Dehradun Club-Raipur Road route on a daily basis are facing much inconvenience due to the damage caused by the frequent movement of heavy vehicles on the stretch. Locals claim that the dilapidated condition of the road has also led to a rise in dust pollution in the area. Talking to TOI, residents and shopkeepers in the area alleged that no step has been taken to repair the road despite repeated complaints to the authorities concerned. A shopkeeper Santosh Rawat said, “The damaged road causes much pollution in the area. We find it hard to breathe and even customers seldom stop in the area due to this. The air quality poses serious health hazard to both locals and commuters alike. The authorities should repair the stretch on a priority basis.” A motorist Sunil Naithani said, “This road has been in tatters for the past several months. The movement of trucks and other heavy vehicles on the stretch has only worsened it. Daily commuters are the worst affected.” “Those who travel on the route, especially two-wheeler riders, are covered in dust from head to toe by the time we reach our destination. It is very difficult,” said Kuldeep Singh, another commuter who routinely uses the stretch. When contacted, PWD officials said that the road would be repaired on an urgent basis and that the locals would soon get reprieve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dilapidated-raipur-road-stretch-irks-commuters/articleshow/79135650.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||DMC launches 5-day-long ‘Diwali fair’ for locally made products||DEHRADUN: A mini-fair to support local products made by various women self-help groups (SHGs) was inaugurated at the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) office on Monday. The five-day-long fair has over 50 stalls from SHGs which offer products like idols made from cow dung, diya (small oil lamp), LED bulbs, lightings for Diwali, and clothes, among others. The fair was inaugurated by city mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama and municipal commissioner Vinay Shankar Pandey. The mayor appreciated the efforts of the SHGs who have worked hard to make fancy and useful products locally while giving livelihood to a large number of people. The fair has been organised under the National Urban Livelihoods Mission for supporting and encouraging self-employment opportunities. Bhadrakali, a self-help group, has also showcased fancy candles and incense sticks made of cow dung. The women from the group said that the sticks have a mixture of camphor and sandalwood which is considered auspicious. Women from Pari self-help group have come up with LED lights and fancy lightings for Diwali. Poonam Pal, the leader of the group, said that over 40 women are working to deliver the orders on time and they are hopeful to get more orders. Another SHG ‘Swadesh Kutuk’ has made Swastika (ancient religious icon) and Diwali greetings stickers which remain in high demand during the festivals as people use them for decoration purposes. Women from the SHGs are also promoting the food culture of Uttarakhand with food stalls where local food like Arsa (sweet dish) and other snacks have been made available. The officials said that the SHGs did not have any platform to showcase their work which is why the idea of hosting them at the civic body’s office came up. They added that the best stall will be rewarded on the last day of the fair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-launches-5-day-long-diwali-fair-for-locally-made-products/articleshow/79135654.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Name & shame: Many usual suspects on pollution list||NEW DELHI: Rohini, Jahangirpuri, GT Road, Bawana and Sector 62 in Noida have featured in the list of predicted pollution hotspots in Delhi and its adjoining areas for four days. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, identifies local spots that are likely to suffer a high concentration of PM2.5 (micro, respirable pollutants) the following day and publishes their names. Track the pollution level in your cityThese pollution hotspots are identified using 3D high-resolution air quality model, with the local meteorological condition as a factor. The aim of predicting these hotspots is to help civic agencies step up action at such places to reduce local emissions. According to SAFAR, Bawana and Jahangirpur will continue to remain pollution hotspots on Tuesday too. Other air pollution hotspots for Tuesday are Vivek Vihar, Peeragarhi, Sahibabad, Gurgoan, Dwarka, Ashram Road, IIT Delhi and Narela. The PM2.5 concentration at these locations are forecast to be over 200 micrograms per cubic metre against the standard acceptable PM2.5 concentration of 60 micrograms per cubic metre. After the air quality in Delhi started deteriorating, SAFAR started predicting the hotspots once in five days. “However, when the air quality continued to remain in the ‘severe’ category for five consecutive days, we started releasing the list of pollution hotspots every alternate day,” informed a SAFAR statement. “Whenever the air quality is likely to be at the ‘severe’ level or remain at the higher end of ‘very poor’ category, we identify such locations once in two days.” The forecasting body said Rohini, Jahangirpuri, GT Road, Bawana and Sector 62 in Noida were in the pollution hotspots for the past four days due to the high concentration of PM2.5. Though the value of PM 2.5 concentration varied across these four days, the five locations had levels that put them in the hotspot list. On Sunday, SAFAR forecast the PM 2.5 concentration at these five hotspots for Monday in the ‘severe’ range. For determining the hotspots for the following day, a total of 2,500 grid points in Delhi and a few in the neighbouring states are checked for PM2.5 levels. Those with the highest particulate matter levels are considered hotspots. Officials said if any stretch had a 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration between 120 and 250 micrograms per cubic metre, the air was considered ‘very poor’. A level higher than 250 falls in the ‘severe’ category. Last year, the Central Pollution Control Board and Delhi Pollution Control Committee identified 13 pollution hotspots in the city based on the average PM2.5 and PM 10 levels recorded through the year. The notorious 13 locations are Rohini, Dwarka, Okhla Phase-2, Punjabi Bagh, Anand Vihar, Vivek Vihar, Wazirpur, Jahangirpuri, R K Puram, Bawana, Mundka, Narela and Mayapuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/name-shame-many-usual-suspects-on-pollution-list/articleshow/79138522.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 10, 2020||Vadodara||Cable operator thrashed, threatened over business rivalry||Vadodara: A notorious bootlegger was among four persons booked on Monday for snapping the cable network of an operator living on Waghodiya Road and assaulting him over a past business rift.The cable operator Vikram Pandey told police that the accused Chetan Kahar, bootlegger Vikram Chawda and their two accomplices beat him up when he went to confront Kahar on Sunday night over snapping his cables. Kahar too is a cable operator and the duo also had a fight in the past over competition in the cable television business.Pandey was informed by his associate that Kahar and the other accused had snapped the connection and were creating a ruckus at Vaikunth Society on Waghodiya Road. On reaching Vaikunth Society, when Pandey questioned Kahar’s action, he was threatened and beaten up with iron pipes. Pandey was rescued by locals and taken to SSG Hospital. In the melee, he also lost his gold chain.Pandey later called police control room to lodge a complaint when Chawda came to his home to threaten him. Based on Pandey’s complaint, an offence of assault, causing hurt and criminal intimidation was registered against four persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cable-operator-thrashed-threatened-over-business-rivalry/articleshow/79135702.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Varanasi||PM collects feedback on devpt from locals||Varanasi:Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised hopes for setting up a centre of excellence for sports in Varanasi by assuring international basketball player and Padma awardee Prashanti Singh that the government will consider her demand for it. While taking feedback on the development works in his parliamentary constituency from local residents, PM virtually interacted with three people, including Prashanti who thanked him for the construction of 56-bed sports hostel, changing rooms, and upgradation of facilities that will help in hosting national and international events in Varanasi. After expressing gratitude to the PM for taking care of sports facilities in Varanasi, Prashanti requested for setting up a centre of excellence for sports in the city. Assuring Prashanti that the government will look into her demand, Modi said, “I prefer taking views of coaches and sportsmen than relying on schemes prepared by ‘babus’ and it has helped in achieving better results in the sports arena.” The PM next interacted with entrepreneur Vipul Agarwal of Chandpur industrial area who thanked the Union and state governments for paying attention towards the decades-old demand of improving basic infrastructure in the area having 153 industrial units, most of them export-oriented. In her interaction with the PM, Neelima Mehta, a housewife of Bhaironath locality, thanked him for solving major problems of cleanliness, drinking water and sewerage in the city. Starting his address with the ‘Har Har Mahadev’ chant, Prime Minister Modi extended greetings for Diwali, Bhaiya Dooj, Annakoot and Dala Chhath to the people of Varanasi in Bhojpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/pm-collects-feedback-on-devpt-from-locals/articleshow/79137200.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Varanasi||Seven-yr-old rape, murder victim cremated amid tight security||VARANASI: The Sonbhadra police cremated the body of a seven-year-old girl, who was murdered after rape by a youth of her village in Bijpur area, amid tight security arrangements on Sunday evening. The body was recovered on the evening of November 7. The incident had left the village tense following which heavy police force and PAC was deployed to maintain law and order. SP Sonbhadra Ashish Srivastava said that the girl’s body was recovered after the accused was arrested. Police has recommended the district magistrate to book the accused under NSA, he added. Srivastava said that on November 7 morning, father of a minor girl made a complaint with the police alleging that his daughter had been kidnapped by a local youth Shivam when she was playing outside the home on November 6 evening. Taking note of his complaint, the police launched a manhunt and nabbed Shivam on November 7 evening. During interrogation, Shivam confessed that he had killed the girl following rape after taking her to jungle near the village. On his tip-off, the police reached the jungle and recovered the body. Tension prevailed in the village after which heavy police force from Bijpur, Babhani and Myorpur police stations and PAC was deployed in and around the village. Meanwhile, the Ghorawal police on Sunday night, arrested a teacher, Shambhunath Sonkar ,of Kalwari Mafi village after he allegedly sexually harassed a minor girl on finding her alone at home. Police initiated action after the girl’s father lodged a named FIR against Sonkar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/7-yr-old-rape-murder-victim-cremated-amid-tight-security/articleshow/79137209.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||In Goa, eco-friendly Diwali may come back||KERI: When Goa celebrates Diwali on November 14 by burning Narkasur effigies and lighting lamps it will be with some restrictions. The state government has imposed some curbs on public assembly as well as on the size of the effigies for the festivities. Some youth in interior parts the state have, however, voluntarily decided to observe the festival in an eco-friendly way during the pandemic. Subodh Naik from Kasarpal, Bicholim said that this year he intends to revive the Goan tradition of making Narkasur from a bamboo frame. “Diwali is the festival of lighting earthen lamps and of making of ‘aakash deep’ (sky lamps) with biodegradable materials. Earlier people used to make the framework of bamboo for Narkasur effigies. There is a need to revive this eco-friendly tradition to celebrate Diwali,” he said. President of the Vivekanand environment awareness brigade, Chandrakant Shinde, said his organisation has been working for over a decade to create awareness about using biodegradable material to reduce pollution while celebrating Diwali. “Every year through street plays we distribute pamphlets to discourage use of fireworks. After burning Narkasur effigies, the iron skeletons along with non-biodegradable materials are left behind on the streets,” said Shinde. Diwali is celebrated in Goa after harvesting paddy and people relish a variety of dishes prepared from puffed rice. Madhu Gaonkar, 65, from Khandola reminisced about the celebrations in Goa a few decades ago, “Earlier villagers burnt effigies of Narkasur made from bamboo framework stuffed with seasonal grass and decorated with coloured papers. The mask on the effigy was also made from paper. Today we have lost this tradition, creating pollution.” In Goa, it was traditionally the potters who were suppliers of the earthen lamps for the festival. “The lamps were priced reasonably, too. In Bicholim, Sattari, there are still some potters who have no source of livelihood and who continue to earn by selling earthen lamps and other household items made from clay. Today, lack of appropriate patronage from the government has forced the community to do away with traditional occupations,” said Satyavan Harmalkar of the All Goa Kumbhar Samaj Sangh, Bicholim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-hinterlands-eco-friendly-diwali-may-come-back/articleshow/79138539.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
November 10, 2020||Varanasi||Property dealer found injuredon Kanpur-Lko highway dies||Kanpur:A 40-year-old property dealer, found with serious injuries on the side of the Kanpur-Lucknow National Highway under the limits of Sadar Kotwali police station in Unnao under mysterious circumstances on late Sunday night, died at district hospital. The police identified the deceased as Sanjay Shukla, a resident of Shyam Nagar area of Kanpur. The family members have alleged foul play in his death. Police said that as per the family members, Shukla was into property dealing business. “He had left home on Sunday morning saying that he was going to Lucknow in a car with his friend and we don’t know what happened to him later. We got a call from the police who got our number from his possession and informed us about his death,” alleged his family members. Police, meanwhile, are continuing to investigate the circumstances surrounding the incident which has claimed the life of the property dealer. Inspector Sadar Kotwali Dinesh Chandra Mishra said, “We have come across information that the victim had gone to Lucknow along with his friend. One Shahnawaz had admitted him to district hospital on late Sunday night. It has to be been found out how he was found ying unconscious on Kanpur-Lucknow highway. We are also questioning the deceased’s friend,” Mishra said. “We have sent the body for post-mortem. Once we receive reports, detailed investigations will follow,” the Inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/property-dealer-found-injuredon-kanpur-lko-highway-dies/articleshow/79137251.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Spl edition of RSS magazine launched||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat launched the special edition of RSS’ magazine ‘Pathay Kan’ at Swastik Bhawan in Ambawadi in Jaipur on Monday. The special edition has details of the relief work done by socio-religious groups during lockdown period. The members also discussed ways to re-start shakhas at the ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spl-edition-of-rss-magazine-launched/articleshow/79138512.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kanpur||Statements to be recorded at Chaubeypur police stn||Kanpur: Statement of witnesses of Bikru ambush, in which eight policemen were killed on July 2 & 3 night by gangster Vikas Dubey and his henchmen, will now be recorded at Chaubeypur police station on the instructions of the Judicial Commission looking into the entire episode. Sources at the SSP office said that after being instructed by the Commission, which had been mandated to probe the Bikru incident, notices across the places of public importance in the village have been pasted asking eyewitnesses, who are willing to get their statement recorded, to visit Chaubeypur police station for the same. “One can get his/her statement recorded verbally, or through audio and video, besides in writing. The identity of the witnesses will be kept secret. We have pasted notice in this regard across Chaubeypur town and particularly in Bikru village, the site of ambush and that claimed lives of eight policemen,” said SP (rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava. Earlier, the Commission had asked witnesses to visit room no:202 of the State guest house in Ramabai Maidan near Shaheed Path in Lucknow to get the statement recorded. The Commission will submit its final report within two months, said sources further. While eight policemen were killed in Bikru village on July 2 & 3 night, Dubey was killed on the morning of July 10 when he allegedly tried to escape the custody of Special Task Force (STF) following an accident involving the vehicle in which he was being taken to Kanpur from Ujjain Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/statements-to-be-recorded-at-chaubeypur-police-stn/articleshow/79137282.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Most people in plants, factories won’t get Diwali bonus||JAIPUR: This year, workers engaged in factories and plants have almost given up on any hopes of getting Diwali bonus. They are not even willing to talk about it, let alone complaining to the labour department or the labour unions. Many workers TOI spoke to said the biggest challenge for them is to save their jobs and get regular full salary. A worker from Motihari in Bihar, who works in a factory in Sitapura, said there is no shortage of labourers but companies don’t have vacancies. “I cannot demand or bargain. There is large number of unemployed youths waiting to work for less than what I get. So, even if I don’t get Diwali bonus, it’s not a big deal. If I make a complaint, I will get identified and nobody would hire me,” said the 28-year-man, who supports his family of five back in Bihar. Payment of Bonus Act 1965 provides for companies to pay a bonus of 8.33% of the annual basic salary for employees whose monthly salary is below Rs 21,000. The bonus amount could go up to 20% if the company wants to pay due to higher profits. For those workers whose salary is below minimum wage, they are entitled to get a fixed Rs 7,000. “We do conduct random checks from time-to-time to ensure that workers are paid of their bonus within eight months of the next financial year. There is an uncomplicated mechanism laid out to resolve if workers bring to our notice about the non-payment of bonus by the employer,” said Prateek Jhajharia, labour commissioner, Rajasthan. Jhajharia said even though the punishments can go up to six months of imprisonment, most of the cases get resolved by reconciliation between the employers and the employees. The bonus is to be for this Diwali for the last financial year (2019-20) when there was no disruption to businesses due to Covid pandemic even though the impact was there in the last couple of weeks of March. That means companies cannot say that they made losses and escape paying bonus. “While it is true that the bonus belongs to the last financial year, many companies are in financial distress now. Some had already paid workers for the period when the factories remained closed due to lockdown. It’s a difficult situation for both workers and the employers also,” said N K Jain, president of Employers Association of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/most-people-in-plants-factories-wont-get-diwali-bonus/articleshow/79138538.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
November 10, 2020||Kanpur||‘Barter’ scheme to check stubble burning in Unnao||Kanpur: The Unnao district administration has launched a unique barter scheme to find a permanent solution to the practice of stubble burning by farmers. “Under the scheme, the farmers will be provided one trolley of bio-fertiliser (cowdung manure) against the submission of two trolleys of stubble across 135 ‘gaushalas’,” district magistrate Ravindra Kumar informed TOI on Monday. For over five years, burning rice stubble has caused severe air pollution in the region. Estimates show that 15-20 million tonnes of paddy stubble burnt in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh emit PM2.5 that is 4-5 times more than the annual PM2.5 emissions from all vehicles plying in Delhi. Acting tough, over 1,100 FIRs have been lodged against 2,000 farmers across the state for stubble burning. Thirty-five-year-old Sanjay is a rice farmer in Gadan Kheda village and he hasn’t burnt rice straw after he came to know about the barter scheme. “I am preparing bundles of rice straw to further transport it on my tractor-trolley to a ‘gaushala’ to exchange it with bio-fertiliser,” he said. Earlier, he used to burn the stubble. “I had also availed the barter scheme of district administration. Such an initiative will not only lessen the increasing pollution level, but the bio-fertiliser provided by the ‘gaushala’ authorities will also increase my yield, besides our stray cattle will now no more die of hunger due to sufficient fodder stock across the ‘gaushalas’ in the district. Also, one will also not land in a legal tussle,” said Shiv Kumar, another farmer. “We have received an overwhelming response from the farmers. There are in total 135 temporary ‘gaushalas’ in the district. Nearly, 1000 quintals of stubble had already been received by officials across these ‘gaushalas’. It’s an effective solution to the problem of burning stubble and it will only make the soil more fertile,” the DM said. “Also, directions have been given to the revenue department officials to spread awareness among farmers against stubble burning and for proper disposal of crop residue by involving village committees and village heads,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/barter-scheme-to-check-stubble-burning-in-unnao/articleshow/79137260.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Discoms expect record peak demand, ready winter plan||NEW DELHI: The capital’s peak power demand this winter can go up to 5,480 megawatt (MW), surpassing last year’s record-breaking figure of 5,343MW, believe Delhi’s power discoms. But they are also ready with a winter action plan to ensure adequate supply. The peak demand in the 2015-16 winter was 4,125MW, which increased to 4,168MW and 4,511MW in the next two winters, but dipped to 4,472MW in 2018-19. Last winter, the peak demand — 5,343MW — was on January 1, 2020. “With the city experiencing winters ahead of the schedule and the minimum temperature equivalent to several hill stations, Tata Power Delhi Distribution (Tata Power-DDL) is fully prepared to ensure adequate power availability to a populace of 7 million in its areas in north Delhi,” the discom said. According to India Meteorological Department officials, the minimum temperature will be comparatively lower this season vis-a-vis previous years. A BSES spokesperson said both discoms — BRPL and BYPL — were ready to ensure reliable supply. Its power-supply arrangements during the winter includes long-term agreements with power plants, apart from more than 190MW of wind, 25MW of waste-to-energy and 70MW of solar power. “The BSES discoms are also using avenues like ‘banking’, ‘reserve shutdown’, ‘power exchange’ and ensuring sufficient ‘spinning reserves’ to dispose of surplus power as well as ensuring reliable power supply,” he said, adding that BSES discoms would buy short-term power from the exchange in case of any exigency. Both BSES and TATA Power-DDL said they were using cutting edge technology to ensure 24x7 supply. Tata Power-DDL is using advanced statistical forecasting models, combined with state of the art weather forecasting solutions. It is also exploring banking of surplus power with other states, which need additional power during the winter. This banked power will be available during the next summer. Accurate demand (load) forecasting, BSES said, is critical for reliable power supply and, among other aspects, weather parameters like temperature, rainfall, cloud coverage, wind speed and direction, and humidity play an important role in accurate demand forecast. Even holidays and random disturbances have an impact on the power demand, said the BSES spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discoms-expect-record-peak-demand-ready-winter-plan/articleshow/79138553.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Allahabad||Traders hopeful with surge in demand ahead of Diwali||PRAYAGRAJ: Traders associated with Prayag Vyapaar Mandal and Civil Lines Vyapaar Mandal are still pinning hopes on Dhanteras and Diwali festival to make up for their losses. Traders, who kept their shutters down for around 65 days during the Covid-19 induced lockdown, are hoping that they would be able to recover their losses due to no sale earlier this year during the Diwali festivities. However, most of the traders claimed that the sale of various items like garments, footwear, jewellery and the automobile is nowhere close compared to the sales on Diwali in the previous years. The fear of catching Covid-19 infection and the rising trend of online shopping has undoubtedly put the business prospects of local shopkeepers at risk of huge losses. Vijay Arora, president of Prayag Vyapaar Mandal said, “We are yet to receive a better response at city’s prime markets ahead of Diwali festive season. He further added that, “customers are avoiding visiting the markets due to the Covid-19 pandemic and rising online shopping trend have left the businesses of local shopkeepers affected to a major extent”. Arora also claimed, “A section of customers has undoubtedly returned to markets, but business is yet to match up to the previous years”.  He said that traders dealing in the garment, footwear, jewellery, and the automobile has noticed a slight jump in the sale on Sunday and are still pinning their hopes on Dhanteras and Diwali from November 12 to 14, to make up for their losses. Prayagraj wholesale crackers association claimed that the sale of crackers is also yet to witness a rise in demand as it has gone down by almost 40% this Diwali compared to last year. Shushil Kharbanda, president of Civil Lines Vyapaar Mandal said, “We hope that market would be returning to its peak on coming days. Sale of various articles like a garment, footwear, jewellery, the automobile has increased in the past two days, but it was still not similar to previous Diwali”. He hopes things will change for the better for traders on Dhanteras. Most of the traders at civil lines and adjoining market are of the view that they will be able to make up for some of the losses on Dhanteras. “I just wish and pray that the situation remains better and market conditions improve,” said a shopkeeper at civil lines. Interestingly, sale of Diwali related articles, particularly decorative items, has increased manifold at Chowk, Katra, Loknath, Sulemsarai, Rajapur and other markets. A variety of decorative are attracting customers who are ready to shell out extra bucks to get their homes decorated on this festive season. Sale of house paints has also increased manifold as people are busy in whitewash work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/traders-hopeful-with-surge-in-demand-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79137561.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Rules forbid plaza, but toll may remain till 2036||CHENNAI: The initial cost of the IT Corridor was recovered years ago, but the state-owned Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation continues to collect tolls. IT Expressway Limited (ITEL), a subsidiary of TNRDC, had spent Rs 416 crore on the road connecting Taramani with Siruseri and has so far generated Rs 443 crore in revenue from five toll plazas. Users of the road, irked by long vehicle queues, traffic congestion and lack of promised amenities, want the toll plazas shut, but ITEL and the state highways department seem to be in no mood to do so. Collection of tolls will continue for the next 16 years (till the end of the concessionaire agreement in June 2036), said ITEL in response to a Right to Information (RTI) query from Satta Panchapat Iyakkam, an NGO. While TNRDC officials agree their board had held discussions on the issue, there was no response from the state highways department. A Karthick, state highways secretary and TNRDC chairman, refused to meet this reporter to answer queries on public grievances and respond to MP Dayanidhi Maran’s letter requesting closure of tolls. “It is not that we stopped spending on the project after its inception in 2008. We continue to spend crores on maintenance. We are investing it back to improve the corridor into a world-class facility,” said a TNRDC official who didn't wish to be named. S Renga Prasad of Satta Panchayat Iyyakam said NHAI rules don’t permit tolls in city limits. “How can a state agency violate rules?” TNRDC now needs funds only for maintenance and it can get them from the government without collecting tolls, he said. The TNRDC official referred to a 2016 Gurgaon example where a toll plaza was closed after public outcry. “The private firm, with which the government signed the concessionaire agreement for the Gurgaon expressway project, went to court seeking a hefty compensation.” The firm didn’t limit the compensation to its outstanding loan amount (borrowed to develop the project) but also included the potential revenue loss. In the IT corridor project, TNRDC has an outstanding loan of Rs 100 crore and might lose Rs 800 crore as toll revenue for the next 16 years (till concessionaire agreement is valid) if tolls end and the state highways department, headed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy, will have to spend at least Rs 900 crore to prevent TNRDC from collapse. “This is why the government is hesitant to take a call,” said highly-placed government sources. And road users continue to suffer. IT employees are the worst-affected, with an individual spending up to Rs 2,000 a month on tolls and spending more time on daily commute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rules-forbid-plaza-but-toll-may-remain-till-2036/articleshow/79136993.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 10, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Rules forbid plaza, but toll may remain till 2036||CHENNAI: The initial cost of the IT Corridor was recovered years ago, but the state-owned Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation continues to collect tolls. IT Expressway Limited (ITEL), a subsidiary of TNRDC, had spent Rs 416 crore on the road connecting Taramani with Siruseri and has so far generated Rs 443 crore in revenue from five toll plazas. Users of the road, irked by long vehicle queues, traffic congestion and lack of promised amenities, want the toll plazas shut, but ITEL and the state highways department seem to be in no mood to do so. Collection of tolls will continue for the next 16 years (till the end of the concessionaire agreement in June 2036), said ITEL in response to a Right to Information (RTI) query from Satta Panchapat Iyakkam, an NGO. While TNRDC officials agree their board had held discussions on the issue, there was no response from the state highways department. A Karthick, state highways secretary and TNRDC chairman, refused to meet this reporter to answer queries on public grievances and respond to MP Dayanidhi Maran’s letter requesting closure of tolls. “It is not that we stopped spending on the project after its inception in 2008. We continue to spend crores on maintenance. We are investing it back to improve the corridor into a world-class facility,” said a TNRDC official who didn't wish to be named. S Renga Prasad of Satta Panchayat Iyyakam said NHAI rules don’t permit tolls in city limits. “How can a state agency violate rules?” TNRDC now needs funds only for maintenance and it can get them from the government without collecting tolls, he said. The TNRDC official referred to a 2016 Gurgaon example where a toll plaza was closed after public outcry. “The private firm, with which the government signed the concessionaire agreement for the Gurgaon expressway project, went to court seeking a hefty compensation.” The firm didn’t limit the compensation to its outstanding loan amount (borrowed to develop the project) but also included the potential revenue loss. In the IT corridor project, TNRDC has an outstanding loan of Rs 100 crore and might lose Rs 800 crore as toll revenue for the next 16 years (till concessionaire agreement is valid) if tolls end and the state highways department, headed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy, will have to spend at least Rs 900 crore to prevent TNRDC from collapse. “This is why the government is hesitant to take a call,” said highly-placed government sources. And road users continue to suffer. IT employees are the worst-affected, with an individual spending up to Rs 2,000 a month on tolls and spending more time on daily commute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/rules-forbid-plaza-but-toll-may-remain-till-2036/articleshow/79143118.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||7 of 47 smart projects completed in 4 years, MC officials pulled up||Ludhiana: In four years, the municipal corporation completed only seven of the 47 projects under the Smart City mission.With the state government yet to release its share, Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) is struggling with fund crunch.During a meeting to review Smart City projects at MC Zone D office on Monday, Congress MP Ravneet Bittu expressed dissatisfaction over the work pace and said the same projects were being listed since 2017. When told about the paucity of funds, he assured to get Rs 50 crore released from the state government, so that another grant, which is above Rs 100 crore, could be taken from the Centre.The officials said LSCL undertook 47 projects worth Rs 1,133.67 crore. Of these, seven projects of Rs 18.59 crore were completed, 13 of Rs 383.42 crore were under execution and 17 of Rs 539.01 crore were under the tendering process. Besides, detailed project reports (DPRs) of 10 projects of Rs 221.80 crore were being prepared for approval.The MP said, “Shortage of funds is a matter of concern. The grant came from the Centre, but as the state had not given its share, the amount did not get transferred to Smart City kitty. I have asked the finance secretary to release the funds. We have asked for Rs 50 crore at least and once this amount is released, we will request for more grant from the Union government.”The MP stressed on completion of a few projects before the assembly elections due in 2022. He asked the officials of MC as well as AECOM, consultant company for Smart City projects, to complete construction and demolition waste management plant, bio-remediation of legacy waste of MC, construction of multi-level parking at Feroze Gandhi Market, road over-bridge/road under-bridge at Pakhowal Road, sports park at Jainpur, static compactors, chain link fencing, beautification around Buddha Nullah, sports infrastructure and carcass utilization projects, among others.He asked the officials to involve industrial houses in beautification of the entry points of the city.A Smart City mission director, Sanjay Goel, said, “Working on many projects at a time affects the net result. Even the multi-level car parking in Feroze Gandhi market, which is an important project for the city, could not be constructed. Unless key issues are not dealt with, the city cannot become smart.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/7-of-47-smart-projects-completed-in-4-years-mc-officials-pulled-up/articleshow/79135724.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Surat||Former mayor appointed Surat city BJP president||Surat: Former mayor of Surat Niranjan Zanzmera was named as the new Surat city BJP president by the party leadership on Monday. His name was announced by Gujarat BJP president CR Paatil who declared his new team of office-bearers for the state. Zanzmera, a Saurashtra Patidar leader, was mayor from 2013 to 2015. Zanzmera will take over the reign of the party in the city from outgoing BJP president Nitin Bhajiawala. On the other hand, Paatil appointed Sandip Desai as the new Surat district BJP president. Desai, a senior cooperative leader is the vice-chairman of Surat District Cooperative Bank, Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) and director of Sumul. Sources said that Desai is very close to Paatil and that he would take the responsibility of Paatil’s campaigning in the rural areas falling under the Navsari parliamentary constituency from where Paatil is the MP. Talking with TOI, Zanzmera said, “The party has shouldered a big responsibility upon me and I will deliver my 100%. It will be my priority to see that the party performs well in the forthcoming municipal elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/former-mayor-appointed-surat-city-bjp-president/articleshow/79135172.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Vadodara||Oil lamp causes fire in house||Vadodara: A lamp lit before a god’s idol caused fire in a house in Shiyabaug area on Monday morning.According to the fire department, the fire broke out in the house of Tukaram Yadav around 11.30 am. The fire engulfed Yadav’s entire house within a few minutes. However, the family members rushed out in time. Fire officials said that furniture and all electronic devices were gutted. The incident caused chaos in the locality as the house is in a narrow lane. Firemen, however, ensured that the flames did not spread to the neighbouring houses. “Fire was doused in an hour. Later, on investigating and questioning the family members, it was found that an oil lamp lit in the temple of the house had sparked the fire,” said a fireman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/oil-lamp-causes-fire-in-house/articleshow/79135755.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Varanasi||Rs 3 crore penalty on Varanasi plant for polluting Ganga||LUCKNOW: Furthering the cause of clean Ganga, the Yogi Adityanath government has initiated the biggest-ever strike on pollution in the holy river. The Namami Gange department of UP has slapped a fine of Rs 3 crore on a Varanasi-based company for callousness in running a sewage treatment plant (STP). The action came on the directions of principal secretary of the department Anurag Srivastava. Sources said that it was brought up during a recent review meeting that some of the projects were going very slow and were delayed. “The desired results were missing,” said the source, adding that the need for an “effective and strict” action was felt. Teams of Namami Gange conducted raids at around 12 places across the state to check if STPs met the parameters and quality standard set. The first action was in Varanasi where Ramana STP was found not to be operating at the fixed parameters. Quality of sewage disposal was not up to the mark either. After completion of the probe, the Namami Gange department slapped the fine of Rs 3 crore on the company. The Yogi government has scaled up action and monitoring of the parameters and quality of STPs, both government and private, to ensure impetus on the National Mission for Clean Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rs-3cr-penalty-on-varanasiplant-for-polluting-ganga/articleshow/79137786.cms||Neha Shukla
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Cracker shops with permanent licences sealed in Jaipur||JAIPUR: In pursuance of the state government’s ban on sale and purchase of firecrackers, Jaipur police on Monday started sealing the shops having permanent firecracker licences. At least 107 shops in various police station areas have permanent licences. Thus, to ensure these shops may not indulge in illegal sale of firecrackers, additional commissioner of police, Jaipur (law and order) ordered various police districts in Jaipur and their SHOs to start sealing these shops. Various police station areas especially in the Walled City started sealing the firecrackers shops, which will continue on Tuesday. “As state government has imposed a ban and introduced penalties on sale and purchase of firecrackers and fireworks, I have asked various police districts in Jaipur to start sealing the shops having permanent firecrackers licences,” said Rahul Prakash, additional commissioner of police, Jaipur (law and order) while talking to TOI. He added that at least 107 people have permanent firecracker licenses in Jaipur. “For Diwali every year, we issue more than 1,500 permanent licences for sale of firecrackers. This time, these licenses were not granted. But for those who have permanent licences, we need to ensure they don’t indulge in illegal sale of firecrackers. Thus, sealing of these shops has been started,” said an officer. Meanwhile, the hearing on firecrackers ban issue in Rajasthan High Court was deferred till Tuesday. The firecracker dealers’ association had moved an application in high court seeking lifting of the ban on firecrackers, while they apprehended that it will create a livelihood crisis for more than 1 lakh people in Rajasthan. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot too had justified the ban on sale and purchase of firecrackers stating that it is beyond any religious affiliations. Rajasthan has been the first to impose ban on firecrackers which was followed by other states too. As per the government order, any shopkeeper selling any kind of fireworks will be punished with a fine of Rs 10,000. Any person found using or allowing the use of any kind of fireworks will be punished with a fine of Rs 2,000, the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cracker-shops-with-permanent-licences-sealed/articleshow/79138549.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Erode||Tamil Nadu: Rules forbid plaza, but toll may remain till 2036||CHENNAI: The initial cost of the IT Corridor was recovered years ago, but the state-owned Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation continues to collect tolls. IT Expressway Limited (ITEL), a subsidiary of TNRDC, had spent Rs 416 crore on the road connecting Taramani with Siruseri and has so far generated Rs 443 crore in revenue from five toll plazas. Users of the road, irked by long vehicle queues, traffic congestion and lack of promised amenities, want the toll plazas shut, but ITEL and the state highways department seem to be in no mood to do so. Collection of tolls will continue for the next 16 years (till the end of the concessionaire agreement in June 2036), said ITEL in response to a Right to Information (RTI) query from Satta Panchapat Iyakkam, an NGO. While TNRDC officials agree their board had held discussions on the issue, there was no response from the state highways department. A Karthick, state highways secretary and TNRDC chairman, refused to meet this reporter to answer queries on public grievances and respond to MP Dayanidhi Maran’s letter requesting closure of tolls. “It is not that we stopped spending on the project after its inception in 2008. We continue to spend crores on maintenance. We are investing it back to improve the corridor into a world-class facility,” said a TNRDC official who didn't wish to be named. S Renga Prasad of Satta Panchayat Iyyakam said NHAI rules don’t permit tolls in city limits. “How can a state agency violate rules?” TNRDC now needs funds only for maintenance and it can get them from the government without collecting tolls, he said. The TNRDC official referred to a 2016 Gurgaon example where a toll plaza was closed after public outcry. “The private firm, with which the government signed the concessionaire agreement for the Gurgaon expressway project, went to court seeking a hefty compensation.” The firm didn’t limit the compensation to its outstanding loan amount (borrowed to develop the project) but also included the potential revenue loss. In the IT corridor project, TNRDC has an outstanding loan of Rs 100 crore and might lose Rs 800 crore as toll revenue for the next 16 years (till concessionaire agreement is valid) if tolls end and the state highways department, headed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy, will have to spend at least Rs 900 crore to prevent TNRDC from collapse. “This is why the government is hesitant to take a call,” said highly-placed government sources. And road users continue to suffer. IT employees are the worst-affected, with an individual spending up to Rs 2,000 a month on tolls and spending more time on daily commute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/rules-forbid-plaza-but-toll-may-remain-till-2036/articleshow/79143117.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 10, 2020||Allahabad||After persuasion, lawyer & kin climb down from water tank||PRAYAGRAJ: The Hardoi-based lawyer who had climbed atop a water tank along with his family members two days ago while demanding a CBI inquiry into cases filed against him finally came down on Monday evening, ending a 60-hour high-voltage drama which kept both police and administration on their toes in Prayagraj’s Beli area. According to reports, a Hardoi-based lawyer Vijay Pratap had climbed atop a water tank in Prayagraj’s Beli area on Saturday morning along with his wife, son, daughter and two relatives. He refused to come down until the authorities acceded to his demand for a CBI inquiry into a number of cases in which he alleged that he had been falsely implicated. He had also threatened that if his demands were not met with, he would set himself and his family members on fire. The lawyer had alleged, “I was chased away from my village by the district magistrate of Hardoi. A muscleman has occupied my property and has framed me in fake cases while my brother has gone missing. Despite making several complaints, no action has been taken against the muscleman as his brother is a cop posted at the DIG office. I demand a CBI enquiry into the case lodged against me.” After being alerted, senior police officials, firefighters and National Disaster Response Force teams reached the spot and tried to pacify the lawyer for two days. Several police and administrative officials tried to persuade him to climb down, but their efforts were in vain. On Sunday night, Prayagraj district magistrate, ADG O(Prayagraj zone), ADM (city), SP (city) and other senior officials spent hours at the site while trying their luck to pacify Pratap. Authorities had also placed a huge net around the water tank so that the family could be saved in case any of them jumped from the tank. On Sunday night, Pratap had set a piece of cloth on fire and threw the same on the net, damaging it partially. Since Monday, officials had been trying to persuade him to climb down. They also roped in Allahabad High Court Bar Council president Amrendra Nath Singh’s help to convince the agitated lawyer. Besides, officials from Hardoi district administration were also called in to help diffuse the tension. “After hours of persuasion and promise that he won’t be harmed, Pratap and his family climbed down from the water tank. Hardoi district administration has also agreed to look into his allegations. The family was sent to Hardoi along with SDM Sangdila and a CO-rank officer,” said ADM (city) AK Kanojia. Sources said that the Hardoi administration has decided to form a committee which would look into the allegations levelled by the lawyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/after-persuasion-lawyer-kin-climb-down-from-water-tank/articleshow/79137705.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Will halt sale of cheaper onions in Goa if people criticise: Govind Gaude||PANAJI: Reacting to criticism over the quality of subsidised onions being sold at fair price shops (FPS), civil supplies minister Govind Gaude on Monday said that the state government will discontinue the scheme if people do not want it. “Everybody is appreciating the efforts of the state government for providing subsidised onions. If a few people are criticising the government then I can say it is politically motivated, but if some people are criticising the government then we will stop the sale,” he said. Gaude also said that the state government did not start this scheme with any vested interest but on public demand. “Even after providing onions at a lower cost, if people are criticising the government then I can say it is politically motivated,” Gaude said. The civil supplies minister said that FPS owners have started the sale of subsidised of onions and have demanded that the balance sale of two kilogram onions per card holder should be allowed after the 20th of each month as the stock can damage rice and wheat supplies. He also said that those FPS owners who can store and supply three kilogram of onion at a time to card holders can go ahead. “For those fair price owners who lack in storage capacity, the government will make provisions for them,” he said. The council of ministers approved the purchase of 1,045 tonne of onions from the National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation at around Rs 28,000 per tonne. Card holders will get 3kg per card per month at Rs 32 per kg after including inter-state transportation cost of Rs 1 per kilogram and FPS dealer profit margin of Rs 3 per kilogram Gaude said that if any ration card holder finds that the onion is of inferior quality, then they should return it to fair price shop. If the fair price shop refuses to accept it, then the ration card holder lodge a complaint before the civil supplies office. “I will ensure that you can get a replacement for the poor quality onions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/will-halt-sale-of-cheaper-onions-if-people-criticise-gaude/articleshow/79138619.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Surat||6.68kg gold, cash looted from finance firm’s office in Gujarat||SURAT: Four armed robbers looted gold jewellery worth Rs 3.39 crore and Rs 1.79 lakh cash from the office of a gold finance company located in the heart of Ankleshwar town of Bharuch district on Monday. The masked robbers entered the branch office of India Infoline Finance Ltd (IFL) on the first floor of Ashish Shopping Centre at around 9am when the employees had just opened the office. Before they could realize anything, two people armed with pistols and one with a knife directed them to hand over the keys and password of the strong room. The staffers included at least two women also. They spent a good 30 minutes inside the office and took away 6,680 grams of gold jewellery and cash before fleeing in their car. Footage of the CCTV installed in the shopping complex showed the four robbers escaping in a Swift car. Footage from the CCTV installed inside the IIFL office showed one of the robbers brandishing a pistol at a staffer. “Another one armed with knife and pushed other employees them inside another room,” said Rajendrasinh Chudasama, superintendent of police, Bharuch This is the second time this year and third time in the last three years that IIFL branches have been looted. Dhamendra Padhiar, 33, a staff member, who lodged the complaint told police that they robbers were in the age group of 30-35 years and were speaking Hindi. There were seven staffers inside when the incident happened. Police suspect the robbers had carried out detailed recce of the spot as they were aware of the role of staff members. A woman employee is seen entering the office after the robbers came inside. They first forced her and another woman into another room at a gunpoint. Immediately afterwards, they call out one of the women and ask her to hand over the keys of the safe deposit vault. Chudasama told TOI: “Similar loots have taken place at IIFL offices in Valsad and Navsari in the past. All the entry and exit points of Ankleshwar city have been sealed. We have got important clues about the suspects and the case will be cracked soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/6-68kg-gold-cash-looted-from-finance-firms-office/articleshow/79135211.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Healthcare workers will get Covid vaccine before others||Jaipur: While most Covid-19 vaccines are in phase-3 trial, the health department clarified that the vaccines will be made available to healthcare workers on priority in the state. The state government will provide the vaccines to healthcare workers first, who are directly involved in providing care and treatment to Covid patients. The health department has started its exercise for the purpose. “We have started finding out how many doctors and healthcare staff such as nurses, lab technicians and others have come into direct contact with the Covid patients,” said a senior health department official. A lot of doctors in government and private hospitals are tirelessly serving Covid patients in the state. “We aim to provide the vaccines to healthcare staff in private hospitals too who are providing Covid treatment. We have asked the hospitals to send the information about such staff,” said the official. The health department has already started preparations for developing infrastructure along with assessing the storage capacity and transportation for Covid vaccine. Maintaining ‘cold chain’ for supplying the vaccines in different parts of the state, the government will ensure the quality of the vaccine will not be affected. The health department is planning to make use of its existing ‘cold chain’ or it will develop a new and separate cold chain for transportation and storage of Covid vaccines at the temperature required to keep the quality of the vaccine intact. Through the ‘cold chain’, the health department will store and transport vaccines at recommended temperatures from one point to the other, where it will be administered to people. The health department is assessing how much storage capacity they have in their existing warehouses as it is expected that the requirement of vaccines would be much higher in comparison to the vaccines required under national vaccine programmes for children and pregnant women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/healthcare-workers-will-get-covid-vaccine-before-others/articleshow/79138544.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Rajkot||Four arrested with firearms||Rajkot: Four persons were arrested with firearms and live cartridges in separate incidents in Rajkot and Junagadh on Sunday night. In Rajkot, Hitesh Makwana (34) and Bhavik Patel (22) were arrested with two country made pistols and three cartridges from Moti Tanki and Lakh Na Bungalows in Gandhigram. “Makwana and Patel were arrested based on the statements of Deepak Sharma and Ketan Pancholi who were arrested from Vadodara and Chhota Udepur earlier. Both Sharma and Pancholi were arms dealers who had sold firearms and bullets to Makwana and Patel,” said R Y Rawal, inspector with Rajkot special operation group (SOG). In Junagadh, Rohit Dasani and Ali Bhata, both aged 30, were arrested with two country-made pistols and 14 cartridges. “Dasani and Bhata had brought the firearms and ammunition from an arms dealer in Anand,” said H I Bhati, inspector with Junagadh SOG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-arrested-with-firearms/articleshow/79135327.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||‘Covid-19 virus mutations so far won’t hit vaccine strategy’||PUNE: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) scientists have said vaccines developed in India should not be affected by any kind of mutation of Covid-19 virus as of now. With the heterogeneity of Covid-19 being less than 1%, the virulence would continue to be the same and it should not have any impact on the vaccines developed in the country, the scientists said. Three vaccines are in the advanced stages of development in India, of which two are in Phase II and one in Phase-III. Two pan-India studies on the genome of SARS-CoV-2 (Covid-19 virus) in India conducted by ICMR and the Department of Biotechnology suggest that the virus is genetically stable without any major mutation. “If there is no mutation, the vaccines will be effective. There is absolutely no reason to worry,” said chief scientist and senior epidemiologist from ICMR Dr Samiran Panda. Dr Panda, who headed the study, said over 2,000 strains from many states were collected and studied. “The changes observed so far are very minimal and will not affect the current vaccines. It (the virus) is genetically stable and has not shown any major mutation,” he said. There has been a concern that any major mutation detected in the novel coronavirus could affect the development of an effective vaccine. However, the recent global studies, besides those in India, have stated that the vaccines being developed for Covid-19 should not be affected by these mutations. Dr A C Mishra, former director of the National Institute of Virology, Pune, told TOI, “Every virus mutates. But it is not that type of changes that will affect the immunogenicity of the vaccine. It will not affect the present vaccines or the programme of their roll-out.” Dr V Ravi, who heads the department of neurovirology at National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (Nimhans), told TOI that coronavirus mutations were much more stable that other regular flu viruses. “The mutations in coronavirus so far have not made any huge difference to its virulence. It is unlikely to impact the current vaccine strategy. Nimhans has sequenced 120 genomes and not observed any major mutation,” he said. Dr Gagandeep Kang, a leading expert on vaccines and professor of microbiology at Christian Medical College, Vellore, however, has a word of caution. “The recently observed mutation, called D614G, has been discussed. It is unlikely that the virus will be able to tolerate the change in the spike protein and still be able to infect people. While the present status of mutation will not bring about much changes, I can’t say it 10 years down the line. Constant studies should be on,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/virus-mutations-so-far-wont-hit-vaccine-strategy/articleshow/79138548.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Bharatnet tender: New norms favour international firm, says NGO||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government has refloated the tender for the Rs 2,000 crore Bharatnet project after it was struck down by the Centre. Though most of the restrictive clauses in the previous tender have been removed, NGO Arappor Iyakkam has written to the state government and Centre alleging that three restrictive criteria would once again narrow down competition. One of the points, on the procurement of routers, has been flagged by a few companies during the pre-tender process, as per official documents. “This has been tweaked to favour a single foreign firm,” Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor of Arappor Iyakkam said. Hans Raj Varma, additional chief secretary and IT secretary, did not respond to queries seeking comment. The Bharatnet tender is for setting up optical fibre network to provide high speed broadband internet to 12,524 gram panchayats in the state. At the centre of the latest objection is a tender clause involving routers. Each panchayat will have a router, around 400 blocks will have another router each and there will be two at the headquarters. The configuration for each is different. In the tender freshly floated last month, TANFINET, the government agency, has stated that all the routers should be from the same original equipment manufacturer. Some companies, and Jayaram in his complaint, have stated that the headquarters routers have a different specification than the ones at the block and panchayat level. “Domestic manufacturers can supply the block and panchayat routers, but not the headquarters one. This clause is effectively to ensure only one foreign company can participate,” Jayaram said. In the pre-tender meetings, competitors raised a similar issue. “By allowing single OEM for all categories of routers, participation of local manufacturers will be restricted,” the objection states. In the earlier cancelled tender, TANFINET had allowed bidders to procure the headquarter routers from a different OEM. “Why they resorted to another restrictive clause despite removing it earlier is puzzling,” Jayaram said. The other two objections raised by Arappor pertain to reduction in number of block routers and operating temperature of aggregation routers, which Jayaram alleges favours a single foreign firm. “Earlier restrictive clauses in turnover and experience have been removed, but some have been introduced in highly technical points to narrow down competition,” Jayaram said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bharatnet-tender-new-norms-favour-intl-firm-says-ngo/articleshow/79137028.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Trains still not on track, city bizmen say inflation likely||Ludhiana: Even after the Punjab government declared three days ago that all railway tracks were clear for the movement of goods trains, the situation remains unchanged. Not even a single train has chugged in or out of Punjab. Businessmen awaiting delivery of raw material to their factories and exporters who had been looking forward to supplying their finished goods to other parts of the country and the world are feeling dejected. Businessmen have warned that if the train service did not resume soon, they would be forced to hike the rates of their products by at least 10% to 15% in order to cover their losses. As a result, inflation will rise. Jittery over the piling losses, some businessmen have started giving two days’ off in a week instead of one to their workers as they do not have enough raw material for production. Those who have enough raw material but are unable to dispatch the finished goods are also following suit. Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, said, “After three days of claiming that all the railway tracks and stations are clear, the Punjab government has not been able to get the goods trains running. It has been more than a month since the movement of goods trains has been halted. It has proved to be a double blow for us, as on one side this has led to shortage of raw material, like pig iron, in the market, and on the other export of finished goods has been disrupted.”Sokhi said, “We do not know for how long the movement of trains will remain suspended. Therefore, we have already implemented some measures to combat the situation, like switching to eight hours’ shift. If the trains do not resume by this week, we will be forced to hike rates of our products by at least 15% to offset losses. Resultantly, rates of all products manufactured in Punjab are likely to go up.”According to Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners’ Manufacturers’ Association of India, “Already due to the pandemic we have faced numerous problems. At one time, we didn’t have orders, then we didn’t have labour. Now when we have both, we do not have raw material. We have decided to observe two days’ off in a week and almost all the factories are working for only eight hours. Overtime has completely stopped. If goods trains do not start, we will have to work alternate days and keep factories open for only three days a week and increase prices of our products. Therefore, we request the state government and the Centre to resolve this deadlock soon.”Narinder Mittal, general secretary of Ludhiana Business Forums, said the garment industry has been the major sufferer as it’s totally dependent on the goods train network to deliver the products within India or out of it. “For exports, we have to use container trains to move our shipments to the seaports. We do not know when this blame game among the state, the Centre and the farmers’ unions will stop. We are working for only eight hours a day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trains-still-not-on-track-city-bizmen-say-inflation-likely/articleshow/79135761.cms||Mohit Behl
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Admn may review order that allows cracker sale||Ludhiana: As the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered a ban on crackers in the cities with poor air quality and restricted bursting time to two hours for green crackers at places that were under the moderate category in November last year, the district administration may have to soon review its recent order in which it had allowed sale and bursting of crackers in the city, which is already witnessing a deteriorating air quality. The NGT on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in NCR. It also ordered a similar ban in all cities and towns where air quality fell under 'poor', ‘very poor’ and ‘severe’ categories. The tribunal has directed all states and UTs to initiate drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of potential aggravation of Covid-19. “In the cities and towns where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below, only green crackers should be sold, and the time for bursting should be restricted to two hours… At other places, bans and restrictions are optional for the authorities,” a bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel observed in the order. “When we receive the order, we will give the relevant data to the district administration after analysing the AQI figures of November 2019. It is their call then,” said a Punjab Pollution Control Board officer, adding that the district administration would have to comply with the NGT order. “Everyone is bound to follow the NGT order. It is not optional. Let the NGT order come,” deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said. Environmentalists said the directive has come too late. “Such an order should have come much before the festival season. Now traders have already bought stocks. The authorities should ensure that only green crackers are sold. Besides, they need to take radical steps against stubble burning,” said green activist Amandeep Bains of RBS Roots, a social-cum-environment organisation. He added that as per their assessment, 10% less crackers were being burst every year. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data for air quality index in Ludhiana in November last year showed that on three days of the month, AQI in the city was very poor (between 301-400) and on eight days it was poor (between 201 to 300). The data revealed that on eight days AQI in the city was in the moderate category (101-200), only on one day it was good (between 0-50) and on 10 days it was satisfactory (between 51 to 100). PPCB officials at Ludhiana confirmed that the ambient air in Ludhiana was mostly between moderate and poor quality during last November. They added that they would calculate the monthly average on the basis of days under each category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/admn-may-review-order-that-allows-cracker-sale/articleshow/79135740.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 10, 2020||Pune||PMC bans crackers in civic open places, disallows gatherings||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has banned firecrackers in civic open places like gardens, grounds, tourist spots and schools. The order issued by the municipal commissioner’s office does not specify whether crackers will be allowed on roads. For Diwali, especially on Laxmi Puja day, crackers generate smoke that hangs in the air for hours triggering respiratory problems. Medical experts have warned against such digressions when the Covid-19 pandemic is still raging. The administration has also appealed to citizens to avoid crackers at home or at least stick to minimal use. No cultural or public gatherings for programmes like ‘Diwali Pahat’ will be permitted. They can be conducted online, the civic body has said. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “Deepawali is a festival of lights. But, every year, firecrackers are used on a large scale. It leads to air and sound pollution. This is adversely impacting not only the health of citizens, but also of animals. The impact is seen after the festival is over.” Amid the spread of coronavirus, the pollution caused by crackers may lead to more problems for patients, he added. The order said citizens should be cautious while using sanitizers if they are going to burst crackers, as they are inflammable and may lead to burns. “Norms for social distancing should be followed while celebrating the festival. The use of a mask is a must. Any violation of the rules set for controlling Covid-19 spread will attract fines,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-bans-crackers-in-civic-open-places-disallows-gatherings/articleshow/79138559.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nashik||MSRTC staff from Jalgaon ends life over non-payment of wages||NASHIK: A 32-year-old MSRTC employee, who worked as a conductor at the Jalgaon depot, hanged himself to death at his residence on Monday morning. Jalgaon MIDC police, with whom a case of accidental death has been registered, has identified the deceased as Manoj Anil Chaudhari. Superintendent of police, Jalgaon, Pravin Munde, said, “The bereaved family has handed us a suicide note that was reported written by Manoj. We are investigating the matter and trying to find out what led him to take this extreme step.” Apparently, the suicide note, which had gone viral in social media, claimed that Manoj was taking the extreme step as he was in dire financial straits and had not received his salary for the last three months. According to police, they received a call from Manoj’s relatives around 11am on Monday. A team of police officers rushed Manoj to the civil hospital where he was declared brought dead. Manoj’s suicide forced the MSRTC employees to shut the services of the buses from the Jalgaon depot around noon on Monday.  “We were waiting for our salary for the last three months. We learnt about the extreme step that our fellow colleague had taken around 11:30, post which all the employees, irrespective of the workers unions, stopped work for sometime to condole his death,” said Vinod Shitole, district president of Maharashtra ST Kamgar Sanghatana, Jalgaon. A senior officer from Jalgaon MSRTC said bus operations were shut from 12 noon till 2.15pm. Former district guardian minister Girish Mahajan criticized the state government. He said that the state government was insensitive, the result of which was its failure to pay the employees of the MSRTC. MSRTC employees agitate against admin Hundreds of MSRTC employees agitated outside their homes against the administration on Monday for not paying their salaries for the past three months. Holding placards which read ‘We want our payment before Diwali’ and such others, the employees, along with their family members, registered their protests against the administration from their homes. Swapnil Gadkari, office bearer of Maharashtra ST Kamgar Sanghatana——the only recognised union of the MSRTC said, “Aakrosh agitation was an attempt to throw light on the problems we are facing—-failure to pay EMIs of our loans, buying groceries, paying the electrivity bills and for the medicines of our parents. We are unable to meet our daily needs.” Meanwhile, the Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) had registered the case against MSRTC’s Nashik branch with deputy commissioner of labour Nashik for its failure to provide salary to the employees. “The Payments and Wages Act, 1936, empowers registering criminal cases against the employer. The salary of the previous month was not paid till the seventh day of this month. We requested the deputy labour commissioner to look into the matter,” said Jaiprakash Chhajed, former MLC and state president of INTUC. “I am the part of the MahaVikas Aghadi’. But I am appalled to see the the insensitivity of the government towards the employees,” Chhajed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msrtc-staff-from-jalgaon-ends-life-over-non-payment-of-wages/articleshow/79138560.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Chunk of corporation staff goes on strike in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Just when the three municipal corporations were getting over the 24-day strike by doctors and a week-long stir by nurses, thousands of civic workers under the umbrella of Confederation of MCD Employees Unions (CMEU) stopped work on Monday. A section of administrative and clerical employees also stopped working due to non-payment of salaries. Sanitation work, however, remained largely unaffected. Doctors and nurses also didn’t take part in the stir. The employees have planned several dharnas at the municipal headquarters, Civic Centre, apart from zonal offices like Keshav Puram. The mayors of south and east civic bodies said the problem was mostly restricted to North Delhi Municipal Corporation where salaries were pending and some of their employees just showed solidarity with their coworkers there. A senior corporation official said the impact was felt in zonal offices of north Delhi where services like house tax filing and issuance of birth/death certificates could not be carried out. The impact of the strike was minimal in South Delhi Municipal Corporation offices where no salaries were pending. An official said they would be issuing Diwali bonuses to field workers and group-D employees. Before going on strike on Monday, CMEU had organised a series of indicative protests for two weeks, but no resolution was found to the dues pending for over four months. AP Khan, CMEU convener, said the protests were held at zonal and divisional offices keeping in mind the rising number of coronavirus cases. “Late in the evening, a meeting was called by north corporation in which a proposal was made to release salaries in instalments, once before Diwali and again at the end of the month,” he added. Deepak Sharma, CMEU executive member, said the proposal would be discussed by the general body to decide whether the strike should be called off. “For now, the strike will continue on Tuesday,” he added. Gajender Singh, an executive committee member of the union, said that administrative staff, engineers, horticulture department workers, licensing department, teachers and clerical staff took part in the strike. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the salaries of more than 40,000 workers had been released, while the rest would be given at least one more month’s salary before Diwali. “No major disruption in work was noticed on Monday. The strike will only impact revenue collection, which will further delay salaries. We are fighting with Delhi government for stopping funds for political gains,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chunk-of-corpn-staff-goes-on-strike/articleshow/79138720.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Regional drug hub to collect & test herbs in Raj and Guj||Jaipur: A Regional Raw Drug Repository (RRDR) for Ayurveda medicines for western region was inaugurated at National Institute of Ayurveda by Union minister of state (independent charge) for AYUSH Shripad Yesso Naik through a virual platform on Monday. The Rs 5-crore project is funded by the National Medicinal Plant Board (NMPB). The RRDR project aims at collection and authentication of herbs found in Rajasthan and Gujarat, said NIA director Dr Sanjeev Sharma. Rajasthan and Gujarat are rich in medicinal plants and herbs but these require authentication. “It is first-of-its-kind project in the state under which we are aiming to collect 500 herbs and medicinal plants from Rajasthan and Gujarat for authentication,” said Dr Mita Kotecha, professor (dravyaguna) NIA and principal investigator of RRDR. Under RRDR project, investigators will collect herbs for authentication. “Rajasthan and Gujarat comes under arid zone. Places such as Udaipur are rich in medicinal plants. What is needed is authentication of the herbs so that people or researchers get original and right herbs. We will collect 500 drugs and conduct its authentication along with its botanical, chemical and genetic profiling. Chances are high of getting a wrong herb from a pharmacy, which is why, authentication of herbs is necessary,” said Dr Kotecha. The tenure of the project is five years. Every year, investigators will study for effectiveness of herbs as it is a common belief that herbs remain effective for a limited period. Under the project, the investigators will find out which herb remains effective for how many years. The RRDP will help the needy patients and researchers in getting quality and authentic herbs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/regional-drug-hub-to-collect-test-herbs-in-raj-and-guj/articleshow/79138574.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Aurangabad||MVA government has failed on all fronts, says state BJP chief Patil||Aurangabad: Concluding his two-day tour of Marathwada region, BJP state president Chandrakant Patil claimed that the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government in the state had failed on all fronts. “Due to the failure of the Maharashtra government on all fronts, there is serious distress among people,” Patil claimed, adding that a staffer with the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) had ended his life due to erratic salary payment. He even claimed that even 28 barbers had ended their lives due to the situations resulting from lockdown. Citing the recent crop losses in Vidarbha and Marathwada, Patil the Uddhav Thackeray-led government has failed to compensate farmers appropriately. He even raised the issue of compensation for those who incurred serious losses due to Nisarg cyclone in Konkan region. Patil was accompanied by several BJP leaders including union minister Raosaheb Danve, former assembly speaker Haribhau Bagde, Beed MP Pritam Munde. Former minister Pankaja Munde’s absence was conspicuous. Clarifying about it, Patil said Pankaja had informed them that she would be unavailable due to some work at sugar factory.” He said that the if MVA government failed to meet the demands of the people, the BJP workers would take to the streets. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mva-government-has-failed-on-all-fronts-says-state-bjp-chief-patil/articleshow/79138573.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Governor refers complaint on K T Jaleel’s PhD thesis to Kerala University||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Governor Arif Mohammed Khan has referred to Kerala University a complaint he received questioning authenticity and academic quality of a doctoral thesis submitted by education minister K T Jaleel to obtain his PhD in 2006. The complaint submitted by Save University Campaign Committee in the first week of October claimed that “a doctoral thesis by one Shri Abdul Jaleel K T, submitted to the University of Kerala on May 20, 2005, for the award of PhD degree is of dubious academic merit” “The poor literary ability, lack of comprehending capacity and the meagre logical thought process of the said researcher, on many instances, were so revealing that they prompted us to go through his thesis... The said PhD thesis is nothing but a disordered compendium of quotes from various sources with very little inferences by the researcher...Over-quoting and paraphrasing in a PhD thesis brings down the quality and merit of the theory/conclusion put forth by the researcher because it will question even the relevance of the study. This thesis, which contains 622 quotes, in 302 paragraphs without author’s interpretations/findings, breaks all academic limits and leads to plagiarism — a very serious academic offence. Quotations from various sources are put together without specific objectives, hence falling to convey anything as the researcher had not offered any opinion or comments to explain the significance of such quotes,” the complaint said. The thesis of Jaleel titled “Variamkunnathu Kunjahammed Haji and Ali Musliar - their role in the Malabar Rebellion” was supposed to explore in-depth historical importance of the duo who have now been equally eulogised and demonised by different sections for their active role in the controversial Malabar (Moplah) rebellion in 1921. However, it is learnt that the office of the governor referred the complaint to university vice-chancellor V P Mahadevan Pillai as the office failed to identify researcher Abdul Jaleel KT referred in the complaint as higher education minister K T Jaleel himself. Referring such complaints to the university is a routine process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/guv-refers-complaint-on-jaleels-phd-thesis-to-univ/articleshow/79135808.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Jagraon man, Focal Point woman succumb to Covid, 93 test positive||Ludhiana: Two Ludhiana residents died of Covid-19 and 93 tested positive on Monday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 46-year-old man of Jagraon and a 40-year-old woman of Focal Point.The day also saw a patient from Hoshiarpur succumbing to the virus and 12 outsiders testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has risen to 849 and that of outsiders to 338. To date, 4,06,024 persons have been tested for Covid-19.Of the 93 new cases, 31 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), five positive cases’ contacts, 41 from OPD, nine through tracing process, a cop, five undertrials, and one health-care worker.The local health department officials said the district case count has increased to 20,891 and that of outsiders to 2,900.So far, 19,441 patients have recovered, which constitutes 93.05% of the total cases.There are 598 active cases. As many as 1,114 persons are home quarantined.On Monday, 59 persons were quarantined and 1,951 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at Christian Medical College and Hopsital.Twelve patients, including seven Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jagraon-man-focal-point-woman-succumb-to-covid-93-test-positive/articleshow/79135772.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||As Covid cases soar in Delhi, health infra creaks||NEW DELHI: Surjeet Singh, diagnosed with chest infection recently, developed breathing difficulty on Sunday around 10.30pm. Within hours, his condition became so bad that the 61-year-old West Delhi resident had to be rushed to ESI Hospital where he was put on oxygen therapy. With little improvement, the doctors advised Singh’s family to take him to Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital for critical care. But claiming paucity of beds, RML suggested the family take the patient to Safdarjung Hospital. “We went to Safdarjung, but we were turned away there too due to ICU beds being unavailable,” Singh’s nephew told TOI. He added, “My uncle was breathless and we kept running from one hospital to another throughout the night. Finally, at around 5 am, my uncle was admitted to Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital.” Lalit Gaur, who lives in Naveen Shahdara, northeast Delhi, had a similar story. “My 85-year-old mother’s blood pressure shot up on Wednesday night and she was breathless too. I called several hospitals in east Delhi for admission, and most said an ICU bed wasn’t available,” Gaur said. “We finally admitted her to a small nursing home before shifting her to private hospital on Monday.” There are hundreds struggling daily to find an ICU bed in Delhi. City hospitals said the spike in Covid cases and exacerbation of respiratory health issues by the high pollution levels had overwhelmed healthcare infrastructure. “All ICU beds in our hospital are full,” said an official at central government-run RML. A doctor at Delhi government’s Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital in Shahdara said there was no free ICU bed there either. All major private hospitals like Apollo, Max (Saket, Patparganj and Shalimar Bagh), Fortis (Okhla and Vasant Kunj), Sir Ganga Ram and BLK Super Specialty too have an acute shortage of critical care beds. Many doctors worry that if the corona cases don’t abate, there could be a crisis with deaths due to delay in timely medical intervention. According to the Delhi Corona App, which provides real-time updates on availability of beds for Covid patients, around half of the 16,313 Covid beds in the capital are free, while 18% of the 1,268 ICU beds with ventilators and 2,050 ICU beds without ventilators are unoccupied. “All hospitalised Covid patients are required to stay for 7-10 days. New admissions can only be done when they are discharged,” a doctor said. (Names of some patients have been changed on request)Watch Delhi: With Covid-19 cases rising, long queues seen at testing centres||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-covid-cases-soar-health-infra-creaks-/articleshow/79139291.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Manusmriti not a law book, open to interpretation: Madras high court||CHENNAI: Manusmriti is not a statute book to be read only in a particular way, and it is a 2,000-year-old ancient text which can be interpreted, the Madras high court has said, declining to disqualify VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan as member of Parliament. “Thirumavalavan has interpreted Manusmiriti in his own way. What can we do about that? Everyone has freedom of expression,” observed a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha on Monday, wondering under which statutory provision his disqualification could be ordered. “What is the infraction of statutory provision? Code of ethics is not statutory, and it cannot be imposed,” the judges asked R C Paul Kanagaraj, counsel for the PIL-petitioner. The public interest writ petition alleged that the Chidambaram MP had made adverse remarks against women and that he had misinterpreted Manusmriti which are against the oath he had taken while assuming office as an MP. Paul Kanagaraj contended that Manusmriti does not exist but the MP is seeking a ban on the text, and added: “His speech has created unrest and led to disgust and provocation among various sections of people. He did not stop with making the speech but also went on to hold statewide protests demanding a ban on Manusmriti which was penned over 2,000 years ago.” Noting that law and order is a state subject, the court said, “We expect elected representatives to act responsibly. If they don’t do so, what can we do? Everyone has freedom of expression. If it goes beyond decency and morality, then the state is bound to take action,” the court said. As the petitioner sought permission of the court to withdraw his plea with liberty to file a fresh petition citing appropriate statutes violated by the actions of the MP, the court dismissed the PIL as withdrawn. According to the petitioner, in September Thirumavalavan addressed a webinar organised by European Union Periyar Ambedkar Comrades Federation. He delivered a speech on Periyar and Indian politics in the webinar. It was aimed at a worldwide audience and the excerpts were also shared on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/manusmriti-not-a-law-book-open-to-interpretation-hc/articleshow/79137111.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||City breathes its worst air this year as AQI rises to 323||Ludhiana: Less than a week ahead of Diwali, Ludhiana on Monday witnessed its poorest air quality of the year, which breached the 320-mark on the Air Quality Index (AQI), according to the latest Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin.The AQI level for Ludhiana on Monday was recorded at 323, which fell under ‘very poor’ category. Such air can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposure.The CPCB data shows that even on Sunday, the city’s air quality at 310 level on the AQI was very poor but slightly better than Monday’s. For most of the days in the current month, Ludhiana’s air has been ‘poor’ (between 201 and 300), while only once on November 7, it was ‘moderate’ (between 101 and 200) at 195.Prior to Sunday, the city had seen the third-highest AQI level at 280 both on November 4 and October 25.The CPCB data for Monday for various cities of the state suggests that both Ludhiana and Amritsar had the poorest air in the state with AQI level at 323, whereas Rupnagar was on second place at 292 and Bathinda on third at 285.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) authorities blamed multiple factors for Ludhiana breathing its worst air this year on Monday.“First, since the festival season is going, there is an increase in commercial activities, which has resulted in increased vehicular traffic. Also, construction activity is going on, especially at the flyover near PAU, close to the observatory. Besides, bursting of crackers has also contributed to the rise in AQI level,” said senior PPCB officer in Ludhiana Sandeep Behl. He added that apart from these factors, stubble burning by farmers has also contributed significantly to the air pollution.The PPCB officials said they are creating awareness among the people to contribute their bit to check pollution and also requesting farmers not to burn stubble, but till now the results are not very encouraging. Meanwhile, many city residents feel that there is a need for the people to understand the repercussions of growing air pollution, especially in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.“As Covid affects lungs, there is a sizeable number of vulnerable people, who may have to pay the price for such high pollution levels. We need to celebrate green Diwali, so that things don’t turn from bad to worse. We also request the authorities to act firmly against the stubble burning by farmers,” said Narinder Singh, a city resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-breathes-its-worst-air-this-year-as-aqi-rises-to-323/articleshow/79135811.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 10, 2020||Kolhapur||Teacher takes up solo effort to sanitise schools at his own cost||KOLHAPUR: A zilla parishad teacher’s initiative to sanitise schools in a bid to reassure parents regarding sending their children to schools is winning hearts. For the last one-and-a-half months, Dwarkanath Bhosale has been voluntarily disinfecting the public schools in Kolhapur city and nearby areas at his own cost. So far, Bhosale has disinfected 22 schools run by Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, six by ZP. Initially, Bhosale bought the chemicals required for disinfection and spraying machine. On his way to the school where he teaches, he would stop at the KMC-run schools and spend an hour or two to disinfect the classrooms and office rooms. “I knew some teachers working in the KMC-run schools. They let me disinfect the schools. As the word spread, more teachers from other schools started inviting me. After Unlock started, we were hopeful that the classes will resume,” he said. Bhosale said they realised that many parents were doubtful about sending the children to school over health and sanitisation. “Therefore, to assure them that the disinfection will help kill novel coronavirus and the schools will be safe for their kids, I started the drive on my own,” Bhosle told TOI. He added that now he gets help from other organisations. They provide him with the chemicals and even the kits needed to carry out disinfection. “I hope such disinfection drive is carried out at large scale in all schools so that the students feel safe to come and attend classes as and when schools are allowed to open by government,” said the 39 year old teacher. After learning the Bhosale’s initiative, the KMC authorities launched “My School, My Responsibility’ campaign and asked the teachers and other staff to continue the drive with more teachers and staff involved. KMC’s school administrator Shankar Yadav said, “Our health officials have scrutinised the disinfection being done by Bhosale. All health authorities are impressed and certified the work. Several teachers and parents have started providing him necessary things to keep up the work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/teacher-takes-up-solo-effort-to-sanitise-schools-at-his-own-cost/articleshow/79138616.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar or Tejashwi Prasad Yadav: Verdict on next Bihar helmsman today||PATNA: D-Day is here. All eyes are on Bihar waiting for the counting of votes to begin on Tuesday for the 243 assembly seats in the state and one Lok Sabha bypoll at Valmiki Nagar. Is Bihar politics on the cusp of a generational shift? This question, which is uppermost on the minds of the state’s voters, will be answered when the counting begins at 8 am across 55 centres in the state and the results start flashing on TV screens across the country. If the exit polls are correct, Bihar is on the threshold of a seismic shift as the Mahagathbandhan, led by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, is predicted by a majority of pollsters to win the polls. However, if the results belie the exit poll results, the people of Bihar will have reposed their faith in the ‘sushashan’ of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Ashish Sinha, a BSc student from Biharsharif, wrote on his Facebook page on Monday: “Lalten wale kahte hain Nitish ne kya kiya? Maine kaha tum jis ghar mein jhakas bulb jala rahe ho na, ye Nitish ne hin kiya (RJD supporters ask what Nitish did? I tell them that it was because of Nitish that your house is illuminated with electric bulbs).” Pat came a reply from Ashish’s FB friend from Katihar, Sandip Rai: “Bijli jalane se pet bharta hai to bolo. Rojgar kise diya hai bolo (Can electricity satisfy hunger? Tell me who got jobs from Nitish).” A JD(U) leader, preferring anonymity, said it is the same as a young son telling his parents that they did nothing for him. But, the conversation narrates the story of Bihar polls. As Tejashwi turned 31 on Monday, RJD workers raised slogans at the party office: “Bihar mein raftaar hai, Tejashwi Sarkar hai, Nitishe jimeddar hai (Bihar has speed, Tejashwi is to govern and Nitish is responsible for that).” Inadvertently, the last part of the slogan is loaded with meanings; that it was Nitish who not only revived the RJD but also launched Tejashwi in Bihar politics in a big way as his deputy by joining hands with Lalu and forming government in 2015. Tejashwi impressed people as a keen learner, active politician and ambitious administrator as deputy CM under Nitish before the JD(U) chief dumped RJD and formed government with BJP in 2017, which earned him the epithet of ‘paltu chacha’. But, even the hardcore critics of Nitish cannot deny the turnaround he brought about in Bihar, which had become synonymous with lawlessness (jungle raj) and was bereft of any development worth the name before 2005. Be it during the Lalu and Rabri Devi rule or the previous governments mostly run by the Congress. However, as the exit polls show, people of the state appear to have denied Nitish another term as he hinted recently that this election could be his last. Or, the aspiring youths and first-time voters, who had not seen the situation prevailing before 2005 in Bihar, found the 15 years versus 15 years of Lalu-Rabri and Nitish meaningless as much water has flown down the Ganges in the last 30 years, which is more than the age of many of them. Only the poll results will tell whether PM Narendra Modi and his BJP were unable to set a new agenda despite losing power in many states in the recent past or if Nitish’s JD(U) missed the writing on the wall by harping on the ‘jungle raj’ jargon. People of Bihar have already voted on this issue in 2005 and 2010, and it had lost its meaning after Nitish and Lalu joined hands after their dismal performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. The results will also prove whether BJP is still the party with a difference. Many of its hardcore loyalists have queered the pitch for many NDA candidates by either joining the fray as independents or stayed neutral as the alliance had fielded someone against whom they had fought hard in the 2015 assembly election and 2019 parliamentary polls. If Tejashwi forms the government, the biggest challenge for him will be to rein in the diehard Lalu loyalists and supporters to prove that he meant when he said in his election rallies that “sab ko sath leke challenge”, a promise hard to keep in a caste-volatile state like Bihar and the kind of his party support base. That Tejashwi is aware of the fear was evident from his appeal to RJD supporters to “behave themselves and accept the mandate, whatever it may be, with grace”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-or-tejashwi-verdict-on-next-bihar-helmsman-today/articleshow/79137099.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 10, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar or Tejashwi Prasad Yadav: Verdict on next Bihar helmsman today||PATNA: D-Day is here. All eyes are on Bihar waiting for the counting of votes to begin on Tuesday for the 243 assembly seats in the state and one Lok Sabha bypoll at Valmiki Nagar. Is Bihar politics on the cusp of a generational shift? This question, which is uppermost on the minds of the state’s voters, will be answered when the counting begins at 8 am across 55 centres in the state and the results start flashing on TV screens across the country. If the exit polls are correct, Bihar is on the threshold of a seismic shift as the Mahagathbandhan, led by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, is predicted by a majority of pollsters to win the polls. However, if the results belie the exit poll results, the people of Bihar will have reposed their faith in the ‘sushashan’ of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Ashish Sinha, a BSc student from Biharsharif, wrote on his Facebook page on Monday: “Lalten wale kahte hain Nitish ne kya kiya? Maine kaha tum jis ghar mein jhakas bulb jala rahe ho na, ye Nitish ne hin kiya (RJD supporters ask what Nitish did? I tell them that it was because of Nitish that your house is illuminated with electric bulbs).” Pat came a reply from Ashish’s FB friend from Katihar, Sandip Rai: “Bijli jalane se pet bharta hai to bolo. Rojgar kise diya hai bolo (Can electricity satisfy hunger? Tell me who got jobs from Nitish).” A JD(U) leader, preferring anonymity, said it is the same as a young son telling his parents that they did nothing for him. But, the conversation narrates the story of Bihar polls. As Tejashwi turned 31 on Monday, RJD workers raised slogans at the party office: “Bihar mein raftaar hai, Tejashwi Sarkar hai, Nitishe jimeddar hai (Bihar has speed, Tejashwi is to govern and Nitish is responsible for that).” Inadvertently, the last part of the slogan is loaded with meanings; that it was Nitish who not only revived the RJD but also launched Tejashwi in Bihar politics in a big way as his deputy by joining hands with Lalu and forming government in 2015. Tejashwi impressed people as a keen learner, active politician and ambitious administrator as deputy CM under Nitish before the JD(U) chief dumped RJD and formed government with BJP in 2017, which earned him the epithet of ‘paltu chacha’. But, even the hardcore critics of Nitish cannot deny the turnaround he brought about in Bihar, which had become synonymous with lawlessness (jungle raj) and was bereft of any development worth the name before 2005. Be it during the Lalu and Rabri Devi rule or the previous governments mostly run by the Congress. However, as the exit polls show, people of the state appear to have denied Nitish another term as he hinted recently that this election could be his last. Or, the aspiring youths and first-time voters, who had not seen the situation prevailing before 2005 in Bihar, found the 15 years versus 15 years of Lalu-Rabri and Nitish meaningless as much water has flown down the Ganges in the last 30 years, which is more than the age of many of them. Only the poll results will tell whether PM Narendra Modi and his BJP were unable to set a new agenda despite losing power in many states in the recent past or if Nitish’s JD(U) missed the writing on the wall by harping on the ‘jungle raj’ jargon. People of Bihar have already voted on this issue in 2005 and 2010, and it had lost its meaning after Nitish and Lalu joined hands after their dismal performance in the 2014 Lok Sabha election. The results will also prove whether BJP is still the party with a difference. Many of its hardcore loyalists have queered the pitch for many NDA candidates by either joining the fray as independents or stayed neutral as the alliance had fielded someone against whom they had fought hard in the 2015 assembly election and 2019 parliamentary polls. If Tejashwi forms the government, the biggest challenge for him will be to rein in the diehard Lalu loyalists and supporters to prove that he meant when he said in his election rallies that “sab ko sath leke challenge”, a promise hard to keep in a caste-volatile state like Bihar and the kind of his party support base. That Tejashwi is aware of the fear was evident from his appeal to RJD supporters to “behave themselves and accept the mandate, whatever it may be, with grace”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-or-tejashwi-verdict-on-next-bihar-helmsman-today/articleshow/79140634.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Siddique Kappan’s family seeks Kerala govt’s support for his release||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The wife of journalist Siddique Kappan, who was arrested by the Uttar Pradesh police and has been in jail for the past one month, has sought the support of the state government in seeking the release of her husband. Kappan was arrested on his way to Hathras and the UP police had claimed that he had links with Popular Front of India. While speaking to reporters here on Monday, Raihanath Siddique said Kappan has been working in New Delhi for years and he had worked with several media groups. He had gone to Hathras to report the incidents that had led to the rape and murder a Dalit girl in Hathras. The police had arrested him on his way to the place and he was later slapped with UAPA. He has been denied all basic human rights and the UP police have been playing politics with his arrest, she said. “We had met AICC leader Rahul Gandhi, when he came to Wayanad, seeking his support for Kappan’s release. However, the Uttar Pradesh chief minister had found politics even in this,” she added. There are several media groups which have its own policies and political stand. But all such media have the right to function in a country like India. But the UP police have denied this fundamental right to Kappan, she said. Raihanath sought the support of the chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the society to raise their voice against the arrest of her husband and exert pressure for his release. Meanwhile, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran sought Kappan’s immediate release and said that he was illegally detained by the UP police. He termed UP police’s move as the fascist policy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kappans-family-seeks-state-govts-support-for-his-release/articleshow/79135856.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Over 1,000 beds to be added in govt, private hospitals||NEW DELHI: Work is on to expand the existing Covid-19 infrastructure to enable Delhi to manage the greater load of patients during the third wave of infections. On Monday, health minister Satyendar Jain attributed the increase in case numbers to aggressive testing. He reported that 25% of the cases are from target areas, namely markets, bus stands and similarly crowded places. Delhi government has added 500 beds in government hospitals and 685 in private ones to meet the demand for Covid care. At Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, an official said that 150 more Covid beds will augment the 500 beds in the facility. This work is likely to be completed before the end of the week. At six other hospitals that are not as big as the main pandemic facility of Lok Nayak Hospital, the government has recently ordered infrastructure augmentation. “Delhi government has decided to increase the availability of beds for Covid patients in these state government hospitals. This step will be paramount in successfully combating the third wave of infection,” said state health minister Satyendar Jain. At Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital, 100 beds and 20 ICU beds will be added, and in Ambedkar Hospital, Rohini, 100 beds and 20 ICU beds. In Bhagwan Mahavir, Sanjay Gandhi and Acharya Bhikshu hospitals, 50 beds each will be added and the ICU facilities increased marginally. An exercise to add 685 beds in private hospitals is under way. The consistently rising Covid numbers have caused concern among the authorities though nearly half the existing Covid hospital beds and close to 90% beds in Covid care centres are unoccupied. The city has reported 7,000 daily cases for three days now, though bed occupancy hasn’t gone up much because of big daily recoveries — over 6,000 people recovered on Sunday — and most Covid-positive opting for home isolation. The central government’s expert committee headed by Dr V K Paul expressed apprehensions early last month that festival-related gatherings and winter pollution load would make respiratory illnesses severer and force a rise in Covid-19 cases. It advised the state government to prepare for up to 15,000 daily cases. Jain hoped that in next five days the severity of infection would start declining. “We are conducting a high number of tests, almost 60,000 every day,” he said. “A peak lasts five-six days. The experts believe this third wave will last four-five more days and then the positivity rate will start slipping.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/-over-1k-beds-to-be-added-in-govt-pvt-hosps/articleshow/79139315.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 10, 2020||Goa||After 3 months, Colvale jail is free of Covid-19 cases||PANAJI: After three months, there are no Covid cases at Colvale Central Jail and all the jail inmates and staff who had contracted the virus have been cured. “We do not have a single active Covid case now. All have recovered,” a jail official said. Visitors are still not allowed into the jail, but authorities said that they will take a call on changing it next month. Since March, authorities have not allowed visitors to the jail. “We have been just cleared of all active cases. So, we don’t want to take a risk by allowing visitors,” he said. To stop possible spread of the infection, the inmates returning after completion of parole are kept in isolation. One batch of prisoners who were out on parole have returned. They all were subjected to antigen tests. “Though no one tested positive as an abundant precaution, they were all kept in quarantine for 14 days,” the official said. The jail has about 500 plus inmates, including undertrials. The jail started reporting Covid cases from August, despite taking precautions to avoid infection in the jail premises. New comers were isolated and social distancing norms were implemented. After a couple of cases of infection were reported among security personnel, other jail staff as well as some inmates had tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-3-months-colvale-jail-is-free-of-covid-19-cases/articleshow/79138645.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Employees not paid due to BJP politics: AAP||NEW DELHI: On the first day of civic employees’ indefinite strike, AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak claimed that it was due to BJP’s politics that the employees were not getting salaries on time. “All 1.25 lakh employees of the three municipal corporations have gone for a strike. From the security guards to the PAs of the mayors, everyone is on strike and this is happening because of the corruption of BJP,” Pathak alleged on Monday. BJP does not have the right to stay in power in the municipal corporations if it cannot pay salaries and pensions, he added. “People have no money for their family, children, medicine or any other need. The massive corruption by BJP has finished the corporations and the people of Delhi are suffering along with the employees of the corporations,” Pathak alleged, accusing BJP of trying to defame Delhi government by not paying the dues for months. “The corporations have enough money but they do not want to pay the salaries. BJP does not want to do anything constructive. What it wants is to politicise the matter and blame Aam Aadmi Party falsely,” Pathak claimed. Calling Pathak’s strike claim totally false, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor claimed normal work by municipal staff was witnessed in all three corporations on Monday. “Since early morning, sanitation workers are working normally, teachers took online classes, hospital and health centres saw normal work and all offices worked to normal strength,” Kapoor said. All employees can be paid if Delhi government pays the corporations their dues, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-employees-not-paid-due-to-bjp-politics/articleshow/79138651.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||D-Day for Dubbak as bypoll result to be announced today||HYDERABAD: Massive security is in place in Dubbak as the bypoll outcome will be announced on Tuesday. All eyes are on the results of the keenly contested elections on November 3 and the counting will be taken up at 8 am. Postal ballots will be counted first and half an hour later, votes in EVMs will be counted, election returning officer B Chennaiah said. District election officer and Siddipet district collector Bharati Hollikeri said 14 tables were arranged for the counting which will be taken up in 23 rounds. Polling staff will report at the counting centre by 5 am. Police have made heavy bandobust arrangements at the ‘D block’ in Indur Engineering College in Siddipet where counting of votes will be taken up. Section 144 has been imposed within 500 metres of the counting centre and gathering of more than five persons is not allowed. Display of any flags or party material by supporters of the respective parties up to a distance of one kilometre from the counting centre is prohibited. The restrictions will be in force from 6 am on November 10 to 6 am on November 11. Siddipet police commissioner Joel Davis said on Monday that there was no permission to take out rallies, processions or organise dharnas or rasta roko by anyone on counting day. “Those violating the orders will be booked under relevant sections of law,” he said. Police would be at the designated places by 4 am, he added. While the ruling TRS is hoping to retain the seat which fell vacant following the death of its sitting legislator Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, Congress and BJP are also optimistic about the outcome. Solipeta Sujatha, wife of Ramalinga Reddy, was fielded by the TRS while the BJP fielded M Raghunandan Rao and Congress nominated Cheruku Srinivas Reddy. While it was the third time that Raghunandan Rao has been in a poll fray, it was the first electoral battle for both Sujatha and Srinivas Reddy. The poll outcome will, however, not have any bearing on the government as the TRS has 100 seats out of 119 in the assembly. The turnout on November 3 was huge with 82% voters out of 1.98 lakh exercising their franchise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/d-day-for-dubbak-as-bypoll-result-to-be-announced-today/articleshow/79139362.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 10, 2020||Rajkot||LRD jawan shoots self dead in Halvad||Rajkot: A Lok Rakshak Dal (LRD) jawan shot himself dead at his residence in Sapakada village of Halvad taluka in Morbi district on Sunday night. Police are investigating to find out the reasons for the suicide. According to the police, the deceased, Anil Dabhi (28), had used his service revolver to shoot himself. Dabhi had allegedly shot himself through his temple. “Though LRD jawans are not provided with firearms, Dabhi was armed with a one after he was deployed as a commando to provide security in Morbi assembly by-election. Neither his father Dana Dabhi nor his mother Mani Dabhi had any idea as to why Dabhi had taken such an extreme step. We are going to record the statements of his friends and relatives to get a clue,” said cop Halvad police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lrd-jawan-shoots-self-dead-in-halvad/articleshow/79135343.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Goa: 4 Covid deaths take tally to 648 on Monday||PANAJI: With four Covid-19 deaths on Monday, Goa’s mortality count went up to 648. A total of 144 fresh cases and 232 recoveries dropped the tally of active cases to 1,883. Of the four deaths, a 61-year-old man from Margao who was rushed to the Hospicio Hospital was declared dead on arrival. He tested positive in post mortem testing. The others included two 77-year old men, one from Marcel and the other from Sanguem, and a 72-year-old woman from Provorim. All had comorbidities and succumbed to the virus while under treatment. Infections have been under control almost at all centres except for Panaji and Chimbel in North Goa. Mayem has the least number of cases, and on Monday its tally stood at 11. In South Goa, Margao, Vasco and Ponda have a high number of cases comparatively. Goa has witnessed a significant drop in infections, but the authorities are still concerned on two counts — the setting in of winter and the rise in tourist footfalls. The authorities are waiting with trepidation to see Goa will see a rise in infection when winter sets in although winters here are mild compared to the Northern states. Tourist footfalls are expected to jump coinciding with Diwali. The month of December has always seen a rise in visitors when Goa’s tourism is at its peak. The health authorities feel the state will have to strictly follow all protocols in place, if it doesn’t want to face another spike. “If there is a spike, yet again, it will be difficult for us to manage,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-deaths-take-tally-to-648-on-monday/articleshow/79138670.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Healthcare workers long for home, worry about career||NEW DELHI: Dr Prakriti Giri, a senior resident at Lok Nayak Hospital, has been treating Covid-19 patients for eight months since the Delhi government hospital has turned into a Covid facility. On Monday, her father developed symptoms of the viral infection. “My cousins tested positive last week. Now, even my father is suspected to have contracted Covid. But I cannot go home easily because the borders are sealed and leaving work is also difficult,” the 29-year-old doctor from Nepal said. The pandemic poses unique challenges for medical professionals, Dr Giri said. “Doing consecutive posting in Covid-19 wards and ICU settings is difficult and highly demanding. Wearing personal protective equipment for long hours isn’t easy either. But the toughest part is to stay away from the family.” She had joined Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) to specialise in paediatric surgery. However, in the past eight months, she hasn’t even touched the scalpel. “Our training has been affected severely. It can affect our career growth too.” Dr Keshave Singh, president of Resident Doctors’ Association at MAMC, which is associated with Lok Nayak Hospital, said he had been staying in a rented apartment. “My family lives in south Delhi. But I don’t visit them due to the risk of spreading infection. On Diwali, too, I have Covid duty,” he said. Many healthcare workers — doctors, nurses and paramedical staff — have contracted Covid-19 on duty and some of them have succumbed to it. But that hasn’t deterred their resolve to save lives, they say. Dr Singh, who is training to specialise in orthopaedics, said he was more worried about the lack of his academic growth. “Non-Covid services have been shut down due to which we are not able to harness our skills. And it’s not just me, many postgraduate students in the fields of surgery, obstetrics and gynaecology, medicine and dermatology are facing similar crises. It is causing mental stress in them,” the president of the MAMC residents doctors’ association said. In a meeting held last month on resuming non-Covid services in a sequential manner, Delhi government maintained a decision would be taken after November 20 depending on the situation. Hospitals associated with medical colleges like AIIMS and Guru Teg Bahadur have also decided to wait longer before resuming non-Covid services to its original capacity. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital is, however, running both services. “Because some hospitals have been designated just for Covid, we are flooded with patients, majority of which are on follow-up with them,” a senior doctor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/healthcare-workers-long-for-home-worry-about-career/articleshow/79139340.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 10, 2020||Surat||Deputy mamlatdar booked for bribery||Surat: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested a land broker Altaf Shaikh for allegedly accepting Rs 3.46 lakh bribe on behalf of a deputy mamlatdar in Navsari district. Deputy mamlatdar of Jalalpore taluka, Nilesh Parmar, has also been booked but he is on the run. Parmar had demanded a bribe of Rs 17 per sq m to convert over 22,000 sq m of agricultural land into non-agriculture in Dabhel village. Parmar asked the complainant to pay the money to Shaikh. The bribe amount came to Rs 3.78 lakh of which the complainant went to pay Rs 3.46 lakh on Sunday. Parmar was not present at his office since it was a holiday and police later found that he had gone to Gandhinagar to meet parents. Parmar’s father also retired from government service. Shaikh asked the complainant to come with the money opposite Brahmakumari Ashram near Lunsikui in Navsari. ACB police inspector, Valsad, KR Saxena laid the trap in supervision of in-charge assistant director B J Sarvaiya and nabbed him. ACB has recovered his audio conversation with the complainant and the co-accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/deputy-mamlatdar-booked-for-bribery/articleshow/79135245.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Crematoria better prepared than June in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Amid a spurt in the daily Covid death count, cremation facilities in Delhi have started witnessing an increase in the number of Covid protocol funerals. Delhi has been witnessing around 70 daily deaths of late. Senior municipal officials, however, say that the Covid funeral numbers still remain much lower than the overwhelming body count that was observed in June and they are prepared to handle any situation. “All the preparations have been made but since the number Covid-designated crematoria was significantly increased in June-July, prolonged waiting periods for cremation are now unlikely,” said an official. The two major cremation sites of Delhi — Nigambodh Ghat under the north corporation and Punjabi Bagh Shamshan Bhumi under the south corporation — have seen more than 263 Covid cremations in the past one week. Increase in the number of Covid-19 designated sites has helped in decentralisation of rush at these two facilities, the official added. Covid-designated funeral facilities in Delhi have a capacity to handle 367 bodies per day. Data from Punjabi Bagh shows that 180 Covid victims have been cremated here in the last eight days, while Nigambodh has carried out 113 such cremations. “During the peak June period, we were receiving 60-70 bodies every day,” an official said, adding that things are very much under control. The Punjabi Bagh facility received 18 bodies of corona patients each on last Tuesday and Wednesday; 25 on Thursday, 20 on Friday, 25 on Saturday and 19 on Sunday. A north corporation official said that the number at Nigambodh hovered between 15 and 20 in the last week. “Earlier, we were carrying out just 5-8 Covid funerals a day,” he added. A senior public health official said that despite recording more than 7,000 cases, the death numbers had remained relatively low in the city. “Residents, however, should exercise precautions,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crematoria-better-prepared-than-june/articleshow/79139333.cms||Paras Singh
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As festive shoppers crowd markets, hawkers at Sarojini first casualty||NEW DELHI: Purchases kept in abeyance in the Covid-restricted months and the imminent wedding season have led to people thronging the city’s markets. While this is a happy augury of economic revival, yet the crowding, often with open violation of anti-infection norms, may be behind the big surge in new Covid cases. Mask compliance in retail markets has relatively improved, but with wholesale markets in the Walled City and Sadar Bazar remaining trouble spots, the local administration has had to deploy civil defence volunteers to book those not maintaining physical distancing requirements. Times ViewWearing a mask and maintaining social distance are fundamental to protection against coronavirus. But during the festive season, many have thrown caution to the wind. This has reflected in the sharp and alarming rise of cases. In this backdrop, the point must be reiterated: quarantine norms must be strictly enforced by authorities across the city, especially in Covid hotspots. That’s the only way to control the spread and stop the situation from getting out of hand.On Monday, Delhi Police even closed down roadside shops in Sarojini Nagar Market to dissuade crowding. A dismayed Ashok Randhawa, president, Mini Market Traders’ Association, said, “Police got all four entries restricted and asked the shops to close and the common areas to be cleared. This kind of action will send the wrong message to buyers. We also want action against illegal hawkers, but shutting the entire market is not the solution to crowding.” A police officer, however, clarified that the market hadn’t been closed, only the entry regulated. “Due to the crush of shoppers, we asked the hawkers on the roadsides to vacate their spots. We never asked the permanent shops to shut down,” the officer said. “If people do not follow Delhi Disaster Management Authority guidelines, we are forced to take such actions.” Randhawa said traders were worried about not being able to cash in in on the peak shopping season and hoped a meeting would be held among the shop owners and cops on Tuesday to decide the course of action. Hawkers are a concern everywhere. Sanjay Bhargav, who heads the Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, argued that street vendors should be given space at the Red fort foregrounds during the Diwali period to decongest old Delhi markets. “There is super recovery in terms of business due to the pent-up demand, but the administration has to take more steps to keep traders and shoppers safe,” Bhargav said. “The SDM has deputed volunteers to issue challans for Covid violations, but there are challenges.” He pointed out that the narrow inner lanes did not permit social distancing and said that once the Diwali season got over, retail and wholesale markets should open on alternate days to ensure everyone’s safety. Karol Bagh traders are against any step that hampers the business gains being made after a depressing period. Sanjeev Kapoor, general secretary, Ajmal Khan Road Market Association, was happy that Diwali and the wedding season were pushing sales, but added that with such high footfall, circles painted to direct physical distancing could not be used. “Mask compliance is very good, and each shop has created sanitation points,” he said. “The local administration should disinfect the whole market every other day and disallow loading-unloading after 12 noon.” In Lajpat Nagar Market, Yoginder Dawar said Covid-19 compliance enforcement was lacking. “Police should deploy teams to oversee social distancing norms,” he said. “Circles have been painted to facilitate social distancing, but shoppers are ignoring them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-festive-shoppers-crowd-markets-hawkers-at-sarojini-first-casualty/articleshow/79139347.cms||Paras Singh
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks response on plea against hiring of special counsel for riot cases||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday sought response of the Centre and AAP government on a plea against the appointment of special public prosecutors (SPPs), including solicitor general Tushar Mehta, in cases relating to northeast Delhi riots. The court issued notice to ministry of home affairs (MHA) and Delhi government seeking their stand on the petition by Delhi Prosecutors Welfare Association (DPWA), who has argued that prosecution has to be independent and insulated from police and SPPs cannot be appointed at the behest of the investigating agency. Justice Navin Chawla asked the authorities to respond by the next date of hearing on January 12. In its plea, DPWA questioned how SPPs can be appointed at the behest of police. During the hearing, additional solicitor general (ASG) Sanjay Jain pointed out that MHA ought to have been made a party as any decision of Delhi Police will be defended by the ministry. The court then made MHA a party and issued it notice, even as the petitioners maintained that the issue is not who – be it the lieutenant governor or the MHA — appointed the SPPs, but how can police nominate counsel for appointment as prosecutors for whom remuneration will be paid from the account of Delhi Police. The association has sought quashing of Delhi government’s June 24 notification appointing the SPPs, including Mehta, on the ground it was issued on police recommendations, in violation of the scheme provided under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). On the last date of hearing on October 21, the AAP government had supported the petition of DPWA. “We are also saying what the petitioner has said is right. There are judgements of a constitutional bench of the Supreme Court, which cover the issue (raised in the plea),” it had told the court after the association sought that the appointment of independent SPPs be done by “respecting the principles of fairness and impartiality.” The plea has claimed that the appointment of the 11 SPPs, including the SG, on the recommendations of Delhi Police “is a divergence from the principles of free and fair trial which is part of Article 21 of the Constitution.” According to the petition, the proposal of Delhi Police to appoint SPPs was initially rejected by Delhi government, which decided to appoint SPPs from the empanelled advocates. A revised proposal forwarded by the police was also rejected by the government, the plea informed HC. When this led to a difference of opinion between the LG and Delhi government, the issue was referred to the President who approved the names suggested by police. It has claimed that the association sent a representation to Delhi government against the appointment of the SPPs, but no action was taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-response-on-plea-against-hiring-of-spl-counsel-for-riot-cases/articleshow/79138672.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Museums to reopen today with 4-pronged safety steps||KOLKATA: City’s premier museums will be thrown open on Tuesday after a seven-month closure due to the Covid pandemic. The museums include Indian Museum, Victoria Memorial Hall, Birla Industrial and Technological Museum (BITM) and Science City. Significantly, November 10 coincides with World Science Day and International Science Center & Science Museum Day. The pandemic had led to closure of museums worldwide. The museums in Kolkata were closed on March 17 even before the lockdown was announced. Though regular upkeep and internal works were carried out by the staff, museums remained closed to the public during this period. On Tuesday, the museums will reopen in new-normal times and amid strict safety protocols by the Ministry of Culture to check the spread of virus, said a senior Indian Museum official. Following the guidelines issued by the government, the museums will have to comply with four-point protocols after the reopening. Apart from carrying out the mandatory periodic cleaning and sanitization drives, the museum administration must put up signage and graphics on all floors for visitors’ information, about dos and don’ts and non-contact mode of operation of all exhibits. As per norms, the museum authorities must facilitate hassle-free online purchase of tickets, non-cash payment methods like cards, UPI applications and mobile wallets. In case of over-the-counter ticket purchasing, UV-c or UV-d sterilizing box will be placed to sterilize the currency notes and printed tickets. On the basis of the booking of online or over-the-counter ticket purchase, time slots will be given to visitors to avoid overcrowding in each gallery. All visitors must carry an online ticket either in printed or digital form. There will be a gap of 1.5 metres between two visitors following the detailed floor-markers. User-friendly on-demand audio guide (which visitors choose among options on touch screens) and guided tours will remain suspended as of now. Senior citizens, vulnerable groups, pregnant women and children below 10 years will not be permitted. Access will be denied to persons showing symptoms of the disease. No food and group photo will be permitted. Water has to be brought by the visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/museums-to-reopen-today-with-4-pronged-safety-steps/articleshow/79137130.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Bineesh Kodiyeri's place of night stay changed||BENGALURU: Following suspicion that he accessed a cellphone, Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPM Kerala state committee secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan who is in the custody of enforcement directorate (ED), was shifted to a new police station for night stay, said sources. Bineesh was quizzed by ED in a money laundering case with links to Bengaluru drug dealers for the 12th day on Monday. On Saturday, a Bengaluru court had extended his custody till Wednesday after ED team said his three shell companies and big money dealings with aides Mohammed Anoop and Rijesh Ravindran, drug dealers arrested by NCB in August, needed a thorough probe. He needs to be questioned face to face with other suspects in the money laundering case, ED added. Following this, Bineesh was taken to ED’s office in Shantinagar for questioning which continued late into the night. That night he was not brought to Wilson Garden police station, where he used to be lodged at night since his arrest on Oct 29, 2020. While his legal team claimed he was illegally moved to a secret spot, ED sources revealed that Bineesh was shifted to Cubbon Park police station early on Sunday after he allegedly got access to a cellphone in custody and attempted to have his way with police personnel on duty. On Monday, Bineesh was quizzed on some crucial digital evidence found by sleuths following the raid at his Thiruvananthapuram residence. Bineesh’s is expected to be remanded in judicial custody after Wednesday and sent to Parappana Agrahara prison complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bineeshs-place-of-night-stay-changed/articleshow/79135934.cms||Petlee Peter
November 10, 2020||Goa||PR agency to be appointed to boost Goa’s image||PANAJI: The state tourism department will float a tender to appoint a public relations (PR) agency that will be tasked with promoting its activities and lending assistance when the department participates in any international trade fair. A tourism official said the agency will be required to prepare an estimate of possible returns from participation in the event. It will also help the department avoid a trade fair where its chances of making any gains are nil or inadequate. The tourism department does not presently have an agency on board. Although a tender was floated more than two times over the past year, the tendering process itself was not completed. In the absence of an agency or any other help to gauge possible gains of attending any international event, the official said the department is unable to assess possible outcomes in terms of boosting the image of the destination or expected rise in footfalls. “We participate in events without knowing if it (the event) will really help us,” he said. Goa Tourism has faced criticism several times in the past over its participation in international travel marts without weighing possible gains and losses. Events were allegedly picked on the whims and fancies of some, and only certain people routinely attended those events. This went on for years despite growing demands that an audit be conducted. The new PR appointee, the official said, will also help the department prepare for participation in trade fairs. It will need to prepare content for the event as well as arrange meetings with buyers or relevant participants. Unlike earlier, Goa Tourism will not be able to simply pick and choose events as its funds for marketing have been crunched. Its annual budget for marketing and promotional activities is Rs 40 crore. Since March, however, the department hasn’t participated in any international fair, not even a virtual event. The official said it refrained from participating in virtual trade meets for certain reasons. “We feel virtual trade fairs are only an interim arrangement till the Covid-19 pandemic ends. We are also not sure whether there will be any gains from participating in a virtual event. It may be just a waste of money,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pr-agency-to-be-appointed-to-boost-states-image/articleshow/79138694.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Worst-air day of year in Delhi: You can see it, and feel it||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded its worst air day till date this year on Monday with Air Quality Index (AQI) touching 477 in the “severe” category as thick haze engulfed the capital. People stepping out felt an itching or burning sensation in the eyes and throat. Prior to this, the highest AQI was 450 on Thursday, while a reading of 437 was recorded on January 1. Track the pollution level in your cityThis is the fifth consecutive “severe” air day in the capital. Experts said low wind speed, low temperatures and a low boundary layer would continue for at least another 48 hours before some improvement could be expected from November 12 onward. The share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5 concentration was 38% with 3,257 fire counts being reported on Sunday. Data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed Delhi-NCR’s pollution levels hovering around 6-7 times the standard. On Monday, the average PM10 levels were in the “emergency” range of Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) for 27 hours with a reading of 619 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 7pm. At the same time, the PM2.5 concentration was 399 µg/m3. If PM10 and PM2.5 readings are beyond 500 and 300 µg/m3 for over 48 hours, “emergency” measures can be implemented, including stopping construction activities, entry of trucks into Delhi and introducing the odd-even scheme. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said wind speed was below 5 kmph during the day, while the minimum temperature was several degrees below the normal. “A combination of low temperature and low wind speed is not allowing pollutants to disperse. We expect Delhi-NCR to be in a transition phase for the next two days with wind direction changing to easterly by Tuesday. While this will reduce the stubble burning share in PM2.5, it will still lead to accumulation of pollutants in the region,” added Srivastava. Other parts of the NCR fared no better, with Gurgaon and Ghaziabad both recording an AQI of 482, while Greater Noida had a reading of 478, followed by Noida (477) and Faridabad (456). System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research stated that low dispersion continued in the region, while high fire-related intrusion was further impacting Delhi-NCR. “No quick recovery is expected unless there is a drastic reduction in fire counts. Air quality is forecast to be in the severe category on Tuesday. It is likely to improve to the higher end of the very poor category by November 11 as change in transport-level wind direction should help in reduced mass load and reduction in particulate matter,” it added. While the newly formed commission for air quality in NCR held its first meeting on Monday, it issued no directions for the region. Officials said CPCB would continue to monitor the situation. Watch Thick layer of smog covers Delhi, air quality in 'severe' category||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/worst-air-day-of-year-you-can-see-it-and-feel-it/articleshow/79139357.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 10, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Couple drowns on pre-wedding photo shoot||MYSURU: Pre-wedding photoshoots have become a regular feature of marriages but the quest for an exciting shot in the Cauvery, aboard a coracle, led to the death of a young couple on Monday. The couple who ventured into the Cauvery river on a coracle for a pre-wedding photoshoot and drowned after the boat capsized near Talakadu in T Narasipura. The couple were in love for the past five years. Police said bridegroom Chandru, 28, a civil contractor and bride Shashikala, 20, both from Kyathamaranahalli in Mysuru drowned. Their wedding was scheduled on November 22 in Mysuru. The couple along with relatives and photographers went to Mudukuthore Mallikharjuna Swamy Temple. They had hired two coracles and travelled to Talakadu Jaladhama river resort at Kattepura on the other side of the river. Just as the coracle moved about 30 metres from the riverbank, the couple tried to pose for a photo. It is said that the bride who was wearing high heeled sandals, which made her lose balance while standing on the coracle and she fell into the river, police said. Chandru tried to save Shashikala. But in the commotion, the coracle capsized and Chandru, one of his relatives and the fisherman riding the coracle fell into the river. While Chandru drowned, the fisherman swam to safety. Some fishermen who were on the riverbank rescued the relative. Meanwhile, people informed police who rushed to the spot with expert swimmers and fished out the bodies around 4.30pm. A case has been registered at Talakadu police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/pre-wedding-photoshoot-ends-in-tragedy/articleshow/79137157.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Two die after SUV rams auto in south Delhi||NEW DELHI: An autorickshaw driver and a 35-year-old man were killed after a Land Cruiser rammed an autorickshaw in which they were travelling on Sunday morning in south Delhi’s Chirag Dilli. Another man who was in the auto was critically injured and was undergoing treatment. Police have arrested the car driver, a local property dealer. The autorickshaw driver who died was identified as Vinod Kumar, a Jasola resident. He was ferrying two passengers, 35-year-old Pankaj Kumar and Arun Sahu, 43, both labourers, when the accident took place. Pankaj died on Monday morning during treatment, while Sahu was still under observation. Police found that the autorickshaw was being driven on the wrong carriageway. According to police, a call regarding the accident at BRT Road was received at Greater Kailash police station on Sunday morning. At the spot, a Land Cruiser Prado and an autorickshaw were found damaged. The SUV driver and the three injured were found on the spot. The auto driver and Pankaj Kumar were rushed to AIIMS Trauma Centre where the driver was declared dead while Kumar was admitted for treatment. Sahu was sent to Pushpawati Singhania Research Institute in Sheikh Sarai. Additional deputy commissioner of police (south) Parvinder Singh said, on Monday, Pankaj also succumbed to his injuries. Families of all the three were informed and the bodies of Vinod and Pankaj were sent for a postmortem examination, he added. Singh said, “A case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered. The driver of the SUV, 51-year-old Surender Sahlot who is a resident of Fatehpur Beri, was arrested.” During investigation, police found that Sahlot was going to meet someone and was driving the SUV himself. He was not found to be drunk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-die-after-suv-rams-auto-in-south-delhi/articleshow/79138698.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Meerut||Two women live-in partners in UP forcibly separated||MEERUT: A woman, in her early 20s, was “forcibly” taken away and confined to her home while her female partner was publicly humiliated and beaten for resisting the separation in UP’s Baghpat, a region where live-in relationship is still a cultural taboo. And it becomes talk of the town when two women decide to live together. The alleged incident comes just four days after two girls in neighbouring Shamli district got police protection on the intervention of Allahabad high court. The girls wanted to live together and had feared threat from their families. The court on Wednesday rejected the petition objecting to their live-in relationship. A division bench said morality of the society cannot affect the decisions of the court. The bench referred to the Supreme Court judgment in which Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) was decriminalized. It observed that the petition highlighted the “stark reality” of the society where “citizens are facing discrimination” due to their sexual orientation. And just four days after the judgment, the woman in Baghpat was forcibly taken away by her family members. Sunday's incident was caught on camera and put on social media platforms. The family members of the woman barged into their room in Baghpat’s Baraut town and forcibly took her away. The other woman was allegedly thrashed and humiliated in public when she tried to stop them. She later said, “We had decided to stay together. We are adults and fully understand what we are doing. But our relatives do not understand our relationship. We want to work together for the uplift of society in the field of education. We had also given a written complaint to the police to provide us protection. But, before they could, Seema’s (name changed) relatives came here and thrashed me publicly and even tore my clothes. And they took her away.” Local police were tight-lipped on the matter. “We are looking into the matter,” said a senior police officer on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-women-live-in-partners-forcibly-separated-one-of-them-humiliated-beaten-in-ups-baghpat/articleshow/79134818.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 10, 2020||Meerut||Gangster's escape: UP police names 21 in its charge-sheet, 6 of them are cops||MEERUT: Over 20 months after his dramatic escape, notorious gangster Badan Singh Baddo continued to elude UP’s police, which has now named 21 people, including six of its own men, in a charge-sheet after probing the March 28, 2019 incident when the criminal had fled from the clutches of an escort team in Meerut. Baddo had escaped after allegedly entertaining police personnel in a Meerut hotel where alcohol laced with sedatives was served. With more than 30 cases of murder, robbery, loot and extortion, Baddo, 48, who was serving life sentence, is currently the most wanted criminal in UP. He carries a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh. Circle officer of Meerut’s Brahmapuri, Amit Kumar Rai, said the investigation in the case is over and 21 people have been booked. “The charge-sheet is ready and will soon be produced in court. A total of 21 suspects have been booked out of which two, Baddo and his son Sikandar, are absconding. The rest of the accused have secured bail from high court,” the CO said. Initially, 17 people including six policemen were booked in an FIR filed at Brahmapuri police station. Four names came up during the investigation. Role of Baddo’s sister-in-law is still being probed, police said. This comes days after the Allahabad High Court directed the principal secretary, department of home affairs, Uttar Pradesh, to file an affidavit stating complete details relating to the efforts made by the state to ensure arrest of Baddo. Soon after the court’s rap, local police in Meerut on Saturday attached movable assets worth over Rs 1 crore from the fugitive gangster’s palatial bungalow. Local police and a special task force have been on his trail ever since his escape but with no success. Baddo had sprung a surprise with a social media post pinning his location to Rotterdam, a port city in Netherlands, in February this year, almost 10 months after dramatically slipping out of police’s clutches. Baddo is said to own businesses in Australia where his estranged wife and daughter are settled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gangsters-escape-up-police-names-21-in-its-charge-sheet-6-of-them-are-cops/articleshow/79134813.cms||Piyush Rai
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||After citizen’s SOS, Hakim promises Behala relief||Kolkata: The Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) brass has asked heads of civic departments to focus on many Behala neighbourhoods, where residents are suffering for want of essential services and infrastructure. Acting on a complaint lodged during a ‘Talk to the KMC’, an interactive session between the citizens and the civic brass last Saturday, the chairman of the KMC board of administrators (BoA) Firhad Hakim on Monday visited Rakhal Mukherjee Road in Sarsuna to check claims and counter claims made by a resident of the area and a section of civic officials over the condition of a road. While Ashoke Roy, a local resident, had complained about the deplorable condition of a road near his residence, some civic officials were of the opinion that the condition of the road was not so bad. After inspection of the road, Hakim passed on necessary information for a thorough repair and maintenance of the road. Later in the afternoon, Hakim held a meeting with all coordinators of Behala seeking their feedback on the quality of essential services like water supply, sewerage and drainage and garbage disposal among others. Sources in the KMC said that a section of the ward coordinators stressed on the need for an improved garbage disposal system and a better upkeep of the drainage system in some localities. Some requested Hakim to expedite the drainage upgrade project that will help areas such as Silpara, Sarsuna, Shakuntala Park and Parnasree among other areas. “It is true that the drainage upgrade project has been delayed due to some technical reasons. BOA chairman has promised that he would personally look into the problems,” said a KMC coordinator. Regarding an improved garbage disposal system for large areas of Joka, a KMC official said effective steps to augment and modernize the solid waste management system would be taken in a phased manner. Interacting with the coordinators, Hakim said the KMC was now in a position to supply adequate potable water to different neighbourhoods in Behala especially after inauguration of a reservoir-cum-booster pumping station at Garden Reach Waterworks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-citizens-sos-hakim-promises-behala-relief/articleshow/79137169.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi-NCR: New air panel lists 10 priority action points||NEW DELHI: With Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas reeling under severe air pollution, the newly-constituted commission for air quality management in its first meeting on Monday decided to go ahead with ongoing mitigation measures and identified 10 priority action points, including strict enforcement of the ban on stubble burning and firecrackers. Track the pollution level in your cityInstead of coming out with any new solution, which might take more time, the commission decided to “strictly enforce existing laws, rules, guidelines, directions and standard operating procedures (SOPs) to minimise air pollution on an emergency basis” at a time Delhi-NCR is in the middle of a crisis. “There is no dearth of action plans and this commission stands by decisions of the erstwhile EPCA and existing court orders. The focus will be on strict enforcement of all rules and directions,” said a participant in the meeting, chaired by M M Kutty who heads the commission. Five of the 10 key action points identified by the commission are to be implemented through CPCB, SPCBs and local civic authorities with immediate effect while the remaining five are to be taken forward as part of awareness building measures bringing civil society, NGOs and the general public on board. “The commission noted that future action will necessitate consultation with various stakeholders,” the Union environment ministry said. Members of the commission met twice on Monday and reviewed the air quality scenario in the region, actions taken by various agencies so far and further steps to improve air quality. The CPCB briefed members about monitoring systems, models and implementation action. The meeting took note of the positive role of the Supreme Court-monitored EPCA in handling the critical issue so far. There will be another meeting on Tuesday when the India Meteorological Department will brief members on how weather conditions in Delhi-NCR impact air quality, especially during winter. Professor Mukesh Khare of IIT-Delhi, ex-director general of IMD K J Ramesh and joint secretary in environment ministry A K Nautiyal are full-time members of this body. TERI director general Ajay Mathur and Ashish Dhawan of Air Pollution Action Group are members from NGOs. The action points which are to be implemented by CPCB, SPCBs and civic authorities include strict enforcement of laws and rules regarding dust control measures, strict enforcement to prevent burning of municipal solid waste and biomass, water sprinkling particularly in dust prone areas, use of anti-smog guns at pollution hotspots specially at construction sites and strict implementation of rules and court orders regarding stubble burning and firecrackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/new-air-panel-lists-10-priority-action-points/articleshow/79139393.cms||Vishwa Mohan
November 10, 2020||Surat||Unemployed man arrested for blackmailing woman govt officer||SURAT: A 24-year-old unemployed man was arrested from New Delhi on Monday, for allegedly blackmailing a 58-year-old woman government officer. The accused, Nazim Naeem Patel, living on Jonapur Main Road in South Delhi was nabbed on the basis of specific information. He had planned the extortion since he was unemployed from the start of the lockdown. The accused had demanded Rs 60,000 from the woman, an officer in the revenue department, by threatening to circulate her photos on the social media. However, the woman did not succumb to the demands and approached the police. An offence was registered at the Cybercrime Police Station on Saturday. Investigation revealed that the woman forgot her phone in an autorickshaw while returning home from a shopping mall on Dumas Road in January 2020. The autorickshaw was booked online through a cab rental application. “Since the phone was old, the woman did not make much efforts to locate it,” said a police officer. Patel kept the phone with himself instead of returning it to the woman. He removed the memory card and threw the phone in Tapi. He found some objectionable photos of the woman on the memory card and planned to blackmail her. There was no work of driving an autorickshaw since the start of lockdown and also Patel was unable to find any other job in the city. Thus he went to New Delhi but failed to get any work. “He planned to extort money from the woman. He sent the photos to the woman and demanded money for deleting it,” said police. Police traced the accused based on the details shared by the victim and from the phone number that was used to send the photos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/unemployed-man-arrested-for-blackmailing-woman-govt-officer/articleshow/79135264.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Rajkot||26-year-old man stabbed to death in Kutch||RAJKOT: A man was stabbed to death by an unidentified assailant in Bhadali village of Nakhatrana taluka in Kutch district on Sunday. Police said the deceased, Hamid Khalifa (26), was stabbed to death on the outskirts of the village. “We have booked an unidentified assailant for the crime on the complaint of Khalifa’s brother Hanif. Khalifa used to work in a grocery shop. We have launched an investigation on the basis of the call record details of Khalifa to get a clue about his assailants. We are also finding out whether anyone from the village had witnessed the crime,” said an official from Nakhatrana police station. Khalifa was married in Kolkata, a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/26-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-in-kutch/articleshow/79135407.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Vadodara||Craters consumed VMC’s Rs 6 crore in five years||Vadodara: The cash-strapped Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has been spending over Rs one crore a year on repairing major leaks in drainage pipelines and caving-in of manholes that caused craters on the roads. The VMC revealed this in a reply under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Apart from isolated cave-ins taking place in other areas, the western parts including the Old Padra Road, Akota and others have been particularly prone to such incidents. At times, traffic has been thrown out of gear for days together due to the repair work on such craters. Apart from water pipelines, even the drainage system has contributed to this situation. Activist Atul Gamechi, who had sought the details, said that 74 major works on drainage lines and manholes were taken up on a priority under emergency provisions in the last five years. “The VMC has paid for 59 works, while the payment for the remaining is under process. So far, a payment of Rs 5.8crore has already been made to vendors,” said Gamechi. He added that this was merely from the reply of the drainage and storm water drain department. Other departments are yet to furnish the details. Gamechi pointed out that the payment of another 15 works was still pending. The total will amount to much higher as the details of the expenses involved in the 15 works have not been mentioned in the reply. Another issue that prompted him to seek details was that these expenses were made under provisions for emergency expenses under the Gujarat Provincial Municipal Corporations Act. Gamechi said that such works don’t go through the routine process of tendering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/craters-consumed-vmcs-rs-6-crore-in-five-years/articleshow/79136532.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s third deceased organ donation during pandemic, fifth in state this year||KOLKATA: The city recorded the third deceased organ donation during the pandemic. The heart and liver of the 28-year-old donor were harvested and the transplant procedures were on till late into the night at the state-run Institute of Post Graduate and Medical Education (IPGMER). The deceased donor, Kasba resident Kaustav Roy, was brought to Ruby General Hospital on November 6. A patient of hypertension, the 28-year-old had suffered brain bleeding caused by burst of blood vessels. He was attended by a multispecialty team, including neurologist, neurosurgeon, nephrologist, critical care specialist and others. But despite all efforts, his organs started to fail and subsequently doctors diagnosed that he was brain dead. The hospital counselled the young businessman’s family for their consent for donating his organs. Once the family agreed, ROTTO (Regional Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation) was informed. Kaustav was declared brain dead on Monday morning. A team of doctors from SSKM assessed and found that Roy’s heart and liver were in good condition but his kidneys were not good enough for transplant. ROTTO then allocated both the organs to SSKM that had matching recipients. “Despite the pain and agony of losing a 28-year-old youth, Roy’s family willingly agreed to donating his organs. It is really commendable. We salute the family’s courage,” said Subhasish Datta, chief general manager, operations, at Ruby. Two separate teams from SSKM came to retrieve and harvest the two organs. The donor’s skin too has been banked at SSKM Hospital. “For the liver, we found a matching recipient — a 48-year-old male patient from Howrah. This recipient had been suffering from cirrhosis of liver, hepatitis-C. This is the first liver transplant surgery we are undertaking during the pandemic,” said IPGMER hepatologist head Abhijit Chowdhury, who had been instrumental in setting up the School of Digestive and Liver Diseases at SSKM that set the ball rolling for liver transplant surgeries. “The heart recipient is a 55-year-old woman from Jangalpara in Hooghly,” said IPGMER director Manimay Banerjee, who is also the ROTTO director. This was the third deceased organ donation in the city during the pandemic. The first happened on August 17 when family of 31-year-old Bhatpara resident Sangram Bhattacharya consented to donate his organs when he died at Apollo Gleneagles Hospitals after a road traffic accident. His heart, liver and kidneys were retrieved and transplanted. The second one happened when a 44-year-old’s family agreed to donate his organs after the patient was declared brain dead at Institute of Neurosciences Kolkata on August 23. This is the fifth deceased organ donation in Bengal this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kols-3rd-deceased-organ-donation-during-pandemic-5th-in-state-this-yr/articleshow/79137190.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 10, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Customs checking M Sivasankar’s travel||KOCHI: If enforcement directorate (ED) had relied on bureaucrat M Sivasankar’s WhatsApp chats to arraign him as an accused, Customs (Preventive), is focusing on the trips he took with Swapna Suresh and others to pin him in the currency smuggling case. Sources said customs received information that Sivasankar knew $1.9 lakh were smuggled out from Trivandrum airport by UAE Consulate’s Egyptian employee Khaled Ali Shoukry. Customs suspects that he knew Khaled was travelling to Cairo, via Muscat, on Aug 7, 2019 with the above-mentioned sum. This was after it went through statements made by certain persons. “We suspect Sivasankar knew Swapna Suresh and Sarith PS, key accused in the gold smuggling case, were accompanying Khaled to Muscat and he had travelled with them around the same period,” said a Customs source. Sources said they found that Sivasankar had stayed at a super luxury hotel in UAE and they suspect that the stay was along with some of the accused. He was yet to explain who financed the same, said Customs. To pursue this line of investigation, customs sought documents related to Sivasankar’s travel last month, sources said. Though he promised to bring documents and prove his innocence, he ended up in a hospital when Customs summoned him. The agency was then planning to arrest him. “We suspect all of them were in Muscat at that time. He may have travelled with the accused when the smuggling happened. He denied this during interrogation and said he had travelled for some other purpose. He couldn’t produce documents to back his claim. His stay at the super luxury hotel, which he can’t afford, is suspicious,” Customs sources said. Sleuths are planning to rerecord his statement before seeking court permission for further action. “Decision on an arrest will be taken after analysing his statement,” said a source. Also, Customs is still probing if he had a role in gold smuggling case. Warrant against Khaled: Court to pass order on Wednesday Meanwhile, additional chief judicial magistrate court (economic offences) will pass an order on customs plea to issue a non-bailable warrant against Khaled on Wednesday. Customs, on Monday, submitted a copy of a no-objection certificate – issued by the ministry of external affairs in June 2017 for the facilitation of Visa to Khaled – before the court and it specifically stated that he was a ‘locally-recruited foreign employee who had no privilege and immunity’. NIA arraigns five more accused National Investigation Agency, probing the terror angle behind the gold smuggling case, on Monday, arraigned Mohammad Aslam (44) of Wandoor, Abdul Latheef K (47) of Vengara, Nazirudheen Shah (32) of Malappuram, Ramzan Parancherry (36) of Pookattur and Mohammed Mansoor PS (35) of Kozhikode as the accused. Barring Aslam, the rest are in the UAE. NIA approached the court to issue a Non-Bailable Warrant against them. Sources said that NIA is interrogating Aslam and may arrest him. ED to question Swapna in prison ED will question Swapna at Attakulangara prison on Tuesday and Wednesday after the special Court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act cases gave permission on Monday. ED wants to confront her with details divulged by Sivasankar during custodial interrogation. His custody period will end on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-checking-sivasankars-travel/articleshow/79135972.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Lifeguards rescue two tourists from drowning at Malpe beach||UDUPI: Lifeguards Madhukar Salian and Ravi of Mantra Tourism Development on duty at Malpe beach rescued two tourists – one from Mandya and other from Doddaballapur — from entering a watery grave on Monday. The incident took place around noon when the tourists, who had come separately, and ventured into the sea. A rip current sucked the duo in and they would have drowned if not for the timely action by the lifeguards. Sudesh Shetty, proprietor, Mantra Tourism, said the rescued are Ramya Muralidhar, 28, a telecom company employee from Mandya and Maruthi Suhas, a final year BCom student from Doddaballapur. They were shifted to a private hospital in an ambulance stationed on the beach and operated by Harbour Friends. While Maruthi required treatment at the ICU prior to discharge, Ramya recovered after first aid. Thus far, the lifeguards have rescued five tourists including the two on Monday ever since the beach was thrown open to tourists following the unlock norms announced by the government. “The Sea is a bit rough up until Diwali and tourists who do not understand the same, venture into the water ignoring our warning,” Sudesh said. The life guards try their best to dissuade tourists from getting into the water in such conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lifeguards-rescue-two-tourists-from-drowning-at-malpe-beach/articleshow/79136410.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Heading for record? 5 severe days in November already||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded seven ‘severe’ air days in November last year, while just five such days were recorded in November 2018. In November 2017, seven such days were recorded. However, Delhi has already recorded five ‘severe’ days this month and is on course to record a more polluted November than the last three years. Track the pollution level in your cityWhile this spike in air pollution has largely been down to meteorological conditions and a rise in stubble burning cases, Delhi is yet to see the impact of Diwali this year, which will take place on November 14. Experts say while crackers have been banned in the region, violations are still expected. IMD officials say ‘severe’ air may continue for the next two days as well with no significant change in wind speed or temperature expected in the next 48 hours. “Only from November 12 onwards, some improvement is expected but then Diwali is around the corner and conditions may once again worsen,” said a Met official. So far, Delhi is averaging an AQI of 386 this month, with a peak of 477 (severe) recorded on Monday. Last November, Delhi had recorded a peak of 494, however, the capital had also recorded a spell of rain towards the end of the month. This year, Delhi is yet to see a spell of rain since September 8 — causing pollution levels to gradually increase. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), says traditionally, a spike in pollution is seen after Diwali and with severe ‘smog’ conditions already prevailing, the impact of Diwali will be crucial over the next two weeks. “While a ban on firecrackers exists, even some violations will lead to another spike and once again cause air pollution to reach ‘severe’ even if it improves over the next few days,” said Chowdhury. Historical data shows that air quality can remain ‘severe’ for up to two days after Diwali if firecrackers are burst. Dipankar Saha, former head of CPCB’s air laboratory, said the meteorological conditions have played a key role in November and as temperatures start to drop and wind speed reduces, Delhi becomes a chamber for pollutants. “A spell of rain during such a time can help check AQI levels, but it is unlikely it will occur during the period,” added Saha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heading-for-record-5-severe-days-in-nov-already/articleshow/79139402.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 10, 2020||Hubballi||Bagalkot to house North Karnataka’s first electric vehicle manufacturing unit||HUBBALLI: The sheer volume of two- and three-wheel automobiles on the roads of North Karnataka accounts for a considerable amount of air pollution in the districts. However, with the aim of considerably cutting down on carbon emissions and give a fillip to sustainable mobility, the state government has given its nod for an electric vehicle manufacturing unit in Bagalkot district, the first-of-its-kind in North Karnataka. Principal secretary to the commerce and industries department in Karnataka Gaurav Gupta confirmed to TOI that a proposal submitted by Balan Engineering Pvt Ltd to set up the electric vehicle manufacturing unit in Bagalkot district had been approved by the government. “The unit will be set up in Achanur village in Bagalkot, and the company has also agreed to set up solar power plants and chemical units, which will help other companies invest in electric vehicles in the future. We want to encourage sustainable technologies in North Karnataka, which is growing as an industrial sector,” said Gupta. Balan Engineering has promised vehicles that can travel at a maximum speed of 125kmph on full battery. Managing director of Karnataka Udyog Mitra HM Revanna Gowda said that BEPL would manufacture prototypes of the electric vehicles in Bengaluru. “The company will start with manufacture of three-wheel vehicles for transportation of garbage for urban local bodies. This will be followed by three-wheel cargo vehicles, passenger automobiles and bikes. Once production starts and these vehicles start plying on the roads, Vijayapura and Bagalkot districts will register a sharp drop in pollution levels,” Gowda added. The manufacturing unit will be set up across more than 140 acres, he said. BEPL director N Balakrishnan, an electrical engineer, said that the company was a Bengaluru-based start-up engaged in the production of electric automobiles. “We have obtained licence from the state government to set up an electric vehicle manufacturing plant and an assembly unit in Bagalkot. Some of our models have been approved by the competent authorities, while other models are awaiting it. The Bagalkot plant will be a fully-integrated unit, and generate hundreds of jobs directly and indirectly. We zeroed in on Bagalkot as the site for the unit since it is close to Pune-Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru. We will start construction of the unit in January, and production will hopefully commence in the latter half of 2021,” he said. ‘Addl incentives for manufacture of electric vehicles’ Electric vehicles are the future of the nation, since they will help us become self-reliant in the fuel sector. We are encouraging manufacturers of electric vehicles by offering them additional incentives. We have decided to house the first electric vehicle manufacturing unit Bagalkot. - Jagadish Shettar | Karnataka minister for large and medium-scale industries||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bagalkot-to-house-north-ktakas-first-electric-vehicle-manufacturing-unit/articleshow/79136254.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Court orders police to register an FIR in gurdwara committee ‘fraud’||NEW DELHI: A city court has ordered Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) to register an FIR against some Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) members on charges of fraudulent activities committed in 2013. The order was passed on November 7 on a complaint alleging that the current DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, who was the general secretary in 2013, had abused his position by raising “fictitious bills” to get “wrongful gains” of over Rs 65 lakh received by the committee in donations. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Dhirendra Rana said, “It is an appropriate case where the court should exercise its powers under Section 156(3) CrPC. SHO EOW, Mandir Marg, is directed to register an FIR against Sirsa and other unknown persons, who dealt with and approved the fictitious bills as per the content of this complaint.” The complainant, Bhupinder Singh, said, “These offerings are to be used by the committee for social and public purposes in line with the provisions of Gurdwara Act, 1971.” “It is alleged that respondent number 2 (Sirsa) embezzled huge amounts of money by showing sham transactions with various entities without any actual goods or services being provided by them. In fact, some of the entities are actually dummy companies and their names are being used for the sole purpose of siphoning of funds,” the court noted. The court also noted that the report of a preliminary inquiry conducted by EOW stated that no cognisable offence was made out and that was why the complaint had been closed. It directed that the order be sent to DCP (EOW) for compliance and for placing on record a copy of the FIR on the next hearing. Sirsa, meanwhile, strongly refuted the allegations and asserted that he was ready to face any probe in the case, which was nothing but a result of misrepresentation of facts. He alleged that a “coterie” in the committee had claimed that payment for tents had been made twice for a single job, which was incorrect. “The payment was made only to one company. The court in its order observed that the owner of Raja Tent and Rising Ball Wedding and Event Planner was the same. The owner had himself admitted in court that his tent house didn’t have a service tax number, so DSGMC refused to make payment. He then sent challans of Rising Ball to claim payment. He also told the court that he had provided services worth Rs 2 crore, but only got payment of Rs 70 lakh,” Sirsa claimed. He further alleged that the role of the then president, Manjit Singh GK, needed to be investigated. However, Manjit Singh GK said the court had specifically ordered an FIR against Sirsa and not him. “When the court had given a clear direction for lodging an FIR against Sirsa, how do I come into the picture? By taking my name, he is trying to divert from the real issue. It was Sirsa who had cleared the bills of the vendor in question,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-orders-police-to-register-an-fir-in-gurdwara-committee-fraud/articleshow/79138749.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Bareilly||‘Honour killing’ in UP: Autopsy suggests woman was strangled, brother arrested||BAREILLY: Autopsy report of 24-year-old Aqsha, who was earlier said to have died of natural causes, suggested foul play and possibly points towards a case of honour killing. The police in UP's Moradabad had exhumed her body after 23 days following a complaint from her husband. The woman's elder brother has now been arrested and an FIR registered. The autopsy shows that the woman sustained wounds near her neck and died of "strangulation". There were no ligature marks visible on her neck, only signs of physical strangulation, since the body was exhumed after several days. Based on the complaint of the woman's husband, who had suspected foul play in the sudden death of his wife, local police had exhumed the body on Saturday and had sent it for postmortem. The husband, identified as one Irfan, had earlier stated that he and his wife used to have frequent fights and she used to often go to her parents' place. And his in-laws used to be unhappy as their frequent fights were "defaming their honour in the society". Aqsha went to her maternal house in Kisraul area of Moradabad and passed away on October 13. After performing the burial, Irfan was told by his in-laws that his wife died of a "heart attack". Irfan then accused his in-laws of “killing his wife for the family’s honour”. SP city Amit Kumar Anand said that the autopsy report has ruled out the possibility of "natural death" that her family had been claiming all along. Legal action has been initiated, he said. “The woman’s elder brother Tariq, 25, has been arrested and an FIR has been registered under IPC sections 302 (punishment for murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender),” SHO of Nagphani Sunil Kumar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/honour-killing-in-up-autopsy-suggests-woman-was-strangled-brother-arrested/articleshow/79133851.cms||Maria Khan
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Tenders floated for New Town underground utility tunne||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has floated tenders to engage a consultant to conduct a feasibility and cost study for construction of an underground utility tunnel in New Town. The authorities are planning to lay all underground utilities together with proper infrastructure. They have identified a 4.5-km stretch in the central business district of New Town, where the utility tunnel will be set up, if it is feasible. Officials are planning to set up an underground corridor of around six feet height, which will carry water supply and sewerage pipes, fire hydrants, telephone lines, electricity cables, television cables and other utility networks. “These lines can be repaired with an easier access and the road surface will not have to be dug for the work. New Town will be the only city of India to have such a facility,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tenders-floated-for-new-town-underground-utility-tunne/articleshow/79137221.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Bank staffers arrested for Rs 35 crore fraud in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Three persons, including a bank employee and the branch manager of a public sector bank, were arrested in the past 72 hours for allegedly duping an association of engineers of Rs 35 crore in the past two years by using fake fixed deposits. Cops nabbed the bank employee Arun Pandey (48), a resident of Sinthi — the kingpin of the fraud — first. Two others arrested in connection with the case were identified as Krishnendu Mullick (48) and branch manager Samrat Paul (50). Till now, a luxury car, Rs 1.9 crore cash and gold worth a few lakhs have been seized. Janankur Saha of Institution of Engineers (India) had lodged a complaint with Muchipara PS on November 2. Joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma said that the trio had been produced in the ACMM (II) court and remanded in police custody till November 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bank-staffers-arrested-for-rs-35cr-fraud/articleshow/79137245.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Littered on streets, plastic gloves pose new crisis||HYDERABAD: Single-use plastic gloves being mindlessly discarded on streets and open bins, seem to be doing more harm than good to the already existing problem of plastic pollution in the city and elsewhere. While this pandemic generated waste is greatly exacerbating the pollution crisis, environmental and medical experts TOI spoke to said addressing the issue of single-use plastic requires the same urgency as the current pandemic, as it poses immediate and long-term risks to global health. “There is a lot of use and throw practice that has kicked in since March, which was slowly reducing prior to that. Supermarkets and grocery stores are giving out the one-time use and throw plastic for convenience of their customers, but we should remember that convenience cannot be the reason for our irresponsibility,” Arun Krishnamurthy, founder, Environmental Foundation of India, said. “We are generating so much more non-degradable trash in the current context that it is only going to create more problems for us. For instance, if we look at Delhi today, the air quality is also one of the reasons for rise of Covid-19 cases. We should look at our waste issue immediately,” he added. Though there is a ban on manufacturing products below 50 microns in the state, there is no ban on production of single-use plastic above that grade. In November last year, the state government had appointed a committee to suggest alternatives for single-use plastic items. The committee was appointed to study the problems and asked to suggest alternatives to the single-use plastic items and make suggestions for promoting such industries that produce alternate products in a government order. Experts say its always better to wear reusable cloth mask and gloves instead of using a surgical or plastic one and discarding them unscientifically. “People don’t seem to be understanding the gravity of dumping waste in the open,” said Dr V V Ramana Prasad, a pulmonologist at KIMS Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/littered-on-streets-plastic-gloves-pose-new-crisis/articleshow/79137249.cms||Moulika.KV
November 10, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit admin rolls back ceiling on paddy procurement after farmers’ protest||PILIBHIT: Pilibhit district administration on Monday rolled back its decision to restrict paddy procurement at 60 quintals from each farmer a day by government agencies. The decision was taken after a large number of farmers staged a dharna on the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) campus earlier in the day and closed the gates, not allowing officials and staff to pass through. The farmers alleged that the procurement centres were declining to accept their paddy on the day of their turn after making them wait for a fortnight. The matter was resolved after an official announcement for the withdrawal of the ceiling on paddy procurement. A few days ago, district magistrate Pulkit Khare in order to prioritize the procurement of marginal and small farmers had fixed the maximum limit of paddy purchasing by government agencies at 60 quintals per farmer a day. The farmers who had brought more than 60 quintals paddy were consequently directed at the government centres to wait for their next turn for procurement of their additional paddy. This irked them. Avinash Jha, district food and marketing officer, said under the new system launched from Monday, two weighing units at each procurement centre had now been earmarked for small farmers and the third one for big farmers who had been exempted from the ceiling of 60 quintals. The move was a result of the surrender of over 50 procurement centres by different government agencies due to various reasons. The procurement had initially begun with a network of 165 centres but has dropped to 109 centres at present. Jha added that against the target of 3.25 lakh MT assigned to Pilibhit by the state administration, the district had so far procured only 1.15 lakh MT of paddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-admin-rolls-back-ceiling-on-paddy-procurement-after-farmers-protest/articleshow/79133864.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad tops chart of fastest growing flexi workplaces markets: JLL report||HYDERABAD: Bengaluru and Delhi NCR may account for over 50% of the country’s flexible office space stock, but when it comes to the fastest growing markets for flexi workspaces its Hyderabad that tops the charts, according to global real estate consultancy firm JLL. The latest report by JLL, titled `Reimagine Flexspaces A 360⁰ view’, points out that the share of flex spaces (co-working, plug & play enterprise solutions, remote working) in the total Grade A office leasing activity was the highest in Hyderabad at around 25-30% in 2019 and is still the highest among all the seven top markets at 10-15% for the Jan-September 2020 period. The report also pointed out that when it comes to penetration of flex spaces, Hyderabad (4%) is second only to Bengaluru (4.8%). The total penetration of flex spaces in India’s total office stock stands at 3% and is expected to go up to 4.2% by 2023 when the total flex office space market is slated to hit 50 million sq ft from the existing 29.9 million sq ft, as per JLL. The report said that irrespective of several short-term disruptions and challenges, increased demand from large enterprises will support the growth of the flex space market by an average of around 15-20% per annum over the next three-to-four years. As corporates return to the workplace, they are likely to further leverage flexible space to reduce capital expenditure and create cost savings, while allowing for split teams and de-densification requirements, JLL said. “Flex space operators have changed the face of commercial real estate with their innovative offerings. This market is projected to grow at a steady pace throughout 2021 and beyond driven by demand, profitability and return-profile for investors, albeit at a slower pace resulting from the impact of Covid-19,” Ramesh Nair, CEO & country head (India), JLL, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-tops-chart-of-fastest-growing-flexi-workplaces-mkt-jll-report/articleshow/79137276.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Six civic bodies in Rajasthan to get new mayors today||JAIPUR: The long wait of selecting mayors to six corporations in three major cities — Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota — of the state will be over on Tuesday. The councillors will vote to elect their respective mayors. Both Congress and BJP have already selected their candidates. “The councillors will vote to choose the mayor between 10am and 2pm on Tuesday. The results will be declared after counting,” an Election Commission official said. The ruling Congress had beaten BJP and won the majority in two civic bodies — Jodhpur North and Kota North — while taking the lead in Jaipur Heritage corporation. The BJP had crossed the majority mark in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South. But both parties are tied in Kota South with 36 seats each in a house of 80. At present, Congress has a majority in three, while the BJP dominates in two of the six municipal bodies. While the Congress will attempt to maintain the lead, the saffron party would try to equal the score. All eyes are glued on Kota South, which will decide which party rules the majority of corporations or if both will have to be satisfied with three each. In Kota South, BJP has placed its bet on seasoned councillor Vivek Rajvanshi. He is a real estate developer and a three-time councillor. On the contrary, the Congress has fielded a fresh face, Rajiv Agarwal, from here. In Kota North, Congress has fielded Manju Mehra against BJP’s Santosh Berwa. Congress is in a comfortable position here to make the board after winning 48 seats. The power equation of political parties in the Blue City is expected to remain in balance after the ruling Congress dominated in Jodhpur North while BJP emerged victorious in Jodhpur South. Congress, which emerged a clear winner in North with 53 seats out of 80, has fielded Kunti Parihar for the mayor’s seat. A Congress leader said, “Parihar comes from Mali community and is the daughter of senior MLA Maan Singh Deora, who once stepped down from his seat in 1998 for Ashok Gehlot to contest elections.” BJP has fielded Sangeeta Solanki against Congress in Jodhpur North. The party has fielded Vanita Singh, who is considered a Vasundhara Raje loyalist, from Jodhpur South while Congress has given ticket to Pooja Pareek. Jaipur Heritage will also witness a peaceful election as Congress is inching closer to win the mayor’s seat with the support of 55 councillors. In a surprise move, Congress announced the name of Munesh Gurjar, who has the support of cabinet minister Pratap Singh. After failing to find a candidate, BJP fielded independent candidate Kusum Yadav. She was earlier with the party, but was denied a ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-municipal-corporations-to-get-new-mayors-today/articleshow/79138750.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Gone up in smoke: Your green cracker may not be green at all||Nagpur: More than a year after its launch, there seems to be no clarity on green crackers, reveals a joint survey done by environmental organization Green Vigil Foundation and TOI. Following the Supreme Court’s ban on manufacture of polluting firecrackers, allowing bursting of only green crackers, city’s National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri) was entrusted with the task of formulating the composition of less polluting crackers. The scientists reportedly had substituted the conventional chemicals by Neeri’s proprietary materials. While the number of manufacturing companies producing green crackers has increased this year, there is no reliable information regarding how green the so-called low-polluting alternatives are. Green crackers come with a Neeri logo and a unique QR code that is supposed to indicate the chemical composition of crackers. During the survey, the NGO members tried scanning the code of different types of crackers from various brands. Out of codes printed on 15 crackers, not a single threw up relevant information. Codes of most of the crackers were found to be non-functional, with only a random three-digit number getting displayed after scanning. In few crackers, name and address of the manufacturer popped up after scanning the code. It was also found that the chemicals used in crackers having a green logo were the same used in the normal ones. Many shopkeepers were not aware of green crackers too. “We have never heard of anything like this, nor are the customers demanding green crackers,” said a firecracker seller in located in Central Avenue Road. While few were familiar with the concept, they refused to accept that crackers can be environment-friendly. “Green or not, all crackers are the same. There is no difference between them,” they said. Veeru Balani of Gandhibagh-based Virat Fireworks said that this year more companies manufactured green crackers. “But there seems to be no demand from the public for it,” he added. After surveying the local markets, the activists felt that most of the green crackers were not authentic. “How does one prove that these crackers are less polluting? Most of the codes seem to be fake,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of the NGO. The guidelines and standards to define green crackers were formulated by Neeri along with Petroleum and Explosive Safety Organization (PESO), Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Union environment ministry. The crackers are supposed to reduce the toxic emissions by 30%. Stating that wrong message is being spread among citizens, team lead of Green Vigil Surbhi Jaiswal said, “People who would refrain from bursting crackers will start doing it, thinking the crackers are less polluting. It is possible that companies are misusing the green logo. People are getting fooled.” Activists stated that Neeri should take immediate action and the relevant authorities should regulate the crackers. TOI tried contacting concerned officials but did not get response till the time of filing this story. BOMBED CLAIMSNo clarity on green crackers QR codes on most of the crackers seem to be fake No relevant information regarding chemical composition is available Sellers say no difference between green and usual crackers Activists allege citizens are getting fooled, no such thing as environment-friendly crackers||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gone-up-in-smoke-your-green-cracker-may-not-be-green-at-all/articleshow/79137332.cms||Manka Behl
November 10, 2020||Kochi||Stalled fan rotor may have led to fire: Electrical inspectorate||T’puram: While the forensic analysis report has ruled out the possibility of an electrical short-circuit causing the fire in the general administration (political) department, an experimental analysis by a team, under the chief electrical inspector, reported that a 55W electric fan with a stalled rotor, could develop high temperature in its windings and cause a fire. But, the report prepared by the chief electrical inspector’s office was left open ended. It recommended a forensic analysis as the fan that could have caused the fire was so charred that the condition of the winding insulation and health of the bearing could not be examined. A test was conducted at electrical inspectorate lab using a fan with technical specification of the one found in the department. The test was conducted by stalling the fan’s rotor and thus obtaining the worst-possible heat from the fan. It was observed that in the stalled rotor condition, the fan with 55W input took nearly 83.8W power that was fully converted to heat as it wasn’t running. The experiment revealed that in 71 minutes, the temperature increased beyond 149 degrees celsius, which was enough to cause a fire. The experiment will be relevant in this case only if the fan rotor was stuck and not working. The report cites some of the circumstantial evidence from which it could be inferred that the fan was faulty. On August 21, four days prior to the fire, PWD electrical wing had received a complaint that the fan in the protocol office was not working and the lineman then found that its bearing was faulty, which could be the reason for a stalled rotor condition. On the day of the fire after fire force left, when PWD’s lineman tried to switch on the miniature circuit breaker (MCB) in the lighting distribution board, it was observed that the sixth MCB was not staying in ON position. It was found that the sixth MCB was the one that served the faulty fan, the switch of which was kept in ON position. “…The evidence which could be used for making a firm conclusion on the cause of fire is not available in this case. Further investigation as to the cause of fire may be carried out based up on the forensic findings,” the report concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/stalled-fan-rotor-may-have-led-to-fire-electrical-inspectorate/articleshow/79134898.cms||KP Saikiran
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Nip in the air: Winter is on its way, temp drops to 13°C in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: After the torrential rains, the city has started experiencing winter chills with the minimum temperature dropping to 13.6 degree Celsius on Sunday - lowest for this season so far. Although official onset of winter is yet to be declared, the sudden drop in mercury levels has got everyone wondering if winter has already arrived. The minimum temperature recorded is five degree Celsius below normal and it was the third coldest day of November that the city witnessed over the last decade. On November 22, 2012, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 12.4 degree Celsius. On November 1, 2009, the city recorded a minimum temperature of 13 degree Celsius. The all-time record for Hyderabad is 7.4 degree Celsius recorded on November 26, 1964. As per the TS Development Planning Society, Lingampally recorded lowest temperature of 11.1 degree Celsius followed by 11.4 degree Celsius around University of Hyderabad in Gachibowli and 11.7 degree Celsius at Rajendranagar.. “At the moment, mainly low level north-easterly winds are prevailing over Telangana. The anti-cyclonic circulation is pushing cold winds from the northern parts of the country to the south peninsula region under which Telangana falls,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, India Meteorological Department, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nip-in-the-air-winter-is-on-its-way-temp-drops-to-13c-in-city/articleshow/79137265.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Meerut||90% of UP’s govt school students haven’t downloaded Diksha app||MEERUT: Just about 1 in 10 students at the primary and upper primary levels in UP’s government schools has downloaded the Diksha app, launched by NCERT in 2017, on which the education system across India has been heavily reliant since the pandemic forced classrooms to shut down. While schools in UP have started reopening, it is only students who are appearing for the boards who have been asked to attend in-person classes with all Covid precautions. All others remain dependent on remote learning. Yet, only 11% of all government school students in the state— many of whom are also from more disadvantaged sections — have downloaded the app, which has detailed lessons in videos and text, an education department official said. It’s worse in eight districts of the state — Bhadohi, Prayagraj, Bahraich, Sravasti, Shamli, Gautam Budh Nagar, Lakhimpur Kheri and Rae Bareilly — where only 1% have downloaded the app. In four districts — Bulandshahr, Ballia, Kushinagar and Badaun — it is not even 1% of all students. Vijay Kiran Anand, managing director of school education, UP, has sought explanations from the basic shiksha adhikaris of the underperforming districts and asked them to come up with plans to improve access. The coverage has been low despite Uttar Pradesh clocking the highest number of learning sessions on the app (about 11 crore) in the country, accounting for nearly 10% of the countrywide total (115 crore) — evidently because of the number of students and size of the state. There are 1.59 crore students at the primary and upper primary levels in its government schools. Lucknow is the only district with good coverage, 84%, followed by Ghaziabad at a distant second with 31%. Kanpur and Varanasi are tied for the third spot with 26% each. All other districts have registered less than 20% app downloads. The problem, however, may not be one that can be immediately resolved. In most cases, it is a gap in infrastructure that has come in the way — the app only runs on Android devices, requires Android 4.4 (Kitkat) and above, and needs a steady internet connection. So, for now, most students are having to make do with WhatsApp and off-app downloads, which are easier to work with and don’t consume too much data. “Some are also going to their schools to pick up books,” said Yatika Pundir, a primary school teacher in Meerut. “Not everyone has an Android phone. Some who do have a smartphone don’t know how to download apps and then use them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/90-of-ups-govt-school-students-havent-downloaded-diksha-app/articleshow/79134900.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 10, 2020||Jodhpur||Active Covid cases in Rajasthan rise for 4th day in a row||JAIPUR: Ahead of Diwali, active Covid-19 cases and daily new infections have started to rise again after declining rapidly in the second half of October. After being at the lowest on October 31 with 15,102 cases, it has been increased daily, except on November 4, 5 & 6. It reached 16,542 cases on Monday after 1,859 more persons were found infected with the virus. This took the state’s overall tally to 2,13,169. Active cases have risen for the last four days while daily new infections have gone up for the third straight day. Daily new infections had touched the lowest at 1,725 on November 3 in 52 days. Since then, it had risen, except on November 6. The state also reported more recoveries than new infections in November so far. Despite rising new infections daily, the recovery rate in the state is more than 90%. “More than 91% of Covid patients have recovered. More than 1,600 persons are recovering daily,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died, taking the state’s toll to 1,998. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 386, while Jodhpur saw its 195th fatality, Ajmer 149th, Bikaner 146th, Sikar 63rd, Nagaur 62nd, Jalore 41st, and Tonk its 27th casualty. Some 1,859 people tested positive in the state on Monday. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (248), Bikaner (198), Ajmer (109), Alwar (107), Jalore (81), Kota (70), Pali (69), Nagaur (68), Sikar (68), Hanumangarh (65), Sriganganagar (61), Churu (39), Udaipur (38), Jhunjhunu (38), Tonk (32), Barmer (27), Bharatpur (27), Chittorgarh (26), Bhilwara (21), Rajsamand (20), Sirohi (18), Dausa (15), Jaisalmer (15), Bundi (15), Baran (10), Dungarpur (7), Dholpur (5), Jhalawar (4), Banswara (4), Pratapgarh (3), Karauli (3) and Sawai Madhopur (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/active-covid-cases-in-raj-rise-for-4th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79140212.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Active Covid cases in Rajasthan rise for 4th day in a row||JAIPUR: Ahead of Diwali, active Covid-19 cases and daily new infections have started to rise again after declining rapidly in the second half of October. After being at the lowest on October 31 with 15,102 cases, it has been increased daily, except on November 4, 5 & 6. It reached 16,542 cases on Monday after 1,859 more persons were found infected with the virus. This took the state’s overall tally to 2,13,169. Active cases have risen for the last four days while daily new infections have gone up for the third straight day. Daily new infections had touched the lowest at 1,725 on November 3 in 52 days. Since then, it had risen, except on November 6. The state also reported more recoveries than new infections in November so far. Despite rising new infections daily, the recovery rate in the state is more than 90%. “More than 91% of Covid patients have recovered. More than 1,600 persons are recovering daily,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died, taking the state’s toll to 1,998. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 386, while Jodhpur saw its 195th fatality, Ajmer 149th, Bikaner 146th, Sikar 63rd, Nagaur 62nd, Jalore 41st, and Tonk its 27th casualty. Some 1,859 people tested positive in the state on Monday. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (248), Bikaner (198), Ajmer (109), Alwar (107), Jalore (81), Kota (70), Pali (69), Nagaur (68), Sikar (68), Hanumangarh (65), Sriganganagar (61), Churu (39), Udaipur (38), Jhunjhunu (38), Tonk (32), Barmer (27), Bharatpur (27), Chittorgarh (26), Bhilwara (21), Rajsamand (20), Sirohi (18), Dausa (15), Jaisalmer (15), Bundi (15), Baran (10), Dungarpur (7), Dholpur (5), Jhalawar (4), Banswara (4), Pratapgarh (3), Karauli (3) and Sawai Madhopur (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/active-covid-cases-in-raj-rise-for-4th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79138765.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Udaipur||Active Covid cases in Rajasthan rise for 4th day in a row||JAIPUR: Ahead of Diwali, active Covid-19 cases and daily new infections have started to rise again after declining rapidly in the second half of October. After being at the lowest on October 31 with 15,102 cases, it has been increased daily, except on November 4, 5 & 6. It reached 16,542 cases on Monday after 1,859 more persons were found infected with the virus. This took the state’s overall tally to 2,13,169. Active cases have risen for the last four days while daily new infections have gone up for the third straight day. Daily new infections had touched the lowest at 1,725 on November 3 in 52 days. Since then, it had risen, except on November 6. The state also reported more recoveries than new infections in November so far. Despite rising new infections daily, the recovery rate in the state is more than 90%. “More than 91% of Covid patients have recovered. More than 1,600 persons are recovering daily,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died, taking the state’s toll to 1,998. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 386, while Jodhpur saw its 195th fatality, Ajmer 149th, Bikaner 146th, Sikar 63rd, Nagaur 62nd, Jalore 41st, and Tonk its 27th casualty. Some 1,859 people tested positive in the state on Monday. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (248), Bikaner (198), Ajmer (109), Alwar (107), Jalore (81), Kota (70), Pali (69), Nagaur (68), Sikar (68), Hanumangarh (65), Sriganganagar (61), Churu (39), Udaipur (38), Jhunjhunu (38), Tonk (32), Barmer (27), Bharatpur (27), Chittorgarh (26), Bhilwara (21), Rajsamand (20), Sirohi (18), Dausa (15), Jaisalmer (15), Bundi (15), Baran (10), Dungarpur (7), Dholpur (5), Jhalawar (4), Banswara (4), Pratapgarh (3), Karauli (3) and Sawai Madhopur (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/active-covid-cases-in-raj-rise-for-4th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79140211.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Dip in new cases, Telangana recovery rate 91%||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday recorded 857 new Covid-19 positive cases and four deaths, raising the total count to 2,51,188, while the toll rose to 1,381 with four more deaths. So far, 2,30,568 patients have recovered from the infection while 19,239 are currently under medication at various hospitalsThe case fatality rate (CFR) has reduced to 0.54 percent now from 0.55 percent last week. The CFR estimates the number of patients succumbing to the infection as compared to the ones getting infected. The recovery rate meanwhile is currently at 91.8 percent, slightly below the country average of 92 percent. Keeping in line with the trend of low testing during the weekend, just 23,806 samples were tested for the virus on Monday, with the majority being rapid antigen tests. Taking the latest numbers into consideration, the total number of samples tested so far in the state has crossed 46.4 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dip-in-new-cases-t-recovery-rate-91/articleshow/79137290.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||20 years of Uttarakhand: Statehood agitators recall struggle, press for long-pending demands||DEHRADUN: Twenty years after the state’s formation, those who were involved in the statehood agitation say that the purpose of creation of a separate state has not yet been fulfilled and the Uttarakhand that they had imagined during the days of their agitation is still a distant dream. “In the last 20 years, we have seen both stable and unstable governments but all of them have failed in delivering on the promise of development in the state. The plain districts of Dehradun, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar have witnessed some progress but the hill districts have suffered the ignorance of those in office. Back in 2000, when Pauri was the headquarter of the Garhwal zone, the district had better healthcare and education facilities than it currently has. The successive governments have also failed in curbing migration from hills,” said Jagmohan Singh Negi, state president of the Rajya Andolankari Manch (an organisation which largely consists of people who participated in the statehood movement). He added that the incumbent government, despite having a strong majority, hasn’t done much either for the development of the hills. In a similar vein, Pradeep Kukreti, another former statehood agitator, said, “Everything is run from Dehradun and the focus of the state is primarily on the three plain districts. The other 10 hill districts have remained neglected. This is against the basic essence of a Himalayan state. An administrator sitting in Dehradun doesn’t know the ground reality of a remote village in the hills. This approach needs to change.” The statehood activists said that they have eight major demands from the state government, the foremost being a probe into the police firings that led to the deaths of statehood agitators. “The killings of statehood agitators during peaceful protests at Rampur Tiraha in Muzaffarnagar, Mussoorie as well as Khatima needs to be probed on priority. The state government should also become a party in this case and stand with us,” said Negi. The second demand, he added, is providing each statehood agitator or one of their dependent with “a one-time 10% weightage in government jobs.” “A bill regarding this provision was passed in the ND Tiwari government in 2004 but it has not yet received the governor’s assent,” pointed out Negi. The third demand, he said, is the formation of an anti-corruption law in the state. “The CM should also be kept under the ambit of the law,” said Negi, adding that the fourth demand is providing the youths of the state with more employment opportunities. The fifth demand is for a strong land law in the state, said Kukreti. “If we don’t come up with strong laws with regards to sale of land in the state, the locals might end up becoming a minority in their own state. We need a strong land law that protects our indigenous identity and culture,” he said. The sixth demand as per veteran statehood agitator Ravinder Jugran, is the delimitation of assembly seats in such a way that the hilly areas get a better representation in elections. “The next delimitation is likely to take place in 2026 and we expect that the exercise will be done on the basis of land area. This will force politicians to focus more on hills,” said Jugran. “We are also demanding formation of a government-funded board for state agitators. It was dissolved by the incumbent state government recently but it was important as it used to work for the ones who fought for the formation of the state. The board also kept a record of everything related to the agitators and the agitation movement. In fact, Jharkhand has gone one step further and has created a commission for the same,” said Negi. According to Jugran, statehood agitators also wanted Gairsain to be declared the capital of the state and not just the summer capital. “The capital of a Himalayan state should be in the hills like Shimla in Himachal Pradesh. Some people argue that Gairsain isn’t suitable to become the state capital just because it doesn’t have much space but we say that it is not necessary to build everything in proximity to the vidhan sabha building in Gairsain. The necessary infrastructure could be built in a 30-35 km radius.” He added that “Gairsain is located right in the middle of the Garhwal and the Kumaon region, making it the best place for the capital city.” “This demand should be urgently met since Uttarakhand is the only state with an interim capital for the last two decades,” said Jugran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/20-years-of-uttarakhand-statehood-agitators-recall-struggle-press-for-long-pending-demands/articleshow/79134884.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 10, 2020||Ajmer||Active Covid cases in Rajasthan rise for 4th day in a row||JAIPUR: Ahead of Diwali, active Covid-19 cases and daily new infections have started to rise again after declining rapidly in the second half of October. After being at the lowest on October 31 with 15,102 cases, it has been increased daily, except on November 4, 5 & 6. It reached 16,542 cases on Monday after 1,859 more persons were found infected with the virus. This took the state’s overall tally to 2,13,169. Active cases have risen for the last four days while daily new infections have gone up for the third straight day. Daily new infections had touched the lowest at 1,725 on November 3 in 52 days. Since then, it had risen, except on November 6. The state also reported more recoveries than new infections in November so far. Despite rising new infections daily, the recovery rate in the state is more than 90%. “More than 91% of Covid patients have recovered. More than 1,600 persons are recovering daily,” said a senior health department official. In the last 24 hours, nine persons died, taking the state’s toll to 1,998. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 386, while Jodhpur saw its 195th fatality, Ajmer 149th, Bikaner 146th, Sikar 63rd, Nagaur 62nd, Jalore 41st, and Tonk its 27th casualty. Some 1,859 people tested positive in the state on Monday. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (345), Jodhpur (248), Bikaner (198), Ajmer (109), Alwar (107), Jalore (81), Kota (70), Pali (69), Nagaur (68), Sikar (68), Hanumangarh (65), Sriganganagar (61), Churu (39), Udaipur (38), Jhunjhunu (38), Tonk (32), Barmer (27), Bharatpur (27), Chittorgarh (26), Bhilwara (21), Rajsamand (20), Sirohi (18), Dausa (15), Jaisalmer (15), Bundi (15), Baran (10), Dungarpur (7), Dholpur (5), Jhalawar (4), Banswara (4), Pratapgarh (3), Karauli (3) and Sawai Madhopur (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/active-covid-cases-in-raj-rise-for-4th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79140213.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Joshi, Wanjari in straight grads poll contest||Nagpur: With mayor Sandip Joshi’s name finalized from the BJP after a long suspense, the graduates’ constituency polls are all set to witness a straight battle between him and Congress’s Abhijit Wanjari. BSP would also be fielding its candidate, but its spokesperson Uttam Shewade said they were yet to finalize the name. So far, 59 candidates had taken forms since nominations opened on Thursday. However, only two forms have been submitted so far. An elated Sandip Joshi told TOI he would be making all efforts to redress various issues faced by the teaching community and graduates in the region. “While my father was MLC from teachers’ constituency, mother was a teacher. Therefore, the teaching community is extremely close to my heart. I will also try to resolve their grievances through communication with official channels. Unemployment is a major issue across the country and I will be working on it primarily for the region. I will be coming out with a vision document after November 23 with full details of my plans,” he said. According to Joshi, Nagpur teachers’ constituency was the BJP’s stronghold and stalwarts like Union minister Nitin Gadkari had successfully held it for all these years. “Now, the party has entrusted me with this big responsibility under the leadership of Gadkari and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis. I will be fulfilling this responsibility with full commitment, like I did as an activist of Bhartiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM) to the mayor in my political journey of the last two decades. My other works for welfare of backward and underprivileged sections of the society would continue,” he said. Though Joshi would get only 20 days for campaigning, Wanjari on the other hand had started work since last one year, moving all six districts under the Nagpur division. Like Joshi, he too, has his focus on the growing problem of unemployment in the region. “I will be working on providing employment opportunities to the graduates and teachers. In the last one year, I have travelled extensively across six districts to gauge their problems. I will work on their sustainable development. I have already included many such topics of welfare of graduates and teachers in my agenda, which would be officially released by state revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Thursday.” While declaring that his name was endorsed by the other constituent parties in Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) like Shiv Sena, NCP and others, Wanjari said never before the entire Congress leadership came down on road to campaign for any candidate from this constituency. “Today, I went to Wardha where animal husbandry minister Sunil Kedar and former minister Ranjit Kamble addressed my rallies. This will be a unique selling proposition (USP) of my entire campaign in the next few days. All the party workers would be unitedly campaigning for me,” he told TOI. Fight is against BJP on statehood betrayal: Ronghe Independent candidate Nitin Ronghe, who has jumped into the fray of graduates’ constituency polls, said on Monday his fight was primarily against the BJP, which failed to fulfil the promises of granting statehood to Vidarbha. In a press meet, Ronghe, accompanied by pro-Vidarbha activists like social worker Chandrakant Wankhede, Vidarbha Connect president and senior counsel Mukesh Samarth, Jan Manch president Pramod Pande, Vidarbha Rajya Aghadi’s Neeraj Khandewale and others, also endorsed his stand while declaring their support to him. Ronghe, who’s fighting the elections on statehood plank, said besides raising issues on injustice meted out to the backward region, he would also raise problems in education, healthcare, environment, and water quality. “Most important issue is lack of employment in the region. I would strongly raise this issue as there are hardly any jobs in Mihan despite tall promises. My concern is the failure of Nagpur University’s administration in not updating its syllabi for years. I will fight for regular updating the syllabi from time to time,” Ronghe, also the NU Alumni Association chairman, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/joshi-wanjari-in-straight-grads-poll-contest/articleshow/79138774.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Real estate firm director in police net in cheating case||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police’s Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has arrested the director of a real estate firm, Primrose Infratech Pvt Ltd, in an alleged case of cheating worth over Rs 100 crore. Joint commissioner (EOW) OP Mishra said that the accused, Brij Bhushan Gupta (52), was wanted for allegedly duping home buyers in a project in Greater Noida. More than 70 victims have approached EOW till date. “The accused diverted the money collected from the buyers, which was meant for construction, towards creating personal assets, leading a life of luxury and extending benefits in the form of loans and advances to related entities,” Mishra said. “Around two dozen homebuyers had filed complaints alleging that they were allured to invest in the residential township project named ‘Ryne’ proposed at Plot No. GH-06A, Sector Chi-V, Greater Noida by Primrose Infratech Pvt Ltd,” the joint CP added. The buyers alleged that in July 2012, without having the requisite approvals in place, the bookings of the flats were started. The accused promised to hand over the possession of developed flats within 36 months, they said. In 2018, an FIR was registered and investigation initiated. The accused, however, absconded, police claimed. “The probe revealed that bookings were accepted without having requisite approvals. Out of total proposed 754 units, 438 units were sold and about Rs 103 crore was collected. The construction work was delayed much beyond the promised time period and it was finally abandoned midway,” said Mishra. Gupta was arrested from Panchkula, Haryana on November 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/real-estate-firm-director-in-police-net-in-cheating-case/articleshow/79138790.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Business||Sensex at new peak as Biden show spurs foreign buying||MUMBAI: A ‘Biden rally’ pushed Indian markets to record highs on Monday. News of a likely potent Covid vaccine has now set the stage for it to soar higher. At close of session, the sensex was up 704 points at 42,597 while the nifty was up 198 points at 12,461, both all-time peaks. The news over the weekend that Democratic nominee Joe Biden will be the next US president—that will ensure easy liquidity and a weaker dollar for the global market — prompted foreign fund managers to press the buy button in almost all the emerging markets, including for Indian stocks, institutional dealers and fund managers said. As a result, net buying by foreign funds in the domestic market was Rs 4,548 crore, one of the highest single-session inflows in recent months, which at a record Rs 164.5 lakh crore made investors richer by about Rs 2.2 lakh crore. Post the market’s closure, Pfizer’s announcement took the Dow Jones and S&P 500 indices in the US to new peaks. The positive news about a Covid vaccine, combined with the recently announced good quarterly results by Indian companies, is expected to keep the domestic market rally going. Since its multi-year low of 25,639 points on March 24 this year — just after a nationwide lockdown was announced — the sensex has rallied over 66% while BSE’s market cap has jumped by Rs 63.6 lakh crore. According to Taher Badshah, CIO–Equities, Invesco Mutual Fund, a clear verdict in the US, combined with the vaccine news, would ensure two things. In the US, there would be a credible plan to control the second wave of the Covid pandemic and a better plan for the stimulus for the largest economy in the world. These factors makes the “global outlook better”, he said. On the domestic front, domestic investors could draw “comfort, confidence and strength from the normalcy of (corporate) earnings, even though many parts of the economy are yet to return to the pre-Covid levels”, Badshah said. Although the leading fund manager feels that in the short-term valuations in India can fluctuate a bit, global factors and Indian corporates’ return to normalcy are expected to hold the market at elevated levels. Chartists too feel that the rally is unlikely to fizzle out in a hurry. “Near term trend of nifty continues to be positive and more upside could be in store in the coming sessions,” said a note from Nagaraj Shetti, Technical Research Analyst, HDFC Securities. On Monday, buying was across the board with ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank contributing nearly two-thirds of the sensex’s gains. On Tuesday, the market may witness some volatility due to results of Bihar state elections, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-at-new-peak-as-biden-show-spurs-foreign-buying/articleshow/79139888.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Cracks on Mankapur flyover in just 6 years||Nagpur: A little over six years after it was opened for vehicular traffic, one side of the Mankapur flyover (Nagpur to Koradi) on NH 69 — a part of Nagpur-Saoner-Betul section — has developed hairline cracks. Now, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has approached DCP (traffic) for a permission to carry out repairs by closing the traffic on that patch. The flyover was part of the NHAI’s 174km four-lane road widening project connecting Nagpur city with Betul (Madhya Pradesh) and it was opened for traffic in 2014. Cost of the project was around Rs1,800 crore. A senior NHAI official said during regular inspection, alligator cracks (surface damaged in such a way that cracks form a pattern that looks like reptile scales) were noticed on the busy Mankapur Square patch of the flyover. Acting swiftly, the firm that constructed the bridge carried out restoration work, said the official. Subsequently, the NHAI also informed the contractor to do a thorough investigation. During inspection, other side of the carriageway was found to be perfectly okay. However, core strength of the left carriageway (Mankapur to Koradi road patch) was found to be below the tolerable limits, he said. “Though it was not dangerous, the NHAI doesn’t want to take any risk so asked the firm to restore the bridge. Two slabs will be replaced,” he added. As a precautionary measure, the NHAI has barricaded the cracked portion of the flyover and under it below the spot. The NHAI is also mobilizing specialized agency for assessment and rectification. Now, the NHAI has approached the DCP (traffic) office seeking permission to close down the left lane of the flyover. The NHAI wanted the portion closed for at least 60 days for maintenance keeping in view safety of the road users. Senior cop from Sadar traffic zone said process to grant permission to carry out the repairs is under progress. As a temporary measure, the alongside lane of the flyover (Koradi to Mankapur side) will be used for two-way traffic. The NHAI has also removed road divider from the landing of the flyover at Zingabai Takli side to ensure smooth movement of vehicles coming from Mankapur and intend to take the left side, said the senior cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cracks-on-mankapur-flyover-in-just-6-years/articleshow/79137343.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Best wishes & blessings for Prez-elect Joe Biden from the Bidens of India||Bidens of Nagpur suddenly find themselves in unlikely (and, for them, unwelcome) spotlight, thanks to US President-elect Joe Biden with whom they have common ancestry. The Bidens are an accomplished but low-profile family, pretty much like the Anglo Indian community to which they belong. TOI’s Rajesh Jaiswal persuaded them to share their feelings upon their distant relative ascending to the most powerful political office in the world.The Bidens of India and Nagpur in particular are pretty low profile despite their accomplishments in various fields, including professional, philanthropic and personal. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: Joe Biden's Nagpur connection||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/best-wishes-blessings-for-prez-elect-joe-biden-from-the-bidens-of-india/articleshow/79158154.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Revenge gone wrong: Sacked driver held for murder in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 32-year-old employee of a transport company who was thought to be murdered during a robbery in west Delhi on November 3 was actually killed by a former driver of the firm who was sacked a few months ago, police claimed. Three people, including the driver, were caught on Monday and two more associates are likely to be arrested soon. Jitender Sharma, who used to work as a cash clerk for two transport companies in Azadpur, was stabbed 28 times by the accused who had also robbed him of Rs 2 lakh. The driver has been identified as Kuldeep Panwar and both his associates are named Rajesh, said DCP (Rohini) P K Mishra. The accused told police that Panwar had hatched a plan of robbery but four people were present at the scene of crime in Moti Nagar. Since the victim resisted their attempt, they had stabbed him consecutively, police were told. Sharma’s wife, who was applying mehendi to celebrate Karwa Chauth when the news reached the family, is still in shock, family members said. Moti Nagar police station had received a PCR call around 10.07pm about a man having been stabbed near the Moti Nagar flyover. A police team took him to Acharya Bhikshu Hospital but he was declared brought dead. It was revealed that Sharma had left his office on Tuesday with around Rs 2 lakh that he had to distribute among truck drivers. He was on his motorcycle when the accused intercepted him near the Zakhira roundabout, the west district police said. They had fled with the bag after killing him. While the west district police couldn’t reach any breakthrough, a head constable named Suresh, posted at Budh Vihar police station, got a tipoff and a team led by SHO Khemendra Pal Singh laid a trap in Shahbad Dairy. Around 1.30am on Monday, two persons riding a motorcycle were flagged down at the informer’s behest. The duo tried to flee but were chased and nabbed. Three mobile phones and Rs 15,000 were seized from them and their bike also turned out to be a stolen one. Both were identified as Rajesh and led the cops to the prime suspect, Panwar. “Panwar disclosed that he used to work as a driver in the same transport company but was fired for unsatisfactory reasons despite his relentless devotion. He wanted to teach the owner a lesson through the robbery,” said the DCP. But Sharma resisted, leading to the brutal murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/revenge-gone-wrong-sacked-driver-held-for-murder/articleshow/79138796.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kozhikode||MLA M C Kamaruddin sent to police custody for 2 days||KOZHIKODE: Judicial first-class magistrate court, Kanhangad, has sent Manjeshwaram MLA M C Kamaruddin who was arrested in a multi-crore financial fraud relating to gold jewellery business to police custody for two days. He was produced in the court on Monday afternoon when the petition for the custody filed by the crime branch came up for hearing. In the remand report, crime branch said that irregularities to the tune of Rs 13 crore was detected in the Fashion Gold International (FGI) fraud case. Crime branch said the MLA, who is the chairman of FGI, needs to be questioned in custody to know more things about the case. Kamaruddin’s petition for bail will come up before the court after two days. Senior lawyer and Congress leader C K Sreedharan appeared for the MLA. Kamaruddin was arrested by the special investigation team of the crime branch on Saturday. T K Pookoya Thangal, managing director of FGI and the first accused in the case, is still absconding. Police have issued a look-out notice against Thangal and it was expected that he would surrender before the court on Monday. Police are also on the search for Thangal’s son Hisham and general manager of Fashion Gold Sainul Abideen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mla-kamaruddin-sent-to-police-custody-for-2-days/articleshow/79134920.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Meerut||Two-bike borne armed robbers arrested in Bijnor||BIJNOR: Two bike-borne armed assailants were arrested on Monday for allegedly stealing valuables from commuters. The police had caught them during a vehicle checking drive on Naugawan road in Bijnor. There are several criminal cases against them at different police stations in in Ghaziabad and Bijnor districts, police said. “Police was checking vehicles on Monday morning on Naugawan road close to Daulatpur canal when the cops spotted a bike coming from the Naugawan side. Police then asked them to stop their bike, but they tried to evade the checking point. Police then intercepted them and managed to arrest them,” Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said. Explaining the modus operandi of their crime, Singh said, “First, they used to steal bikes and change their number plates. Then they used them in the crime. This time around, they were laying an ambush for marauding the commuters. Police have recovered two country-made weapons, a bike, seven cartridges and some other equipments used in the theft and loot.” The arrested persons were identified as Javed from Patiyapada and Mohammad Haider from Mohalla Ahmednagar of Chandpur town. They were booked under the he UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-bike-borne-armed-robbers-arrested-in-bijnor/articleshow/79134908.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Plan to denotify Shivalik Elephant Reserve in works to create land for airport expansion||DEHRADUN: In order to clear the way for providing forest land for the expansion work being currently undertaken at the Dehradun airport, the government is mulling a proposal to denotify the adjoining Shivalik Elephant Reserve in a meeting of the state wildlife board later this month. The move, an official privy to the development said, would enable the state government to not only make available land for expansion of the airport but also help land-related issues pertaining to other projects in Haridwar and Rishikesh TOI had earlier reported that the government was all but ready to chop 10,000 trees within the reserve — a move that had met with several citizen protests and was eventually stalled after the Centre asked the state to look for alternative land. The denotification proposal, too, may fall flat, sources in the state forest department said. A senior forest official said that even though the proposal is likely to be put up in the state wildlife board meeting, it is unlikely that it will get cleared at the ministry level. Providing the reasoning behind this, the official said that the authorities concerned were possibly putting up the proposal with a view of pushing it through, citing urgency of requirement of land in view of the upcoming Kumbh Mela in Haridwar next year. “They are hoping the Centre would clear the proposal of denotification with ease in view of the Kumbh Mela. But denotifying a reserve means that it shall lose all of its legal protection and would be considered as any other regular reserve forest under the forest department.” The official further added that “this move is bound to face hurdles as the National Board for Wildlife would pose questions to the state and would want to know detailed reasoning behind denotifying a reserve that was notified just a couple of decades ago in 2002 soon after the state was formed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/plan-to-denotify-shivalik-elephant-reserve-in-works-to-create-land-for-airport-expansion/articleshow/79134901.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||‘Cong hiding its failures behind farmers’ protest; alliance with BJP is gone forever’||After breaking ties with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Shiroman Akali Dal (SAD) leaders have been trying to rejuvenate the party at the local level amid claims by the rivals that party leaders are still hand in gloves with the saffron party at the centre and may join alliance ahead of 2021 assembly elections yet again. In an interview with Nidhi Bhardwaj, MLA Sahnewal and senior SAD leader Sharanjit Singh Dhillon refuted all such claims. The former MP and the former cabinet minister in the previous SAD government maintained that the Congress has failed to fulfil its promises and carry out any development in the state and now was trying to cover up its failure while pretending to support farmers’ protest. He said Punjab assembly polls are not far away and people will give befitting reply to these parties. Edited excerpts: The opposition parties are saying SAD is supporting farmers protest just to hold its ground in Punjab politics? Your comments. We don’t want certificate from Congress or Aam Aadmi Party because what we are doing is for the welfare of the farmers not anybody else. The public is wise enough to take decision and very shortly time will come when people will give reply. Voters will reply to these political parties. BJP leaders are saying the break up of alliance will not affect them in elections. What do you have to say for that? We have heaved a sigh of relief after this break up because with we have gained our lost voters. The voters who were upset with the BJP are now happy and are ready to support us. SC vote bank was upset with the BJP but now it is with SAD. Similarly, urban Sikhs and even farmers do not trust the BJP and as we are now no longer associated with saffron party, these two sections are also with us. As far as seats are concerned, we have to find suitable candidates only for 23 seats, but BJP has to figure out candidates for 97 seats, which is not possible for them. There are speculations that for assembly polls, SAD and BJP will again come in alliance. Is this right? No, not at all. The alliance is gone forever. We are not going to come together again. After this break up, we have become strong. Both parties have parted ways. Akali Dal is the only party that has always stood for the welfare of farmers. We are the party of farmers so, how can we mislead them? We are taking up all important issues of the people, which I think is our role of being a political party. Why SAD maintained distance from protest in Delhi by Congress cabinet ministers and MLAs when purpose of both parties was similar — to create pressure on Union government to roll back farm ordinances? We did not maintain distance, we were the ones who raised the issue first of all. We tried our level best to make BJP leaders understand why farm ordinances are bad for farmers. When we failed to get through to them, breakup of the alliance was the only option. As far as protests are concerned, we are staging protests at our level and we are supporting farmers in their protests. We do not need to support Congress in their protests. What do you feel would be the issues in the upcoming Punjab assembly elections, especially for Ludhiana? As soon as 2021 starts, the state will go into election mode. There are many issues but mostly this election will be fought on development — which the Congress failed miserably at. It is just to hide its own failures that the Congress is hiding behind the shield of farmers’ protests. The Congress did not give jobs to the unemployed, pensions were not distributed and financial status of the state is in pathetic condition. As far as Ludhiana is concerned, not even single work has been done by Congress government after coming into power and the projects that are going on come under smart city mission. So all these issues will be taken up one by one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-hiding-its-failures-behind-farmers-protest-alliance-with-bjp-is-gone-forever/articleshow/79137303.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Court acquits 4, convicts 2 to life in 2017 double murder case||Ludhiana: “It is not sufficient that a case may be true, but it must be true. Between ‘may be true’ and ‘must be true’ there is inevitably a long line of distance, which must be travelled on legal, logical and in unimpeachable manner.” The court of additional sessions judge Jagdeep Singh Marok made these observations while acquitting four of the six accused in a double murder case of a couple, even as it convicted two accused for the crime. On June 9, 2017, Dugri police had registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt), 449 (house-trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and sections of arms act against Raju Tiwari (33), a ward boy of Bajwa Colony, Sandeep Singh (36), helper in same hospital of Sunet, Sonu Ali (37), a tailor of BRS Nagar, Aman Masih (33), ward boy, of Chander Nagar, Krishna Pandey (25) IAF employee of Jharkhand and Sumit Parshad, IAF employee of Agra in a murder case of a couple Sunil Gupta and Neelam Rani of Dugri. According to the prosecution, the station house officer of Dugri police station received a wireless message about an incident of firing in the vicinity of Dugri and thereafter he went to the place of occurrence where complainant Rahul Gupta recorded his statement that at about 2pm, outside the main gate of his house he had heard gun shots. When he opened the door, he noticed the presence of two clean shaven persons who had entered the house. He tried to stop them but they ran away from the spot. Later, he found his father Sunil Gupta shot dead in his head. The mother of the complainant was also found by him lying injured in the bathroom, with a gunshot wound and later she died at a city hospital. Complainant identified the accused as Sandeep and Raju Tiwari. The prosecution said the accused had entered the house of the complainant for burglary. After registering case into the matter, police arrested the accused and produced chargesheet against them in court. During the trial, the accused pleaded false implication. The defence counsel pleaded that the version of accused Sandeep regarding the involvement of accused Raju Tiwari is not admissible, as confession made by an accused against his accomplice would not suffice for the purpose of making the said accomplice liable. The court rejecting the plea held that this plea of the defence counsel is without any substance as during the course of investigation, accused Sandeep had disclosed the name of his accomplice Raju Tiwari in the commission of the alleged offence. The court observed that the facts and circumstances of the case are sufficient to connect accused Raju Tiwari and Sandeep with the commission of the alleged offence. “In a case of circumstantial evidence, the circumstances on which the prosecution relies must be consistent with the sole hypothesis of the guilt of the accused,” the court remarked. “Regarding the liability of other accused, the prosecution did not lead evidence to prove their involvement in the straightforward manner,” the court remarked while acquitting four other accused in the case. But the court sentenced both the accused Raju and Sandeep to life imprisonment after finding them guilty in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/court-acquits-4-convicts-2-to-life-in-2017-double-murder-case/articleshow/79137308.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Sarabha Nagar beautification plan on track: Mayor||Ludhiana: Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu and municipal corporation (MC) councillor Mamta Ashu visited the Sarabha Nagar market on Monday to review the ongoing renovation and upgradation work. Congress leader Sunil Kapoor and representatives of Sarabha Nagar market were also present on the occasion. Mayor Sandhu said the Sarabha Nagar market project included upgradation of design, supply and installation of all landscape works, including clearing the clutter of electricity cables. He said all the electricity cables in this market are now placed underground. He said apart from landscaping, additional services such as groundwater recharge for future utilities and regularisation of parking are also being done. He claimed that the existing parking space has been increased from its existing capacity as a large number of residents visit this market on daily basis. Councillor Ashu said the market has already been opened for public, however, the formal inauguration will be done after the completion of all the work. She directed officials to assure the best plantation in the market. She assured that this market would be one of the best markets in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sarabha-nagar-beautification-plan-on-track-mayor/articleshow/79137315.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||FSL gets details of Hanif Dadhi murder case||Ahmedabad: Soeb Shaikh, the son of slain builder Hanif Shaikh alias Hanif Dadhi of Jamalpur, was taken to Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) in Gandhinagar on Monday by CID crime personnel to begin the procedure for his narcoanalysis. CID officials said as many suspected Soeb’s involvement in his father’s murder, they applied for narcoanalysis testing on Soeb. CID crime issued a notice to Soeb concerning the narcoanalysis on Sunday and asked him to remain present at the CID crime office at Police Bhavan in Gandhinagar on Monday. “The test will continue till November 13,” said a CID crime official. DSP of CID crime, S S Raghuvanshi, said FSL officials took details of the case from them as well and asked Soeb questions to prepare the questionnaire for the narcoanalysis. “Medical tests will be done first because the subject needs to be fit before the narcoanalysis test,” added Raghuvanshi. Hanif Dadhi was shot dead in Jamalpur in September 2016 by two scooter-borne assailants when he was sitting on a bench. The assailants were caught on CCTV cameras at various places but no CCTV footage showed them moving out of Jamalpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fsl-gets-details-of-hanif-dadhi-murder-case/articleshow/79137349.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM announces Rs 25,000 crore investment for development of Gairsain||DEHRADUN: On the occasion of Uttarakhand completing 20 years of its formation on Monday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat attended the statehood day parade held in front of the assembly building at Bhararisain, situated about 16 km away from Gairsain, which was declared the summer capital of the state earlier this year. This was the first time that the parade was held in Gairsain since the Himalayan state was carved out of Uttar Pradesh in 2000. During the event, CM Rawat announced that the state government is going to invest Rs 25,000 crore in the next 10 years for the overall development of Gairsain. “The entire surrounding areas of Gairsain will be developed,” the CM said during his address, adding that a committee will be formed under his chairmanship to prepare a master plan for the structural development of the summer capital. “On this historic day as Uttarakhand enters its 21st year, we take a pledge to remove the burden of carrying of fodder from the shoulders of our sisters and mothers. We are working round the clock for their skill development and to make them financially independent,” Rawat said during his address. The CM added that the state’s priority is to bring development to the remote areas of the state and to achieve this, the government has started rural growth centres. “While 40 growth centres have already taken off, 104 others have also been approved,” he said. The CM also said that self-help groups (SHGs) involved in making local products will be given priority in procurements up to Rs 5 lakh. Also, interest free loans will be given to SHGs operating in 500 villages witnessing the maximum migration, he said. In yet another important announcement, the CM said that people living below poverty line in the urban areas will be given water connection at just Rs 100. “As part of our government’s zero tolerance against corruption, an anti-corruption helpline number will be launched in the state,” he said during his address at Gairsain. CM Rawat also announced that ‘Chief Minister’s Saubhagyavati Yojana’ will be started for women and children. Under this, the first-born child will be given the Saubhagyavati kit. The other important announcements made on the day included — establishing police outposts in the border areas of the state and coming up with a dedicated export policy for Uttarakhand. On the ocassion of statehood day, a parade was held at Dehradun, too, in the morning where governor Baby Rani Maurya was the chief guest. The governor gave the President’s police medals – announced on August 15 — to six police personnel during the ceremony. The CM also paid homage to statehood agitators at the Shaheed Smarak in Dehradun. A group of former statehood agitators had also assembled there to draw the state government's attention towards their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/20-years-of-ukhand-cm-announces-rs-25k-cr-investment-for-development-of-gairsain-as-summer-capital/articleshow/79134917.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 10, 2020||Delhi||Man beaten to death over burglary attempt in Delhi, two held||NEW DELHI: A 21-year-old youth was beaten to death by a group of men for allegedly sneaking into a house to commit burglary in Wazirpur Industrial Area on Sunday. They tried to pass it off as a road accident by placing the body by the road, but two men, including the owner of the house, were arrested on Monday. The deceased was identified as Mohammad Feroz. While the house owner is 33-year-old Brinda Yadav, who runs a grocery shop, Ravi Singh (36) works in a factory. Raids are on to nab the rest. Police received a call around 8am about a man’s body lying on the roadside in the industrial area. After the cops identified Feroz, who lived in the nearby Shaheed Sukhdev Nagar jhuggi cluster, his family was informed and the body was sent for postmortem. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said family members said Feroz was last seen on Saturday night with his friend, Lal Babu. “Babu revealed that he and Feroz had planned to commit a burglary. While Feroz climbed into the first-floor flat of a building, Babu stayed downstairs to alert him. However, house owner Yadav spotted Feroz and raised an alarm,” Arya said. Babu said Feroz had fallen off the first floor while trying to escape. “He was caught by locals while Babu fled,” Arya added. Feroz was then thrashed by locals with sticks and rods, before his body was dumped by the roadside. Yadav has confessed, claimed a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-beaten-to-death-over-burglary-attempt-two-held/articleshow/79138823.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Festival exigencies could spike by 26%’||Ahmedabad: An analysis of EMRI 108 services in Gujarat has indicated 6%, 18%, and 26% possible rise in emergencies on Diwali, New Year, and Bhai Bij days (November 14 to 16) based on the past years’ trends. The emergency service officials said that they are expecting about 400 to 450 calls related to possible Covid-19 cases daily during the festive days. Jashvant Prajapati, the COO of EMRI 108, said that since March, the emergency service has reached out to 7.18 lakh persons including 1.11 lakh possible Covid-19 cases. “We have 629 ambulances and two boats to ferry patients during an emergency,” he said. “The deployment during festive seasons is based on the past 13 years’ experience and case trends.” Talking about the possible trends, the EMRI officials said that compared to 2,830 calls on normal days, they expect 2,995 calls on Diwali, 3,350 on the New Year day, and 3,556 on Bhai Bij. Emergency-wise, the experts pointed at vehicular trauma as a major category, followed by abdominal pain, fainting, cardiac issues and poisoning. Late morning and early evening hours generally record a higher number of cases during festivities, they added. Officials said that special ambulances have already been deployed for ferrying Covid-19 patients to nearby designated hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/festival-exigencies-could-spike-by-26/articleshow/79137368.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kochi||Court orders probe against MLA||Kozhikode: Vigilance court here has asked the anti-corruption agency to conduct a preliminary inquiry into the complaint that MLA K M Shaji has amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. The court asked the vigilance SP on Monday to conduct a probe into the complaint filed by lawyer M R Hareesh. It was alleged in the complaint that Shaji had wealth much more than his known sources of income. It added that the MLA had houses and properties in different districts and had undertaken many trips to foreign countries. Meanwhile, Shaji’s wife K M Asha appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to record her statement at the agency’s office in Kozhikode in a case related to bribery. ED had registered a case against Shaji on the complaint that he accepted Rs 25 lakh as bribe for sanctioning plus two courses at Azhikode Higher Secondary School. During the investigation, it was found that Shaji had constructed a house in Kozhikode that was much bigger than what was sanctioned by the corporation. The house is in Asha’s name. Shaji has been asked to appear before the ED on Tuesday. IUML leader T T Ismail, who appeared before the ED two days ago to give a statement, appeared again before the agency on Monday. Ismail told reporters that he was summoned by ED to get some clarifications. It was alleged that Shaji and Ismail are partners in some business concerns. ED had recorded the statements of IUML leaders, including state general secretary K P A Majeed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/court-orders-probe-against-mla/articleshow/79134964.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||22 dengue cases reported in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Twenty two cases of dengue were reported from Ludhiana district on Monday. According to civil surgeon of Ludhiana, Rajesh Kumar Bagga this would take the dengue tally of the district to 1,320. He added that the total number of suspected patients in the district has risen to 1,866. “The total number of suspected dengue patients in outer district is 462, out of which 379 are dengue positive. The total number of suspected dengue patients in other states is 54 out of which 46 are dengue positive. Thus, a total of 2,382 suspected dengue patients have been reported out of which 1,745 dengue positive cases have been reported,” health department officials said. According to them, teams of health department visited Rishi Nagar, Chuharpur Road, Haibowal Kalan, Peepal Chowk Gyaspura, BRS Nagar, Dugri Phase 2, Netaji Nagar, Sanjay Gandhi Colony, Harcharan Nagar, Basant Vihar, Railway Colony 1 and 2 and checked 879 houses, and found larvae in four houses. Health department said the teams distributed pamphlets and posters on dengue, chikungunya and malaria and ways to prevent them. It added that till date teams have visited 1,06,622 houses out of which larvae were found in 971 houses. The civil surgeon appealed to the people not to allow stagnant water in the coolers, containers, fridges trays, pots and tyres. He advised the people to wear clothes that cover the body completely and use mosquito repellent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/22-dengue-cases-reported-in-ludh/articleshow/79137364.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Mayor meets councillors to discuss house meeting agendas||Ludhiana: Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu in order to convince the councillors from other parties about the resolutions to be taken up in the MC general house meeting on Tuesday, conducted an all party meeting on Monday evening at camp office. The agenda of the house meeting was discussed in detail in the meeting. The Shiromani Akali Dal and Bharatiya Janata Party councillors raised the matter of revision of water tariff and imposition of penalty on the illegal hoardings. The councillors asked the mayor to postpone revision of water tariff for a year at least, due to Covid-19. The councillors claimed that due to Covid-19 related expenses, inflated water bills will add to people’s problems, who are already struggling with job losses. But mayor told the councillors that due to pressure from World Bank, they will have to revise the water tariff otherwise they will not get the loan for canal-based water supply. Similarly, the councillors said the MC plan to penalise people for illegal hoardings is fine, but penalty amount should be reduced. Also, for religious hoardings charges should be reduced. And if photo of any person is pasted on the hoarding, action should be taken against that person. Mayor Sandhu asked the councillors to register their suggestions or objections related with agenda in the meeting and then in house they will reach a conclusion. Meanwhile, the senior SAD councillor Harbhajan Dang said mayor has issued a letter on Monday asking councillors to give issues in their wards in writing and that if they have any suggestion regarding betterment of city, they can raise it in the house meeting. But Dang insisted that the mayor should let councillors speak about their issues in the zero hour. Earlier, SAD councillors also conducted a meeting and they reached a conclusion that they will complain against MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal in the meeting because he does not approve the files. Also, they will take up the matter of poor quality road construction, and will demand the mayor and the commissioner why no action has been taken against the erring officials and contractors for such poor quality roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mayor-meets-councillors-to-discuss-house-meeting-agendas/articleshow/79137374.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Way paved for Dayashankar Tiwari to be city mayor||Nagpur: With the BJP announcing Sandip Joshi’s candidature for the forthcoming graduates constituency election, decks have been cleared for Dayashankar Tiwari to become city’s 54th mayor. After two-and-a-half-year term to mayor Nanda Jichkar, the BJP split the remaining term of 26 months between two senior corporators. Joshi, a close aide of ex-CM Fadnavis, was elected the 53rd mayor for 13 months and assumed charge on November 22 last year. Party sources said both Tiwari and Joshi were the main contenders for the post since the mayor’s post was reserved for the general category. In 2014, the naming of ruling party leader was delayed for over a month since both were asking for it. The party then picked Joshi over Tiwari. He was supposed to hold the charge of mayor till January and hand it over to Tiwari as city’s 54th mayor. Sources in BJP said due to pandemic, Joshi could hardly give time to any major projects in Nagpur, so the party was planning to continue him for the full 2.5 years as mayor. But with his ticket confirmed for the graduates constituency elections, the party has now started planning to replace him with Tiwari. Party sources said BJP will decide on the change of guard in its core committee meeting to be convened post-Diwali. Sources said the party will nominate Tiwari after the graduates constituency election results are announced next month. In August, Joshi had already announced he would not contest corporation elections in future. He made this announcement during one of his Facebook Live events. Considered an influential leader in the civic body, it is Joshi’s fourth term as corporator. City party president Pravin Datke was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/way-paved-for-dayashankar-tiwari-to-be-city-mayor/articleshow/79138832.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||2-month-old ‘dies’ twice, hospital staffer arrested||DIBRUGARH: A compounder of a tea garden hospital in Assam’s Dibrugarh district was arrested on Monday for wrongly declaring a two-month-old baby dead. The infant later woke up during his burial preparations at his home. However, he died a few hours later, reports Rajib Dutta. The high drama unfolded at Muttuck Tea Estate in Dibrugarh on Sunday after the boy was brought to the garden hospital by his parents at noon. As no doctor or nurses were present at that time, Gautam Mitra, the compounder, checked the child and declared him dead. The distraught parents, who were workers at the tea estate, brought the infant home and were preparing for his last rites when he started moving in his mother’s lap. He was once again taken to the garden hospital from where he was shifted to Assam Medical College and Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. On Monday, around 1,200 workers gheraoed the garden hospital in protest. They later marched to the Lahowal police station and staged a protest demanding the arrest of the guilty hospital staff. Members of the Assam Chah Mazdoor Sangha (ACMS) and Assam Tea Tribes Students’ Association joined the protest. Police swung into action and arrested the compounder from his residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-month-old-dies-twice-hospital-staffer-arrested/articleshow/79139891.cms||Rajib Dutta
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cop kicks man in groin over fine||Ahmedabad: A 23-year-old man from Sanand who works for a private company in Bopal, on Sunday filed a complaint with Gaekwad Haveli police, alleging that a cop thrashed him and kicked him in his groin because he refused to pay the Rs 1,500 the policeman had demanded as a traffic fine. In his FIR, Akash Vaghela, a resident of Godhavi, said he was riding his motorcycle from Astodia to Ellis Bridge when a cop stopped him at Khamasa Crossroads. Vaghela said that he was wearing a helmet and a mask but the cop stopped him and asked him for his licence and PUC. Vaghela produced the documents but the cop began demanding Rs 1,500 and as Vaghela did not have it, he said he would call his father to get the money. The cop then began abusing Vaghela and pushing him. As Vaghela told him to behave, he began slapping Vaghela. The cop then held Vaghela by his neck and kicked him in his private parts. Vaghela screamed with pain and people gathered at the spot. Vaghela also called up his father, who got there in 15 minutes and called the police control room. A team of Gaekwad Haveli police arrived but the accused cop got away by then. Vaghela was taken to the Asarwa Civil Hospital by an 108 ambulance. He later filed a complaint of causing hurt and use of abusive words against the accused cop who is still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cop-kicks-man-in-groin-over-fine/articleshow/79137411.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Centre should stop punishing Punjab, Haryana and resume trains: Harish Rawat||LUDHIANA: All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat on Monday held a meeting with the Congressmen at Circuit House. After assuming charge as Punjab affairs in-charge, this was his first visit to Ludhiana. While interacting with journalists, Rawat said in the interest of the farmers, the Punjab government has passed bills in the state assembly for securing farmers’ interest and now the ball is in Punjab governor’s court. He also encouraged the Congress leaders of the state for staging protests against the Centre’s stand in New Delhi and said the Congress would take the fight to every level possible. “Punjab chief minister (CM) has even told the Centre that he is ready to resign for the interests of the farmers. If the BJP does not change its stand, then Congress has announced that upon coming to power, these black laws will be demolished. This is a symbolic protest by the farmers for their rights and demands and we respect the same. The central government is punishing Punjab and Haryana. The trains should be run as soon as it is possible. On the request of Punjab CM Amarinder Singh, the farmers had deferred their agitation for some days and the government should have grasped this opportunity and resolved their problems,” he added. The meeting was organised by DCC Ludhiana (Rural) president Karanjit Singh Soni Galib and DCC Ludhiana (Urban) Ashwani Sharma and was attended by Fatehgarh Sahib MP Dr Amar Singh, MP Mohd Sadiq, MLAs Rakesh Pandey, Surinder Dawar, Sanjay Talwar, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu, former MP and Sugarfed Chairman Amrik Singh Aliwal, PMIDB chairman Amarjit Singh Tikka, PSIDC Chairman KK Bawa, PSIEC Chairman Gurpreet Singh Bassi, Gurdev Singh Lapran, Councillor Mamta Ashu, Kamaljit Singh Karwal, Youth Congress leader Kamil Boparai besides a large number of congressmen. Prior to this meeting, Rawat paid homage to former chief minister of Punjab Beant Singh at Doraha and also participated in protest organised by women wing of Congress at Samarala Chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/centre-should-stop-punishing-punjab-haryana-and-resume-trains-rawat/articleshow/79137402.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: Put agenda online, give us 10 days for feedbacks, residents tell civic body||LUDHIANA: As the civic officials are getting ready for the general house meeting, scheduled for November 10, the city residents and activists demand that agenda of the meeting should be made public. They said if authorities are planning anything for the city, the residents have the right to know because it will create an impact on their lives. The residents said authorities should seek public suggestions at least 10 days before the meeting, as it can help the officials in framing better policies for the public. Kuldeep Khaira, an acitvist, said, “According to RTI Act, anything that affects the lives of residents should be made public well in time but here authorities neither disclose things before meeting nor after meeting.” He said residents have the rights to even sit in the MC house meeting with permission from mayor. He said he had attended a meeting earlier, but now it is becoming almost difficult to do so. He said the outcomes of agendas like water tariff revision, slated for this house meeting, affects people and they should be involved in fleshing out a feasible solution that would benefit all. A resident of Maharaj Nagar, Shiv Goyal, said most people are unaware of decisions and rules being made by the elected representatives in the house, mostly because they do not have the luxury of time to track all that is happening. He said if the civic body should take the initiative to put the agenda online, people will automatically get involved. Meanwhile, another activist Rohit Sabharwal said MC officials send agenda to councillors for suggestions and they think it has reached public automatically, which is not right. He said agenda should be at MC website so that everybody could see it and if there are any objections then public can register those objections with officials concerned. However, when contacted, mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu said before meeting they cannot disclose the agenda because it is not a public document and after the meeting the decisions are made public through media. He said wherever it is required, they take public suggestions as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/put-agenda-online-give-us-10-days-for-feedbacks-residents-tell-mc/articleshow/79137396.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Diwali mela by self-help groups at Mini Secretariat Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: In a bid to promote rural self help groups, the district administration organised a five-day Diwali mela, also known as Pendu Kirti Bazaar at Mini Secretariat Ludhiana from Monday. The self-help groups will be selling handmade products related to Diwali. The mela was inaugurated by deputy commissioner (DC) Ludhiana Varinder Kumar Sharma. Additional deputy commissioner (ADC development) Sandeep Kumar was also present on the occasion. Sharma said the mela, which will go on till November 13, will sell handmade products like lamps, candles, kurtas, masks, soft toys, warm clothes and Punjabi juttis made by the self-help groups as well as honey, organic pulses, spices, khoya pini, besan laddu and saag. He said under PSLRM scheme, as many as 20 self-help groups from villages of Ludhiana district have set up stalls. He added that a vendor of lamps, candles and decorative items made by the school children in slum areas with the help of vocational funds provided by the office was also set up under the NCLP scheme. Besides, a stall exhibiting kurtas, masks, capris and leg warmers made by trainees of the Punjab government’s skill development centre was also installed. The tents and carry bags were provided by the ICICI Bank under Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funds. Avtar Singh, assistant project officer (M), the office of ADC (D), besides others were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/diwali-mela-by-self-help-groups-at-mini-secretariat-ludhiana/articleshow/79137409.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||Punjab becomes 8th non-BJP state to put curbs on CBI||CHANDIGARH: Taking the cue from seven other non-BJP states, the Amarinder Singh government in Punjab has become the eighth one to revoke “general consent” for the CBI to start an investigation within its jurisdiction without prior permission. Any ongoing probe or case referred to the agency by a court of law is exempt from this order. “In view of revocation of all previous general consents issued earlier, prior consent of the government of Punjab shall be required, hereinafter, on a case-to-case basis for investigation of any offence or class of offences under Section 3 of the aforesaid Act, by the Delhi Special Police Establishment,” reads the notification published in the state gazette on November 8. The other non-BJP states that have already withdrawn general consent to the CBI are Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Bengal, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh. As the CBI comes under Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, the agency requires general or special consent to probe any case in a particular state. The NIA, however, has unfettered reach when it comes to probing terrorism-related cases in any state. In Punjab, the probe into the Bargari sacrilege cases of 2015 by the CBI had become the bone of contention between the state and the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-becomes-8th-non-bjp-state-to-put-curbs-on-cbi/articleshow/79139893.cms||Sanjeev Verma
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||School SOPs: Seating, multiple shifts, discussed||Ahmedabad: A meeting was held in the state education department on Monday to discuss the standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools and colleges reopening ahead of the state cabinet meeting this week. Officials discussed the central government’s SOP for schools and colleges reopening to frame rules. Among the issues were seating arrangements in schools and colleges, Covid tests for school staff, protocols for masks and sanitization of furniture and common-use facilities. Officials insisted that students not be asked to come to school if they their parents do not consent. Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh and Mizoram, which reopened schools a few weeks ago had to close them again, as many students and teachers contracted the virus. Officials remained tight-lipped on children or students who will have to return to hostels, PG accommodation, those taking private school vans or autorickshaws or crowded buses and on children with underlying medical conditions. Among the things discussed were maintaining 6-feet of distance on benches, allowing just 25 students per class and even calling children on alternate days or in two shifts. The Odisha and Delhi governments have declared that they won’t reopen schools, anticipating a second wave of Covid-19 this winter. “What will happen if the spread of Covid is recorded in schools was also discussed,” said a senior state education department official. Shitij Desai, the parent of a 15-year-old from Thaltej, says, “If states had to close schools because children and teachers contracted the virus, then why can’t we learn a lesson from them. “Why should our children contract the virus first for schools to close. Is this what we call a preventive measure. Has the government got scientific data to prove that Covid is safe for children. Most children have been safe at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-sops-seating-multiple-shifts-discussed/articleshow/79137485.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Teen falls off parked bike, run over by car passing by||Nagpur: Ritesh Palandure, aged about 15 years, died in baffling circumstances after he fell off a parked bike and got dragged around 10-feet by a car that was passing by. The incident took place near Bahadura Phata on Sunday. Police are still not sure whether the incident took place in the way it was narrated to them, indicating doubts over the manner in which the teenager fell off a parked bike. It’s learnt Palandure, student of Standard IX, was riding pillion on the bike of an acquaintance, Ritesh Chaure, whom the victim had come to fetch from the main road. Chaure was heading to meet Palandure’s family but did not know the way. Palandure was guiding Chaure about which road to take to reach home. On the way, Chaure had parked his bike on the roadside and had gone to relieve himself. Palandure was seated on the parked bike when he fell off. A car, which was coming from behind, was unable to control it’s speed and come to halt suddenly when Palandure fell just in front of it. Palandure was dragged for several feet before the motorist could manage to stop. The motorist picked up Palandure and rushed him to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) where he was declared dead. The motorist later sneaked away from GMCH. Sakkardara police have registered an offence against the motorist but are yet to nab him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teen-falls-off-parked-bike-run-over-by-car-passing-by/articleshow/79138855.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||First-timer BJP to field Dhande for Amravati MLC seat||Amravati: Jumping into the teachers constituency fray for the first time, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has announced fielding Vidarbha Youth Welfare Society (VYWS) president Dr Nitin Dhande as its candidate. “The party has put its faith in me. I take up this responsibility of winning this seat with the help of party workers. BJP is contesting this seat for the first time and has put the onus on my shoulders,” Dr Dhande told TOI soon after his name was announced. One of the former presidents of Vidarbha Youth Welfare Society, late Ram Meghe was education minister of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/first-timer-bjp-to-field-dhande-for-amravati-mlc-seat/articleshow/79138852.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad skirts cracker ban on technicality||AHMEDABAD: On Monday, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) spelled out its firecracker ban, targeting many of the 122 ‘non-attainment cities and towns’ (where air quality has been “poor” and “very poor”). In Gujarat, Ahmedabad, Surat and Vadodara are among these non-attainment cities. However, Gujarat officials banked on a technical point in the NGT order to wriggle out of the ban. Track the pollution level in your cityPoint 2 of the order states that the ban “will apply to cities/towns…where the average of ambient air quality during November (as per available data of last year) falls in the ‘poor’ and above category”. Interestingly, the NGT order also says that the status of Ahmedabad’s AQI on November 6, this year is ‘poor’ with an AQI reading between 201 and 300. Along with Ahmedabad, Vatva and Vapi also fall under the ‘poor’ AQI category this year, according to page 52 of the order of the principal bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice A K Goel. “Last year Diwali in Gujarat was celebrated on October 27 and fortunately for Ahmedabad, Surat or Vadodara, the ambient air quality index (AQI) between November 1 and November 9 back then, was not poor, so we escaped the sanctions by a whisker. The NGT order is clear that we should not consider the AQI of November 6 this year, but of November last year,” says a senior official of the state urban development department. The NGT order has also tried to explain why air pollution should be controlled to lessen the burden of Covid-19. It quotes a paper of the European Society of Cardiology, published on October 3, which indicates “a nexus of Covid-19 and air pollution. “Both, air pollutant PM2.5 and the SARS-CoV-2 virus enter the lungs via the bronchial system, with potential systemic health impacts through the blood circulation. Both PM2.5 and SARS-CoV-2 cause vascular endothelial dysfunction, oxidative stress, inflammatory responses, thrombosis, and an increase in immune cells.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-skirts-cracker-ban-on-technicality/articleshow/79137483.cms||Paul John
November 10, 2020||Vadodara||‘Save Navsari Palace’ campaign launched||Vadodara: They have been practising law in this majestic building for the past six decades. Hundreds of advocates from Navsari have now begun a movement to save the Navsari Palace that had been home to the district court since 1960 before it was shifted to a new building three years ago. The Navsari District Court Bar Association (NDCBA) alleged that the authorities have plans to demolish the grand palace located at a prime location in the town.The NDCBA with the help of Jeetendrasinh Gaekwad, great grandnephew of Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III, has written letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani and several other government authorities urging to save the palace. “This is one of the most beautiful palaces in the state and a landmark for residents of Navsari. We have launched a campaign to save this palace as the authorities may demolish it in the coming years,” said advocate Sudhir Sule, president, NDCBA.“The roads and buildings (R&B) department got a structural stability report made from Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT), Surat and wrote a letter to the district court in February this year. The letter stated that the palace building was in dilapidated state and should be vacated to avoid any accident. We were informed about it in March,” Sule told TOI.“In May, the R&B department wrote another letter to the district court asking it to put the palace building in non-use and put a fence around it. This is a precursor to demolishing the building. First they will put it in non-use and then pull it down,” Sule alleged. He added that the bar association has not moved out of the palace building yet.Gaekwad, who joined the NDCBA in saving the 138-year-old heritage structure, said that Maharaja Sayajirao had made such palaces in Baroda state with a vision. “They are a part of our rich legacy, and hence have to be preserved. Certain vested interests want to demolish the palace and use the space for other purposes. We won’t let that happen. Several eminent citizens, architects, trade associations and the affluent Parsi community from Navsari have joined in this campaign to save our heritage,” Gaekwad said.The Surat chapter of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH), too, is supporting the campaign. “We are documenting key features of the palace and preparing a report. The palace building is in a good shape and can be used for a better purpose instead of pulling it down,” said Prakash Haathi, co-convenor, INTACH Surat.Niketin Contractor, who comes from a prominent Parsi family in Vadodara, has also urged the Parsi community in Navsari to support the campaign to save the palace that was constructed by a Parsi contractor, Fardunji Rustomji.J G Kher, executive engineer, R&B department, Navsari said, “The palace building is in a dilapidated state. Experts at the engineering institute of SVNIT also said that the building was not in a good shape. We requested the district court to get it vacated immediately for avoiding any accident.” When asked if there are any plans to demolish the palace, Kher said, “No such decision has been taken by the government. Also, the palace is in the possession of Gujarat high court. In fact, I gave a personal opinion to the advocates that the government can start a museum in the palace building with the permission of the high court.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/save-navsari-palace-campaign-launched/articleshow/79005654.cms||Tushar Tere
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||AIIMS-Nagpur is now designated disability centre, to issue certificates for NEET counselling||Nagpur: Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) has listed disabilities and designated centres to issue certificate to persons with disability (PwD) candidates for NEET counselling 2020 with respect to MBBS and BDS admissions this academic year. All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Nagpur has been added in this list. The UG counselling for the current academic year 2020-21 has started from October 27. Candidates will be approaching the centres across India to obtain disability certificate after getting their impairment assessed at the centre in order to avail the benefit of 5% PwD reservation in medical courses. AIIMS Nagpur will be the only centre in central India designated by the MMC for this purpose. It will arrange for issuing of disability certificates for select handicaps given under Rights of Persons with Disability Act 2016 as per MCI's guidelines. Reservation of seats under PwD category has been increased from 3% to 5% in all-India quota now. MMC is conducting online counselling for allotment of UG (MBBS/BDS) seats to eligible and qualified candidates under 15% all-India Quota in participating government medical/dental colleges. The allotment of seat to the candidates is made based on the NEET-UG. “Now, there will be no inconvenience for the candidates desiring to avail the benefit of PwD reservation. Candidates may visit AIIMS Nagpur from 11am to 5pm on working days,” said Dr Manish Shrigiriwar. Recently on November 7, the MMC has declared that the date for reporting/admission at the allotted colleges has been extended till November 14. AIIMS will provide disability certificates as per MCI guidelines for cerebral palsy (CP), leprosy cured persons with disabilities, dwarfism, muscular dystrophy, amputation, congenital deficiencies of limb, club foot, acid attack victims, blindness, low vision, speech and language disabilities, thalassaemia, and haemophilia. Abhijeet Raut, coordinator, District Disability Rehabilitation Centre, said the new facility at AIIMS will benefit the medical aspirants. “I have been receiving calls from across the region about this. While some of the students have already started visiting AIIMS, many are still unaware about the facility,” he said. What it means AIIMS Nagpur will provide disability certificates for: Cerebral palsy (CP), Leprosy cured persons with disabilities, Dwarfism, Muscular dystrophy, Amputation, Congenital deficiencies of limb, club foot, Acid attack victims, Blindness, low vision, speech and language disabilities, Thalassaemia, and haemophilia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-nagpur-is-now-designated-disability-centre-to-issue-certificates-for-neet-counselling/articleshow/79137490.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 10, 2020||Pune||PMPML reduces fare of special airport buses||Pune: The city transport utility on Monday decided to reduce the fares of special airport buses, a little over a fortnight after the service was started because the number of passengers was far less than expected. An official of the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) said, “We have decided to further break up the fare of ABHI (Airport Bus for Business Home and Hotel Interconnectivity). Earlier, base fare of Rs50, Rs100, Rs150 and Rs180 was being charged across the five routes. Now, each route will have different fare break-ups. Largely speaking, the base fare will be Rs20 now.” The official said, “The fares for buses running on the Hadapsar route will be Rs20, Rs40, Rs60, Rs80 and Rs100. The fares for buses on the Hinjewadi route will be starting at Rs20, followed by Rs40, Rs60, Rs80, Rs100, Rs120, Rs140 and Rs180. The new fare structure hinges on the length of the routes.” The transport body had launched a total of 35 air-conditioned electric buses on the five routes connecting to the airport on October 24. “The fares have been reduced to compete with cabs mainly. With the fares less, we feel the number of bus passengers will increase. We are not decreasing the number of buses despite the less number of passengers,” the official said. The PMPML authorities claimed that the fewer flight movements at the city airport and the 12-hour restriction on operations because of the runway re-carpeting work were the main reasons behind the less number of passengers. “Flights are now operating only from 8am to 8pm. In a given hour, there are a total of eight flight movements — four arrivals and four departures — on an average. So, the number of passengers is not increasing. On an average, we are running buses with less than 10% occupancy,” another official from the PMPML said. People not going to the airport can also avail the ABHI service. The authorities stressed that the less fare would attract more such people to avail of its service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-reduces-fare-of-special-airport-buses/articleshow/79138876.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Fate of winter session to be decided today||Nagpur: The business advisory committee (BAC) of the state legislature will meet on Tuesday in Mumbai to decide the fate of the winter session. There is a possibility of the session being shifted to Mumbai from Nagpur. A team under Rajendra Bhagwat, principal secretary (Maharashtra legislature), had visited Nagpur a few days ago to inspect the preparedness of the local administration for the session. Bhagwat had told the media that the venue would be decided by the BAC. Leaders of the opposition in the state assembly and legislative council are members of the BAC. Leader of the opposition in the assembly Devendra Fadnavis had contracted Covid. He will consult his doctor regarding attending the BAC meeting on Tuesday. Meanwhile, BJP MLA from Nagpur East Krishna Khopade alleged that the state government was planning to hold only a two-day session in Nagpur. “Instead of holding the session for just two days, I request the government to hold it for four weeks so that the problems of Vidarbha can be discussed effectively,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fate-of-winter-session-to-be-decided-today/articleshow/79138879.cms||Ashish Roy
November 10, 2020||Goa||Centre open to reducing coal handling at MPT, says Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant, who is on a visit to New Delhi, said on Monday that Union shipping and ports minister Mansukh Mandaviya told him he would reduce coal handling at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT), and that he would study what other commodities can be handled at the Goa port. “I conveyed the sentiments of the people of Goa regarding coal handling. He has promised to look into the matter,” Sawant tweeted after the meeting. “Mandaviya is positive about reducing coal handling at the port,” he said, adding “we will stop coal handling at MPT in the future”. Sawant also said he told Mandaviya how coal handling is leading to dust pollution in Goa, and a further increase would affect the state’s environment. The CM said Mandaviya would visit Goa within a month to take stock of the situation. Sawant added that if coal handling at MPT is reduced, the people won’t oppose double-tracking. On Thursday, Sawant is likely to meet Union home minister Amit Shah to discuss the resumption of mining activities in the state to increase revenue. Sawant also met Union culture and tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel to discuss cultural tourism in the state, with the Centre’s support. He said Patel has consented to be chief guest at the forthcoming celebration of 60 years of Goa’s Liberation. The CM said the state would celebrate the whole year. Meanwhile, Sawant also met Union minister for fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, Shandilya Giriraj Singh, and discussed various initiatives to scale up the production in fisheries and the dairy sector in the state. On the mining issue, after an assurance of PM Narendra Modi, two meetings were to be held in November, but after the Union mines minister tested positive for Covid-19, they were postponed. The state had earlier urged the Centre to amend the Goa, Daman and Diu Mining Concessions (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, to restart mining activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-open-to-reducing-coal-handling-at-mpt-says-sawant/articleshow/79137444.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||Congress-ruled states speak in different voices on making MSP guaranteed floor price||NEW DELHI: Congress, while opposing the Centre on recently enacted farm laws, might have pitched for giving legal guarantee to procurement of farm produce at minimum support price (MSP) but states governed by the party — Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan — do not appear to be on the same page while handling the key demand of farmers through their proposed state legislations. These three states have passed farm bills seeking to keep their farmers out of the ambit of the central laws, but there is no uniformity among them on treating MSP as a legally guaranteed floor price. While Punjab’s bill speaks about MSP guarantee only for wheat and paddy, leaving other crops at the mercy of private traders, Rajasthan's bills refer to MSP guarantee only in case of contract farming. The Chhattisgarh bill, on the other hand, remains vague on the issue of giving legal guarantee to MSP and deals with issues in a very subjective manner by declaring the entire state as a market for selling farm produce. Though all three states, while moving the bills in the assemblies, projected them as an effort to protect the interests of farmers, none of them has actually met the demand of protesting farmers on making MSP a legally guaranteed floor price. “None of these states have taken up the issue of MSP appropriately. If you look at Punjab’s bill, it talks only about wheat and paddy. The relevant section in the bill says if anyone 'compels' or 'exerts pressure' on a farmer to sell his/her produce below MSP, then such person will be deemed to have committed an offence. Using the word ‘compel’ makes it very subjective. How will you determine it? It defeats the very purpose of the bill,” said V M Singh, national convenor of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC). Referring to Rajasthan’s bill, Singh said it was meant to ensure MSP only in the case of contract farming. “Why can’t you make a provision saying nothing in the state can be sold below MSP?” he asked, underlining the gaps in the bills which will, however, become law only after getting the governor’s assent. Officials in the agriculture ministry said the government would examine these bills to see whether they violated any central laws. “Meanwhile, there is a plan to talk to stakeholders and farmers’ representatives over the benefits of the three central farm laws,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-ruled-states-speak-in-different-voices-on-making-msp-guaranteed-floor-price/articleshow/79139898.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||CM hands over Sahbhaagi Yojana LoIs||Gandhinagar: Chief minister Vijay Rupani on Monday handed over 164 letters of intent (LoI) virtually for establishing 164 CNG stations in the state under the CNG Sahbhaagi Yojana. Of these, he handed over five LOIs to the beneficiaries in person. The state government had earlier launched the CNG Sahbhaagi Yojana, aimed at tackling environmental pollution by promoting clean fuel. The scheme also intends to make CNG refuelling stations easily available across the state for vehicle owners. Speaking on the occasion, Rupani said, “The state government has resolved to promote development and prevent pollution. The administration has made sufficient provision of CNG filling stations across the state.” He added that 542 CNG stations have been established in the state in the last 23 years. Of these, 384 CNG stations have been established in the last two years alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cm-hands-over-sahbhaagi-yojana-lois/articleshow/79137496.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kochi||LSG polls: Joseph faction to contest in nine seats||Thiruvananthapuram: The bilateral talks Congress had with P J Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress for the seat sharing in the Kottayam district panchayat for the upcoming local body election ended on a peaceful note. Of the 22 seats in the panchayat, the Joseph faction will contest in nine seats and Congress in 13 seats. The Kottayam district panchayat assumes significance as for the UDF, it is the most prestigious contest to wrest back the power. It has been ruling the panchayat with the support of Kerala Congress (Mani). In the 2015 local body polls, the Kerala Congress (Mani) and the Congress had fought in 11 seats each. The UDF had won in 14 seats of which eight was won by the Congress. In 2015, K M Mani had given only two seats to the P J Joseph followers in the panchayat. Though the Joseph faction had claimed all the 11 seats which the Kerala Congress (Mani) had contested last time, the Congress was not ready to provide this. Instead, after the bilateral talks the Joseph faction contended with nine seats. UDF convener M M Hassan and former chief minister Oommen Chandy had participated in the talks with the Joseph faction. After the talks, MLA Monce Joseph said the talks have been fruitful and it has been decided to contest in nine seats. However, talks for seat sharing in other local bodies are continuing and a final decision on this is expected in a day or two. The Joseph faction has demanded all the seats contested by the KC(M) in the grama and block panchayats in Kottayam. But the Congress is of the view that only the sitting seats can be given to the Joseph faction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/lsg-polls-joseph-faction-to-contest-in-nine-seats/articleshow/79135063.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||LoC battle claimed 2 from Telangana, Andhra Pradesh||HYDERABAD/TIRUPATI: Two soldiers from the Telugu states were among the four security personnel who laid down their lives fighting terrorists on the Line of Control (LoC) in Machil sector of Kupwara in Jammu and Kashmir in the early hours of Sunday. The two were identified on Monday as havildar Ch Praveen Kumar Reddy of Reddivaripalli village in Chittoor district in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and rifleman R Maheshwar of Komanpalli village in Nizamabad district, both were from 18 Madras Regiment. Reddivaripalli and Komanpalli were enveloped in a pall of gloom as the news trickled in about the martyrdom of four security personnel, three Army and a BSF soldier. Apart from the two Army jawans, Captain Ashutosh Kumar of 18 Madras Regiment was also killed. As someone keen on joining the Army, Maheshwar (26) realised his dream in 2014. On November 2, he had called up his parents Gangamallu and Chinna Raju, both farmers, and informed them that he would be on patrolling duty and would call once he returned to base. “That was the last time he spoke to us. Little did we know that it would be our last conversation with him,” his mother Gangamallu said. He had last visited his family in December 2019. Maheshwar had married the daughter of an army personnel from Hyderabad a year-and-a-half ago. The couple have no children. Telangana roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy, Nizamabad district collector Narayana Reddy and police commissioner Karthikeya visited the family on Monday. The collector said the family would be given ex gratia as per state government norms. Prashanth Reddy said he would also help the family from his side. Villagers of Komanpalli put up a flexi at the residence of the martyr and visitors offered ‘Palabhishekam’ to it by pouring milk on it as a mark of respect to the soldier who died fighting for the country. The scene was no different in Reddivaripalli in Chittoor. The family members of Praveen Kumar Reddy were inconsolable as the 37-year-old was the only son of Prathap Reddy and Sugunamma. Praveen had joined the Army 18 years ago and was recently posted in the Machil sector after undergoing commando training. He is survived by wife Rajitha and two children, an eight-year-old daughter and a six-year-old son. His family members told TOI that Praveen had spoken to them on Saturday last and said he would come home in December, ahead of Sankranti. He had last visited the family in November 2019. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy extended his condolences to the bereaved family on Monday and announced a financial assistance of Rs 50 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Deputy chief minister K Narayana Swamy and panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy met the jawan’s family at their residence and extended condolences. Prathap Reddy said his son’s body is expected to reach their village on Tuesday night and the final rites might be carried out on Wednesday. On the other hand, the last rites of Maheshwar might be performed in his village on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loc-battle-claimed-2-from-t-ap/articleshow/79139434.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Gantawar made co-accused in ‘honeytrap’ case||Nagpur: Pravin Gantawar, chief medical officer of NMC, was made co-accused in two different offences, including the sensational honeytrap case, by the crime branch this week. The other case was registered after Gantawar’s alleged aide Sahil Sayyed and his gang created ruckus at a private hospital at Mankapur. Police sources said Gantawar was issued summons to remain present at the crime branch for investigation. On Monday, Gantawar spent considerable time at the crime branch where he was questioned about the cases. “We have been summoning Gantawar seeking his cooperation in the investigation of the case,” said an officer. TOI had broken the ‘honeytrap’ case in July after an audio clip had gone viral, where Sayyed and another were allegedly heard conspiring to honeytrap two leading BJP leaders who had earlier raised a voice against Gantawar’s so-called malpractices. Tehsil police, at the instance of crime branch, had earlier registered an offence against Sayyed and his aide but now Gantawar too has been named as their accomplice in the case. Gantawar was also made an accused in the case registered at Mankapur police station where Sayyed and his gang were booked for creating a ruckus. It’s now believed that Gantawar too was present at the premises. He had also initiated legal action against the private hospital and seized it’s equipment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gantawar-made-co-accused-in-honeytrap-case/articleshow/79138890.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 10, 2020||Trichy||483 tonnes of onion seized from poultry farms||TRICHY: CID sleuths from civil supplies department have seized 483 tonnes of onions hoarded in four different poultry farms in Perambalur district on Monday. While the price of onion skyrocketing, the hoarding is suspected as a ploy to create artificial demand and escalate the price of onions ahead of Diwali. Civil supplies CID sources said that they received a complaint from Irur and Chathiramanai village administrative officers about illegal hoarding. The vegetable was found stocked in four poultry farms which were not functioning. As per the Essential Commodities Act, 2020, vendors are allowed to stock only 25T of onions. Based on an alert, civil supplies CID wing police from Trichy inspected the farms and estimated the hoarded onion to be 483 MT. Four people were booked under the Essential Commodities Act. “We are yet to ascertain the purpose of hoarding such a huge quantity. Inquiry is under way,” C Nallu, DSP, civil supplies CID, told TOI. Although small onions are cultivated in Perambalur, large onions are not cultivated in the district. While onions are sold at Rs 60 to Rs 80 per kg based on the quality, the price is expected to surge before Diwali. “The seized onion will be utilized for the public distribution system. Food safety department will have to certify the quality,” the DSP added. The onions at the poultry farms are being guarded by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/483t-of-onion-seized-from-poultry-farms/articleshow/79137518.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Bike thief escapes from GMCH Covid ward||Nagpur: A 24-year-old bike thief, who tested Covid positive on November 7, fled from the isolation ward of government medical college and hospital (GMCH) in the wee hours of Monday. He was asymptomatic. On Sunday, he had tested negative. An offence was registered, but the major challenge before the Ajni cops is to nab the Covid patient. Police said the accused sought permission from the doctor on duty to go to toilet. It’s still a mystery as to how the accused managed to leave the ward without anyone noticing him, including the two cops who were stationed there. The cops raised an alarm but it was too little too late. It’s learnt that the accused was arrested by Yashodharanagar police for stealing a bike. He was sent to central jail on November 6 after he tested negative for Covid. The following day, Hudkeshwar police wanted to take the accused from central jail after getting his custody remand through the court. The accused was first taken to GMCH for a Covid test where he tested positive. The accused, though asymptomatic, was admitted to the isolation ward from where he gave cops the slip. Senior inspector Pratap Bhosale of Hudkeshwar police station said that two cops were deployed round the clock outside the Covid ward. “The accused escaped by hiding among the visitors who were leaving the ward. We have launched a search,” said Bhosale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bike-thief-escapes-from-gmch-covid-ward/articleshow/79137521.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP reports lowest Covid-19 count in 4 months, 11 succumb||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,392 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,44,359. This was the lowest single-day case total in over four months after July 8, when 1,062 cases were reported. The daily cases have remained under 2,000 for the third consecutive Monday. The toll jumped to 6,802 as 11 more people succumbed to the virus. As many as 1,549 patients were declared cured. There are currently 21,235 active cases besides 8,16,322 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96 per cent. There are less than 1,000 active cases in seven districts. Disease epicentre East Godavari reported 341 new infections, followed by neighbouring West Godavari (243) and Guntur (116). Eight districts posted less than 100 cases to the table on Monday. Of the 11 deceased, five are from Krishna, two from Kadapa, and one each from East Godavari, Guntur, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari districts. Andhra Pradesh tested 61,050 Covid-19 samples to detect the 1,392 new cases on Monday with a case positivity rate of about 2 per cent — the lowest in last several months. The case positivity rate had shot up to 17-18% in August. With the declining daily case numbers, it has now reduced to 3-4% range in the last few weeks. The state has so far conducted 87 lakh Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of under 10 per cent. The average national positivity rate is about 7 per cent. The mortality rate stands at 0.8 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-lowest-covid-19-count-in-4-mths-11-succumb/articleshow/79135839.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Earth moved from Erra Matti Dibbalu, greens worry||VISAKHAPATNAM: Truckloads of red earth are being carried away from the notified national geoheritage site of Erra Matti Dibbalu (Red Sand Hills) near Bheemili. A group of heritage and environment enthusiasts who visited the spot on Sunday afternoon spotted trucks and tractors transporting red earth for civic works elsewhere. It is illegal to remove red earth from the rare geological monument, which is one of the three existing formations of its kind in south Asia (the others are Teri Sands in Tamil Nadu and a similar site in Sri Lanka). The site is also littered with disposable utensils and food waste by picnickers, while bikers often ride up to the fragile area. Heritage and environment activist from the city Sohan Hatangadi, who visited the spot with some Vizagites for a natural heritage appreciation tour, said, “As we were entering, we were surprised to find trucks passing by carrying red earth. When I stopped a truck and spoke to the driver, he said that earth is being loaded for civic works in a layout elsewhere and the work has been going on for some days.” Divisional forest officer (DFO), Visakhapatnam division, Anantha Shankar, who was informed of the removal of red earth from the site, said, “Such sites should be protected. I have to check whether it is a notified forest land or not. If it is, I can initiate action (to prevent illegal transportation of red earth from the site), otherwise, the department concerned, which has the jurisdiction, will have to initiate action.” Shankar later confirmed that the site is not under notified forest block. According to geological experts, Erra Matti Dibbalu was formed around 12,000 years ago by land-sea interaction and comprises a mixture of sand (40-50%), silt and clay (another 50%) with oxidation of garnets imparting the unique red colour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/earth-moved-from-erra-matti-dibbalu-greens-worry/articleshow/79136220.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 10, 2020||Vijayawada||APSP assistant commandant held by ACB||TIRUPATI: Anti-corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Monday unearthed disproportionate assets worth crores during simultaneous searches at 13 different locations across the state linked to Panthula Sankar, assistant commandant of APSP 3rd battalion in Kakinada. Officials said Sankar joined government service in 1989 and is presently an assistant commandant of APSP battalion in Kakinada. During the searches carried out at multiple locations in Tirupati, Palamaner in Chittoor district, at Rajampet and Nandalur in Kadapa district, and Tadipatri in Anantapur district, sleuths unearthed disproportionate assets worth Rs 2.46 crore which include constructed buildings, house sites, agricultural lands, poultry farms, vehicles, cash and bank fixed deposits. Sankar will be produced before the special court for SPE and ACB cases in Nellore on Tuesday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/apsp-assistant-commandant-held-by-acb/articleshow/79136171.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Newborn girl abandoned in basket inside school premises in Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: A newborn baby girl was abandoned inside a vegetable basket at a school premises in Aarugolanu village of Bapulapadu mandal in Hanuman Junction police station limits in Krishna district on Sunday night. According to police, the basket might have been left at the premises at around 11 pm at night but came to light only in the morning when a school teacher identified noticed the cries of the child and was shocked to discover the baby in the basket. Upon information, police along with Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) officials reached the spot and sent the baby to a government hospital to conduct medical check-up. Officials suspect that the parents might have abandoned the newborn baby and believe the baby’s delivery may have taken place at any one of the hospitals in the area. Police have registered a missing persons case in this regard and have started searching records at local government hospitals to check any deliveries that took place around the time of abandonment. Police said the baby is healthy and that ICDS would be providing shelter and food for her for the time being.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/newborn-girl-abandoned-in-basket-inside-school-premises-in-krishna/articleshow/79136263.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Rajkot||Modasa’s ‘Rapunzel’ retains her Guinness record crown||Palanpur: She is no fictional character from Walt Disney’s animation studios. But Modasa girl Nilanshi Patel is nicknamed “Rapunzel” by her friends and schoolmates. For much like the princess in the Brothers Grimm fairytale, this 18-year-old holds the distinction of having world’s longest hair in teenager category. For the third straight year, Nilanshi has retained this record. A first-year student of chemical engineering at IIT, Gandhinagar, Nilanshi is fast hogging the limelight as a manufacturer wants oil and shampoo to be marketed by her name – ‘Nilanshi hair oil’ and ‘Nilanshi shampoo’.In 2018, she had made a cut in the Guinness World Records with 170.5 cm (5 ft 7”) long flowing hair. The next year, she broke her own record with 190 cm (6 ft 3”) long hair. And now she has bettered her record with as long as 200 cm (6 ft 7”) hair, registered again in the Guinness World Records.Her claim to fame started when her first achievement was entered into Limca Book of Records and later in the Guinness book. When asked about the secret of her long hair, Nilanshi told TOI that long hairs are in her “genes”. Her mother and father too have seen rapid growth of hair.“They cut their hairs while I do not,” she said, adding that the ayurvedic hair oil and shampoo that her mother uses are also the same.Nilanshi, who plays table tennis and loves swimming, confesses that she has to take lot of care for the fear of damaging her own hair while playing outdoor games.“Usually, hair record holders change as the competition in this segment is fierce. But we had cherished a dream that she would one day set a world record for being a girl with longest hairs. She has not only registered this record but has also retained it,” said her father Brijesh Patel, who along with her mother Pinal have support the teen’s target.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/modasas-rapunzel-retains-her-guinness-record-crown/articleshow/79135467.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Vadodara||Robbers target house where children were alone||Vadodara: Unidentified robbers struck at a house in the Madhuram Park area of Dahod town and took away cash and jewellery worth lakhs of rupees on Monday night. The incident took place when Rakeshkumar Singh, who stays in the house with his family, had gone to the market along with his wife. Their 12-year-old daughter and a son younger to her, were alone at the residence. Unidentified men came to the house under the pretext of drinking water. Sources said that they forced their way through the door and threatened the children. The accused found out where the valuables had been kept in the house and escaped with cash and jewellery that are believed to be worth lakhs. Police officials rushed to the house and a forensic team as well as a sniffer dog were pressed into action. Policemen also started looking for CCTV footage to get more details about the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/robbers-target-house-where-children-were-alone/articleshow/79136565.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Surat||Artisan’s stem cells save life of child diagnosed with cancer||Surat: Stem cell donation by a 43-year-old diamond polisher from Surat helped save the life of a paediatric patient from New Delhi suffering from blood disorder acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) recently.Janak Dhaduk, a native of Senjal village in Savarkundla taluka of Amreli district, now settled in Surat, did not think twice before giving his consent when DATRI, India’s largest blood stem donor registry informed him that his samples matched with the minor patient who was in urgent need of stem cell transplant. A few days back, Dhaduk’s donated stem cells which were transplanted into the child from New Delhi. DATRI did not have more details of the recipient, except that the receiver suffered from AML and was a minor.“I had registered as a potential stem cell donor about two years ago. After I received the call from DATRI, I informed my wife and decided to donate to save someone’s life,” Dhaduk told TOI.Head Donor Recruitment and Counselling at DATRI (Gujarat) Jalpa Sukhanandi said, “People like Janakbhai (Dhaduk) help save lives of patients in need of urgent stem cell transplant. We appreciate his courage in donating his stem cells.” Surat has been leading in stem cell donations in the state. Since 2014, 89 people have donated stem cells in Gujarat out of which 61 are from Surat alone.According to Sukhanandi, since the lockdown was imposed, four stem cell donations have taken place in the state, all from Surat city.“The probability of finding a matching donor is one in 10,000 to one in over a million as the total number of registered donors is very low. There are only a little over 4.5 lakh registered stem cell donors with DATRI. This is less than 0.33% of the total population of India,” added Sukhanandi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/artisans-stem-cells-save-life-of-child-diagnosed-with-cancer/articleshow/79135223.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Girl who got liver transplant from dad dies||Nagpur: Grimsha Yogendra Shambharkar, an 8-year-old girl who got a liver transplant 14 days ago from her father to treat Wilson’s disease, died on Sunday. Doctors told TOI that her body had accepted the liver, was doing absolutely fine, and hence she was discharged from the hospital. But her health deteriorated on Saturday evening. Grimsha’s live liver transplant on October 25 was the first paediatric liver transplant in Central India. Doctors at New Era hospital said she was discharged on Wednesday. She was doing well at home for three days and all her vital parameters were good when she visited the hospital for general review check-up on Saturday morning. However, her urine output stopped from Saturday afternoon and potassium level went down significantly. Her parents brought her back to hospital on Sunday evening, but her condition had deteriorated by then. Doctors tried, but she could not be saved. Post-transplant care is very important and infection in such condition may result in death. Most people live more than 10 years after a liver transplant and many live for up to 20 years or more. Grimsha’s condition was very fragile when she underwent liver transplant. Grimsha’s family members and NGOs were raising funds for her post-surgery medication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/girl-who-got-liver-transplant-from-dad-dies/articleshow/79137711.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Crackers banned in Delhi, Hyderabad may see muted Diwali too||HYDERABAD: Only green crackers can be sold in the city and use may be restricted to two hours on Diwali day and other occasions following a directive from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday. Telangana environment minister A Indrakaran Reddy has said the state government would take a call once it receives the NGT order on green crackers, restricted timings and ban on fireworks during Diwali. The NGT, while imposing a complete ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR region from November 9-30 owing to Covid-19, also gave directions for cities which have ‘moderate’ pollution levels such as Hyderabad. A bench, headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, said: “The cities/towns where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below, only green crackers be sold, and the timings for use and bursting of crackers be restricted to two hours during festivals such as Diwali, Chhath, New Year/Christmas Eve as may be specified by the state concerned.” “At other places ban/restrictions are optional for the authorities, but if there are more stringent measures under orders of the authorities, the same will prevail,” the bench said. In Hyderabad, the air quality index (AQI) was at a high of 167 last week, which still falls under the moderate level. At this level, people with lung, asthma and other diseases could face breathing difficulties. Prasad Dasari, chief of Air Lab, Telangana State Pollution Control Board, said, “The NGT order reiterated a Supreme Court decision of 2018 that encourages the use of green crackers across the country. We have been following this in Hyderabad.” Green crackers are supposed to be less polluting since they do not have harmful ingredients such as lithium and lead. Environmentalist Purushotham Reddy said, “During the pandemic, people should refrain from bursting crackers at all considering people suffering from Covid and other respiratory illnesses.” The NGT also directed all states to initiate special drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of the potential of aggravation of Covid-19. The tribunal directed chief secretaries and DGPs of all states to issue orders with appropriate enforcement guidelines to authorities concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/crackers-banned-in-delhi-city-may-see-muted-diwali-too/articleshow/79139436.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||CJ shifts 70:30 med quota plea to Aurangabad HC bench||Nagpur: The chief justice has directed the Bombay high court registry to transfer a plea challenging Maharashtra government’s decision to abolish 70:30 regional quota in medical admissions to the Aurangabad bench.The plea by medical aspirant Nikita Lakhotiya filed through senior counsel Subodh Dharmadhikari and Ashwin Deshpande would now be heard in Aurangabad, either during vacations or after it.“It’s informed to all concerned lawyers and parties that writ petition (No. 2429/2020) is transferred to Aurangabad bench, as per the letter of registrar (judicial) at HC appellate side in Mumbai,” a notice by assistant registrar to the petitioner mentioned.The petitioner’s counsel said similar cases were filed in the principal seat at Mumbai and Aurangabad benches. Therefore, it was decided to club the matters and list them before a single bench to avoid contrasting decisions.The case was listed on Monday after technical glitches marred the hearing on Friday. Senior counsel Anil Vinchurkar, pleading for the government, was supposed to arrive at Nagpur bench to physically argue the case, after HC expressed the need to personally hear both sides on the important issue.The petitioner had prayed for quashing the government’s move and restoring Vidarbha’s regional quota. According to her, the right of candidates like the petitioners, who had 70% regional quota available for admissions and on whose basis preferences were to be given, is taken away. Its abolition caused serious hardship for Vidarbha aspirants, while Marathwada students would be benefited due to having just four colleges, she contended.Stressing that there would be an encroachment on 70% seats that were earlier reserved region-wise, Lakhotiya argued that the objective of keeping a share for regional candidates in the admission process in their respective regions is totally removed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cj-shifts-7030-med-quota-plea-to-aurangabad-hc-bench/articleshow/79137766.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 10, 2020||Surat||Surat’s ‘innovative’ use of city buses awarded||Surat: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has received the union government’s Urban Mobility Award for innovative use of public transport during Covid-19 pandemic. SMC had deployed city buses to shift patients Covid-19 positive patients from the state-run New Civil Hospital (NCH) and SMC-run SMIMER Hospital to Covid Care Centre at University campus and the recovered patients to their homes. “We have converted 10 city buses into ambulances for the pandemic work and two public transport buses were converted into testing vans,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner. The civic body had also deployed a large number of city buses to transport around 7.5 lakh migrant workers from their localities to the railway stations when they were returning to their native states. The service was free of cost for migrants. The award was given by the union ministry of housing and urban affairs on the occasion of 13th Urban Mobility India Conference 2020 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surats-innovative-use-of-city-buses-awarded/articleshow/79136774.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra University extends last date for uploading certificates||Visakhapatnam: Andhra University (AU) has extended the last date for uploading certificates for AUCET/AUEET-2020 counselling to November 14. The decision was taken after several students raised the issue of delay in issuing provisional certificates by other universities due to Covid-19. As per the revised schedule, aspirants can now upload their certificates till November 14 instead of the earlier deadline of November 10. Students can enter or edit their web options between November 15 and 18. The university will announce the provisional allotment of seats on November 21 and students will have to pay course fees online before November 24. Successful aspirants shall report to the principals of respective colleges on November 25 or 26. Online classes for first semester students will commence on November 27. According to university officials, about 16,000 students appeared for both entrance tests of Andhra University, that is, AUCET and AUEET. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/au-extends-last-date-for-uploading-certificates/articleshow/79135897.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: SEB invoking PD Act against smuggling history-sheeters||VIJAYAWADA: In a first for the state, to curb liquor smuggling, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has started booking repeat offenders under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act. Following the recent additions to the amended Excise Act, the SEB is on the lookout for smugglers operating in an organised manner. So far, the SEB has invoked the PD Act against ten offenders in the state who have a long rap sheet, particularly in gutka and liquor trade. Of the ten cases, five are Krishna district, four from Chittoor while one is from Kurnool. The SEB has noticed that those earlier involved in gutka trade have now switched to liquor smuggling and are using their established networks to sell non-duty paid liquour (NDPL) procured from neighbouring states. Additional superintendent of police and SEB special officer for Krishna district, Vakul Jindal, told TOI that the five booked under PD Act in his district have over 20 cases against them. “Earlier, they used to supply banned gutka products for which they had built their own supply networks,” he said. “As the government is heading for complete liquor prohibition in a phased manner and has launched several measures, they (smugglers) saw an opportunity in the liquor business,” Jindal added. The special officer said that due to the liquor price hike in AP, non-availability of liquor with the reduction in number of outlets, the smugglers began taking advantage of the resulting demand. “It has become easy for them to run the business to run business through their confidantes,” he said. Meanwhile, SEB director PHD Ramakrishna observed that in the absence of stringent laws, there had been no detterent to prevent illegal trade earlier. “The latest amendments to the Excise Act, which enhanced maximum punishment from five years to eight years of jail term, will act as some deterrent now as they will be sent to judicial remand and getting bail is not easy. Earlier, they used to get away by being released on bail and continued business even though they had many cases against them,” the SEB director said and added, “Apart from incorporating stringent provisions in Excise Act, the government has directed proceedings under PD Act to make enforcement more stringent.” Ramakrishna said his unit is focussing on organised players with a large network of operations and businesses that run into crores. “Shutting down one kingpin will result in closure of trade in about 20% of the area in a district as there are five to six big players in each,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/seb-invoking-pd-act-against-smuggling-history-sheeters/articleshow/79135717.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 10, 2020||Trichy||Traders seek special permission for extended business hours ahead of Diwali||TRICHY: With Diwali round the corner, traders have sought special permission from the district administration and city police to allow street vendors to continue their conventional business hours till the early hours of the festival day. Tamilnadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu, the federation of traders’ association said that usually, the street vendors and small-scale shops in commercial streets will do business till early morning of Diwali. As people get a festival bonus on a working day just before Diwali, traders said that the demand will surge for various goods including clothes, crackers and other products. And a majority of the small-scale traders will generate revenue. However, as per Covid-19 restrictions, traders shut shops by 10pm. “The price of clothes and crackers will also decrease at the last minute. Considering the livelihood of street vendors impacted by Covid-19, the district administration should act,” Ve Govindarajalu, state general secretary of the federation said. Anticipating the demand, the traders shall stock their inventories, the association said. “We are not asking for the entire city but the few commercial streets like NSB road, Big Bazaar street and Teppakulam. People even from other districts usually visit these streets for getting goods at the lowest price,” V Sridhar, district president of the federation added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-seek-special-permission-for-extended-biz-hours-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79137530.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Body of Navy personnel fished out at Yarada beach||VISAKHAPATNAM: The body of 20-year-old Navy personnel Shubham, who went missing at Yarada beach in Vizag city on Sunday morning, was fished out along the beach on Monday. With Shubham’s death, Sunday’s death toll at Yarada beach rose to two. It will be recalled that a company of 54 Navy personnel of INS Sumitra went on a Sunday outing to Yarada beach. Before proceeding for breakfast, Jagajit Singh, Shubham (Com-II), Sunil (petty officer) and Vinit Kumar (EEMR-I) ventured into the sea. However, the four were caught in a strong current and dragged further out to sea. Two of them managed to return to shore and brought an unconscious Jagajit Singh back with them. Singh died while undergoing treatment at INHS Kalyani hospital while Shubham’s body was recovered on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/body-of-navy-personnel-fished-out-at-yarada-beach/articleshow/79136191.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam railway station renovation to be completed by March 2021||VISAKHAPATNAM: Work on the redevelopment of Visakhapatnam railway station has taken a hit due to Covid-19 pandemic, railway officials said on Monday. “The project was supposed to be completed by September-end this year but is still under progress...We are trying our best to complete it with the available work force. We hope this project be completed by end of this financial year,” a senior railway official told TOI. The Waltair division of East Coast Railway (ECoR) had embarked on this project with a corpus of Rs 10 crore sanctioned by the Railway Board. The project was divided into two phases. “The first phase of works, like replacing of existing passenger amenities with modern one like tiles, high power fans, toilet and drinking water facilities was completed. Now, the second phase works have begun” the official added. The second phase will include renovation of the station’s entrance. Renovations include covered passages between the station entrance and the main road, improving the concourse area, providing pathways and upgrading the façade on both sides of the station in line with those in airports. Booking counters will also get a facelift as will waiting halls and other interiors. Other plans include provision of modular vending kiosks on all platforms, modernisation of cloak rooms with lockers, replacing flooring on platforms 1 and 8 with anti-skid granite tiles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-station-renovation-to-be-completed-by-march-2021/articleshow/79136142.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 10, 2020||Vijayawada||AP government won’t tolerate high-handedness by cops: Home minister Mekathoti Sucharitha||VIJAYAWADA: Home minister Mekathoti Sucharitha on Monday said action has been taken against two police officers involved in the alleged abetment of suicide of four members of a a family at Nandyal in Kurnool district. Making it clear that the government would not tolerate high-handed behaviour by the police, she said further probe is still on, based on which circle inspector Somasekhar Reddy and head constable Gangadhar would be prosecuted. “We have taken quick action in all cases connected with police high-handedness, be it the Chirala custodial death, discrimination against Dalits under Sithanagaram police station limits and in Srikakulam,” Sucharitha said. Both Somasekhar and Gangadhar, the prime accused in the Abdul Salam mass suicide case, have been granted bail despite the inclusion of serious, non-bailable sections like 306 read with section 34 of the IPC. DGP Gautam Sawang said they are also taking preventive measures by holding orientation and behavioural classes for police personnel. He said that the department is also making a note of all police officers who have a tendency of being high-handed and using excessive action. On initiating a probe against such officers, Sawang said the aim is to send a strong message and ensure that such instances does not occur. Meanwhile, deputy chief minister S B Amzath Basha met the relatives of the deceased auto driver on Monday and extended his solidarity to the bereaved family members. It may be recalled that auto driver Abdul Salam, along with his wife and two children, committed suicide by jumping before a moving train near Kavuluru village under Panyam police station limits on November 3. The deceased family had shot a selfie video in which they alleged police harassment as the prime reason behind their suicide pact. “The chief minister is personally monitoring the progress of the case. The government will not spare anyone who is involved in this. Senior IPS officers are investigating the case and we are confident the facts of the case will come out soon and justice will be rendered to the family,” asserted Basha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-wont-tolerate-high-handedness-by-cops-home-min/articleshow/79136242.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Schools to CM: No money, no reopening||Nagpur: Various associations representing grant-in-aid school trustees and principals have refused to reopen their institutes till state government funds Covid-19 related costs. These aided schools have demanded Rs1 lakh for every 500 students to carry out sanitization of premises and meet medical and staff expenses. TOI had reported on July 2 itself that many schools will not reopen unless government meets their Covid-19 costs. Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal (MRSSM), a state-level association of trusts which control one or more institutes, has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that schools shall remain locked till money is deposited in their accounts. Ravindra Fadnavis, executive member of MRSSM who signed the letter to the CM, said, “We are not against reopening of schools, but we are against a callous attitude. We cannot risk health of any child and that’s why the campus needs to be fully sanitized as per government guidelines. But for aided schools like us, who cater to low income families there is no scope of generating such funds.” The organization says Rs1 lakh per 500 students is the minimum which must be provided. “Daily we will be spending thousands of rupees to sanitize the campus if we are to provide a safe environment for our students,” said Fadnavis, who manages a century-old Marathi school and junior college. Sundip Gaikwad, executive member of Nagpur’s School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA) agrees. “They say teachers have to undergo medical tests, but no mention of who will pay for this. Our students come from such poor economic background that we cannot even think of burdening them with sanitization costs. Also who will be legally responsible if a students gets infected on campus. These are vital issues for which the government has no answers at all,” said Gaikwad, who is principal of a Marathi medium school. Sachin Kalbande, president of schools association RTE Foundation said reopening decision has been hurried into. “Covid testing of teachers and students must be done by government directly. They have taken a haphazard decision without thinking of where schools will generate funds from,” said Kalbande. Fadnavis says this time association members won’t change their stand on simple ‘assurance’ from the government. “First we need to see the money in our account and only then will our members present in every district shall order their principals to reopen schools,” he said. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad did not respond to TOI calls for a reaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-to-cm-no-money-no-reopening/articleshow/79137860.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Transport department issues Covid guidelines for school buses||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state transport department has formulated a standard operating procedure (SOP) for schools managements to ferry students in buses and auto-rickshaws in wake of the pandemic. According to the guidelines issued on Monday, school buses have to be disinfected one hour before operations in the morning and after operations in afternoon. The school bus should be equipped with high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters, as they could potentially help reduce the transmission of the novel coronavirus. These guidelines gained significance as hundreds of students and teachers tested positive for Covid-19 in the last one week after schools reopened in Andhra Pradesh on November 2. There shall be a seat gap between two students during the entire journey. Plexiglass barriers shall be installed around the driver’s seat to separate him/her from the students. Windows shall be kept open and air conditioning shall not be used in order to maximise the ventilation. It is advisable to assign a single driver to same bus and same routes to minimise the mingling of different groups. Posters of Covid-appropriate behaviour shall be affixed inside and outside the vehicle. When it comes to the measures to be taken while transporting the students in school buses, all students must wear masks and face shields. The students must not board the buses, if they themselves or any family member have symptoms similar to Covid-19. Screening of students shall be done before boarding the bus through thermal screening or asking symptom-based questionnaire. Students shall board only after hand sanitisation. Only one person at a time shall be allowed to enter the bus in a queue, duly maintaining six feet distance between successive students. The school management/parents shall train students on ‘good respiratory hygiene’. Similar guidelines would also be applicable to auto-rickshaws. Transparent sheets shall be installed between driver and students. Drivers smust face mask invariably.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/transport-dept-issues-covid-guidelines-for-school-buses/articleshow/79135917.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarati loses its Spanish father figure||Ahmedabad: On May 1, 1960, two things happened – it was the day of the formation of the two states of Gujarat and Maharashtra, and it was also the first day in newly-formed Gujarat for a young Jesuit, Carlos Valles. For the next 22 years, he not only made Gujarat his karmabhoomi, but also Gujarati his own language. The death of Father Valles on Monday morning in Madrid, Spain, saddened thousands in Gujarat. While some remembered him for his immense contribution to bringing modern mathematics to Gujarat, other identified him as the very popular and prolific writer of 24 books in Gujarati. “He had just turned 95 on November 4. He must have inherited longevity from his mother, as she lived to 101 years,” said Prof V R Trivedi, the retired head of the mathematics department at Bhavan’s College. He used to write to Father Valles every year on his birthday. “He was truly a father figure for thousands of students like me who got interested in a subject like Mathematics thanks to his lucid way of explaining difficult concepts.” Ajit Shah, former principal of MG Science Institute, also studied mathematics under ‘Valles Sir.’ “He came to meet my parents and convinced them to allow me my doctoral studies,” he said, adding that those in the hostel would also go to him first over any problem. Father Vinayak Jadav, vice president of the St Xavier’s College Society, said the college still remembers him for his versatility. “Be it music, languages, mathematics or philosophy, Father Valles would know it all. He could play the piano or can talk about Indian ragas, he would talk about Latin scriptures or French novels, and he would cycle – as many Amdavadis still can picture – to understand the pols of the walled city,” he said. Dr Udayan Prajapati, head of the mathematics department at St Xavier’s College, said Father Valles always remained in close contact with the college, the department and the mathematics fraternity in the city. Prof Arun Vaidya, mathematics professor and nephew of Prof P C Vaidya, also remembered him as a person who popularized mathematics for an entire generation. But for Gujarati readers, he will be remembered as a lucid writer of the language, telling profound truths of life in simple Gujarati. His books such as Sadachar, Vyakti Ghadtar, Lagna Sagar, Shabdalok, Atmakatha na Tukda, etc. remained bestsellers for many years. Experts said that these books were the result of his years of close interaction with society and his reflections on the issues around him. “It made him connect with an entire generation of readers and made him a household name in the 1980s and 1990s,” said a city-based book critic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarati-loses-its-spanish-father-figure/articleshow/79137567.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Youths mobilise concrete pots to feed strays||TRICHY: Residents of Trichy are playing good Samaritans by striving to provide food and water for stray cattle and dogs in the city. To help the locals in their mission, a group of city-based youths are providing cost-free concrete pots that can be placed in front of the houses to feed the animals. Based on requests received through WhatsApp, the youths with the help of sponsors have mobilized and provided around 50 concrete pots in various parts of the city so far. The group, functioning under the banner ‘Care for cattle’, places a concrete bucket in front of a house as and when they receive a request. With few people financially supporting the drive, two youths G V Karthik and J Mohammed Ibrahim are identifying interested residents. They said that they were inspired by Vijaya Kumar of Puthur, who has been feeding stray cattle by placing a tank in front of his house. Carrying forward the initiative, ‘Care for cattle’ group has procured concrete buckets from a unit in Uyyakondan Thirumalai. “We receive requests through our friends’ network on social media and WhatsApp groups. If the resident assures to feed the stray animals, we will door-deliver the concrete buckets, we are doing it since September 2020,” Karthik told TOI. “As we were provided with a concrete bucket for free, we are now placing the surplus food and water for stray animals. Upon seeing us, many people came forward,” M Krishna Priya, a school teacher from Bhel township said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/youths-mobilise-concrete-pots-to-feed-strays/articleshow/79137537.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 10, 2020||Bareilly||Youth gets 10-year RI for rape-murder of girl, 15||BAREILLY: A Pocso court in Lakhimpur Kheri district sentenced a 21-year-old man to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment on Monday for the rape-murder of a 15-year-old Dalit girl in 2016. The accused was a juvenile at the time of the incident. Additional district government counsel Ramesh Chandra Mishra said, “The accused was 17 years and 11 months old at the time of the crime. Hence, he has been sentenced to 10 years rigorous imprisonment, which is the maximum term for a juvenile. He has also been fined Rs 80,000, out of which Rs 50,000 would be given to the victim’s family as compensation.” The court pronounced the youth guilty on Saturday and the sentencing was done on Monday. Police had registered a case against the accused under IPC sections 376 (rape) and 302 (murder) along with section 5/6 of Pocso Act and the relevant sections of SC/ST Act based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s mother. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-gets-10-yr-ri-for-rape-murder-of-girl-15/articleshow/79132908.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Victim still unidentified, cops manage to nab killers||Nagpur: MIDC police have managed to nab three alleged assailants, Shubham Nimbulkar, Mangesh Roy and Akash Shinde, for their involvement in stoning an unidentified person to death at Indiramata Nagar. The body was found in the early hours of Sunday. It’s learnt the victim, who had ‘Suraj’ and ‘Durg’ tattooed on his right hand, had slapped Nimbulkar during a heated argument. Enraged by the slap, Nimbulkar and his accomplices pinned him down and stoned him to death. Police surmise the unidentified man’s first name is Suraj, and he is likely to be from Durg in Chhattisgarh but there has been no confirmation yet. Nimbulkar has six offences against him in the past. Though there was no apparent motive in sight, and the man remained unidentified, Zonal DCP Noorul Hasan’s special team and MIDC police managed to zero down upon the suspects following a tip-off, within 48 hours of the incident. DCP Hasan, who worked under the supervision of Addl CP Dilip Zalke, said three teams were formed to crack the case, rewards were promised and intense canvassing was carried out at the site of murder and also at adjoining places. “We could not identify the man so far, but managed to get the suspects, who admitted having murdered the victim over a trivial drunken brawl,” he said. In similar manner, DCP Hasan’s team had also arrested two thieves behind theft of construction material from highways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/victim-still-unidentified-cops-manage-to-nab-killers/articleshow/79138899.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 10, 2020||Trichy||‘Online classes by private schools effective’||TRICHY: There is a difference of opinion among parents of government and private school students as those in private schools were in favour of postponing the reopening schools while a majority parents of government school students wanted schools to reopen from November 16. Officials from the school education department said that parents of government school children felt the audio-visual classes through Kalvi Tholaikatchi were inadequate and reopening can only help them with their education. Most parents in private schools were satisfied with online classes and wanted reopening to be postponed considering the pandemic. “Parents of Class 12 students are concerned about the upcoming board examinations and want schools to reopen. However, majority parents from classes 9 to 11 want the reopening to be postponed considering the ongoing pandemic,” said Jegan Matha Matriculation higher secondary school correspondent R Sahayaraj. “Parents of Class 10 students assume that board examinations may be cancelled next year like this year if the arrival of vaccines for Covid-19 delays. We have covered 70% of students through online classes, bringing the rest of the students is indeed a challenge,” he added. Parents from government higher secondary school on the outskirts of Trichy want to send their children to school. But a teacher from the same school whose son is studying in a private school in Chennai said that schools reopening can be postponed. The teacher said that the private school has been effectively conducting online classes and he finds physical classes unnecessary especially when a vaccine is yet to come. “Another section of parents are unable to manage their teenage children at home. Many are refusing to regularly watch classes on TV,” he added. “Two third of students have expressed their willingness for reopening of school. 700 odd parents came to the school to give their opinion,” said M Mercy, headmistress of Syed Murthuza government higher secondary school. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/online-classes-by-pvt-schools-effective/articleshow/79137566.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Will shut markets if Covid rules ignored: Civic chief||Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Monday warned of imposing lockdown in specific areas if shopkeepers and hawkers don’t follow Covid-19 protocol. With just a few days left for Diwali, popular markets like Sitabuldi, Itwari, Mahal etc saw large number of shoppers on Sunday. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) administration and city police are finding it difficult as safety norms like Covid distancing and wearing a mask are blatantly being ignored during the festive rush. According to a senior NMC official, though most people visiting the markets wear masks, “physical distancing is ignored inside shops or while walking in the market area”. The civic chief chaired a meeting with different enforcement agencies and departments including city traffic police and NMC’s nuisance detection squad to discuss to prevent rush in commercial areas. DCP crime G Rajmane, DCP traffic Sarang Awad, deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar, NDS commandant Veersen Tambe among others were present. The civic chief told TOI that shopkeepers and hawkers associations have been told if they don’t follow instructions, it will be treated seriously. “Both shopkeepers and hawkers must follow Covid-19 protocols like not allowing customers without face masks and follow physical distancing,” he said. Currently, NMC is imposing a fine of 500 on people caught without masks but there is no fine for not maintaining physical distancing. “I have warned the shopkeepers and hawkers that if they do not maintain physical distancing, fine of 3,000, 5,000 and8,000 will be imposed,” he said. Radhakrishnan said the DCP (traffic) has decided to make Sitabuldi market a no-vehicle zone from 4pm to 10pm. “Parking arrangements will be made at nearby open places,” he said. Personnel from headquarters and police stations will assist NMC’s civic cops in imposing Covid-19 guidelines, said the civic chief and added that NMC’s anti-encroachment team will be deployed at every commercial area. “If we (Nagpurians) ignore rules, we will witness a second lockdown soon,” he said and added that a second wave of Covid-19 cases is predicted towards the year end. Police chief Amitesh Kumar has revived mask drive, and launched mission for de-congestion and crowd management at marketplaces. Zonal DCP and teams would ensure crowd management at key business areas. Special squads will be deployed to check molestation and chain snatching. Women cops in civic dresses would be present at crowded places. Squads deployed Markets————-—————————————Civic Cops Sitabuldi market———-————————————-45 Itwari, Mahal, Gandhibagh————————————33 Kamal Chowk and Jaripatka———————————35 Kirana Oli, Reshim Oli and Bhandara Road Market——20||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-shut-markets-if-covid-rules-ignored-civic-chief/articleshow/79137616.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: 3 railway staffers suspended for attacking two TTEs||TRICHY: Railway officials have issued an order suspending three employees working in Trichy division after a case was registered against them with the government railway police (GRP) for attacking two train ticket examiners (TTEs) at the Thanjavur railway station for not allowing a temporary employee to travel in the Guruvayur Express without a ticket. Meanwhile, all TTEs in Trichy division wore black badges on Monday condemning the incident. As per the suspension order issued by the Trichy division, both C Arulmurugan, junior clerk, and D Karthick, track maintainer grade IV, working in Thanjavur railway junction were put under suspension since November 6, while TTEs N Ramesh and Jawahar are undergoing treatment, officials said. The inspector of GRP, Thanjavur, has written a letter to the section officers of the two accused requesting to take necessary action to report the two to the police station to interrogate them in connection with the incident that took place on November 4. Jawahar was checking tickets on the train when he found N Veera Manikandan had no train ticket on him. During inquiry, the TTE came to know that he was a senior technician (trainee). He had boarded S1 coach on the train from Tiruvarur. Based on his information, Arulmurugan and Karthick were waiting at Thanjavur railway station where they attacked both Jawahar and Ramesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-rly-staffers-suspended-for-attacking-two-ttes/articleshow/79137572.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Trichy||620 students join free NEET coaching classes from Trichy||TRICHY: Over 600 students from Trichy district have joined the free online NEET coaching given by the school education department for aspirants in government and government aided schools. While the formal classes started from Monday across the state, officials say that the numbers are expected to increase in the coming days as students are motivated after horizontal reservation of 7.5% for government school students in MBBS seats in government medical colleges.  Students willing to join online training, being conducted by the school education department by hiring a private firm, have to fill a form and submit it online. They have to fill in their basic details like their name, date of birth, address, community and school name. Once the details reach the state coordinator, a login id and password is generated for them to attend online classes. Students will attend four classes daily and attend practice tests for which marks are generated instantly. “Since it was the first day, many students came with queries saying that they could not login. We have asked them to register again to gain access to online classes,” said M Joan of Arc, coordinator for free NEET coaching in Trichy. “Last year, 448 students joined the free NEET coaching which included matriculation and CBSE schools, but this year 620 students have already joined. We are expecting more students this year especially from the government schools as prospects of them getting a seat have increased after 7.5% horizontal reservation ensured by the state government,” said Joan of Arc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/620-students-join-free-neet-coaching-classes-from-trichy/articleshow/79137575.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP rolls out PM scheme for food processing units||LUCKNOW: The UP government has started the roll out of the Prime Minister Formalization of Micro Food Processing Enterprises Scheme (PMFME), a centrally sponsored programme to promote private micro food processing units. The government has started the process to identify the state project management unit to implement the scheme, form district level committees, empanel district resource persons, enrol state level technical institutes, approve the list of food items according to their districts and draw up the project implementation plan for the current financial year. The Centre launched the scheme in June this year under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan with an outlay of Rs 10,000 crore for five years. It has been proposed to assist two lakh enterprises across India, while 37,826 entrepreneurs from UP have been identified for formalization. The expenditure under the scheme will be shared between the Centre and state governments in the ratio of 60:40. “We will be taking up food industries on lines of ‘one district-one product’ and are in the process of identifying district wise food processing activities. Once that is done, we will work towards improving the value chain by providing infrastructure, backward linkages support, brand promotion and marketing support to these enterprises,” said an official. Among food products already identified are mango for Amroha, Lucknow, Sitapur, Unnao, Varanasi and Mau, banana for Lakhimpur Kheri, Gorakhpur, Shrawasti and Gonda, guava for Badaun, Prayagraj and Kaushambi, amla for Rai Bareli, Fatehpur, Pratapgarh and Amethi, jaggery for Meerut, Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli, Bijnor, Pilibhit and Shahjahanpur, bakery goods for Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, Kanpur and Sant Kabir Nagar, onion for Ghazipur, Bhadohi and Ballia, tomato for Etawah, Chandauli, Mirzapur and Sonbhadra, and milk products for Mathura, Aligarh, Bulandshahr, Bareilly, Kanpur Dehat, Auraiya. These were selected as per regional specialization and skills available in various districts. The horticulture and food processing department has been designated as the state nodal department while directorate of horticulture and food processing, Lucknow will be the nodal agency for implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-rolls-out-pm-scheme-for-food-processing-units/articleshow/79138903.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizam funds: Kin ignored in UK award of Rs 325 crore to challenge it over ‘invalid’ papers||HYDERABAD: The legal battle over the Nizam money or Hyderabad fund seems to be far from over even after a London court disposed of the seven-decade-old case involving 35 million pound (Rs 325 crore) last year. Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan’s grandson Najaf Ali Khan has decided to seek legal remedy claiming the certificate of succession issued to the titular Nizam VIII Mukarram Jah in 1967 had become invalid after the abolition of the privy purse in 1971. He said the UK court, which dealt with the case, had banked on the certificate of succession. He said the money ruled in favour of the Nizam’s heirs should be distributed as per the provisions of the Muslim personal law as the succession certificate is now “non est” in law. Najaf Ali told TOI that he would file a case against those who provided the “invalid” certificate to the administrator of Nizam Estate for forgery, misrepresentation, cheating, fraud, and misappropriation of fund. He said he would also invoke the law governing false evidence, Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA), sedition and causing heavy loss to the exchequer. The Hyderabad fund case relates to money sent by the finance minister of Hyderabad State prior to Police Action in September 1948 to the account of the Pakistan high commissioner in London. India, Pakistan and Nizam’s heirs claimed the money and, after a long-drawn battle, the UK court ruled in favour of India and Nizam’s two grandsons Mukarram Jah and Muffakham Jah. A small portion of the money was allocated to the administrator of the Nizam Estate, who was also a party to the case. Najaf Ali said the certificate of recognition was used in the UK court, which “is clear violation of the Constitution of India pertaining to the distribution of Nizam’s fund lying in NatWest Bank in UK”. He alleged that other legal heirs of the Nizam have deprived the remaining family of Nizam VII their legitimate right, causing them a huge financial loss”. “The certificate of recognition was quashed by Andhra Pradesh high court in the case of Ahmedunnisa Vs Union of India (January 29, 1968). In a similar matter, the certificate of recognition of rulership pertaining to Nawab of Rampur was quashed by the Delhi High Court (December 18, 1969). Despite the rulings of the Andhra Pradesh and Delhi high courts and abolition of the privy purse, the invalid certificate was used,” Najaf Ali Khan alleged. He said he came to know that the certificate was used in the proceeding pertaining to distribution of the Nizam fund case only in July 2020. The certificate was provided to the administrator of the Estate of Nizam VII.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizam-funds-kin-ignored-in-uk-award-of-rs-325-cr-to-challenge-it-over-invalid-papers/articleshow/79139438.cms||Syed Akbar
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||15-year-old boy ends life after tiff with mother||Nagpur: Porus Kshirsagar, aged about 15, died by suicide after being scolded by his mother at their residence in Gharkul Society in Beltarodi on Sunday. It’s learnt Porus, a student of Standard X, was berated by his mother over watering plants at their house. Miffed with mother, Porus consumed some poison. Later, he was rushed to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead. A case of accidental death has been registered at Beltarodi police station. Police said Porus’s mother earned livelihood by working as domestic help. The boy had left no suicide note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/15-year-old-boy-ends-life-after-tiff-with-mother/articleshow/79138906.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Trichy||3 of family, who arrived illegally from Sri Lanka, held||NAGAPATTINAM: Three Sri Lanka nationals, who had arrived in India illegally by a boat on Saturday, were arrested by the marine police and a team of special branch police near Kodiyakkarai in Vedaranyam in Nagapattinam district under the Passport Act. Police are interrogating the man who was a businessman, and whether he had run away after being involved in the misappropriation of several crores of rupees in Sri Lanka, sources said. According to police, the three have been identified as A Mohammed Shihab, 49, his wife M Fathima Farzana Markaar, 39, and their son A Abdullah Vasim Shihab, 10. The family hails from Jaffna in Sri Lanka. Based on information, the marine police launched a search operation and intercepted the family near the Kodiyakarai bus stand. They had sailed from Trincomalee and arrived here by a fishing trawler illegally. They landed near the dense casuarina plantations along the Kodiyakarai shore. After interrogation by the special branch police, all the three were handed over to the law and order police in Vedaranyam. During investigation, Mohammed and his family members had no passport or any other valid documents for their travel. Following that, police produced them before the district judicial court on Sunday. While the couple were remanded in prison, their son has been sent to a government juvenile home in Nagapattinam as per the direction of the court, police said. Meanwhile, sources said that Mohammed had been running a finance company. After suffering a big loss in business, he had escaped from the country to avert any legal proceedings. The special branch police have intensified their investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-of-family-who-arrived-illegally-from-sl-held/articleshow/79137579.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Trichy||Trichy central library organising story-telling and essay writing contest||TRICHY: District central library, Trichy is organizing a Tamil storytelling contest and Tamil essay writing competition as part of 53rd National Library Week Celebrations. Tamil storytelling contest is for children below 10 years of age and essay writing is open to all. Children participating in the storytelling contest must record their video, not exceeding 5 minutes. The video should be sent by Whatsapp to - 9894548445, 9443673565 and 8220712329 by November 18, 5pm. Details such as participant’s name, date of birth, class and residential address should also be sent. For Tamil essay writing, participants can choose from three topics namely, Corona kalathil katrathum, petrathum (learning and earning during Covid- 19) for class VI-VII. Padithen Viyanthen (fascinating reads) for class IX-XII and Entha Noolkal ethanal pidikum (why I like these books) for readers. The essays should not exceed 6 pages with a minimum of 20 lines per page and sent to The Librarian, District Central Library, 144, WB Road, Singarathoppu, Trichy - 620 008 either in person or through the post. The top 10 entries of the essay contest in each of all 3 categories will be called for personal interaction on November 20 at the library premises. Based on the interaction, the top three prize winners will be chosen. The first, second and third prize winners of both contests will be honoured with a shield and certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-district-central-library-organising-story-telling-and-essay-writing-contest/articleshow/79137603.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 200 schools to unite on single platform to ‘safeguard interests’||KOLKATA: Management committees and principals of around 200 private, unaided schools across Bengal have decided to join hands and set up an association that will allow the institutions, irrespective of the affiliating boards, to share the problems plaguing their functioning and to safeguard the interest of all stakeholders. The first-of-its-kind association is likely to be named All Bengal Private Schools’ Association. “We are yet to decide on a name for the platform. Similar associations, set up by school managements, operate in other states, too,” said Rupa Dey, academic director of Angel Group of Schools and principal of Kalyani Public School. “Representatives of the management of private schools and principals will be members of the association. Till now, we have authorities from 200 unaided, private English-medium schools who have expressed their interest to join the forum. Already there are separate associations of schools run by CISCE and CBSE. This platform will be unique because it will comprise management committee members. along with principals, of schools affiliated to various boards, including the state one.” Not all schools fit the same category. So, a mix of low- and high-fee structured educational institutes will be members of the association. “We need a uniform platform to address the variois problems faced by schools. Though there are teachers’ associations and parents’ associations in every school, there is no common representation of the managements where we can together discuss a plan of action in case of challenges being faced by all of us. We belong to the same fraternity. We should hold hands in need and back one another,” said a principal. Those who have decided to join the forum hope this platform will safeguard the interest of the schools. “The problems, which has escalated, especially during the pandemic, are a matter of major concern. The issues are similar at each and every school. The trouble centres around fees and is also concerning the maintenance of transport, payment of salary to teachers and staff and expansion of a massive infrastructure for virtual classes that involve a huge cost. Some of the other issues that require deliberation are the measures adopted by schools before reopening the campus to resume physical classes,” said a school principal. He added that there were several prominent schools that had already joined a group that had been formed on a social networking site before the association was formed. . Several principals pointed out that the application process for an NOC, required for the functioning of a school, was smooth but problems cropped up subsequently with third-party involvement. “Despite fulfilling all the criteria for an NCO, there are certain issues that crop up before schools,” said a principal. Several schools from Kolkata, Siliguri, Durgapur and Behrampore would be part of the association, said Nabarun De, principal and manager of Central Modern School in Baranagar. “The NEP is likely to be implemented but we, as a major stakeholder of private, unaided schools, have not been consulted by the government. From this platform, we want to raise issues and bring to the limelight that our viewpoint should also be taken into consideration. Similar associations are there in other states but, none in Bengal. So we felt the need for setting up one. In Karnataka, such an association has been functioning for the past 38 years. It is high time private, unaided schools in Bengal followed suit. Foreseeing the future, we have to be united,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/200-schools-to-unite-on-single-platform-to-safeguard-interests/articleshow/79137687.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Girls lead in enrollments in higher education institutes for 4th year||JAIPUR: For the fourth year in a row, girls have outnumbered boys in college enrolments in 2019-20 academic year. A report by the state higher education department said girl enrolment in higher education was 6.30 lakh compared to boys at 5.33 lakh. The figures came from a state which has the lowest literacy rate among women in the country. The gender difference of 64,000 is the highest and sources have claimed that by next year it will be more than lakh. Data available with officials said in 2005-06, for every 100 boys enrolled, the share of girls was 38. The situation has completely reversed in the last 15 years. Thanks to only girls colleges being opened by the state almost every year encouraging the enrolment from economically weaker and socially disadvantaged groups. Since higher education in state-run colleges is free, experts have projected the trend to continue for years. The state has dedicated 469 colleges and three private universities for girls while another two are in the pipeline to tap the growing trend. “The only girl schools/colleges have merely not contributed to this trend but the change in the outlook of society has also contributed for the same. Credit goes to the communities/parents from traditional and orthodox families who embraced change. This transformation is in early stage and in the coming years the divide is going to be wide,” said Rashmi Jain, associate professor of the sociology department, Rajasthan University. The icing on the cake is that girls have superseded in all social categories – general, SC, ST and OBC. For every 100 boys, 117 girls enrolled in the general category. Similar in SC, ST and OBC category, 102, 114 and 112 girls enrolled in 2019-20. The boys have lost to girls in terms of enrolments at all levels of higher education. Taking a diverse view of the figures, KB Kothari, senior educationist, said it was very early to celebrate the rising enrolments among girls. “The enrolment among boys is not increasing as per the rise in the population. Second, the boys are ahead than girls in senior secondary classes which proves that mismatch in the result of the high dropout rate among boys,” said Kothari, who asked state higher education department for a deeper study on this trend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/girls-lead-in-enrollments-in-higher-education-institutes-for-4th-year/articleshow/79137622.cms||Shoeb Khan
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors: Flu-like illnesses may aggravate Covid scene||Nagpur: Sudden drop in temperature, intense activities for the upcoming Diwali festivities and shunning preventive measures like wearing mask, hand hygiene and distancing norms are likely to aggravate Covid situation and prolong recovery of even home isolated patients. Minimum temperature has been falling in the city in the last 10 days. During the same period, doctors have observed increase in the number of people reporting fever, cough, cold and respiratory problems. Pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat said viral infection during onset of winter is a regular phenomenon and like Covid, flu-like illnesses are also equally contagious. “If people don’t follow preventive norms, then Covid cases too will increase and those in home isolation will need longer time to recover,” he said. District health authorities apprehend onset of second wave of Covid infection sometime after Diwali. This is based on global trends wherein many nations have announced lockdown again following unprecedented single-day surge in new Covid infection cases. Dr Arbat said every year, 5 to 6 lakh people, mainly senior citizens, succumb to flu-like illnesses in winter. “This year, because of Covid, flu-like deaths may have gone unreported. We had several patients who tested RT-PCR negative, but had flu,” said Dr Arbat. Consulting pulmonologist Dr Vikram Rathi said sudden weather change leads to symptoms like cold, cough, sneezing and fever. “Once the weather stabilizes, body gets acclimatized. During this time, everyone must take precautions. The winter viral is not as infectious as Covid, yet it shouldn’t be taken lightly,” he said. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande expressed anguish over widespread violation of Covid guidelines. “It was assumed that people have realized the importance of distancing, mask, hand hygiene. It was expected that good lifestyle habits would have prevented flu-like illnesses. However, all those learning have come undone, it seems. As compared to last year, flow of outdoor patients has increased 200%. I appeal to people to heed the advice and follow guidelines,” he said. IGGMCH doctors said they were witnessing follow-up patients of COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease), tuberculosis. “We are yet to see a surge in flu patients,” they said. Both Dr Arbat and Dr Gawande said vaccination helps in developing immunity to flu-like illnesses. “People should get vaccinated,” they prescribed. Info Causes Increase in pollution and decrease in temperature Presence of fog and hindrance to clear sunlight makes conditions conducive for viruses Lack of ultraviolet rays from sun due to fog and pollution cuts Vitamin D production in body Vitamin D shortage weakens immunity Prevention Mask, vaccination, avoiding places with high dust, following hand hygiene, distancing||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-flu-like-illnesses-may-aggravate-covid-scene/articleshow/79137720.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Three hack to death Tamil TV journalist||CHENNAI: Three men on Sunday hacked to death a 26-year-old Tamil television channel journalist at Somangalam in Kunrathur, allegedly because he thwarted the bid of the gang’s kingpin to sell off government poramboke land near a lake, police said. Police arrested Venkatesan, Vignesh and Manoj on charges of murdering G Moses, 26, outside his house, and Navamani for ordering the killing. All four are being questioned. Police said Moses of Nallur near Somangalam, covered the Sriperumbudur and Kundrathur areas for Tamilan TV. His father Gnanaraj Yesudasan, a reporter with daily Malai Tamizhagam, told police that at 11pm he received a call on his mobile phone and stepped out. An officer said the three men took him near to a lake a few metres from his house and began to attack him with machetes. He raised an alarm and tried to run away, but they chased and attacked him again. His father and some of the family’s neighbours came out hearing his cries and found him bleeding profusely. Moses was taken to Government Chromepet Hospital where doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. Kancheepuram district superintendent of police D Shanmugapriya and other officers visited the spot and held inquiries. Police sources said a few anti-social elements had encroached upon a part of lake and were trying to sell it off after putting up a structure at the spot. Residents of the area demolished the structure and Moses decided to publish it as a news item which, however, did not appear on the channel. The gang believed Moses and his father and led the local residents. Interrogations with the accused revealed that Navamani was sore with Moses after her threatened to publish his attempt to sell government poramboke land near the lake in Somangalam. Navamani then told Venkatesh, a resident of a nearby village who was angry with Moses because he often bullied him, about the matter. On Sunday, Venkatesh, Vignesh and Manoj consumed liquor and murderd Moses, the officer said. Moses’s father Gnanaraj told TOI that his son had always stood up against drugs, rowdyism and illegal activities in the district. Condemning the murder, the Tamil Nadu Women Journalists claimed that Moses petitioned police a few days ago, seeking protection, but that they failed to give him cover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/three-hack-to-death-tamil-tv-journalist/articleshow/79137623.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Over 12 lakh people to cast vote in polls to 42 civic bodies||JAIPUR: Over 12 lakh people will exercise their franchise in the remaining 42 civic bodies having 1,520 wards spread across 11 districts on December 11. The elections to the posts of chairpersons will be held on December 20. The last date of filing nominations for the posts of members is November 27 and for the posts of chairpersons is December 15. Of the total 12.75 lakh voters, 6.63 lakh are male voters and 6.11 lakh are females. There are 23 third gender voters. Around 14,000 polling officials will be involved in the election duty. The expenditure limit for the candidates fighting the polls for the posts of members is Rs 1.50 lakh. A candidate has to obtain written permission from the election officers concerned for use of loudspeakers. However, loudspeakers can’t be used from 8pm to 8am. Earlier, the elections to 49 municipal bodies of the state were conducted by the state election commission in the November, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-12-lakh-voters-to-vote-in-polls-to-42-civic-bodies/articleshow/79137665.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata gets a new containment zone after a month||KOLKATA: A locality in Thakurpukur, with more than 60 active Covid-19 cases, has been notified as a containment zone. The last time a containment zone was notified by the Kolkata Municipal Corporation and Kolkata Police was a month ago. Located off James Long Sarani, Satyen Park — the new containment zone — is one of the most well-connected localities in Behala and has a major market bang opposite and two hospitals within a kilometre. The spurt in cases, according to ward coordinator Indrajit Bhattacharjee, has happened after Durga Puja. “In each house that reported a Covid patient, at least one more family member got infected. We realized that home isolation policy wasn’t working and the area needed to be declared a containment zone,” said a police officer from the south-west division. While guard rails are currently not being used to seal off containment zones, the size of Satyen Park, the number of cases and threat of further spread due to the presence of the market in such close proximity may require its residents to be ‘contained’. A sizeable number of Satyen Park residents are office-goers. School teacher Sanjay Ghosh felt it was ironic that Satyen Park residents who had blocked outsiders from entering the locality during the lockdown and set up barriers to prevent the virus from creeping into the locality had now become a containment zone. Homemaker Sucheta Dasgupta feels what has happened was inevitable given the laxity that had set in over the past couple of months. “In the initial days, everyone was careful. As time passed, people forgot about the virus. They even started visiting the market without masks,” said complained. The ward coordinator has now asked police to set up roadblocks to restrict entry and exit. “We may have to shut the Rail Line Market. It is still operational but a decision on shutdown will be taken soon,” the coordinator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-gets-a-new-c-zone-after-a-month/articleshow/79136379.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 10, 2020||Bareilly||20-year-old man arrested for sodomising 5-year-old in Shahjahanpur district||BAREILLY: A 20-year-old man was arrested on Monday for a five-year-old boy in Nigona village under the jurisdiction of Roza police station in Shahjahanpur district. The incident took place on Sunday when the victim, who was grazing his goat, asked money from the accused to buy candies. The accused, identified as Vimal Kumar, then lured him to a cane field with Rs 20 cash and sexually assaulted him. The issue came into light after the victim informed his mother about severe pain in his private part. An FIR was later registered under IPC section 377 (unnatural offences) and POCSO Act against Vimal, following which he was arrested from his house on Monday. During interrogation, Vimal confessed to his crime and was sent to jail after medical examination. The boy was admitted at the hospital for treatment and was discharged after his condition was stable. “The medical examination of the boy suggested that he was sexually assaulted. We have collected sufficient evidence and a chargesheet will be filed against the Kumar soon,” additional superintendent of police Sanjay Kumar said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/20-year-old-man-arrested-for-sodomising-5-year-old-in-shahjahanpur-district/articleshow/79132953.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Muslims share in higher edu way below their share in state populace||Times News NetworkJaipur: Muslims in the state are far behind in terms of enrolments in higher education institutes as compared to their share in the state population.The report by the state higher education department 2019-20 said the share of minorities in higher education is 3.47% while the share in population is 11.5%. Muslims constitute for about 9.7% of the state population as per the 2011 census report. The report said 41,486 enrolments were recorded in the category of minorities which includes Sikhs, Jains, Buddhist and others out of 11.96 lakh enrollments. “This is a collective failure of the community and the consecutive governments who have not made sincere efforts to push community youths for education like they have done it for other vulnerable communities,” said Zahida Shabnam, an educationist working with the minority groups. She added that this best explains the why the community youths are missing from highly skilled jobs as they don’t qualify to even appear in competitive exams of both public and private sector. Explaining the reasons, Sayeed Ahmed Shah, a social activist based in Jaipur, said by and large Muslim families live in extreme poverty which demands youths to support their families very early is leading to mass dropout after primary classes. Mohammed Atique of Maulana Azad University in Jodhpur said time was running out and the community shouldn’t wait for the government for any assistance in providing their education. “Dropout in schools or colleges should be considered a sin by society. The education class should keep a watch on those not attending schools and colleges and initiate counselling sessions for them. Those in need of financial assistance should be helped by the community as it the single largest reason for this dismal show,” said Atique.Even in the worst of the situation, girls have superseded boys in enrolments. For every 100 boys, 106 girls enrolled in the higher education institutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/muslims-share-in-higher-edu-way-below-their-share-in-state-populace/articleshow/79137638.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Less than 500 new Covid cases 1st time in Vid since July 28||Nagpur: Vidarbha region recorded 497 new patients of Covid-19 on Monday. This was for the first time since July 28 that less than 500 cases were reported in a day. All districts, except Nagpur, recorded less than 100 cases while nine districts reported patients below 50 on November 9. However, in most of these districts including Nagpur, number of daily Covid-19 tests also went down significantly on Monday. Recoveries, on the other hand, continued to remain in four figures. On Monday, 1,015 patients recovered from 11 districts of Vidarbha. These include Nagpur 325, Chandrapur 200, Yavatmal 97, Gondia 90, Buldhana 83, Bhandara 82, Gadchiroli 50, Wardha 33, Amravati 23, Washim 22, and Akola 10. Now, out of total 2,06,543 cases reported till date, 1,90,692 have recovered. Vidarbha’s recovery rate surged to 92.32%. Covid deaths were reported in 8 districts of Vidarbha on Monday. Total 19 deaths were added to the toll taking total to 5,662. Deaths came from Nagpur 10, Gondia 2, Chandrapur 2, Bhandara 1, Wardha 1, Amravati 1, Yavatmal 1, Buldhana 1. Out of 10 deaths in Nagpur, 4 are from Nagpur city, while 3 each are from Nagpur district and other state/district patients. Case fatality rate of the region is still above 2.70%. Amravati: Only 13 new cases and a solitary Covid death took the district’s caseload to 16,690 and the toll to 369 on Monday. The district also reported 23 recoveries today that took the count to 15,825 for a recovery rate of 94.82%. This left 496 patients, including 287 in home isolation, under treatment.Wardha: A 45-year-old man form Deoli died due to coronavirus during treatment on Monday. Also, 14 persons tested positive for coronavirus and 32 patients were discharged after recovery. In all, 145 test reports were received and 14 of them were positive. The cases were detected are Wardha 10, Hinganghat 3 and Deoli 1. The number of patients under treatment in the district reduced to 393 and total recoveries are now 6,115 while total cases reached 6,724 and toll to 216.Yavatmal: The district recorded one Covid death — a 68-year-old man from the city. On Monday, 319 test reports are received of which 14 were positive. As on Monday, 293 patients are under treatment. The district has reported total 10,540 Covid patients, of which 9,577 have recovered, including 97 on Monday. Chandrapur: With the detection of 77 new patients, Covid cases once again dipped below 100 for the day. However, total caseload climbed across 17,000-mark to reach 17,024 on Monday. In all, 200 patients were discharged and the total recoveries are now at 14,216. With two more deaths, toll has reached 254. There are now 2,554 patients under treatment in the district.Washim: The district reported 19 new patients on Monday. This took total Covid-19 cases to 5,791. On the other hand, 22 patients recovered taking total number of recovered patients to 5,489. No death was reported in the day. With 144 deaths till date, Washim has 158 patients under treatment. Buldhana: A 42-year-old woman from Motala village died during treatment in Buldhana taking the district’s toll to 131. Out of 524 reports received in the day, 33 were of positive persons. With this, total cases in the district have reached 9,940. On the other hand, 83 patients recovered in the day taking their number to 9,404. There are 405 patients under treatment in Buldhana at present. Akola: Only 12 new patients were detected in Akola while 10 got discharge on Monday. No Covid death was reported for the 5th day in a row. Now, the district has 8,580 total cases, 8,073 recoveries and 282 deaths. Total 225 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 34 new patients, while 50 recovered on Monday. Now, Gadchiroli has 6,586 total cases, 5,734 recoveries and 787 patients are under treatment. Recovery rate of the district is 87%, while 12% patients are still under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 25 new patients, 82 recoveries and a death on Monday. In all, the district’s caseload reached 9,134. These include 8,133 recoveries and 230 deaths. Now, 771 patients are under treatment. Gondia: Total 51 new cases emerged in the district on Monday which include 33 from Sadak Arjuni tehsil alone. Besides, 90 patients defeated the virus. A 67-year old and a 70-year-old patient (both men) succumbed to the infection on Monday. Only 186 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. Gondia now has 10,379 cases, 9,664 recoveries and 138 deaths. Total 577 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-500-new-covid-cases-1st-time-in-vid-since-july-28/articleshow/79137655.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||ED to present Jagan deposition at time of framing of charges||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday told the designated court for trying the money laundering cases filed by it under Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) that it would furnish the copy of the deposition given by AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at the time of framing the charges. ED’s special public prosecutor TV Subba Rao told this to special judge BR Madhusudhan Rao when the plea of Jagathi Publications and Jagan Mohan Reddy seeking a joint trial in the cases filed by the ED and CBI came up for hearing. The judge, in the earlier hearing, had enquired about the statement given by Jagan before the ED under section 50 of the PMLA. ED’s counsel said that they would produce all such evidence at the time of framing of charges.  Now the issue before the court is to decide which case should be taken up first. “PMLA says our trial should precede all others and we need not wait for other trials to be concluded,” Subba Rao said. Later in the day, the CBI court resumed hearing in the discharge pleas of Jagan, his auditor VijaySai Reddy and Jagathi Publications. Appearing for Jagan, senior counsel S Niranjan Reddy found fault with CBI for terming the report of Deloitte as a forged one that artificially hiked the share value of Jagathi. Citing the statements given by the authorities of Deloitte who deposed before the CBI and the court that their report was not a forged one and that they arrived at the valuation only after a thorough study, the Jagathi’s counsel sought discharge of Jagan from the case. “The CBI case is devoid of merits. It has no legal basis,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-to-present-jagan-deposition-at-time-of-framing-of-charges/articleshow/79137668.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||NU results delayed as staffers test Covid-19 +ve||Nagpur: After glitches during online final year examinations, the Nagpur University is now grappling with delay in results as few of its officials from Exam Section, including senior ones, have contracted Covid-19. The development has also led to delay in conducting re-exams of some subjects like MA, MCom, MSc and others which NU had planned in the first week of this month. Pro-vice chancellor Sanjay Dudhe said only one of their top officials had contracted the disease while others were from Promarc which was looking after exams and results work. “Obviously, there will be a slight delay. But the work hasn’t stopped, as remaining employees are working overtime to bring out the results. We are doing our best to expedite the process,” he told TOI. A couple of months back, about 8-10 employees from exam Section were infected with Covid-19. One of the staffers also lost his life after suffering a massive cardiac arrest. Dudhe added that majority of the employees were tested after the initial cases. “In the absence of our director, I am looking after his work. We all are overburdened. We leave home at 10am but there’s no guarantee when we will return. We are trying to declare results as early as possible so that postgraduate admissions cane be started,” he said. A Promarc official told TOI that work was slightly affected as two of its senior staffers were infected along with others. “All the infected employees are in home isolation and taking rest, as they had a hectic schedule last month due to online exams. Our work hasn’t stopped at any moment,” said the official. The official said there was delay as colleges failed to send internal and practical marks. “Adding marks is a complicated process, as those are added in the mark-list as per the formulae, confirmed with NU records in its tabulation register (TR) and then re-checked twice or thrice to remove any errors. There are many categories like regular, former, failure and ex-students which complicates the process,” he said. A senior NU official said the colleges had jumbled the marks along with names, roll numbers of its students. “Now, the process is consuming more time. We are correcting those records first before declaring the results,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-results-delayed-as-staffers-test-covid-19-ve/articleshow/79137667.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre finds high Covid-19 deaths in Punjab ‘unacceptable’||CHANDIGARH: The Centre has termed the high number of Covid-19 patients dying within 24 hours of hospitalization in Punjab as "unacceptable" and directed the state government to take corrective steps. According to data shared during the review meeting chaired by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, as many as 807 people have died within 24 hours of hospitalization in the state. After touching a peak of 2,896 cases on September 17, there has been a drop in daily fresh cases, which have come down to an average of 480 in the last week. While there has been a decrease in the number of cases, the fatality rate continues to be high, leaving the experts worried. Punjab case fatality rate stands at 3.1% against the national death rate of 1.5%. Among the districts having high death rate, Ropar tops the list with a fatality rate of 4.8%, followed by Fatehgarh Sahib (4.7%), Tarn Taran (4.5%), Sangrur (4.2%) and Kapurthala and Ludhiana (4.1%). Punjab has been given a target of bringing the fatality rate below 1% and it has been recommended that a review of Covid-19 deaths be undertaken in districts having the high death rate. Centre has also suggested conducting a mortality analysis on a daily basis for timely corrective actions. The Centre has also expressed concern over the slide in testing in the last four weeks. The daily average tests -- both RT PCR and RAT -- have come down to 18,355 from 26,989 tests. There has been a rise in sample positivity rate from 2% to 2.6% in the last two weeks, pointing to the continued transmission of virus. The novel coronavirus has infected 137,445 people and claimed the lives of 4,318 people till November 8. Principal secretary (health) Hussan Lal accepted that the high fatality rate remains a cause of concern for the state government and assured the central health minister that corrective steps are being taken to bringing down the fatality rate. He informed him that an expert group under the chairmanship of Dr KK Talwar interacts with experts from India and abroad for finding solutions. He also shared the difficulties faced by the government due to rumours and misinformation being spread about the virus and the treatment. PAT ON THE BACK The state government was lauded for improving contact tracing, which has gone up from four contacts per positive case to 12, and for low turnaround time for testing. The Centre also appreciated Punjab for carrying out more reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests than rapid antigen tests. The conventional RT-PCR test is considered a gold standard in the diagnosis of Covid‐19 and its results are processed in 24 hours, while rapid antigen tests results come within 15 minutes but have an accuracy of about 70%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-finds-high-covid-19-deaths-in-punjab-unacceptable/articleshow/79137698.cms||Vinod Kumar
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Raj model of free FIR is worth emulation: CM||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday said innovative ways adopted by the government had ensured that every complainant was heard in police stations which led to people’s trust in police leading to good results.He said his government has shown courage in adopting the ‘Free Registration Policy’ for FIRs in each police station. He said the move had increased the registration of complaints, but in no way it meant that crime had increased.Gehlot was addressing the inaugural session of the national webinar on women and child safety and empowerment, rights and duties at the Chief Minister’s residence on Monday. The CM said that a letter has been written to Union home minister Amit Shah to implement this policy in all states.He said that protection of women and child rights is a very sensitive issue. In the Thanaghazi rape case of Alwar, police managed to punish the culprits with their professional approach and provided timely justice to the victim, in other rape cases, this case would become a model of investigation for state police.Gehlot said that due to measures like compulsory FIR policy, formation of special investigation units for crime against women in all police districts, construction of reception halls in police stations and continuous monitoring from high level, helped women in the state get speedy justice.Women have started coming to police station to file an FIR of the crimes against them. There has been a significant reduction of up to 40% in the average time spent on cases like rape. This time has been reduced from 267 days to 118 days. The number of cases filed through courts has also come down from 34% to 13%. Also, the percentage of pending investigations into crimes against women in the state is also 9% as against the national average of 34, he said.Minister of state for women and child development, Mamta Bhupesh and chairperson of the State Child Rights Protection Commission Sangeeta Beniwal also spoke on the occasion. Chief secretary Niranjan Arya and DGP M L Lather informed about the special campaign ‘AAWAJ’ - Action Against Women-related crime and Awareness for Justice by state police for the purpose of making women and girls aware of their rights in the state and awakening the public on the subject.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-model-of-free-fir-is-worth-emulation-cm/articleshow/79137694.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Hospital faces probe for not allowing patient to talk to kin; 9 others penalized||Kolkata: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission (WBCERC) on Monday took up the case against a private hospital in Tollygunge after the wife of a 36-year-old Benaras man who had died on October 21 appealed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to see if there was anything amiss in the treatment. Benaras resident Biswajit Deb Burman had taken ill during his visit to Kolkata last month. He was admitted to RSV Hospital, where he was found Covid-positive. Wife Anushka alleged that her husband was not allowed to use phone to communicate with the family. The deceased, however, had managed to send picture of a handwritten note to his wife before his death, alleging negligence on part of the hospital. The wife had written an appeal mail to Banerjee on October 21. The appeal was forwarded to WBCERC from the CM’s office. “Though the medical treatment protocol is not under our jurisdiction since the appeal of the deceased’s wife has been forwarded to us, we took up the case on a priority basis. We will see whatever we can do from our side,” said WBCERC chairman Ashim Kumar Baneerjee. The complainant has been asked to file an affidavit while the hospital has been asked to submit all treatment-related documents to the commission. The hospital will be submitting all revenant documents to the commission. This apart, the commission has asked eight hospitals to refund portions of treatment bill on Monday. CMRI has been asked to refund Rs 1.8 lakh to Bharati Basak, whose husband was treated in the hospital and was billed a little above Rs 10 lakh. BP Poddar Hospital was told to refund Rs 46,126 to Jagdish Jaju, whose wife had died within 10 hours of admission. The hospital had charged Rs 96,126 for the treatment. Ruby Hospital has been directed to offer a discount of Rs 72,000 to Narendranath Banerjee, whose mother was admitted in the ICU for five days and billed Rs 5.8 lakh. A couple who were treated at AMRI Salt Lake for Covid for 16 and 18 days, respectively, in the general beds has been asked to refund Rs 1 lakh of Rs 6.5 lakh they were charged. Kasturi Hospital in Behala, too, has been asked to offer Rs 2 lakh discount to the mother of a Covid patient who died in September. The hospital was found overcharging on various heads. Similarly, Calcutta Heart Research Clinic and Divine Nursing Home were asked to refund Rs 5000 and Rs 12,270, respectively, to patients while Mission Hospital Durgapur was asked to write a letter of apology to the patient. Health World Hospital Durgapur was penalized with Rs 50,000, along with an apology letter to a patient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hospital-faces-probe-for-not-allowing-patient-to-talk-to-kin-9-others-penalized/articleshow/79136389.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Maur blast: HC seeks report after contempt plea against cops||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Punjab government to submit a status report with regard to the investigation of the Maur Mandi blast case. Justice Nirmaljit Kaur has asked for the report in the wake of a contempt petition filed by Gurjeet Singh Patran of Patiala. The petitioner has sought directions to punish police officials for wilfully disobeying the hig,h court orders dated September 25, 2018; January 30, 2020; and September 17, 2020. Senior police officials against whom action under contempt of court has been sought include Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, ADGP (law and order) Ishwar Singh, IG (counter intelligence) Amit Parshad, IG (Bathinda range) Amit Kumar Mittal and Bathinda SSP Nanak Singh. According to the petitioner, despite several court directions, Punjab Police failed to investigate the case and failed to unravel the conspiracy behind the blast for the last three years and failed to arrest even a single accused. The petitioner submitted that cops were wilfully disobeying the court orders despite complete knowledge of the case. Earlier, the petitioner had sought directions to conclude the investigation of the January 2017 incident in which seven persons lost their lives and more than 12 persons were injured, by NIA or CBI in a time-bound manner. On court’s intervention, a special investigation team (SIT) was constituted by police to probe the case. The next hearing has been fixed for January 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/maur-blast-hc-seeks-report-after-contempt-plea-against-cops/articleshow/79137642.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: With 13,000 new cases, daily count lowest in 4 months||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,392 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,44,359. The toll jumped to 6,802 as 11 more people succumbed to the virus. This was the lowest single-day case total in over four months after July 8, when 1,062 cases were reported. The daily cases have remained under 2,000 for the third consecutive Monday. As many as 1,549 patients were declared cured. There are currently 21,235 active cases besides 8,16,322 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 96%. There are less than 1,000 active cases in seven districts. Disease epicentre East Godavari reported 341 new infections, followed by neighbouring West Godavari (243) and Guntur (116). Eight districts posted less than 100 cases to the table on Monday. Andhra Pradesh tested 61,050 samples on Monday, with a case positivity rate of about 2% — the lowest in last several months. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/with-1-3k-new-cases-daily-count-lowest-in-4-mnths/articleshow/79137746.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||ID proof must for test to keep tabs on home isolation patients in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) has now made it mandatory to present Aadhaar cards or voter cards for Covid tests since it was turning out to be difficult to trace and follow up on patients who are in home isolation. Many have relocated after testing positive while others, particularly those who have got tested at the KMC labs, have submitted wrong or incomplete addresses, which has prevented sanitization of their residences. Those who have shifted to other locations also pose a transmission risk to their neighbours, who may not be aware of their Covid status, said the civic authorities. A large number of such Covid patients has been ‘missing’ in areas like Baishnabghata, Patuli, Thakurpukur and Netaji Nagar in south Kolkata. Most had got tested at KMC labs and shifted to relatives’ places to protect their immediate family members. “We can’t stop them since there are scores of families at these places where multiple members of a family have got infected. Since it was not mandatory to produce an Aadhaar card till recently, many have not disclosed the right address. But we need to trace these patients so that their condition can be monitored and their premises sanitized,” said Ward 143 (Thakurpukur) coordinator Indrajit Bhattacharya. Since the pujas, KMC has made it compulsory to carry an Aadhaar card to get tested at its labs. But there are thousands who had got tested earlier and have escaped the KMC radar. Debabrata Majumdar, member, board of administrators of KMC, said: “After observing what has happened at the testing labs of Patuli, Golf Green and Bijoygarh, we have decided that everyone must show a voter card or an Aadhaar card. Those without them won’t be allowed to test.” Police, on the other hand, said this ‘communication gap’ could be risky. “Other than monitoring them, we also need to organize sanitization of their residences and check if they have access to medicines and food. But a large number of Covid positives remain untraceable,” said a joint commissioner of police. He added that the number of Covid patients remain unknown across several police station areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/id-proof-must-for-test-to-keep-tabs-on-home-isolation-patients/articleshow/79136392.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Kartarpur corridor’s first anniversary: Pak planning Nankana Sahib addition for pilgrims||Amritsar: There are reports of the Pakistan government planning to construct a dedicated highway between Kartarpur Sahib and Nankana Sahib to enable Indian pilgrims to pay obeisance at both Gurdwara Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of first Sikhmaster Guru Nanak Dev, and Gurdwara Darbar Sahib, Kartarpur Sahib, where he breathed his last, during a daylong pilgrimage. Asking the Centre to reopen the Kartarpur corridor to Indian pilgrims on the occasion of the first anniversary of the corridor on Monday, Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh said Pakistan government was contemplating on constructing a highway between Kartarpur Sahib and Nankana Sahib, so that Indian devotees visiting Karapur Sahib could pay obeisance at Gurdwara Nankana Sahib along with Gurdwar Darbar Sahib. “And if it happens, it will be like a wish coming true,” he said. The central government is yet to reopen the corridor, which was closed on March 16 to contain the spread of Covid-19. The government had also temporarily suspended the registration for Kartarpur Sahib pilgrimage done through a dedicated website www.prakashpurb550.mha.gov.in The corridor was inaugurated on November 9, 2019, to facilitate Sikh pilgrims from India who wanted to visit the shrine located in Narowal district of Pakistan and is a few kilometres from the international border. Blaming politics for the delay in a decision on reopening the corridor, Harpreet said the corridor symbolised peace between two nations and helped sink differences between people of the two nations. Stating that a majority of religious places in India had already been opened, he said the Centre should open the corridor without any delay. On October 2, Pakistan had unilaterally opened the corridor to Indian devotees, but did not get a response from New Delhi. Despite the opening of corridor, many Sikhs have been asking Pakistan to issue liberal visas, so they could visit any historical gurdwara for paying obeisance. Nankana Sahib Sikh Teerath Yatree Jatha president Swaran Singh Gill said issuance of liberal visas to Sikh pilgrims from India would have been a better option than opening Kartapur corridor and levying a US$20 service fee. “With liberal visas to visit gurdwaras in Pakistan, Sikhs could visit and pay obeisance at any gurdwara after crossing the border,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kartarpur-corridors-first-anniversary-pak-planning-nankana-sahib-addition-for-pilgrims/articleshow/79137680.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||In 1st rally after breaking up with BJP, SAD shows strength in Doaba||Phagwara: Shiromani Akali Dal held its first major rally here in Doaba region on Monday after the lockdown and severing ties with former ally BJP. The SAD, which showed its strength by ensuring a heavy turnout, hit out at the Congress government in the state over the post-matric scholarship scam and focused on Dalit issues. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal announced SAD would extend free education to scheduled caste and backward caste students once it formed the government in Punjab and promised to establish a university in the name of B R Ambedkar in Doaba region. The rally was part of state protests against SC welfare minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot and Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal, who was earlier SC welfare department director. While most leaders attacked Congress, former minister and SAD MLA Bikram Singh Majithia also attacked Punjab BJP leadership. He said it failed the SC community. He said the state BJP leadership had approached the Union social justice and empowerment minister and demanded a central probe against Sadhu Singh Dharamsot, but nothing came of it and the BJP did not even hold a protest against Dharamsot. Adampur MLA Pawan Teenu attacked the central government led by BJP and of which SAD was a part. He said that it wanted to change the Constitution and was also against reservation. He added BJP was working against Punjab farmers. Box – MLAs rounded up While police blocked Sukhbir Singh Badal and other senior Akali leaders, who were atop a cargo four-wheeler, from proceeding to Phagwara MLA Balwinder Singh Dhaliwal’s residence near Nawanshahr bypass, Bikram Singh Majithia and MLA Pawan Teenu, Dr Sukhwinder Sukhi and Baldev Singh Khaira slipped from a side with some supporters and managed to reach close to Dhaliwal’s residence. Police managed to bock them just short of reaching outside gate of his residence. Majithia sat there on the road with other Akali workers. While Majithia was taken separately in a police vehicle, other MLAs and workers were taken to Chaheru police station from where they were released later. No Covid norms followed Though SAD leaders were taking prasing the turnout of supporters, which was more than capacity of the venue, all safety measures pertaining to Covid-19 were thrown to the wind. There was no distancing among leaders and workers, and most did not have masks on their faces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-1st-rally-after-breaking-up-with-bjp-sad-shows-strength-in-doaba/articleshow/79137663.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Deadlock continues as govt-Gujjar talks remain inconclusive, meet with Rajasthan CM soon||JAIPUR: The talks between the state government and Kirori Singh Bainsla-led Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti remained inconclusive on Monday on issues pertaining to backlogs in jobs and recruitments under process as minister Ashok Chandna returned to Jaipur in the evening. Now, only a meeting of the representatives of the samiti with chief minister Ashok Gehlot will end the deadlock persisting over these issues. Meanwhile, the samiti has suggested the state government to execute the central government’s order (backlog for OBCs) in the state on the issue of backlogs. Chandna had two rounds of meetings with Bainsla, first at his residence in Hindaun and later at Suroth police station in Karauli district. “Bainsla saab had agreed (to the call off the protest) after the first round of talks at Hindaun. Later, when he went to Suroth police station to call off the agitation, the protesters didn’t agree with him (a committee of 11 members). The government has accepted all their demands that are legally feasible,” Chandna told TOI. “Under recruitments in process, they have got benefits in 2,300 posts and in another 1,400 it will be done. However, the posts in which joining took place even before the law came into being, it is not possible to give reservations in those. It is not feasible legally. However, they are demanding (reservation) in those as well. (On the issue of backlogs) the matter is pending in the Supreme Court,” he added. Meanwhile, Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla said the meeting was good and the decisions to resolve the issues can be taken by the chief minister only. “There were many issues on which Chandna could take a decision. So, we told him, after he discusses the issues with Gehlotji, we can meet him later. It depends upon them when they call us for a meeting. We are hopeful for a meeting with the CM soon. On the issue of backlogs, we’ve suggested them to split it into two parts. “The old backlog issues, which are pending in the Supreme Court, let the court take a decision on that. Second, moving ahead, since it is under the purview of the central government to measure OBC backlogs, we have asked the state government to issue a notification to make applicable backlogs under OBC in Rajasthan. They can execute the central government’s 2008 order in the state. It will be a Diwali gift for the OBC community,” he added. “We also told them to give arrears of 3.5 years to 1,252 candidates whose salaries will be fixed. We told them to give us details of recruitments in-process so that we can have a conversation. There has been no consensus on the cases as well,” said Vijay Bainsla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/deadlock-continues-as-govt-gujjar-talks-remain-inconclusive-meet-with-cm-soon/articleshow/79137709.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Married woman ‘hangs self’, father alleges dowry murder||JAISALMER: Police have lodged a case of murder of a 20-year-old woman for dowry in Rawatpura village in Phalsoond police station area in Jaisalmer district, which was allegedly given a shape of suicide. The family members of the deceased have lodged a dowry murder case against her husband and in-laws under Section 304B and 498A. The husband and father-in-law have been arrested. SP Ajay Singh said that Phalsoond police got information that a woman named Imarti, wife of Mohan Lal, has committed suicide by hanging. She had gotten married two years ago. SHO Bhanwar Lal reached the spot and found beating marks on the body of the deceased. He said Bihari Ram Meghwal, the father of Imarti, gave a report of dowry murder of his daughter and lodged a case against her husband, father-in-law Nakta Ram, mother-in-law Kalu Devi and sister in law Champa under Sections 498A and 394 B. Bihari Ram told the police that his daughter had called him two days ago and told him about them beating her for dowry and that she even said that her life was in danger. He alleged that his daughter had been attacked by a sharp weapon and killed, and was later hanged. Another connected case was lodged wherein Champa, the sister-in-law of the deceased was having an affair and the deceased allegedly helped her elope with her lover. A case has been lodged against her lover under the Pocso Act. According to information, Champa’s lover had come to their house and the deceased had helped Champa to elope with her lover. The in-laws came to know about this, and they later allegedly beat her up and killed her. The SP said that police are investigating the case and a team has been sent to search for Daul Singh, Champa’s lover, wanted under Pocso Act. It has come to light that Champa was in love with Daul singh since 1.5 years ago and her family members, coming to know about this, had lodged a case against Daul Singh under Pocso Act and he was in jail for 14 months. After he was released a few days ago, two days ago Daul singh came to meet Champa at her house and Imarti had allegedly helped both in meeting. They were planning to elope but Daul Singh had to flee after the family came to know of it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/married-woman-hangs-self-father-alleges-dowry-murder/articleshow/79137757.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Billing & meter snag complaints flood discoms||LUCKNOW: The special camps organized by UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) have been receiving numerous complaints from power consumers in a day with nearly 78% being related to wrong billing and malfunctioning meters. The figures shared by UPPCL show that out of total 16,650 complaints registered on Sunday at the four discoms, 58% (12,915) were related to billing and 20% of faulty meters. Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited recorded maximum 5,526 complaints of incorrect billing and 1,807 of faulty meters, followed by Dakshinanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited 2,157 of billing and 609 of meters, Paschimanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited 1,762 of bills and 808 of meters and Kanpur Electricity Supply Company Limited (KESCL) 147 of billing and 99 of meters. In total, Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam Limited registered 9,664 complaints, including 997 related to new connections, PVVNL received 3,391 complaints including 311 of new connections, DVVNL reported 3,168 complaints with 133 of new connections issues and KESCL recorded 427 complaints. The complaint resolution was also high with over 85% grievances being addressed the same day by all the discoms on an average. According to UPPCL officials, Purvanchal Vidyut Vitran Nigam resolved 90% (4,974) billing complaints and 85.55% (1,546) meter related grievances on the same day. Similarly, DVVNL closed 87.82% complaints of billing and resolved 80.95% cases of faulty meters, PVVNL 88% complaints of billing and 74.5% grievances of malfunctioning of meters. The KESCL also resolved 92.51% complaints of billing and 70% cases of faulty meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/billing-meter-snag-complaints-flood-discoms/articleshow/79138935.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Erode||50% super-specialty, PG medical seats for government doctors in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued two crucial orders concerning post-graduate and super-specialty medical courses. While GO (463) reserved at least 50% of PG medical seats for in-service government doctors, the other GO (462) reserved the entire 50% state quota super-specialty medical seats for in-service candidates. The new admission policy for MD/MS and MDS courses will come into force in 2021, and for the PG super-specialty (DM/MCh) courses, it will come into effect in 2020. The in-service candidates availing themselves of these two categories of seats have to sign a bond pledging to remain in government service till superannuation. That these GOs have been issued was disclosed in the Madras high court when Justice N Anand Venkatesh took up a batch of cases filed by in-service medicos for further hearing. On Monday, when the central government wanted the court to defer the hearing till the Supreme Court decides a similar issue pending before it, P Wilson, senior counsel for serving doctors, pointed out that the case before the apex court had nothing to do with the present petition and that it would not come in the way of the Tamil Nadu government granting 50% in-service reservation. Concurring with the submission, Justice Anand Venkatesh refused to defer the hearing. He then recorded the stand of the state government and disposed of the plea. After surrendering 50% of PG medical seats in government colleges and government share of seats in self-financing to All India Quota for admission by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), the state will be left with 50% of seats. Of this 50% of the seats – that is 25% of the overall seats – will be reserved for in-service candidates. The remaining seats will be for the open category, where all students, including non-service candidates from the state, can apply. But in case of super-specialty seats, the order says that all 50% of seats reserved for the state will be in-service candidates from this academic year. “This difference was introduced because since 2016 counselling for all super-specialty seats was done by the DGHS purely based on NEET ranking. In case of PG, the state selection committee conducted counselling for 50% of state quota seats. This year, we asked for 50% of seats. We cannot reserve seats for the open category from this,” said Director of Medical Education Dr R Narayana Babu. “Last year, we had just 10 students from government service in super-specialty courses. We have more than two dozen medical colleges and we are planning to add 11 more. We need more super-specialists who can offer high end surgeries free of cost to our patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/50-super-specialty-pg-med-seats-for-govt-doctors-in-tn/articleshow/79143108.cms||Pushpa Narayan
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||19,213 candidates for PS members’ posts, 2556 for ZP members’ posts||Jaipur: On the final day of filing nominations on Monday, 14,678 candidates filed 15,953 nominations for the posts of panchayat samiti members and 2,168 nomination papers were filed for the posts of zila parishad members.In all, 19,213 candidates have filed nominations for the posts of panchayat samiti members and 2556 candidates have filed papers for the posts of zila parishad members. The elections to zila parishad and panchayat samiti will be held in 21 districts.There are 4,371 constituencies for panchayat samiti members and 636 constituencies for zila parishad members in 21 districts.The elections will be held in four phases starting from November 23. The second phase will be on November 27, third phase on December 1 and the fourth phase will be on December 5. The counting of votes will be done on December 8.The districts include Ajmer, Banswara, Barmer, Bikaner, Bundi, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/19213-candidates-for-ps-members-posts-2556-for-zp-members-posts/articleshow/79137768.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Vehicles enter highway shops in Barmer; one killed, five injured||JAISALMER: A speeding trailer in Baytu town of Barmer district had a head-on collison with a camper coming from the opposite direction. Both the vehicles lost control and entered the shops on the highway, killing a woman and leaving five injured. The accident led to traffic jam on the road. People tried to take out the victims who were trapped in the vehicles. Later the camper and the trailer were pulled out from the shops with the help of a JCB. Baytu police reached the spot immediately and sent the injured to health centre. According to eyewitnesses a bull came on to the road suddenly. The trailer tried to avoid hitting it and lost control and hit the camper coming from the opposite direction. Three shops suffered heavy damages. The deceased has been identified as Babudevi (56), resident of Baytu Chimanji. The bull was also killed. Many people had a narrow escape as they ran to save their lives. Balaram Jat, son of the deceased told the police that his mother had gone to the market to buy some items when the tragedy occurred. Police have begun investigation in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vehicles-enter-highway-shops-1-killed-5-injured/articleshow/79137727.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Three-month-old dies of dengue in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A three-month-old child succumbed to dengue in Howrah’s Bankra on Monday. Shiekh Raihan Islam, the deceased, was admitted to Institute of Child Health (ICH) on November 1. Brought in serious condition, the child was being treated at the paediatric ICU. The boy on died on Monday morning due to disseminated intravascular coagulation, acute liver failure and severe dengue. “Though the number of dengue is less this year, some cases are still getting reported. Another child, who was also in treatment at PICU, recovered and has been shifted to the ward. We have observed that dengue poses more risks or complications to paediatric patients than Covid-19 infection,” said Partha Pratim Halder, PICU in charge at ICH. Doctors said though children are prone to dengue, it is not very common for a three-month-old to get infected. Last week, a KMC engineer also succumbed to dengue in a private hospital in Kolkata. There have also been a few cases of dengue and Covid-19 co-infection, including one death at MR Bangur Hospital, doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-month-old-dies-of-dengue/articleshow/79136402.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 10, 2020||Shimla||Six deaths, 182 more cases in Himachal Pradesh||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh reported six Covid-19 deaths and 182 positive cases on Monday, while 228 positive patients also recovered. The state has a total 25,668 positive cases, of which 4,664 cases are active, 20,603 patients have recovered, 377 patients have died, while 18 have migrated out. Total 4,32,707 persons have been tested for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh till Monday, of which 4,02,914 have been tested negative, while results of 4,125 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include 53 from Shimla district, 43 from Mandi, 33 from from Kullu, 27 from Solan and nine each from Una and Bilaspur, six from Chamba, and two from Sirmaur district. Those recovered include 70 from Mandi district, 61 from Shimla, 43 from Kinnaur, 21 from Solan, 13 from Bilaspur, seven from Sirmaur, six each from Una and Chamba, and one from Lahaul-Spiti district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/6-deaths-182-more-cases-in-himachal/articleshow/79137764.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Salem||50% super-specialty, PG medical seats for government doctors in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued two crucial orders concerning post-graduate and super-specialty medical courses. While GO (463) reserved at least 50% of PG medical seats for in-service government doctors, the other GO (462) reserved the entire 50% state quota super-specialty medical seats for in-service candidates. The new admission policy for MD/MS and MDS courses will come into force in 2021, and for the PG super-specialty (DM/MCh) courses, it will come into effect in 2020. The in-service candidates availing themselves of these two categories of seats have to sign a bond pledging to remain in government service till superannuation. That these GOs have been issued was disclosed in the Madras high court when Justice N Anand Venkatesh took up a batch of cases filed by in-service medicos for further hearing. On Monday, when the central government wanted the court to defer the hearing till the Supreme Court decides a similar issue pending before it, P Wilson, senior counsel for serving doctors, pointed out that the case before the apex court had nothing to do with the present petition and that it would not come in the way of the Tamil Nadu government granting 50% in-service reservation. Concurring with the submission, Justice Anand Venkatesh refused to defer the hearing. He then recorded the stand of the state government and disposed of the plea. After surrendering 50% of PG medical seats in government colleges and government share of seats in self-financing to All India Quota for admission by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), the state will be left with 50% of seats. Of this 50% of the seats – that is 25% of the overall seats – will be reserved for in-service candidates. The remaining seats will be for the open category, where all students, including non-service candidates from the state, can apply. But in case of super-specialty seats, the order says that all 50% of seats reserved for the state will be in-service candidates from this academic year. “This difference was introduced because since 2016 counselling for all super-specialty seats was done by the DGHS purely based on NEET ranking. In case of PG, the state selection committee conducted counselling for 50% of state quota seats. This year, we asked for 50% of seats. We cannot reserve seats for the open category from this,” said Director of Medical Education Dr R Narayana Babu. “Last year, we had just 10 students from government service in super-specialty courses. We have more than two dozen medical colleges and we are planning to add 11 more. We need more super-specialists who can offer high end surgeries free of cost to our patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/50-super-specialty-pg-med-seats-for-govt-doctors-in-tn/articleshow/79143110.cms||Pushpa Narayan
November 10, 2020||Goa||Not all nudity is obscene, it could be artistic too: Judge||POINGUINIM: After a local court granted conditional bail to actor Poonam Pandey and her husband Sam Bombay, and observed that a professional video shoot can’t be termed obscene or immoral, the complainant on Monday approached the South Goa sessions court to cancel the bail order. The judicial magistrate first class, Canacona, had on Thursday said that hurting public sentiments can’t be reason to jail someone. One cannot, given the facts and circumstances (of the case), come to the conclusion that all nudity is obscene,” he said, adding that what is obscene for some could be thought of as artistic for others. Pandey had posted a video shot at Chapoli dam on her social media accounts. “A professional shoot towards the making of a video or a film, in my considered opinion, cannot outright be termed as obscene or immoral merely because some members of the public say so or there is public outcry about the same,” judge Audi Shanoor stated. “Films and videos are covered under the right to expression, which is a fundamental right guaranteed by our Constitution.” “Acting in a video or film which may be perceived by some as obscene and yet some... as artistic cannot be a ground to jail a person,” the order stated. The JMFC also said that custodial interrogation of the accused cannot be of any help in this case. Both Pandey and Bombay have been released on conditional bail with directions to report to Canacona police for six days and not to leave Goa without seeking prior permission of the court. According to the bail order, the judge said that the only non-bailable offence in case pertains to the Information Technology Act. He stated that the police did not justify as to why the accused was arrested before November 6, the period given to appear in the notice under Section 41-A of Criminal Procedure Code. The court noted that there is no documentary proof to show that accused was in the process of absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-all-nudity-is-obscene-it-could-be-artistic-too-judge/articleshow/79137770.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chennai||50% super-specialty, PG medical seats for government doctors in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued two crucial orders concerning post-graduate and super-specialty medical courses. While GO (463) reserved at least 50% of PG medical seats for in-service government doctors, the other GO (462) reserved the entire 50% state quota super-specialty medical seats for in-service candidates. The new admission policy for MD/MS and MDS courses will come into force in 2021, and for the PG super-specialty (DM/MCh) courses, it will come into effect in 2020. The in-service candidates availing themselves of these two categories of seats have to sign a bond pledging to remain in government service till superannuation. That these GOs have been issued was disclosed in the Madras high court when Justice N Anand Venkatesh took up a batch of cases filed by in-service medicos for further hearing. On Monday, when the central government wanted the court to defer the hearing till the Supreme Court decides a similar issue pending before it, P Wilson, senior counsel for serving doctors, pointed out that the case before the apex court had nothing to do with the present petition and that it would not come in the way of the Tamil Nadu government granting 50% in-service reservation. Concurring with the submission, Justice Anand Venkatesh refused to defer the hearing. He then recorded the stand of the state government and disposed of the plea. After surrendering 50% of PG medical seats in government colleges and government share of seats in self-financing to All India Quota for admission by the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS), the state will be left with 50% of seats. Of this 50% of the seats – that is 25% of the overall seats – will be reserved for in-service candidates. The remaining seats will be for the open category, where all students, including non-service candidates from the state, can apply. But in case of super-specialty seats, the order says that all 50% of seats reserved for the state will be in-service candidates from this academic year. “This difference was introduced because since 2016 counselling for all super-specialty seats was done by the DGHS purely based on NEET ranking. In case of PG, the state selection committee conducted counselling for 50% of state quota seats. This year, we asked for 50% of seats. We cannot reserve seats for the open category from this,” said Director of Medical Education Dr R Narayana Babu. “Last year, we had just 10 students from government service in super-specialty courses. We have more than two dozen medical colleges and we are planning to add 11 more. We need more super-specialists who can offer high end surgeries free of cost to our patients,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/50-super-specialty-pg-med-seats-for-govt-doctors-in-tn/articleshow/79137771.cms||Pushpa Narayan
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Sludge-Filled lake leaves dozen colonies flooded||HYDERABAD: For A short drive from Rajiv Rahadari — state highway connecting Hyderabad to Warangal — which once opened into a picturesque sight of the brimming Trimulgherry Lake, has now become an eyesore. Filled with sludge and silt the lake seems to be nothing more than an extension of the road, only much filthier. Not surprising then, the recent floods caused havoc in areas around the lake, which has little or no capacity to hold water any more. As sewerage water gushed into their homes, residents of close to a dozen colonies — including Malani Enclave, Padmanabha Colony, Indian Airlines Colony, Surya Avenue, SBH Colony and Mahalakshmi Colony — spent days living in stench with no electricity. When TOI visited them, weeks later, irked residents squarely blamed the negligence of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) for their misery. “The lake has turned in to a cesspool-cum-dumping yard because SCB releases sewage water directly into it, in the most unscientific manner. We’ve had to suffer inundation and incur huge property loss because of that,” said a local sharing how many houses in the area had four to six-feet sewage water in their cellars for more than three days. Result: No power supply as electric panels, installed in the cellars, were submerged. According to locals, sewage water is diverted from Chinna Kamela (a small water body nearby) and other open drains into the lake all through the year. It has not only polluted the lake but also turned into a breeding place for mosquitoes. “The recent inundation has exposed the failure of SCB officials to take up de-silting work at the lake. Instead, they have allowed sewage water to be released from open nalas and residential quarters belonging to defence authorities too,” said Venkata Ramana, a resident of Balaji Residency and an RTI activist. The local said he had to swim in the sewage water for 10 minutes to reach the grocery shop located on;y 200 meters away from his apartment. “About 300 to 500 families residing near the lake met with a similar fate. They had to survive with filthy water flowing through the homes for days,” the activist, who was fighting with government agencies to keep the lake free from pollution and encroachments, added. Incidentally, while the Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSSPCB) had served notices to SCB officials to protect the natural water body from pollution, they have been ignored. In fact, such is the extent of silt and sludge in the lake and it’s now tough to find the lake’s FTL or inlet and outlet channels, say environmentalists. When TOI contacted SCB assistant engineer, M Phani Kumar, he said, “Except a small portion of the lake, the entire lake is filled with silt. We have plans to de-silt the lake by deploying dredging machines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sludge-filled-lake-leaves-dozen-colonies-flooded/articleshow/79137753.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 10, 2020||Amritsar||Punjabi-origin candidate wins in Canada polls again||BATHINDA: With another Punjabi-origin candidate winning in the British Columbia assembly election, their strength has risen to nine in the House. Harwinder Sandhu of New Democratic Party won the  from Vernon-Monashee riding constituency after the result was delayed due to the counting of mail-in ballots. Sandhu, a community activist and formerly working as a nurse, defeated the three-time sitting Liberal Party candidate Eric Foster by 424 votes in one of the biggest upsets in the BC polls. With her election, the British Columbia New Democratic Party (BC NDP) has now won 57 out of the total 87 seats in the House. All the nine Punjabi-origin candidates who won the elections are from BC NDP. Earlier, eight candidates of Punjabi origin belonging to BC NDP party were declared victorious on October 24. Vernon Monashee riding, created in 1991 and then named as Okanagan Vernon, had never seen any candidate from BC NDP wining in the last seven elections since its inception. In the very first election in the constituency in 1991, Social Credit Party had won and thereafter, Liberal Party candidates won the last six elections in a row and their candidate Eric Foster won the last three elections in 2009, 2013 and 2017. But, Sandhu as the NDP candidate put brakes on the Liberals’ victory march. After her victory, Harwinder Sandhu wrote in her social media account, “My work begins today, to keep BC moving forward while keeping people safe during this pandemic. I am looking forward to getting to work for people on issues revolving healthcare, seniors care, childcare, supporting our farmers, tourism industry and small businesses who are the backbone of our economy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/another-punjabi-origin-candidate-wins-in-british-columbia-polls/articleshow/79137707.cms||Neel Kamal
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||562 fresh Covid cases, 21 deaths in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab reported 562 fresh cases of Covid-19 and lost 21 lives to the virus on Monday. The state’s tally stands at 1,37,999, while 4,338 people have died so far. Of 21 deaths reported in last 24 hours, three deaths were reported in Hoshiarpur, two each in Amritsar, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Mohali, Patiala and Tarn Taran, while one death each was reported in Muktsar and Sangrur. In Ludhiana, 96 people were tested positive, while 89 were found infected in Mohali, 77 in Jalandhar, 46 in Hoshiarpur, 41 in Patiala, 40 in Bathinda, 33 in Pathankot, 17 in Muktsar, 16 each in Gurdaspur and Kapurthala, 12 in Barnala, 11 each in Amritsar, Mansa and Fazilka, 10 in Fatehgarh Sahib, eight in Moga, six in Tarn Taran, five in Ropar, four in Ferozepur and three in Sangrur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/562-fresh-covid-cases-21-deaths-in-punjab/articleshow/79137738.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Bhopal||Kamal Nath: Govt elected by people will return||BHOPAL: State Congress is getting ready for counting day. Former chief minister Kamal Nath will reach PCC office early on Tuesday morning and head towards the third floor where a control room has been set-up. A big panel of lawyers, party office-bearers will be in the control room with the senior Congress leader. State Congress leaders, former ministers and office-bearers who have been put in-charge of the constituencies will be present at ground zero where counting is taking place. Candidates and in-charges of constituencies will be in direct touch with the control room. Kamal Nath will monitor the counting of the bypolls along with the panel of lawyers and party election experts. On Monday evening, the former chief minister tweeted, “Results of bypolls in 28 seats in MP will be out soon. This was people’s election, people fought it themselves and victory will also be of the people. Truth will win, we all have full belief in it. The results will send out a message for clean, ethical and honest politics and will be a lesson for the assassins of democracy and Constitution.” In the series of tweets on the eve of bypoll results, state Congress president Kamal Nath also had a word of advice for his party workers. “For Congress workers who toiled for these elections, the decisive hour of your hard-work and struggle has come,” he said. “The important day has come with the responsibility of protecting and respecting our democracy and Constitution. Take all safeguards during counting, be cautious,” @OfficeOfKNath tweeted. “Seeing its possible defeat, a baffled BJP can adopt measures of conspiracy and manipulation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nath-govt-elected-by-people-will-return/articleshow/79137785.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Faridabad, Gurugram see most of 2,427 Covid-19 in Haryana||CHANDIGARH: Faridabad, which on Monday reported its highest-ever cases for a day, together with Gurgaon accounted for more than 50% of the 2,427 new cases surfacing in Haryana, while seven patients died across the state. This took the state’s case tally to 185,231 with 1,919 deaths, while 2,151 discharged during the day took the number of recoveries so far to 166,595, though the recovery rate dipped slightly to 89.94% from 89.96% a day ago. The Covid positivity rate has reached 6.50% and the fatality rate remained contained at 1.04%. Now, there are a total of 16,717 active cases. Gurgaon reported the highest 697 new cases and there are 5,345 active cases now. Faridabad also recorded its highest number of cases so far at 570. The district currently has 2,069 active cases. Hisar reported the third-highest 283 fresh cases. Besides, 110 new cases were recorded in Rohtak, 97 in Sirsa, 96 in Rewari, 80 in Sonipat, 77 in Mahendragarh, 65 in Panchkula, 61 in Fatehabad, 59 in Bhiwani and 52 persons tested positive in Panipat. Ten other districts reported below 50 cases and three less than 10, with Kaithal reporting the least two cases. The testing rate in the state has gone up to 112,517 tests per lakh per million as the overall testing count reached 2,852,300 on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fbd-ggn-see-most-of-2427-cases-in-haryana/articleshow/79137774.cms||Manvir Saini
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Digital campaign to promote Deepotsav for global audience||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh government has launched a social media campaign to promote the grand Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya this year. The campaign is part of a larger plan to popularize and brand tourism destinations in the state globally through the use of social media. UP Tourism joint director Avinash Chandra Mishra said the chief minister has given specific instructions to organize Deepotsav 2020 with ritualistic grandeur, but with all Covid-19 prevention protocols in place. “The CM has instructed that the celebration of Lord Rama’s return to Ayodhya should be streamed online for people across the world,” he said. The campaign for Deepotsav, started by CM Yogi Adityanath in 2017, has been launched under the hashtag Deepotsav2020. “The social media campaign is divided in three parts — #EkDeeyaMeraBhi, #DiwaliAyodhyaWali, #MeraDeepotsav,” Mishra said. Anyone can participate in #EkDeeyaMeraBhi by clicking a selfie with an earthen lamp and posting it online using the hashtag. People can also post their pictures with an earthen lamp by using #Vocal4Local hashtag and be part of the campaign. Through #DiwaliAyodhyaWali, the department will share information and memoirs of previous celebrations. The third hashtag, #MeraDeepotsav, can be used to share pictures and videos of good deeds as well as positive thoughts. Besides, the department is also organizing an online quiz on Ramayan and the life of Lord Rama. Those who give correct answrers in the set time limit will be entitled to participate in a lucky draw and win prizes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/digital-campaign-to-promote-deepotsav-for-global-audience/articleshow/79138950.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Vadodara||12-ft long croc rescued from Karelibaug||Vadodara: A 12-foot-long crocodile was rescued from Karelibaug area late on Sunday night. The locals spotted the giant reptile in Fagvel Nagar at about 10 pm on Sunday following which they informed the Gujarat Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (GSPCA) volunteers. “The reptile had ventured out of a drain connected with Vishwamitri River nearby. Many people who had gathered in the locality for a marriage function got scared after spotting the huge reptile nearby,” said Raj Bhavsar of GSPCA. The volunteers rescued the crocodile after half-an-hour’s operation and handed it over to the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-ft-long-croc-rescued-from-karelibaug/articleshow/79135296.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||AP cops nab int’l red sanders smuggler Hakeem, 5 others||Tirupati: In a major breakthrough, police on Monday arrested international red sanders smuggler Sheikh Abdul Hakeem (41) and five others for smuggling-related offences. Kadapa police had formed five investigation teams after five people were burnt to death on November 2 when two vehicles, one with red sanders smugglers and the other carrying hijackers, crashed into a truck and caught fire along the Kadapa-Kamalapuram highway near Vallur mandal. Police visited Bengaluru, Tirupathur, Vellore and other districts in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as part of their investigation and found that two persons from the hijack gang had managed to abscond after the accident. After analysing CCTV footage and using the registration number of the hijackers’ car, police first arrested Jayaram Naik, Maheswara Raju and Viswanadha Reddy at Rayachoti. Following their disclosure, police arrested Hakeem, alias Basha, from Coimbatore and seized his car along with 10 red sanders logs. Police also arrested his aides Naveen Kumar, Ravikanth, Merin, Chiranjeevi and Gireesh, who were all involved in the hijack incident. Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan told reporters that on November 2 around 3.30 am, Basha and his aides attempted to loot red sanders being smuggled to Bengaluru by a group of Tamil Nadu woodcutters. Realising they were being chased, the driver of the SUV carrying red sanders tried to speed away but crashed into the diesel tank of a speeding truck, causing an explosion. The hijackers’ vehicle crashed into the vehicle in front. Anburajan said Basha is an accused in 14 cases registered in Kadapa district and 11 cases registered in Anantapur and other districts. “Abdul Hakeem was jailed for nine months in Kadapa and Chittoor prisons between 2017 and 2018 for red sanders smuggling,” said Anburajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ap-cops-nab-intl-red-sanders-smuggler-hakeem-5-others/articleshow/79137780.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Marking of farm land: Farmer killed, two injured in firing||BATHINDA: A farmer was killed and two others were injured in firing after two factions clashed over marking of a farm land at Kaleka village in Barnala district on Monday morning. The injured were admitted to Barnala civil hospital. Villagers claimed that Kulwinder Singh and his family had an ongoing feud over the marking of the boundary of their respective adjoining fields with neighbours Pardeep Singh and others. The faction led by Pardeep Singh had re-marked the boundary on Sunday. On Monday, Kulwinder raised objection. Meanwhile, Pardeep and other group members reached the fields and fired at the opposite group, the police claimed. In the firing, Kulwinder (36), his brother Gurkirat Singh and uncle Jasmel Singh sustained injuries. The villagers took the three to Barnala civil hospital where Kulwinder Singh was declared dead. Barnala superintendent of police (investigations) Sukhdev Singh Virk said, “Both the parties had ongoing feud for long. Acting on the complaint by family members of Kulwinder, the police resgistered a case under Sections 302 (murder), 307 (attempt to murder), Arms Act has been registered against Pardeep Singh, Bharpur Singh, Ginder Singh, Mania Singh and some unidentified persons. Efforts are being made to arrest them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/marking-of-farm-land-farmer-killed-2-injured-in-firing/articleshow/79137759.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad gears up for ‘delicious’ Diwali||HYDERABAD: With Diwali round the corner, city residents are gearing up for celebrations with friends and family. Though its going to be a low-key affair this year because of Covid-19, people are busy ordering decorations, diyas and mithai to make the occasion a memorable one. Rekha Rao, a resident of Gachibowli, said she had just placed an order from her neighbourhood sweet shop. “Gavvalu, kaajas and ladoos are a staple for us during the festive season. I placed an order from a local store rather than choosing a brand because it has been an especially tough year for small business outlets,” she said, adding that she planned to just drive past relatives’ houses to drop sweets this time. On the sweet note, Namrata Sadhvani, a resident of Begumpet, chose to fulfil food craving at home. “I will be making sweets myself using jaggery since we have all become a lot more nutrition conscious during lockdown,” she said. She also planned to go low-key this time and will be celebrating only with immediate family members. “No new clothes for us. We will be reusing the ones in our closets. No card parties as it is too risky still. No firecrackers. We will be using only traditional mitti diyas and no Chinese string lights,” she said. Making sure she gets to enjoy as much as previous years, Rama Reddy, a resident of Srinagar Colony, said, “A group of ladies from flats that overlook each other planned a balcony-tambola session in our complex. I will distribute tickets a day before and call numbers through a mike,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-gears-up-for-delicious-diwali/articleshow/79137778.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Laser show to add grandeur||LUCKNOW: Deepotsav 2020 celebrations in Ayodhya will be grand this year, and a mesmerising laser show will be adding grandeur with a display of laser lights, music and other multimedia. The show will create a choreographed sequence of effects to portray Lord Ram’s return to Ayodhya on completing his exile and slaying the demon king Ravan. The laser show will also present the celebrations of the people of Ayodhya by blowing conches, ringing bells and lighting lamps while the prayer of Lord Ram, Shri Ramchandra Kripalu bhajman… would play in the background in a mesmerizing presentation. The different famous dance forms from across India, including Kathak, Bharatnatyam, Odishi, Kuchipudi, Manipuri will also be depicted through laser lights. The state government spokesperson said a virtual fireworks display will be the highlight of the show as chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed that the Deeepotsav in Ayodhya should be grand this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/laser-show-to-add-grandeur/articleshow/79138943.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Give ISL business to locals or face stir: Congress||PANAJI: Alleging that all contracts pertaining to the Indian Super League (ISL) being held in Goa have been awarded to a Bengaluru-based company, the Congress on Monday gave the state government a four-day ultimatum to cancel the contract and instead award it to Goan businessmen. The party’s vice-president Sankalp Amonkar said that the event management contract, labour contract, transport arrangements, generators and other contracts have been given to outside companies while Goans have been left high and dry. “We give this government four days to terminate the contract to the outside companies, and the entire logistics, security, manpower should be given to Goans,” said Amonkar. Congress said that if the government does not given in to the demands, the party will disrupt all football games. Amonkar pointed out that sports minister Manohar Ajgaonkar had justified the decision to host the ISL matches in Goa amid the Covid-19 pandemic by saying that Goa’s economy would benefit and locals would get employment. “The generators, buses, taxis, man power, security, entire set-up has been given to outsiders. The buses that have come in are from Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra and Karnataka. The generators have also come from other states. Today, not a single Goan has got any business. This government has allowed outsiders to take all the contracts,” said youth Congress president Varad Mardolkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/give-isl-biz-to-locals-or-face-stir-cong/articleshow/79137798.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Abandoned stone quarries in Goa likely to get bio-fencing||PANAJI: The water resources department (WRD) has begun consultations with the Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) over erecting bio-fencing around nine abandoned laterite stone quarries in Pernem taluka. Once the bio-fencing is carried out, it will be first such instance in Goa. Bio-fencing involves planting of trees or shrubs suitable to the area to cordon if off. Earlier, WRD had been ordered to install barbed wire fencing around the abandoned quarries in Pernem, after four teenage boys lost their lives here in 2019. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has recently granted financial compensation to the families of the boys who lost their lives at the abandoned stone quarries in Pernem in 2019. After the case, there was much anger among citizens over how pits were being abandoned with no safety measures put in place by those who mined it for laterite. Following this, the mines department had taken up the exercise to prepare a report on the possible remediation that can be taken up for such abandoned quarry pits. Bio-fencing is one of the mitigation measures that are being considered now. Sources said that as part of consultations over restoring or putting the quarries to use, initially it was suggested that they can be used as rainwater recharge points or reservoirs. “It was felt that setting up of filtration plants can be considered and this water can be supplied to nearby villages. But there was significant cost involved in setting up the filtration plants. So it was then thought the water could be used for irrigation. But the area is such that there are no plantations or fields in close proximity,” said an official. A join inspection is scheduled by WRD and agriculture officials to consider the use of the water for irrigation. “It was found by WRD that there is 1.3MCM water stored in the quarries during the monsoon season and there is water available here even upto the month of April. Only in May, the quarries dry up,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/abandoned-stone-quarries-likely-to-get-bio-fencing/articleshow/79137781.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kolkata||Students add to confusion in Covid admission season||KOLKATA: A day before colleges are scheduled to submit a report to the education department on vacancies in undergraduate seats, several prominent colleges pointed out that though candidates were directed to submit declarations, confirming their admissions, many had not bothered to respond. At the same time, several seats have now again fallen vacant, after candidates, even after taking admissions, withdrew. At Lady Brabourne College, more than 107 out of the total 619 seats have turned vacant after candidates, who had taken admissions, left the courses. “A call was made from Calcutta University, asking us to submit a report at the earliest,” said principal Siuli Sarkar. She added that now the college authorities were worried that they might have to conduct yet another round of admissions after receiving the go-ahead from the government and CU authorities. “Since so many vacancies are now available, we are expecting that there will be another opportunity for interested candidates to apply for the seats. The students who have withdrawn have mentioned that they had taken up courses elsewhere. If the declarations were not sought, these students would have remained enrolled in our programmes, and we would have learnt about the vacancies only after the new academic year started on December 1,” Sarkar said. To prevent applicants from blocking multiple seats, the higher education department last Monday asked colleges to collect declarations from UG candidates on whether they had genuinely taken admission to particular colleges or not. Going by the rule, the students could book a seat in only one college and cancel their admissions in the others if they had got through multiple institutes. This rule was made to facilitate students, who were finding it difficult to find a seat as others had taken admissions in multiple colleges, blocking all seats. The step was taken also to help colleges in the process of document verification. Most colleges had sent texts and emails to admitted students, while others put up notices on their portals, asking students to respond. In many colleges, the candidates had to fill online forms, conforming their seats. An agency, which has been given the responsibility of looking into the admission process for several colleges in Kolkata and vicinity, reported the declarations from candidates had not yet arrived at many places. “Some students have simply overlooked the requirement. Now, we will know who all are genuinely studying at an institute and who all are not only when the registration process starts,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/students-add-to-confusion-in-cov-admission-season/articleshow/79137866.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Bragging about his position proves costly for cop, suspended||Jodhpur: Asking a woman to befriend him and then bragging about arranging sand for her under-construction house proved costly for a police officer in Jalore. Taking cognizance of the viral audio clips of the conversation between the two, the cop was suspended on Monday.SP (Jalore) Shyam Singh issued the order of suspension of Sabir Mohammad, SHO of Jaswantpura police station, in view of proposed departmental inquiry against him for serious allegations. An audio clip had gone viral two days back in which SHO Sabir Mohammad was talking to a woman, while she was in the market for purchasing vegetables in Jaswantpura.While asking her to come to his house for only 5 minutes, the officer ensured that she was alone .“Then you could come to my house for 5 minutes. I am alone at home,” he is heard talking to the woman. The woman replied that she had work at home and was out in the market to buy vegetables when he insisted that she visit him.He also confirmed if the sand (bajri) he had sent for her under-construction home, had reached or not. The woman asked him why he sent it in the afternoon. The officer bragged about his position and is heard saying that who can stop him from sending it in the afternoon.On knowing that she was with her children in the market, he advised her to talk to him when she was alone. He also asked her if she was ready to befriend him. He also ensured from the woman if her husband had any knowledge about him calling her, to which she replied in the negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bragging-about-his-position-proves-costly-for-cop-suspended/articleshow/79137776.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metro phase-2 gets back on track||CHENNAI: The 119 km phase-2 metro rail project that will connect core city localities with the suburbs has got a major push from the Centre, with the ministry of commerce and industry listing it under the National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP) to attract global investors. The construction for the project, estimated to cost more than Rs 69,180 crore, is expected to begin in early 2021 with a deadline slated for 2026. The project, listed in the India Investment Grid website aimed at attracting global investments for infrastructure projects in India, has its status marked as ‘under development’ with the detailed project report approved. While the total cost of the project is US $9.36billion (Rs 69,180 crore), the website adds that a US$ 13.53million (Rs 100 crore) of project cost is incurred till August 31, 2020. It adds that required land has not been fully acquired yet. CMRL requires 117.12 hectares for constructing the three corridors, including 260.7 acres for the 52.1km priority corridor from Madhavaram to Sholinganallur on corridor 3 and Madhavaram to CMBT on corridor 5. The project is expected to be implemented under engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode, where the contractor would be involved in the design, procurement, construction, commissioning and handover of the project. Phase-2 has already received funding from international agencies including JICA, which has agreed to loan Rs 20,196 crore for the priority corridor and AIIB agreeing to fund US$ 795.4 million (around Rs 6,000 crore) for the construction of 16km from Meenakshi College to Poonamallee bypass on corridor 4 and from CMBT to Sholinganallur covering 26km on corridor 5. In June 2020, it was reported that ADB will begin evaluation on a US$ 780million (approximately Rs 5,890 crore) for 10km from Lighthouse to Meenakshi College on corridor 4 and another 10.13km between Sholingallur to Sipcot on corridor 3. Officials said 60% of the Rs 55,457 crore for the project is expected from funding agencies while 20% each will be borne by the Centre and the state. In its website, CMRL said the screening committee of DEA has accorded in principle approval for funding of the entire corridor-4 and balance section of corridor 3 and 5, and posed for funding from multilateral banks ADB, AIIB, NDB. The multilateral banks have completed their preliminary mission programme and signing agreement with them is under process. Recently, the project attracted global attention with top construction and consultancy firms from Korea, Japan, Europe and US bidding for the construction of 26.1km corridor 4 from Lighthouse to Poonamallee, which will be connecting city’s core localities such as Mylapore, Nandanam, T Nagar, Kodambakkam, Vadapalani with developing IT hubs of Porur and Poonamallee. CMRL has so far invited nine construction bids, which are under different stages of tender process. With the pandemic pushing many projects across the world to the backburner and absorbing the funds, CMRL officials said they would have no issues in receiving funds from the agencies. “We may require our government funds only in the later stages of the project, so we have time,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-phase-2-gets-back-on-track/articleshow/79137801.cms||U Tejonmayam
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Ram Temple Trust chief ill, admitted to Lucknow hospital||AYODHYA: Ram Temple Trust president Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was rushed from Ayodhya to the Medanta Hospital in Lucknow after he complained of breathlessness and chest pain on Monday. A green corridor was created from Safedabad near Barabanki till the Medanta Hospital on Shaheed Path on Monday afternoon for the ambulance ferrying the Trust chief. Das was admitted to the hospital’s ICU. Doctors said his condition was stable. Medanta Hospital director Dr Rakesh Kapoor told TOI: “When Mahant Nritya Gopal Das was brought to the hospital, he had low blood pressure, high heart rate and heavy breathlessness. His creatinine levels are also high which means his kidneys are affected. His lower limbs were diagnosed with deep vein thrombosis wherein blood clots are formed which is related to his weight and age.” A team headed by Dr Kapoor is attending to the 82-year-old Ayodhya mahant. Ayodhya DM Anuj Kumar Jha told TOI that Mahant’s Covid test was conducted whose report came negative. The seer had been admitted to the Shriram hospital in Ayodhya on Sunday evening. In August, Das was diagnosed with Covid-19 and was admitted to the Medanta Gurgaon. He was discharged in the first week of September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ram-temple-trust-chief-ill-admitted-to-lucknow-hospital/articleshow/79138960.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Maoist arrested in Bhadradri district||Hyderabad: A Maoist was arrested and explosive materials seized from his possession at Aswaraopet on Monday in Bhadradri Kothagudem. Police intercepted Hemala Joga, a resident of Peddabodikel village in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh, during a vehicle check at Mondikunta. Five gelatine sticks, 100 metres of wire, two detonators and two batteries were seized from his possession. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/maoist-arrested-in-bhadradri-district/articleshow/79137863.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Bhopal||Computer Baba denied bail as crackdown continues||Indore: Continuing its crackdown against alleged illegal constructions and encroachments carried out by Namdev Das Tyagi alias Computer Baba and his disciples, Indore district administration on Monday freed two government lands from their possession. The court of SDM Rajesh Rathore meanwhile denied bail to the former minister of state, which extended his stay at Indore’s Central Jail at least for one more day. A day after demolishing an ashram of Computer Baba constructed by allegedly encroaching upon around 46 acres of government land in Jambudi Hapsi village, a joint team of senior administrative, IMC and police officials removed illegal construction carried out by his disciples at about 20,000 square feet land on Super Corridor, which was part of IDA’s Scheme 151. The team also freed a temple and some rooms constructed with it in Ambikapuri Extension Colony as it was allegedly encroached upon by Computer Baba. “During the drive, we have seized documents of registration of a property, which is around three hectares of land situated in Ajnod tehsil of Sanwer. The buyer is Namdev Das Tyagi alias Computer Baba while the seller is one Shankar s/o Ramkishan Khati” said ADM Ajaydeo Sharma, adding that a bank-passbook of Computer Baba has also been seized while instructions have been issued to examine its transaction details. The ADM added that a 315-Bore rifle, which was seized from Computer Baba’s Gomatgiri situated Ashram yesterday, has been found registered at his name but a four-wheeler, which was parked in the Ashram, has been found registered against a listed goon. “We are examining his association with Computer Baba” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/computer-baba-denied-bail-as-crackdown-continues/articleshow/79137854.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Amritsar||J&K nursing students irked at exam dates||BATHINDA: Students from Jammu and Kashmir who are pursuing BSc nursing in colleges affiliated to Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS) held a protest inside and outside the university at Faridkot on Monday against the plan to hold exams from November 17. The students said no physical classes had been held for over seven months and only online classes were held, but as internet services were disturbed for most of the time, they could not attend classes. They said it was not possible for them to prepare in such a short time and demanded mass promotion of students. Punjab Students Union supported the demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/jk-nursing-students-irked-at-exam-dates/articleshow/79137790.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||137 link roads being developed in Hyderabad: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: KT Rama Rao, minister of municipal administration and urban development, inaugurated three slip roads in the city on Monday. He said that the city would be soon dotted with 137 link roads. The minister laid the foundation stone for a vehicular underpass bridge at Leather Park. Being built at a cost of Rs 23.10 crore, the underpass is expected to ease traffic on the Old Bombay Highway Road. “We inaugurated three roads today. More than 35 roads are being developed with Rs 313.65 crore in the first phase. Works are under progress,” the minister said. “Details of 137 link roads will be put in public domain. I request citizens to come up with suggestions if they need any additional roads,” the minister said. The 1.0 km link road from HT Line to Miyapur Road, built with Rs 9.61 crore, the 1.20 km link road between Old Bombay Road and Road No. 45 under the HT Line, built with Rs 15.54 crore, and the 2.30 km link road from Old Bombay Highway to Delhi Public School via Engineering Staff College, built with Rs 19.51 crore, were inaugurated on Monday. Meanwhile, the 2.2 km link road from Nizampet crossroads to Hitex Junction, the 0.7 km from Bharat Nagar road over bridge to Hitex Road and the 2.70 km link road from GHMC Serilingampally zonal office to Miyapur Main Road are being built as part of the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/137-link-roads-being-developed-in-city-ktr/articleshow/79137809.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Netizens for ban on crackers as Hyderabad’s air quality worsens||HYDERABAD: With several states, including Rajasthan, Odisha and Delhi, banning firecrackers this Diwali, the demand for such a ban is growing among city residents as well. The twin problems of Covid-19 and rising air pollution have made people wary of bursting crackers. Taking to Twitter and tagging minister KT Ramarao, Arun Amaram (@arunamaram) said: “Ban crackers for Diwali now for at least in Hyderabad.” Kunal Mahendra (KunalMahendra6) said: “Hyderabad AQI has not improved. Hopefully this year crackers are banned in Hyd...let’s move towards a green city.” Data from the Telangana Pollution Control Board justifies claims of worsening air quality in the city. The Air Quality Index (AQI), used to gauge the comparative quality of air in the country, has touched a high of 167 this past week for a city which has seen levels well under 100 till a month ago. During Covid-19, when respiratory problems are a concern, people cannot be more worried. Several women, under the aegis of the pan-India group ‘Warrior Moms’ that raises awareness on pollution, brought to the fore their concerns on Friday. Sriparna Das, a part of the group, said: “A festival is for everyone. It should not be a source of misery for the vulnerable, both humans and animals. Especially with Covid-19, we have to take care of the air that we breathe, it is our lifeline.” Said another mother from the group, Natasha Ramarathnam, “As a mother, I dread the coming of Diwali, because I know that the smoke emitted by the crackers will cause respiratory ailments in the entire family. This could be worse this year, because we do not know the effect of the chemicals on Covid-19 patients. Festivals should be joyful, not feared. Please ban the sale of firecrackers.” “Honestly while we think that children are actually having fun by bursting crackers, the actual fact is that we are gifting them poisonous gases like SO2, NOX, CO as well as metallic substance fumes like zinc, lead, magnesium etc which are highly reactive and can cause a number of respiratory, anemic and fever like complications. These might not surface immediately but will stay as underlying health issues and cause problems,” said environmental activist Kaajal Maheshwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/netizens-for-ban-on-crackers-as-citys-air-quality-worsens/articleshow/79137833.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Drones help corporation find 2.9 lakh properties are under-assessed||CHENNAI: The city corporation’s ambitious project of using geographical information system (GIS) to map all properties and utilities is back on track after the delay due to Covid-19. The consultant, which surveyed properties in 119 wards using drones and door-to-door verification and created maps, found 2.9 lakh under-assessed properties. This will help Greater Chennai Corporation increase its revenue. The survey of storm water drains, sewage manholes, drain manholes, street lamps, transformers, traffic signals, zebra crossings, CCTV cameras and sign boards in 45 wards will help the corporation plan future engineering projects. “The consultant completed 107 wards in the core city before the work was stalled due to lockdown and lack of workers. We restarted the process and completed the survey in 19 wards in added areas. Now, work is in progress in seven wards (three in Thiruvottiyur, three in Ambattur and one in Perungudi). We will complete the survey in a few months’ time,” said an official. The consultant, Darashaw Private Limited, is creating a map for the entire city covering 426sqkm, 15 zones and 200 wards. The map, which will include every property along with details of the area, tax payment and other information, is being created with the help of satellite images, drone videos and photos and door-to-door verification before the information is fed into the GIS software. The World Bank-funded project, estimated to cost Rs 6.47 crore, has been sanctioned another Rs 21.7 crore to ensure each zonal office has a fully equipped GIS room to assess future projects. “Whenever a new property comes up, the revenue official and tax assessor concerned will with the help of a device be able to find its coordinates and extent of the area. This information will be fed into the software and will reflect in the main server that can be accessed from anywhere,” said an official. The project staff, who are set to increase from 120 to 200 soon, are finding it difficult surveying properties in added areas where properties have plot numbers and where hundreds of roads and layouts have been developed in the past few years. “We are trying our best to find the properties and update them in the system,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drones-help-corpn-find-2-9l-properties-are-under-assessed/articleshow/79137851.cms||Komal Gautham
November 10, 2020||Goa||Ex-environment minister backs ‘Save Mollem’||PANAJI: Former Union minister for environment and Congress Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh on Monday lent his support to the ongoing ‘Save Mollem’ campaign and urged the Centre to stop destroying the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. Equating the protected forests to the lungs of Goa, Ramesh questioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s claims of protecting the environment. “The PM has waxed eloquent on his love for nature while at the same time making moves to destroy the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. This is sheer hypocrisy. The green lungs of Goa must be saved,” Ramesh saids. State Opposition leader Digambar Kamat thanked the Congress MP for his support and said Congress is committed to protect Goa’s identity and environment. Protests have erupted across the state against three mega infrastructure projects – railway double tracking, laying of a power transmission line and expansion of a national highway – which are passing through the Bhagvan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park. Strong opposition to a proposed marina at Nauxim in St Andre constituency have also started, while farmers and locals of Shel-Melauli are protesting the IIT-Goa campus. With Ramesh taking a stand, state Congress president Girish Chodankar said that Goa’s MLAs should themselves take a stand on the three mega projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ex-environment-min-backs-save-mollem/articleshow/79137821.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Health, education & jobs: Citizens spell out their vision for Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: In the wake of Uttarakhand completing 20 years of its formation, citizens of the state have highlighted three key areas — access to healthcare, education, and employment opportunities — where the state needs to perform better. In a survey conducted by social organisation ‘Social Development for Community Foundation’ (SDCF), a majority of the people in the state wished for more job opportunities, better connectivity, access to healthcare and education, and sustainable development. More than 300 state residents participated in the survey. Sharing the key findings of the survey, Anoop Nautiyal, founder of SDCF, said, “Setting goals for the state for the next 20 years, respondents highlighted the need to focus on job generating projects like software hub, IT, infrastructure, and digital pathway. The respondents also stressed on the need to develop Uttarakhand as a green economy and said that initiatives related to organic farming, horticulture, floriculture, and others should be promoted.” Several eminent citizens also spelt out their vision of the state’s road ahead. Noted author, Raj Kanwar said, “The purpose for which Uttrakhand was carved out from Uttar Pradesh is still to be achieved. In fact, the promises made by subsequent governments over the years are yet to be fulfilled. Development of people in the hills is a far cry. ” He added that “the sham of Dehradun being the ‘interim capital of the state has worn thin.” “Despite the tag of interim, it is the de facto capital right from the day one.” “Today, bureaucrats and politicians rule the roost and strut about Dehradun as if they own the city. To make matters worse, more and more predators in the garb of builders, colonisers and their ilk arrived here in large numbers. Once the city's pride, Rajpur Road has today become its curse.” He further added that “the permanent residents even though outnumbered by the new arrivals love the city which was once clean and green.” “What Lord Byron had once said, ‘England, with all thy faults 1 love thee still’, we the permanent residents of Dehradun, too, share similar sentiments, "Dehradun, we love thee still despite all thy faults.” President of Doon Residents’ Welfare Front, Mahesh Bhandari meanwhile felt that a number of promises pertaining to the state have been fulfilled. “A lot has been done but much more needs to be taken up. Employment generation should be the focus area now so that migration can be checked,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/health-education-jobs-citizens-spell-out-their-vision-for-ukhand/articleshow/79136419.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 10, 2020||Nagpur||Sero survey shows near 50% citizens already have Covid antibodies||Nagpur: Some 49.7% people surveyed tested positive for Covid-19 antibodies, say the much awaited results of the sero survey conducted in October across Nagpur district. Though not officially declared, sources confirmed to TOI on Monday that out of 2,000-odd samples collected from various parts of Nagpur city, almost half had Covid-19 antibodies.This means, nearly 50% of the city population has already been exposed to Covid-19, and recovered on the basis of their own immunity by developing antibodies. In other words, if one considers Nagpur’s population at about 30 lakh; then nearly 15 lakh people in Nagpur have already been infected by Covid-19, stayed asymptomatic or experienced mild symptoms, and recovered.While Nagpur city’s average prevalence is 49.7%, the zone wise details may tell a different story. Crowded localities like Mominpura, Naik Talao, Sakkardara, Mahal, and Itwari have more than 55% to 60% sero prevalence while other areas in city have less than 50%. Final zone and cluster wise figures of this survey are expected to be released on November 10.According to specialist doctors, this high prevalence of Covid-19 is a strong indicator that the second wave, whenever it comes, may not be very intense. But, they also asked people not to be careless about Covid precautions. “Nearly 50% of the city population has developed immunity. This means, if second wave comes, the number of patients will be lesser than the first wave. But, we should not take it casually as the virus is ever mutating,” said Dr Ashwini Tayade, infectious disease specialist. Mentioning that similar sero survey results were seen in Dharavi (Mumbai) and some parts of Pune, she said a fresh surge is still being observed there.“Next two weeks are crucial. If we successfully control the spread of infection in new localities, we can even avoid second wave. Our precautions can make the second wave very weak,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. He said that sero prevalence in Nagpur was even more than New Delhi’s recent survey, which is around 29%. Delhi is presently witnessing surge in cases again.Dr Vinky Rughwani, vice president of Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC), was one of the first medical practitioners in city to claim there is community spread in city. “With more than 55% prevalence in this area, it’s clear that there was community spread. Now, people need to be careful for next few days and avoid further spread of infection,” he said.HOW SURVEY WAS CONDUCTEDTotal 2,000 samples were collected from city, 200 each from 10 zonesEach zone divided into 4 clusters, with 50 samples collectedSamples collected from healthy people who had never been tested for Covid-19 were preferredIn clusters like Satranjipura and Mominpura, where entire locality was tested during the pandemic, authorities preferred citizens who had tested negative in testsIn Nagpur rural, samples collected from all 13 tehsils, with 50 samples from 3 high prevalence villagesBlood samples were collected and tested at microbiology department of GMCHSome interesting outcomes 4,000 | Samples collected from across district49.7% | from city had Covid-19 antibodies 20.7% | from Nagpur rural had antibodies 35.2% | Overall Nagpur district average with antibodies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sero-survey-shows-near-50-citizens-already-have-covid-antibodies/articleshow/79137820.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 10, 2020||Bareilly||Man arrested for raping and killing minor in UP’s Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Police on Monday claimed to have solved a case involving the rape and murder of a six-year-old girl in Pilibhit district. The minor went missing a few days ago during an event at a temple in Madhotanda village, and was later found dead with her mouth stuffed with pieces of sugarcane at a nearby crop field.The postmortem had confirmed sexual assault. The accused, identified as one Shriram, was picked up from the nearby area. He belongs to a neighbouring village.An FIR under IPC sections 376 (rape) and 302 (murder), and POCSO Act had earlier been registered against unidentified person. Now, Shriram's name has been included.Notably, Shriram was spotted by cops lying in a nearby harvested paddy field without any clothes on him, hours after recovering the minor’s body.The superintendent of police (SP), Jai Prakash Yadav, had earlier ruled out the man's direct involvement in the crime. He suggested that the man - in his mid-30s - was picked up "only to protect him from lynching, as he was found naked".However, the SP claimed on Monday that the man has confessed to the crime. "He lured the little girl to a cane field with peanuts. His slippers were found at the crime scene. He has been sent to jail," the SP said."Unconvinced" members of Samajwadi Party have demanded a proper probe in the matter. “We have demanded a magisterial probe and call for a fair outcome, and the arrest of the real accused," former minister Hemraj Verma said. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-arrested-for-raping-and-killing-minor-in-ups-pilibhit/articleshow/79131967.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Illegal granite mining in TN: ED tags assets worth Rs 978 crore as proceeds of crime||CHENNAI: The Enforcement directorate (ED) has told the Madras high court that so far it has identified properties worth Rs 977.6 crore as proceeds of illegal granite mining in the state. “As part of investigation, we have so far attached properties worth Rs 103 crore which belongs to Madurai-based PRP Exports and others,” S Karthikeyan, deputy director of ED said through an affidavit. The issue pertains to a public interest writ petition filed by social activist Traffic K R Ramaswamy alleging that the state had incurred a heavy loss due to the irregularities in allotment of mining leases. On September 11, 2014, the then first bench of chief justice S K Kaul (now judge of Supreme Court) and Justice Puspha Sathyanarayana, appointed IAS officer U Sagayam as special officer to probe complaints of illegal mining in Madurai. Concluding his probe, Sagayam submitted a 600-page report on November 23, 2015, along with annexures running to more than 7,000 pages. Further hearing of the PIL, however, never happened for more than four years. Now, a special bench of Justice T S Sivagnanam and Justice G Jayachandran has resumed the hearing. When the plea came up for hearing on Monday, special public prosecutor for ED G Hema produced a status report on the investigation. As per the report, FIRs have been registered against PRP Exports and others for offences including criminal conspiracy, cheating, causing death due to negligence, and money laundering. “Further details are being obtained from the law enforcement agencies to identify further proceeds of the crime, which involved money laundering,” the report added. Since the status report was not made available to the court, the bench could not peruse the contents of the report. The court then sought for the status of the court’s earlier order directing the state to ensure installation of CCTV cameras in all district borders to monitor transportation of illegally mined granites. Answering the query, government pleader V Jayaprakash Narayan submitted that the order has been partially implemented and sought further time to ensure full compliance. Making it clear that the order must be implemented in its letter and spirit considering large scale transportation of illicit granites from the state, the court adjourned further hearing of the plea to November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/illegal-granite-mining-ed-tags-assets-worth-rs-978cr-as-proceeds-of-crime/articleshow/79137886.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Mahila thana to get facelift after check by ACS home||LUCKNOW: Lucknow police mahila thana will undergo a facelift soon. The decision comes after a surprise inspection of Hazratganj Kotwali premises by additional chief secretary home Awanish Awasthi on Monday evening. The premises also houses the mahila thana. DCP, central, Somen Barma said that Awasthi has asked them to give a proposal for the facelift to him. “ACS home Awanish Awasthi stayed for around 20 minutes and inspected the women’s helpdesk and the nature of complaints received,” said Barma. He also asked SHO mahila thana Neelam Rana about the number of average daily women-related complaints lodged there and the strength of the force in the thana. Rana replied that on an average, seven complaints are filed in a day and that there are five women sub-inspectors, five head constables and 54 constables in the mahila thana. “We are getting good response from women as they are coming up to register cases and complaints at the women helpdesks. But mere registration of a complaint will not solve the purpose. Compliance will be completed till the disposal of the case. This is the thought of the CM behind setting up such a desk,” said Awasthi. He added that Rs 1 lakh each has been sanctioned to 1,532 police stations across the state for making women complainants feel comfortable while they come to lodge complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mahila-thana-to-get-facelift-after-check-by-acs-home/articleshow/79138984.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Theft at Se Cathedral, Rs 55,000 stolen||PANAJI: Old Goa police on Sunday registered an FIR against an unknown person for the theft of Rs 55,000 and some recording equipment from the office of Se Cathedral. The FIR was filed based on a complaint by Fr Alfred Vaz of the Cathedral. Police said that the accused cut the window grills of the Cathedral’s office and stole the cash that was kept inside drawers, and a digital video recorder. PSI Chetan Satilekar is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/theft-at-se-cathedral-rs-55000-stolen/articleshow/79137847.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Panaji: Two FIRs registered for online posts||PANAJI: Panaji police registered two separate FIRs against assistant professor at V M Salgaocar College of Law Shilpa Singh, for allegedly trying to insult religious sentiments, and Ponda-resident Rajiv Jha for defamation. Police booked Singh under Section 295 of the IPC, whereas Jha has been booked under 500, 504 and various other sections. Jha, in his complaint to cyber cell of Goa police, stated that the teacher should be booked “for passing derogatory comments on social media mocking Hindu religion, traditions, faith and beliefs”. On October 9, Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) had complained to Salgaocar College of Law that Singh was “promoting hateful thoughts against a particular religion” during her online lectures. Responding to the ABVP letter, Singh told the institute that the complaint was an attempt to tarnish her academic credentials and had refuted the charges saying she was engaging the students in a debate. In her counter complaint to north Goa superintendent of police (SP), Singh had said that Jha was “inciting a lynchmob against me using the pretext of religious sentiments”. She asked police to book Jha for insulting the modesty of a woman, defamation, criminal intimidation to her and family, and for breach of public peace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-firs-registered-for-online-posts/articleshow/79137862.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Many prefer home delivery of firecrackers||HYDERABAD: The brick-and-mortar firecracker industry is witnessing a lull, but those delivering firecrackers home, say they are getting many orders. “From Saturday, we have been getting nearly 300 enquiries per day for firecrackers,” said Raghavendra Chowdary, founder, Hyderabadcrackers.com. He said that since they were delivering home, people felt more confident about placing orders.  “They are happier not coming to the store during the Covid-19 crisis,” he said. A small-scale cracker seller, Ajay said he removed his makeshift stall at Domalguda. “There was increased scrutiny by cops and most people were taking my contact number and placing orders for deliveries. So, I now only deliver fireworks,” he said. About the loss of customers int traditional stores, Jagdeesh from Vishnu & Co Fireworks which has one of its outlets at Ameerpet said: “There has been a 30% fall in footfall from last year. People are scared to leave their houses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-prefer-home-delivery-of-firecrackers/articleshow/79137859.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||School upgraded for tribal kids in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Children from tribal settlements in Anaikatti and Attappadi don’t have to travel 12km every day to a school at Chinna Thadagam to attend higher secondary classes as the Anaikatti Government Tribal Residential High School has been upgraded to a higher secondary school. Kavundampalayam MLA V C Aarukutty inaugurated Class XI on Monday. The school will offer only the science group, including Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Biology or Zoology, initially. However, only one student turned up on Monday during the inauguration to enrol. “The government is yet to allot postgraduate teachers to the school. Only they can take classes for XI and XII,” said district adi dravidar welfare officer P N Prabhakaran. “There is no clarity if schools will reopen due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” he said. Most of the children from tribal settlements, who completed Class X in the school last year, have joined other schools to pursue higher education. “We are confident that once teachers are allotted, students will join,” said the welfare officer. While 350 tribal children study in classes between VI and X, there are 75 to 80 children in the school’s primary section. “While two to three children called me expressing interest to join, we estimate that at least 20 children will join once they start Class XI,” social activist Joshua G P N told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-upgraded-for-tribal-kids/articleshow/79137898.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||TWAD workers demand hike in bonus||COIMBATORE: Tens of contract workers of Tamil Nadu water and drainage (TWAD) board protested in front of their office on Vilankurichi Road in the city on Monday demanding Rs 7,000 (8.33% of their salary) as bonus. District secretary of TWAD board workers association R Saravanan said, “Last year after staging multiple protests, the board gave Rs 4,200 as bonus. This year, during a tri-party meeting that was held a few days ago, the board offered to provide Rs 4,400 as bonus against the government fixed minimum bonus of 8.33% of our salary.” We will continue our protests until the board agrees to provide the stipulated bonus to workers, he added.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/twad-workers-demand-hike-in-bonus/articleshow/79137895.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Got respiratory problems? Take extra care this Diwali||LUCKNOW: People with respiratory problems, chronic autoimmune diseases and heart issues need to be extra careful this Diwali as increased pollution levels due to bursting of firecrackers are expected to make the environment conducive for severe coronavirus infections, doctors have warned. According to doctors, patients with respiratory issues like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, lung tuberculosis and bronchitis often have hypersensitive respiratory tract and already damaged lungs. Besides, their oxygen level remains low. Therefore, their chances to catch infection with viruses and bacteria in winters is higher when air pollution acts as a catalyst. Since coronavirus attacks the respiratory tract, it may further damage the lungs. Times ViewNot just patients, their families too need to take extra precautions. It has been seen that people with comorbidity follow safety protocols, but are often infected by one of their family members who take precautions casually while venturing out and at home. In fact, all the citizens need to be extra cautious because catching the infection not only impacts physical and mental health, but also leads to loss of working hours and adds to financial burden.Prof Santosh Kumar, faculty in the respiratory medicine department of KGMU, while explaining how Covid can be hazardous in respiratory patients, said, “Ailments like COPD, bronchitis and asthma damage air sacs and narrow airways. Besides, extra mucus is produced that causes breathlessness. This hinders oxygen intake. Covid-19 causes blood clotting and fibrosis in lungs. If a person is inflicted by both, it may turn fatal.” Dr D Himanshu, communicable disease expert at KGMU, said, “These patients often suffer from hypoxemia as their lung capacity is low. Further damage is caused by ultrafine pollutants (PM 2.5 micron) if they enter lungs during inhalation. Hence, this year due to Covid-19, such patients need to take extra precautions because if they get infected, oxygen levels may drop faster in them than normal persons.” Patients with heart conditions, cancer and autoimmune disease should also take all precautions as their immunity remains low, he added. Dr Anil Kumar Gulati, director in microbiology department, Institute of Medical Sciences at Banaras Hindu University, said, “Higher pollution during and post Diwali might result in Covid-19 surge among those who are more exposed to the environment.” Dr Amit Singh, epidemiologist and faculty at the Provincial Health and Family Welfare Training Centre, said, “Though limited studies are available on the effect of air pollution on Covid-19, by studying other respiratory viruses we can say that it can thrive in damaged lungs and pollution is definitely a major contributing factor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/got-respiratory-problems-take-extra-care-this-diwali/articleshow/79138989.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
November 10, 2020||Goa||Goa govt to pay bonus to some state employees||PANAJI: The state government on Monday announced a bonus to government employees, days after the Centre announced a similar bounty for its employees for 2019-20. An office memorandum issued by the state on Monday said that all group-C and non-gazetted group B employees drawing a pay grade of Rs 4,600 and above as on April 1, 2020, won’t be covered under the scheme. Also, the payment of bonus to eligible employees will be through the e-payment mode only. Employees of autonomous bodies — partly or fully funded by the government — will be covered only if they follow the pattern of emoluments identical to the government, and if they do not have a bonus or ex-gratia/incentive scheme in operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-to-pay-bonus-to-some-state-employees/articleshow/79137894.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hubballi||Man makes indecent comments on women, held||DAVANAGERE: Jagalur police in the district arrested a 43-year-old man on Sunday for making indecent remarks on womanhood and provocative statements which hurt and defame women, after a woman from Chikka Ujjini lodged a complaint. The accused is Anjinappa, vice president of Davanagere district BJP OBC Morcha and a resident of Chikka Ujjini in Jagalur taluk. “On Friday, an audio recording in which Anjinappa made indecent and defamatory remarks audio against womanhood went viral on social media. A group of women along with a violent mob protested at Jagalur town police station on Saturday and we arrested him on Sunday,” said Dy SP rural Narasimha Tamradhwaja. The accused allegedly targeted women from a few communities. Some women protested against his remarks even on Monday here. Hundreds of members from Madivala Machideva community demanded that the authorities expel the accused out of the state for at least 10 years to punish him. Such indecent audios that hurt women should not be allowed to be spread on social media, said community leader HG Umesh. “We have sent the audio clippings to a forensic lab as part of the investigation and Anjinappa has been sent to judicial custody,” the Dy SP said. As soon as the incidence came to our knowledge on Friday evening, Anjinappa was been removed from the vice president’s post of the district BJP OBC Morcha and also from the primary membership of the party, said BJP district secretary Jagadish here on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-makes-indecent-comments-on-women-held/articleshow/79136105.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Rajkot||Six extort Rs 90K from Bhavnagar trader||Rajkot: Six persons including a woman were booked on Sunday night for allegedly extorting Rs 90,000 from a garment trader in Bhavnagar. According to the details of the case, two of the accused identified as Mitesh Rathod and Komal, had come to the shop of complainant Deepak Goyal on Saturday evening. Rathod asked Goyal to drop him and Komal in his car to the university ground. When Goyal drove his car to the university ground, two other accused, identified as Vanraj and Naresh, arrived on a two-wheeler. Also, the co-accused, Chetan and Kano, came to the spot. “The accused beat up Goyal, forced him to sit with Komal on the back seat of his car, clicked his photographs and threatened to show them to his wife. The accused also forced Goyal to hold a white powder plastic bag in his hand and made him say that he was a drug dealer and that he used to give bribes to the police,” said A B Sisodiya, inspector with Bhavnagar A division police station. The accused took Goyal to Nari Chowkadi. Here when Goyal tried to cry for help, Vanraj allegedly showed him a knife and Komal bit his hand. Later Rathod and Komal left the spot, while the other accused took Goyal near Talaja where they made him pay total Rs 90,000 in cash, through google pay and PayTM. “Before dropping Goyal at Top Three Circle in Bhavnagar at 3 am on Saturday, the accused allegedly called Goyal’s wife and demanded Rs 5 lakh from her, telling her that if she did not pay, they would book Goyal in a drug trafficking case. The accused took Goyal’s car key, one ATM card and his cellphone,” said Sisodiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/six-extort-rs-90k-from-bhavnagar-trader/articleshow/79135497.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Ban crackers with Hindu deity images: HJS||PANAJI: Hindu Janajagruti Samiti (HJS) has appealed to chief minister Pramod Sawant to ban the sale of China-made firecrackers and those with ‘pictures of Hindu deities and national heroes’. It has emailed a memorandum to Sawant. “The pictures of national heroes and deities are printed on the covers of some crackers and when these crackers are burnt the torn pictures get strewn all over. They are trodden upon. Such a denigration of national heroes and deities hurt the religious sentiments of Hindus,” state HJS convener Manoj Solanki said in the memorandum. He added that the Centre should continue last year’s ban on Chinese crackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ban-crackers-with-hindu-deity-images-hjs/articleshow/79137922.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Bareilly||39-year-old woman dies in sulphur-potash mixture blast||Pilibhit: A 39-year-old woman, identified as Vimla Devi, died in a sulphur-potash mixture blast at her house in Akahuli village under Bisalpur kotwali in Pilibhit around 3pm on Sunday.Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said the sulphur-potash mixture — used to produce cracking sounds in crop fields to keep animals and birds at bay —kept in a small box at the house exploded after three-year-old Shivani threw on it a burning wood from a bonfire lit to cook food. The girl sustained minor injuries as she had run away. The sulphur-potash powder had been bought for cracking loud sounds in agricultural fields to keep the herbivores away from grazing.Bisalpur circle officer Lallan Singh, who inspected the spot, said the victim was sleeping nearby and died on the spot. The CO, however, confirmed that the blast was not related to illegal cracker manufacturing or any other illegal activity. The body was sent for an autopsy, but an FIR was not lodged, he added.Notably, when a small sulphur-potash mixture sachet is hit with a heavy object, it produces cracking sound. Farmers use the method to protect their crops from the flocks of birds and herds of herbivores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/39-year-old-woman-dies-in-sulphur-potash-mixture-blast/articleshow/79132014.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||11-yr-old slips into canal, feared dead||Hyderabad: A 11-year-old girl is feared to have drowned after she slipped and fell inside Bandar canal in Vijayawada on Monday. Police said the incident happened at 2 pm when Rishita, was playing near the edge of the canal. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-yr-old-slips-into-canal-feared-dead/articleshow/79137901.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Two arrested for murder at Kanukunta||HYDERABAD: RC Puram police arrested two rag pickers in the murder case of a Annapura canteen worker at Kanukunta on Sunday night. The accused, G Krishna (25) and Krishna Veni (22) are from Kanukunta in RC Puram. On Sunday night, the duo were consuming liquor at a shop in Lingampally. The victim, G Tukaram, reached the same spot. “While consuming liquor, Tukaram misbehaved with Krishna Veni and assaulted her. Subsequently, the rag pickers left the place. At around 11 pm, Tukaram went to their hut and slept next to Krishnaveni,” RC Puram inspector P Jagadeeshwar said. “Noticing this, Krishna Veni raised an alarm and along with Krishna she pushed Tukaram out of their hut. Tukaram picked up an argument with them and in a fit of rage, they bludgeoned Tukaram with sticks,” the inspector said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-murder-at-kanukunta/articleshow/79137890.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||LSR girl’s suicide: Students stage stir||HYDERABAD: The death of a 19-year-old student of the LSR College, Delhi, triggered protests in the city on Monday. The NSUI members held a demonstration at Shadnagar seeking justice for the LSR student. “We demand the central government to introduce a special scheme of scholarships for students studying outside their native states so that students future can be saved,” said Balmoor Venkat, state president, NSUI. “The agony of not receiving fellowship for one year and the fatwa of LSR to vacate hostel pushed her to take her life,” said Abhishek Nandan, president, UoH students union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lsr-girls-suicide-students-stage-stir/articleshow/79137915.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hubballi||MLC election results: Officials prepared for D-Day||DHRWAD: The stage is set for counting of votes for the election to the Legislative Council from West Graduates Constituency on Tuesday. Counting will commence at University of Agricultural Sciences here from 8am. Since the election involves preferential voting, counting is expected to go for more than one round and the results may be announced late in the evening or at midnight. The constituency covers Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag and Uttara Kannada districts and the election held on October 28 has recorded 70.1% voting. For any candidate to win in the first round, securing more than 50% first preference votes of the total valid votes is mandatory. Regional commissioner Aditya Amlan Biswas, who is the returning officer, said on Monday that counting will take place on 14 tables. The EC has appointed four additional assistant returning officers. In all 64 officials will be engaged in counting of votes. The strong room will be opened at 7.55am. Three-layer security arrangements have been at UAS premises. CCTV cameras have been installed at the counting halls and strong rooms. In all 274 police personnel including senior officers have been posted here. Since the election process is being conducted during the pandemic, special care has been taken to follow Covid-19 guidelines issued by the health department. All the rooms have been sanitized and arrangements have been made for thermal screening and maintaining social distance. Wearing masks is compulsory. Biswas said a special isolation room has been kept ready as a precaution. All officials on election duty will be subjected to thermal screening and if anyone is found to have high temperature, he/she will be made to sit in isolation room. There will be one more thermal screening after 15 minutes and if the temperature is normal he/she will be sent for counting work. In case the high temperature persists, the person will be kept in isolation room for treatment. Senior IAS officer Shalini Rajnish, who has been appointed as special observer by the EC visited UAS on Tuesday and inspected arrangements. Dharwad deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil, Uttara Kannada DC Harish and superintendent of police Krishnakant were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/mlc-election-results-officials-prepared-for-d-day/articleshow/79136294.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||After floods, vehicle owners now fight hefty repair bills in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: There seems to be no respite in sight for vehicle owners, affected by the recent floods. After the initial hit, they are now battling hefty repair charges being handed out by automobile service centres. Here’s how the rate card looks. Repair estimate: Rs 5,000; parking charges: Rs 300 to Rs 500 per day; towing charges: Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000. In fact, some are even pushing owners to discard the damaged vehicle and buy a new one. Said Ashwin Sarda, a resident of Begumpet, “When I first took my car to an authorised service centre in RTC cross roads, I was asked to pay 5% of estimation charges (of the total insurance value) and parking charges of Rs 500 per day. They also asked me to deposit Rs 50,000 upfront failing which they would not repair by car.” He later took his vehicle to another centre where they were lenient only on the deposit. Another vehicle owner, Prince Bohra, whose car had partially got submerged, too was asked for a Rs 50,000 deposit. “And this, even before they could check the car for damages,” he said, adding, “I took my car to another service centre in Rani Gunj where I was asked to pay Rs 7,500 as estimate costs and Rs 300 per day for parking charges.” Similar bills are being handed out to customers across centres in Nampally, Uppal, Begumpet, Secunderabad, Rasoolpura that are flooded with calls from customers. In fact, based on the extent of damage, car showrooms have categorised damaged vehicles into A, B and C categories. When TOI called a service centre at RTC cross roads posing as a prospective customer, the executive said: “If the water has reached above the dashboard level, the repair cost will be more than 70% of the car’s value declared in the insurance, as it will be considered a total loss. In such cases, estimation and parking costs will be charged.” Another service centre representative from Somajiguda said: “We are charging Rs 300 per day for parking as we had to hire a place to keep flood-affected vehicles. Insurance does not cover those charges.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-floods-vehicle-owners-now-fight-hefty-repair-bills/articleshow/79137953.cms||Moulika.KV
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Last building below Velachery flyover razed for service lane||CHENNAI: The state highways department on Monday brought down a building in Velachery to facilitate laying of service roads below the flyover under construction there. Of the 11 private properties near the Vijaya Nagar junction required to be razed, seven were pending for long. The last building was brought down on Monday. The government wants one of two arms of the flyover to be opened for traffic by December, ahead of the state assembly election in 2021, and work along level-II, the 1,027-metre-long arm connecting Taramani with Velachery bypass (on Phoenix Mall side), is nearing completion. “Foundation and column work is over and we are preparing to construct capital beams and slabs along four spans now,” said an official from the highways department’s metro wing. Work on a 110 metre stretch is pending. Work on the arm (level-I) connecting Tambaram and Velachery has been put on hold now. The flyover was supposed to be opened two years ago. The government had sanctioned Rs 92 crore for the project for which construction began in 2016. Highways officials attributed the delay to legal proceedings associated with land acquisition. With construction works in full swing, less focus was given on maintaining the roads, clearing debris or keeping the road free from water stagnation. Traffic diversions, muddy roads and potholes has made vehicle movement difficult and daily commute intolerable, say the public. S Shankar, a resident of Ram Nagar in Velachery, said that the stretch in front of Bata showroom connecting Vijayanagaram with Tambaram can support only single-lane traffic now. But the 100-metre stretch is riddled with potholes and motorists take more time to cross it. Making things worse, the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) hasn’t changed the bus stop location. Share autos too park right adjacent to buses leaving no space for other cars from behind to move ahead. As a result, the vehicle queue overflows and blocks the way for those coming from other directions, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/last-building-below-velachery-flyover-razed-for-service-lane/articleshow/79137943.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Last witness in Kodanad case examined||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The district magistrate court here on Monday examined the investigating officer of the Kodanad murder cum burglary case. He is the last witness to be examined in the case. As the court could not complete the examination of the investigating officer, the hearing was posted to Wednesday, public prosecutor Bala Nandhakumar said. “The examination will continue on Wednesday. With that, prosecution regarding the case will be closed. Questioning and arguments will follow after that,” he said. Police produced all the 10 accused in the case before the court for hearing. While eight accused are out on bail, the remaining two, Sayan and Manoj, are under police custody. The Madras high court has given direction to the district magistrate court to complete the hearings in connection with the case before December 15. Hence, at least two hearings in connection with the case had been taken up in a week by the court in the past months. According to the public prosecutor, of the 103 witnesses framed in the charge sheet, 60 were dispersed. Only the remaining 43 witnesses were examined. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/last-witness-in-kodanad-case-examined/articleshow/79137935.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Jewellery business eyes lost sheen with festive sales in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: After suffering huge losses due to Covid-19, city jewellers are hopeful of revival of business on Dhanteras and Diwali with projected earnings of over Rs 15 crore. Markets are abuzz as customers are thronging jewellery stores for festival purchase. Despite high rates, gold is likely be in demand as buying it is considered auspicious on Dhanteras. Besides usual gold bars and coins, the wedding season has also added sheen to jewellery business. President of Lucknow Sarrafa Association Adesh Jain said the market is expected to clock over Rs 15 crore business this Diwali. “In terms of volume, there might be a 20% decrease as compared to last year but we are expecting good response. Business of around Rs 10 crore has been done so far,” he added. Last year, business during festival season was around Rs 24 crore. “There has been a considerable rise in footfall and sales since Navratri. As most of the weddings scheduled in March and April were postponed and resumed in October, heavy gold jewellery is being purchased,” said Tanya Rastogi, owner of a jewellery store. “We have also received bookings for lightweight jewellery which will pick up on Dhanteras,” said Shashi Singh of a jewellery store in Alambagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/jewellery-biz-eyes-lost-sheen-with-festive-sales/articleshow/79139010.cms||Aditi Singh
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Man gets life for raping minor||HYDERABAD: A 33-year-old carpenter was sentenced to life imprisonment in the kidnap and rape case of a minor girl at Meerpet in 2014. A local court convicted V Ravi Kumar of Karmanghat for the kidnap and rape of a 14-year-old girl. A case was registered against Ravi in August 2014 for luring the victim to accompany him to Sadasivpet in the guise of marrying her and resorting to sexual exploitation. Metropolitan sessions court of LB Nagar, convicted the accused and sentenced him to undergo life imprisonment. The convict has to pay Rs 10,000 fine. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-gets-life-for-raping-minor/articleshow/79137949.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Gold, silver ornaments worth Rs 28 lakh looted from jewellery shop at Tiruchengode||NAMAKKAL: Gold ornaments weighing 45 sovereigns and 10kg of silver ornaments were looted from a jewellery shop at Tiruchengode in Namakkal district in the early hours of Monday. The stolen items were estimated to be worth Rs 28 lakh. Police said the shopowner, P Muthusamy, 40, of Tiruchengode closed his shop near the Periya Mariamman temple on Old Salem Road around 9.30pm on Sunday and went to home. Around 3.30am next day, a few acquaintances of Muthusamy found shop shutters were open and noticed people moving inside the shop. They shouted for help, but before people could gather, some unidentified persons came running out of the shop with bags and escaped on two bikes. Immediately, police and Muthusamy were alerted. Police questioned Muthusamy and collected forensic evidence from the shop. Police said five sets of fingerprints believed to be of burglars were extracted from the shop. Police are checking footage of CCTV cameras in the area. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gold-silver-ornaments-worth-rs-28l-looted-from-jewellery-shop-at-tiruchengode/articleshow/79137946.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||NGT asks MoEF to clarify if new plant at old mining site needs fresh green nod||PANAJI: The Union environment ministry has been granted a month’s time by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in a Goa mine related matter. The tribunal has sought clarity on whether a fresh environment clearance (EC) is required if a new plant is set up at the site of an older plant by a mining company. The application by Goa Foundation has raised question on legality of a Vedanta plant functioning in Codli in Dharbandora. Goa Foundation has stated that a former mining lease has been subsequently made part of amalgamated mining lease allegedly without EC as per the 2006 notification on environment impact assessment. Goa Foundation stated that after the Supreme Court directives, mining operations in Goa halted in 2018. “The beneficiation plants subsequently commenced for the process of 2.1 million tonnes of ore per annum without EC,” as per the application filed in December 2019. According to Goa Foundation, ‘once there was closing/dismantling of the earlier plants and new plants were set up in their place in 2019, 2006 notification was attracted, notwithstanding the fact that initially plants were set up earlier’. Goa Foundation has prayed for an order directing the Goa State Pollution Control Board to withdraw its consent to operate to Vedanta for starting operations of beneficiation plant and it has also asked the Union ministry to take action for the violation by the mining company. In an earlier reply in the matter, the Union environment ministry stated that following the 2018 apex court order to halt mining operations in Goa, it had told state officials that all ECs granted to 88 mines in Goa stand cancelled. The mining company, however, told the NGT in its reply that as the plant stood at the site prior to 2006 no EC is required. “Shifting of plants by 500 metres in the same premises does not amount to commencement of a new project or expansion, modernisation or change of the product which requires EC,” the mining company told the tribunal. NGT, however, felt that further clarification from the Union environment ministry was needed in the matter. “The MoEF&CC has in its reply not given a specific opinion whether requirement of prior EC is attracted to the functioning of the project in question. Though prima facie, such requirement appears to be patent, it is desirable to have specific stand of the MoEF in this regard,” NGT said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ngt-asks-moef-to-clarify-if-new-plant-at-old-mining-site-needs-fresh-green-nod/articleshow/79137945.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Discoms trip on polls, GHMC elections may deny them power tariff revision again||HYDERABAD: Power distribution companies (discoms) may have to wait for some more time with another round of elections round the corner. Power tariff has not been revised for the past two years as a series of elections forced the state to deny consent for the move. Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) and Telangana Northern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSNPDCL) have to submit their aggregate revenue requirement (ARR) for 2021-2022 by November-end. However, officials, while preparing documents for filings are worried Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections might again become a stumbling block for revising power tariff. Even if they submit ARRs, government is unlikely to give permission for tariff enhancement during the elections. The discoms have not submitted their ARRs and revised tariff for two consecutive years — 2019-2020 and 2020-2021. Every year, power utilities have to submit their power demand, revenue and deficit, cross subsidy and government’s commitment towards subsidies. The new tariff comes into force from April 1 of the financial year. The discoms could not file ARR for 2019-2020, supposed to be filed in November, 2018, due to assembly elections and later Lok Sabha polls in April 2019. Later for 2020-2021, supposed to be filed by November, 2019, the discoms did not file ARRs even after seeking half-a-dozen time extensions from Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC). Now, the time has come for the 2021-2022 filings. “Due to various reasons, we could not file ARRs for the past two years. Now, the exercise has begun on ARRs. We will consult TSERC soon,” TSSPDCL chairman and managing director G Raghuma Reddy told TOI. Sources in power utilities said the state government has to give details on power subsidies and irrigation department details on power consumption for lift irrigation projects. “A few months ago, the irrigation department has given some power consumption projections. Due to heavy rains, many lakes and tanks are full. As a result, lifts’ working hours may come down and the department needs to revise the projections now,” a senior TSNPDCL official said. Meanwhile, officials said the power tariff was last revised in 2017. With mounting debts and huge arrears of about Rs 10,000 crore and poor finances of the government, the discoms have no option but to increase tariff. “In view of GHMC elections in a couple of months, the state government may not accept our proposal,” the officials explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/discoms-trip-on-polls-ghmc-elections-may-deny-them-power-tariff-revision-again/articleshow/79137980.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore records 189 fresh Covid cases||COIMBATORE: Monday marked the first day in three months that the district recorded less than 200 fresh cases of Covid-19. It was also the first day in more than two months that the district recorded zero death, keeping the toll at 576. The district recorded 189 fresh cases, taking the tally to 45,287. With 179 patients getting discharged, the active cases stood at 1,000. The number of people recovered went up to 43,711, taking the recovery rate to 96.5%. Chief secretary K Shanmugam has instructed police to strictly enforce wearing of face masks by the public. He said besides slapping fine, the cops should also create awareness on wearing face masks. “Many people have started moving around without wearing masks. Number of cases can be brought down by 30% to 40% by strictly wearing masks,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-records-189-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/79137911.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Congress writes to Goa governor, seeks assembly session||PANAJI: Congress MLA and leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat on Monday wrote to Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari urging him to convene a full-fledged session of the state assembly in either November or December. In his letter, Kamat stated that considerable time had passed since a proper assembly session was held and issues pertaining to the state were discussed. “It is the right of every elected representative, especially from the opposition, to raise issues concerning the common man,” Kamat stated. The BJP-led state government curtailed the monsoon assembly session, which was originally scheduled as a 12-day session, to a single day because of Covid. “After the pandemic, our state is passing through various crises, including economic slowdown, unemployment, environmental issues, collapse of law and order, failure of the government in handling the pandemic and providing proper healthcare services and various other issues,” Kamat wrote in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-writes-to-guv-seeks-assembly-session/articleshow/79137969.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Over 2m-long crocodile rescued from field at Fatrade||COLVA: A crocodile measuring over 2m in length and weighing around 40kg was rescued by wildlife enthusiast Lavito Rodrigues last Saturday afternoon at Fatrade. The 35-year-old diver from Fatrade-Varca told TOI that he received a call from a cattle owner informing that the mugger was present in the fields. “Initially, the farmer spotted it and thought it was dead. He called his friend who went to take a closer look and realised that it was alive and they called me,” said Lavito. He said it took more than an hour’s struggle to snare its jaws and then all four limbs. “This is the first time I have rescued a crocodile, though, over the last five years, I have rescued hundreds of cobras, vipers and pythons in the villages of Salcete” he said. Lavito said there is nullah connecting the Sal and the fields and mostly likely the mugger entered through it. The crocodile was later handed over to the forest department through its personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-2m-long-croc-rescued-from-field-at-fatrade/articleshow/79137983.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Madurai||7.5% medical quota: Madras HC seeks details||MADURAI: The Madras high court has observed that it can take a call on providing 7.5% horizontal reservation for government-aided school students only if there is data available on the number of government aided school students who had secured admission in medical courses since the implementation of Neet. It then directed the petitioner in the case to furnish details of the same. The court was hearing the petition filed by V Preethi, a resident of Tirunelveli district who sought to extend the benefit of the GO passed by the state government that had provided 7.5% horizontal reservation for government students who had cleared NEET, for admission in medical courses to the students of government-aided schools as well A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that taking into consideration the less number of students from government schools having got admission in medical courses, the state had brought in an horizontal reservation of 7.5% for such students based on the recommendations of a commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/7-5-med-quota-hc-seeks-details/articleshow/79137982.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Job racket case: Ex-minister appears before CCB for questioning||CHENNAI: DMK MLA and former transport minister V Senthil Balaji on Monday appeared before the Central Crime Branch (CCB) for an inquiry in connection with a fake job racket case. He appeared for inquiry once in February. The former minister was asked to appear before the CCB sleuths at Chennai police commissionerate in Vepery in connection with complaint that he along with few officials cheated people to the tune of Rs 2.3 crore after promising to get them jobs in various transport corporations in the state. While the case was filed in 2015 based on a complaint filed by S Devasahayam, another victim, Ganesh, said in his complaint that he had paid Rs 95 lakh in several installments to Balaji, the then MLA of Karur, for a job. Police believe at least 40 people were duped this way from 2011 to 2015. Apart from Balaji, his relatives Prabhu, Sahaya Rajan and Anna Raj have also been booked in the case. In September, CCB officials summoned MTC officials for inquiry in the case, after which Senthil Balaji was summoned. CCB sources said among questions posed were about the money collected from the victims and added that the legislator responded well to all the queries. Sources said he would be called again for inquiry only after questioning a few others linked to the case, later this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/job-racket-case-ex-min-appears-before-ccb-for-questioning/articleshow/79137984.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Gomai idols to bring cheer for women||LUCKNOW: By choosing biodegradable idols and diyas this Diwali, you will not only be helping the environment but also boosting the morale of hundreds of women who have made these by hand. Kanha Upvan and LMC have trained close to 2,200 women of self-help groups (SHGs) in making ‘gomai’ (cowdung) diyas and idols of Ganesh-Lakshmi and other gods. These cowdung diyas and idols will become the source of income of these women of the district this year. Besides training, raw material and retail counters have also been made available for the women. “People who want to buy these products can visit the stalls provided to these women by the municipal corporation,” said manager of Kanha Upvan Yatendra Trivedi. Thirty stalls have been set up in different markets and malls in the city. Some women have also been provided with carts to sell their products. Products made of cowdung are biodegradable and can be used as a plant nutrient. The idols might also be cheaper than clay idols. They are available in varying sizes and are durable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gomai-idols-to-bring-cheer-for-women/articleshow/79139032.cms||Neha Shukla
November 10, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks to install CCTV cameras at DPCs||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Monday sought a response from the central and state governments in a plea which sought to install CCTV cameras at direct procurement centres across the state in order to prevent the issue of demanding bribes from the farmers, for procuring the food grains. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi sought the response in a public interest litigation filed by K K Ramesh, a litigant appearing as party-in-person from Madurai. The petitioner stated that several small farmers are suffering as they are unable to store their food grains. He also recalled reports in the media about the food grains getting drenched due to rain, as the farmers do not have sufficient place to store their agricultural produce. Hence, he sought for a direction to the central and state governments seeking to establish warehouses at all the village panchayats where the food grains could be stored safely. He stated that the government could also collect a minimal rent from the farmers for utilising the warehouse. The petitioner also sought to increase the number of direct procurement centres in the state and to set up shades to keep the food grains safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-to-install-cctv-camerasat-dpcs/articleshow/79137986.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest department stops illegal felling of eucalyptus trees||UDHAGAMANDALAM: A day after TOI reported about large-scale felling of eucalyptus trees in a patta land, the forest department on Monday stopped the illegal act at Kappachi under the Thummanatty revenue village in the district. The cut logs kept in the land have been brought under the custody of the forest department. According to activists, at least 15 loads of logs were cut and transported. The revenue department officials turned a blind eye even after the issue was brought to their notice, they said. Saravanakumar, assistant conservator of forest, Nilgiris division told TOI, “Forest officials inspected the land where the trees were being cut. There was no permission granted to cut trees in the land. We have stopped the activity of tree felling there.” He said, “We have initiated an inquiry in this regard. The cut logs kept in the land are brought under our custody.” According to a forest department official, there was a dispute between two people on the ownership of the land. The forest department is in the process of collecting revenue records in connection with the land. Of the total 15 acres, at least eight acres have grown eucalyptus trees. “In the meantime, we have asked one of the owners, who is not involved in the tree cutting activity, to approach police and lodge a complaint,” Saravanakumar said. He added, “We will take action for illegal cutting of the trees.” Permission for large-scale tree cutting is granted at the district level committee headed by the district collector after a recommendation from the forest department with a report of due field inspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-department-stops-illegal-felling-of-eucalyptus-trees/articleshow/79137964.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||Stir hits rail travel in festive season||Six weeks of ‘rail roko’ that farmers’ groups started in the last week of September has caused a great deal of inconvenience to passengers, particularly in the festive season, as most of the 300-plus passenger, mail, express and Rajdhani trains in the railways’ Ferozepur Division have either been terminated or cancelled. Even after farmers clearing all 21 locations where they had been protesting, the deadlock continues between the farm groups and railways with the former saying that they would allow only goods trains to ply and the latter insisting that terms can’t be dictated and passenger trains, too, should be permitted. Passenger train services were completely withdrawn in the state from October 1, though the partial effect had started showing from September 24. Since then, the Ferozepur Division has refunded tickets to the tune of Rs 1.2 crore. Most of the trains in the division have been short terminated at Ambala in Haryana. “Every second day, some or the other delegation approaches us for the resumption of passenger as well as goods trains but nothing is in our hands. We are prepared to resume services at any given time but only after receiving a nod from Delhi,” said a source in Northern Railway. According to an estimate, zero movement of passenger trains has upended the plans of nearly 20,000 passengers travelling to or from Punjab on a daily basis. The inward and outward movement of passengers is peaks at this time of the year in Punjab, with migrants travelling to their native places for the festive season. With trains running only till Ambala, the cost of journey has increased manifold for long-distance travellers. Hailing from Bihar, four migrant workers, who had come to Barnala railway station on Monday to inquire about the possibility of booking tickets for travel from Ambala to Bihar, said, “Earlier, Covid affected our plans and now due to farm protests, trains have come to a halt. We had to return after harvesting paddy but are unable to do so. We have now booked a train from Ambala and will be going to Ambala by road and spend more money”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stir-hits-rail-travel-in-festive-season/articleshow/79139913.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Quarrying threat to ancient rock art site in Villupuram: Activists||CHENNAI: Manual granite quarrying near the Kilvalai prehistoric rock art site in Villupuram is emerging a threat to the ancient pieces of art, worry heritage activists. A team said during a recent visit, they heard the sound of stones being broken as they neared the site and once there, they found a man cutting the rocks into smaller pieces. “The man said he was cutting rocks for personal use, but it was not an isolated case. We found manual quarrying taking place in the vicinity and the illegal activity has now reached the place where the prehistoric rock arts are found,” said Paranthagan Thamilselvam, a heritage activist who led the team to Kilvalai a week ago. The rocks, estimated to date back more than 3,000 years, are among the oldest found in Tamil Nadu. The state archaeology department, which does well in excavation and preservation of monuments, doesn’t seem very keen on protecting prehistoric rock art sites, said the activists. However, its official website has documented the site with photographs and a virtual tour. It also divides the rock arts of Kilvalai into four groups. “The first group consists of three men, with one on a horse, another pulling the horse with a rope fastened around its neck, while the third man has his hands stretched out welcoming them,” it said. The fourth group was a painting of six men standing and a few others with hands outstretched. “The painting is an indication of some ritualistic significance, especially the horned headgear of the men and their faces resembling bird’s beak. There are also figures of bow and arrow. The occurrence of designs and depiction of men rowing boats indicates a link between the Indus Valley and the southern region,” the website listing said, quoting scholar Natana Kasinathan. So the department knows the significance of the paintings, but the fence around the rocks where the paintings were found was erected decades ago, said the activist. “It’s a remote place and people take this as an advantage. Since mechanized quarrying is banned in the region, some do it manually on the premises, which is known for yielding high quality granites,” said Thamilselvam. R Sivanandam, deputy director of state department of archaeology, told TOI on Monday that he would visit Kilvalai and address the issue immediately. “It is one of the important rock art sites maintained by the department. I will visit the site tomorrow itself. I will write to the collector and take immediate action to stop the quarrying there,” said Sivanandam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/quarrying-threat-to-ancient-rock-art-site-activists/articleshow/79138022.cms||M T Saju
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Miscreants set DVK office, auto on fire||COIMBATORE: Unidentified miscreants set Dalit Viduthalai Katchi (DVK) office and a goods autorickshaw on fire in Avinashi on Monday. The Avinashi police have registered a case. P Sengottaiyan, 52, founder of DVK from Senkattu Thidal on Cheyur Road in Avinashi, parked his goods auto rickshaw near his party office located near Tirupur government hospital on Sunday night. The party office was closed after functionaries and cadres had a long chat and went home. Meanwhile, unidentified miscreants allegedly set the goods auto rickshaw belonging to Sengottaiyan and office on fire. The party functionaries alerted fire and rescue services personnel who came to the spot and put out the fire. The goods auto rickshaw and a portion of the office was gutted. Sengottaiyan lodged a complaint with Avinashi (law & order) police inspector Arul who registered a case. Arul said a forensic expert visited the spot and collected some material. “We are trying to know the cause of the fire. We will conduct a detailed investigation following as per forensic report,” Arul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/miscreants-set-dvk-office-auto-on-fire/articleshow/79138009.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report from govt on fire accidents at cracker units in TN||MADURAI: The Madras high court on Monday sought a report from the state government with regard to details on the fire accidents, which were reported in cracker units in the state. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by J Vasudevan who sought for a direction to inspect and ensure that all the safety norms are being followed at the units situated in Madurai district. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that many lives are lost every year since the units are not following the safety norms. Taking into consideration the interest of the employees working in the fireworks industry, the judges put forth a series of queries: Details on the number of cracker units which are functioning; number of workers dependent on the fireworks industry; and district-wise and year-wise details of the number of employees who died and sustained injuries due to fire accidents in the units for the past 10 years. The judges further sought details on the quantum of compensation awarded to the deceased and injured employees and also details on the number of people to whom compensation was awarded. The judges also sought whether the authorities concerned are carrying out periodical inspections at the cracker units to ensure that safety norms are followed and if so details on the action taken against the units which had violated the norms. The judges stated that the fortune of the fireworks industry is declining since various states in the country have started to impose a ban on the sale and bursting of crackers. They sought a response from the central and state governments on the steps taken to establish new industries in order to provide alternate employment opportunities to the employees of the fireworks industry who lose their jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-from-govt-on-fire-accidents-at-cracker-units-in-state/articleshow/79137997.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Negligent drivers booked for culpable homicide||HYDERABAD: After a series of accidents, Cyberabad police have started booking motorists who cause fatal road accidents despite knowing that their negligent driving may cause harm to others, under Section 304 (ii) of the IPC. People driving under the influence of alcohol, those who jump signal, drive without a licence or drive in wrong direction and cause fatal accidents are automatically being booked under section 304 (ii) (Culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC instead of Section 304-A (Causing death by negligence). On November 2 night, a car rammed into a bike coming from opposite direction at Aloor gate near Chevella. Bike rider Ch Anjaiah, 43, from Kummera in Chevella succumbed while undergoing treatment on November 3. Car driver K Praveen Kumar, 28, was drunk and he was booked under Section 304-II. “His licence was forwarded to RTA for cancellation,” Cyberabad DCP-traffic SM Vijay Kumar said. A 16-year-old student from Medchal was arrested for causing a fatal accident by driving car in wrong direction on October 28. Along with the boy, his 42-year-old father, a builder, was also booked. “Wherever clear evidence is available, we are charging the accused under Section 304-II of the IPC where the maximum punishment is up to 10 years. Our teams visit every accident scene, find out reasons for the accident and initiate corrective measures,” the DCP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/negligent-drivers-booked-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/79138002.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC refuses to vacate stay on reopening of Gandhi market||MADURAI: Refusing to vacate the stay granted for reopening of the Gandhi market in Trichy district, the Madras high court on Monday directed the Trichy Corporation to submit a report on the feasibility of setting up a permanent markets at eight different places to benefit the public and to decongest the city. The court was hearing the public interest litigation filed by K Krishnamoorthy of the Tiruchirapalli District Manida Valar Sangam, seeking to shift the wholesale traders from Gandhi market to Kallikudi market complex in the district. During August, the court had granted interim injunction on the functioning of Gandhi market till the disposal of the petition by observing that its functioning would lead to the fast spread of Covid-19, endangering the lives of people visiting the market. Subsequently, the corporation officials filed a petition seeking to vacate the stay which was granted for reopening the Gandhi market. Similarly, the members of the traders association also filed an impleading petition seeking to reopen the market stating that their livelihood is affected. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that the Kallikudi central complex for vegetables, fruits and flowers was constructed five years ago, but by filing proceedings before the courts, the traders were postponing its opening. Subsequently, the government passed a GO on February 24 for the functioning of the Kallikudi market. The judges said that it was brought to the notice of the court that of the 830 shops, 207 are allotted for agriculturalists and the remaining 623 shops for the traders inside Kallikudi market. “When a huge amount of money is spent, we have to ensure that the Kallikudi market is occupied and becomes functional,” they said. The judges observed that though the very purpose for shifting the traders from Gandhi market to Kallikudi was to decongest the city, it is not known as to why the corporation officials had filed a vacate stay petition to reopen the Gandhi market. The judges observed that on account of Covid-19 pandemic, the corporation had set up temporary markets at eight different places in the city in private land parcels. The judges observed that it would be appropriate for the corporation officials to identify government land near these eight temporary markets, so that permanent markets could be set up at these places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-refuses-to-vacate-stay-on-reopening-of-gandhi-market/articleshow/79138013.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 21 govt school students qualify for MBBS seats||COIMBATORE: Twenty-year-old J Dharani, a student of the Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School at RS Puram, was worried ever since the results of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) was announced in October. Even though she scored 461 marks, Dharani was apprehensive that she might not get admission to a medical college this year as the cut-off mark to get admission was 474 last year. But now, she is confident, thanks to the state government for providing 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students. Like Dharani, 21 government school students, including three from corporation schools, are now eligible to apply for medical admission. Those who had scored above 113 marks in the examination are eligible to apply, according to officials of the office of chief educational officer (CEO). “Only three of the 21 students had attempted the examination several times. Most of the students had either attended the NEET training conducted by the state government or studied on their own,” an official said. Dharani had been taking the examination for the last four years. She studied on her own for three years. As she could not even get 300 marks, she joined a private coaching centre in 2019 after she obtained a scholarship. “With the introduction of horizontal reservation, many government school students can become doctors. It is difficult to compete with private school students and those who have undergone coaching. The NEET syllabus is different from Class XII syllabus and is vast. We need someone at least to tell us what to read and how to read. It took me years to learn the tricks to prepare for the examination,” she said. J Swetha Bhagyam, a student of the Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School at Ramakrishnapuram, scored 142 marks in the first attempt by studying Class XI and XII books. “My father is working in a private company and earns Rs 14,000 per month. I cannot enrol in a private coaching centre and could not attend the training provided by the state government. So, I studied on my own with the help of my teachers,” she said. “If I don’t get admission to a medical college this year, I would do a BSc course because I can’t afford to take a break to prepare for the exam.” An official with the education wing of the city corporation said, “As many as 241 students took Biology group in corporation schools last year and eight underwent NEET training provided by the government. With the reservation in place, we hope many students would come forward to study Biology and take NEET.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/21-govt-school-students-qualify-for-mbbs-seats/articleshow/79138020.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Bandi Sanjay Kumar calls BJP a ‘party of Hindus’||HYDERABAD: Taking an aggressive stand, BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Monday said BJP is a party of Hindus and will crush those who create obstacles for Hindu dharma. Speaking on the occasion of some TRS leaders joining the BJP, he said his party is a successor to Chhatrapati Shivaji and his ideals. He likened chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to be a successor of Mughal emperor Babur. He slammed the CM, alleging that the TRS had joined the hands with AIMIM which was vociferous against creation of a separate Telangana state. Warning that people would teach a lesson to the TRS, he said: “CM KCR is a dictator. The BJP will create a box office record (indicating stupendous victory) in the forthcoming GHMC elections.” On the TRS leaders’ charges that the Centre has not done anything for the state, Sanjay said whatever the state government is giving for double bedroom houses, rice and roads and construction of toilets, the funds are being given by the Centre. “The CM did not step out of Pragati Bhavan even when Hyderabad was ravaged by floods. He is talking about flood relief not being given,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-calls-bjp-a-party-of-hindus/articleshow/79138057.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Waste corporation extends date for Bainguinim plant bids||PANAJI: The Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC) on Monday extended the time to receive bids by 15 days for setting up the solid waste management facility at Bainguinim as the bidder has sought some technical clarification on the tender from the corporation. The last date for receiving bids was November 9. As per the extended date, interested parties can submit their bid applications till November 24 and the tender will be opened on November 25. Anticipating that no bidders are likely to qualify to set up the waste management facility, the GWMC may relax the criteria for bidders and float a fresh tender. Speaking to TOI, waste management minister Michael Lobo had said that the tender document was floated as per the guidelines of central public works department (CPWD). “We will wait till November 9 to see how many bidders qualify for the bids and then we will float a fresh tender. As per CPWD guidelines, nobody will qualify,” he had said. The long-pending Bainguinim garbage treatment plant is poised to take shape soon as GWMC has invited bids for setting up a solid waste processing facility with a processing capacity of 250 tonnes per day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/waste-corp-extends-date-for-bainguinim-plant-bids/articleshow/79138012.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||Banks hounding us to repay loans, say Goa barge owners||PANAJI: Stating that they have suffered losses worth over Rs 500 crore since mining ground to a halt in the state, the Goa Barge Owner’s Association (GBOA) on Monday urged for an immediate solution to the current mining stalemate. GBOA said that public and private sector banks are hounding barge owners due to non-payment of loans for barges. It has appealed to the central and state governments to bridge the gaps created by the mining ban and to prepare a congenial and debt-free atmosphere for the common man in the state. The association said that iron-ore mining in the state had helped build a small and medium enterprises (SME) of truckers, machine owners and river barge owners. The association said that presently, all these business owners and their families are witnessing a bleak future as there has not been any clear direction from the government on resumption of mining. With money-lending companies also harassing them for repayment, barge owners say they have had to resort to selling personal assets. GBOA president Atul Jadhav said, “There were 304 barges in Goa before mining was banned by the Supreme Court. Today, we are left only with 105 barges and these too are getting worn out because we do not have money for their maintenance.” He also said that in the current scenario, people working in the ‘Rs 13,00-crore worth industry’ have no money to even feed their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/banks-hounding-us-to-repay-loans-say-barge-owners/articleshow/79138021.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||New dog squad school to come up in Lucknow soon||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh Police is set to have its first training centre in Lucknow. The department has already sought land near Sarojininagar for the purpose from the district administration. Till now the UP Police had to send its dogs to Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) in Punjab and National Training Centre for Dogs operated by Border Security Force (BSF) in Tekanpur, Madhya Pradesh. Additional director general of police (logistics) Bijaya Kumar Maurya said that the process to have UP’s own canine center is underway. “Once the department gets the land required, construction work will begin soon. UP police has around 200 dogs presently, but most do not get timely training in advance courses for lack of training facilities. We usually have Belgian Malinois, Beagle, Dobermann, Labradors and German Shepherd,” he said. He said that states like Telangana have a specialized centre known as Intelligence Integrated Training Academy where canines are currently trained and he wanted a similar facility in UP. “If we have our own facility then we can train our dogs depending upon the requirements of the state. West UP areas need a different pattern while East is UP different,” he said. The officer added that street dogs can also be roped in and trained. Later, their results could be checked. There would be a remarkable shift in investigations with dogs being trained as per the environment needed in the state. He said that the canine force can perform a wide range of tasks including tracking, mob control, search and rescue, apart from detection of explosives, narcotics, poisonous substances and mines. Police dog trainer with Lucknow, constable Sanjay Singh, who has been training dogs for the last 10 years, said that first for specialized training dogs are sent to ITBP and BSF centers. Later, they are sent to districts depending upon requirement by the logistics department of the UP police. He said Lucknow police has nine canines till date. “It is a mix of tracker, sniffer and assault,” he said. The training of sniffers is basically for six months, while for tracker dogs it is nine months, for assault dogs it depends upon the use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/new-dog-squad-school-to-come-up-in-city-soon/articleshow/79139047.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Beware of these accident blackspots on Coimbatore roads||COIMBATORE: After analysing the details of road accidents in the last three years, the traffic police have identified 15 accident blackspots in the city. As many as 54 people lost their lives in 54 road accidents this year, deputy commissioner of police R Mutharasu said. “Between January and November last year, 114 people were killed in accidents. We managed to bring down the mortality by 53% compared to the last year,” he said. While 158 people were killed in 149 accidents in 2018, as many as 309 people lost their lives in 301 accidents in 2017. “We developed maps to mark the accident spots in the last three years and identified 15 places as black spots. Anna Statue Junction, Hope College, SITRA junction, KMCH junction and Goldwins on Avinashi Road along with Singanallur traffic signal and Vasantha Mill Road junction on Trichy Road have been identified as black spots,” said Mutharasu. “Ammankovil bus stop on Sathyamangalam Road, Sungam bypass – Valankulam Road junction, Nanjundapuram Road near the flyover, GD Tank near Vellalore Pirivu, Pongaliamman temple area at Podanur, flower market, Azhageshan Road and L&T by Bypass near Sri Shakthi College of Engineering and Technology have also been marked.” “Pedestrians jumping median to cross the road caused 50% of fatal accidents. So, we have decided to increase the height of medians at the blackspots using wire mesh,” Mutharasu added. As many as 9,315 people were killed in road accidents across Tamil Nadu during the same period last year compared to 6,598 this year, registering a 29.17 % drop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/beware-of-these-accident-blackspots-on-city-roads/articleshow/79138015.cms||A Subburaj
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||School reopening: Parents in two minds||COIMBATORE: The school education department on Monday received mixed reaction from the parents, who attended consultation meetings conducted to get their opinion regarding reopening of schools. The state government, which allowed reopening of schools for classes IX to XII from November 16, decided to take a final decision based on the opinion of parents and directed schools to conduct consultation meetings on Monday. Parents of more than 60% of the students attended the meetings held at high and higher secondary schools in the district. “While some parents gave us the nod to reopen for the four classes, others wanted to reopen only Class X and XII. Some wanted to conduct classes on rotation basis and some were against reopening,” a school education department official said. “We have collected feedback from them and are consolidating it.” R Sumathi, mother of a Class X student, was against the government plan. “As Covid cases are expected to increase after the festival season, reopening would be a bad idea. Schools are likely to become pandemic hotspots. Instead of reopening, school managements should streamline online classes,” she told TOI. T Arulanantham of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Government Teachers Association said that the suggestions of parents varied depending on the type of school and the location. “Government schools in the city limit received 40% approval to reopen. In the case of schools in rural limits, most of the parents-teachers associations were in favour of reopening. Most of the parents were against reopening private schools,” he said. “Some parents were afraid of kids getting infected in crowded public transport systems. Others felt that online learning isn’t working,” Arulanantham said. R Vishalakshi of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association said that 60% of the parents were against reopening as they feared that the children would get infected and would also infect the family. “The government should consider restarting all classes in a phased manner. Classes X and XII should be reopened and class timing should be restricted to just a few hours. By doing so, students will not mingle with each other as there would not be long breaks between classes.” The district has 372 high schools and 168 higher secondary schools, of which, 75 high schools and 91 higher secondary schools are run by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/school-reopening-parents-in-two-minds/articleshow/79138053.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 10, 2020||Goa||Goa is ‘most vegan-friendly’||PANAJI: With its range of vegan restaurants, sustainable fashion choices and a growing community of vegans, Goa has been granted PETA (People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals) India’s ‘most vegan-friendly state’ award. A certificate has been delivered to chief minister Pramod Sawant. “Goa is quickly becoming a top dining destination for the increasing number of people interested in healthy and cruelty-free fare,” says PETA India Vegan Outreach Coordinator Dr Kiran Ahuja. “PETA India is recognising Goa for leading by example and showing other states how to meet the growing demand for vegan food and fashion in style,” he said. The state’s top vegan eateries include menus which offer a wide variety of western-style dishes . PETA itself has identified about 11 such eateries in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-is-most-vegan-friendly/articleshow/79138054.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||Don’t malign film industry, says Shiv Sena minister||MUMBAI: Maharashtra transport minister and Shiv Sena leader Anil Parab on Monday said action will be taken against people indulging in unlawful activities, but to malign the entire film industry was wrong. He said attempts to shift the industry out from Mumbai will not be tolerated. “It is wrong to malign the entire Bollywood just because few are involved in drugs. Action should be taken against those involved. Attempts to shift the industry will not be tolerated,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sena-minister-says-dont-malign-entire-film-industry/articleshow/79137034.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Covid-19 vaccine distribution to be linked with Aadhaar cards||PUNE: Health department officials said each frontline worker to be administered Covid-19 vaccine shot would have to submit Aadhaar card details to avoid duplication and ensure error-free tracking of the recipients. Health workers, nurses and supervisors, medical officers, paramedical staffers, scientists and research staffers, students and support staff, clerical and administrative officers from both the government and private sectors would be among the priority population for the Covid-19 vaccination drive as part of the Centre’s directive. A state health official said an SMS would be sent to the vaccine recipient, mentioning the time, date and the venue to get the shots and the beneficiaries on the list would have to submit their Aadhaar card numbers and government identity proof to avoid any confusion. State immunization officer D N Patil told TOI that data gathering of frontline workers was on from all the districts and the details have to be entered into a special mobile app being developed by the Centre. Dr Gagandeep Kang, microbiologist and professor at the Christian Medical College in Vellore, said, “The Aadhaar card number will help track the people getting the shots and ensure seamless follow-ups too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccine-distribution-to-be-linked-with-aadhaar-cards/articleshow/79139539.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 10, 2020||Pune||Crowding outside eateries in Pune a worry in bounce-back time||PUNE: Restaurants across the city have started witnessing packed weekends with the number of Covid-19 cases steadily reducing and festive fervour taking over. Some restaurants along the main streets in the city are even reporting an average waiting of 50 people and above during the recent weekends. Several popular eateries are also witnessing an increase in guests waiting outside for lack of seating place. TimesViewThe waning of Covid cases and the fatigue over pandemic restrictions have brought people back to the shopping centres and restaurants. The numbers visiting these places are likely to increase during Diwali. The catch, however, is that the coronavirus is still very much out there. People must follow the norms like social distancing and use of masks, while the markets and restaurants too must ensure compliance in these matters.Ganesh Shetty, president of the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA) told TOI, “People waiting at restaurants for want of seats is having an adverse impact on social distancing measures, as the resto staffers cannot be expected to manage the queues while serving at the eateries. An average of 15-20 people have to wait for a place to sit at many restaurants during dinner time hours, after 8:30pm, during weekends.” PRAHA recently approached the state government citing this issue and sought an extension in restaurant operation deadline till 1:30am so that customer arrivals could be dispersed over various points in time, instead of everybody rushing to a place at the same time. PRA1HA vice-president Vikram Shetty said, “During the ongoing Diwali period, areas such as Lakshmi Road, Shivajinagar and MG Road are usually crowded. This is one the reasons why restaurants in these locations are witnessing rush during the weekends. These are the restos that have witnessed an increase in guests’ waiting, as they are functioning at only 50% seating capacity.” Prashant Shetty, owner of a restaurant in Bibvewadi, told TOI, “My restaurant recently had a waiting of an average 50-60 people during peak hours in the night. Pune restaurants see an increase in customer footfall on Friday, Saturday, Sunday and Wednesday. The days are packed even now as the festive season approaches. Restaurants with a seating capacity of 100 people have to operate at half the seats, causing a spike in waiting time for guests.” The owner of a popular restaurant on Pune-Satara road said the waiting time for customers during peak hours in weekends is an average of 15-20 minutes. Last weekend, the restaurant had customers waiting for 30-35 minutes. “During peak hours, around 30 customers have to wait to get a place,” the owner said. Akhil Agarwal, who recently went out with his family for dinner, said, “ I was amazed to see at least 50-60 people waiting outside a popular eatery on MG Road last Saturday. Other restaurants on the same road also had people waiting outside for want of space. The government should give a thought to allowing restaurant operation at 100% seating capacity because the huge waiting is not helping the cause of social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/popular-eateries-witness-guests-crowding-outside-in-wait-for-seat/articleshow/79139505.cms||Neha Madaan
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||Don’t republish comments, Bombay HC tells actor||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday restrained actor Luviena Lodh from “publishing, circulating… or republishing any defamatory comments and/or offending videos’’ against actor Amyra Dastur. Dastur claimed damages and an injunction over “defamation” against Lodh. Justice P K Chavan observed Dastur’s “averments in the plaint reveal that the defendant (Lodh) has been causing damage to her persistently and continuously making defamatory and libellous statements on social media and electronic media.’’ Dastur’s counsel Savina Bedi contended that “malicious publications’’ were made against her client, a “well-known film actress of Bollywood’’. Bedi said Lodh’s statements on social media “caused harm and damage’’ to Dastur’s reputation. But rebutting the allegations, Prashant Pandey, counsel for Lodh, said she was “also an actress and now a make-up director’’. He maintained that Lodh had “not defamed or caused damage to the reputation… but has only placed truth and facts, as noticed on media’’. Pandey, when asked by HC if she would stop making such statements, said Lodh “is ready to undergo a narco-analysis test in support of her statements made on social and electronic media’’. The HC sought a reply from Lodh in four week and rejoinder within two weeks, and posted the matter to December 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dont-republish-comments-hc-tells-actor/articleshow/79138165.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Selection tentative, candidates will be treated fairly: Uttar Pradesh govt to HC||LUCKNOW: The state government on Monday informed the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court that it has asked the National Informatics Centre (NIC) as to how the list of 31,277 candidates of 2019 Assistant Basic Teachers Recruitment Examination got issued as it has anomalies due to lesser number of vacancies. The state further told the court that the entire selection and appointment process is tentative and subject to revision. Replying to allegations of selection of candidates securing lesser quality point marks while excluding those with higher marks, the state counsel said: “There is no question of the state giving appointment to candidates getting lesser marks. If candidates with high quality point marks have been left out, counselling will be held afresh for them and they will be appointed.” Considering the stand of the state government, the bench of justice Manish Kumar said there was no need for any further order to be passed to protect the rights and interests of the petitioner and other such candidates in respect of the ongoing selection and appointment process. The petitioner, Pankaj Yadav, had pleaded that in view of the resumption of selection process pursuant to the government order on September 24, 2020, and consequential circular issued by the secretary, UP Basic Shiksha Parishad, Prayagraj, on October 11, 2020, the counselling was being conducted as per the schedule but the tentative selection list was issued hurriedly. Representing the petitioner, Santosh Yadav Warsi said many candidates who secured high marks were left out in the list. He said the petitioner scored 71.1 quality point marks but was not called for counselling but another candidate with 68.7 marks was invited. “Since counselling is only a formality for appointment after a candidate has qualified written examination, a candidate with lower quality point marks of the petitioner is now being offered appointment,” Warsi said. Replying to allegations, the state counsel said every appointment would be subject to the final order to be passed by Supreme Court in the pending special leave petition. The issue of cut off marks as well as question of accommodation of Shiksha Mitras is already pending with the apex court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/selection-tentative-candidates-will-be-treated-fairly-govt-to-hc/articleshow/79139076.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
November 10, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: 2 men arrested for stealing mobile phones||COIMBATORE: The city police arrested two men for stealing four mobile phones from houses at Rathinapuri on Sunday. Police identified them as S Vanniyaraj, 33 and his friend R Karthi, 33, of Seeranaickenpalayam in the city. They broke into the house of S Vinoth of Sadaiyappa Gounder street at Rathinapuri on Sunday around 4am to steal his phone. Though Vinoth tried to nab them, the duo managed to escape with the phone. The Rathinapuri police registered a case and formed a special team to nab the duo. “Preliminary inquiry revealed that the duo had broke open three houses in the locality to steal three mobile phones. We seized the four stolen phones from them,” a police officer said. Vanniyaraj and Karthi were booked under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house etc) of the Indian Penal Code. “Vanniyaraj is facing a murder case and theft cases in Coimbatore city. Karthi is also facing criminal cases,” the officer added. The duo was remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Pollachi Sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-men-arrested-for-stealing-mobile-phones/articleshow/79138033.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||BMC to triple marshals to keep check on masks in public||MUMBAI: BMC will intensify action against those not wearing masks in public as it prepares to prevent a second wave of Covid-19 infections. It has decided to increase marshals by three times and will station more staff in crowded areas to monitor and regulate people. At present there are 514 marshals. Civic chief Iqbal Chahal on Monday held a video-conference with senior officials, including ward officers, emphasising the need to avoid a second wave. Chahal said a second lockdown was not a choice and mandated precautions must be followed. He pointed out that the world was anticipating a second wave and other cities in the country were witnessing a rise in cases. The joint commissioner of police (law & order) also attended the meeting. Assistant municipal commissioners have been directed to ensure coordination with local police and political leaders. Chahal appealed to people to avoid crowded areas for Diwali shopping, shop during non-peak hours, and, if possible, to avoid visits to relatives and friends during Diwali. Government Railway Police (GRP) and BMC collectively registered 371 cases against commuters for not wearing masks on railway property between November 3-8. Over Rs 87,000 was collected in fines. BMC has been filing more cases than police, data has shown. GRP recorded three cases and BMC 368. Some FOBs and areas outside railway stations come under BMC jurisdiction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-to-triple-marshals-to-check-for-masks/articleshow/79137035.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||Temporary jail inmate assaults roommate in Pune||PUNE: A 19-year-old criminal on police record, who was recently arrested in an attempt to murder case, was booked by the Yerawada police on the charge of assaulting another inmate in the head with an aluminium plate. The incident occurred on Saturday night on the second floor of the temporary prison at Yerawada. The victim, Sohail Shaikh (20), who was arrested in a theft case, suffered three stitches on his head. Prison officer Satvashil Patil (30) lodged an FIR against the assailant Tejas Yenpure. Shaikh and Yenpure were lodged in the same room under judicial custody remand. According to the complaint, Yenpure kept asking Shaikh how he committed the thefts, while he ignored his questions. Yenpure then hit Shaikh’s head with the aluminium plate, an officer said. The officer said that on hearing Shaikh’s screams, the prison authorities rushed to their room and shifted Shaikh to the hospital. The police have sought details of Shaikh and Yenpure from the prison authorities. The Yerawada police have registered a case against Yenpure under Sections 324 (Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 323 (Punishment for voluntarily causing hurt) of Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/temporary-jail-inmate-assaults-roommate/articleshow/79138087.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya to have arched gates on Ramayana theme for Diwali fest||LUCKNOW: Arched gates will be erected across Ayodhya, leading up to the three days of grand celebrations to mark the festival of Diwali, the first after the court ruled in favour of a Ram Temple. These gates will be based on the Ramayana theme. A government spokesperson said that the gates will display incidents from the Ramayana and there will be other arch gates as well, made entirely of flowers. “The entire city is being decorated for the event. Along with the several lakh diyas that will be lit in the city, at ghats, temples, homes, roads, bridges, in market places etc, electric lighting will be used to illuminate the entire city. All locations where various events will take place during the Deepotsava, like the arrival of Ram, Sita and Laxman, their meeting point with Bharat, the coronation etc are being decorated with lights in a unique way,” he said. Priority is being accorded to the earthen lamps and those made from cow dung. Maati Kala Board is providing 1.5 lakh diyas for the event and 8,000 volunteers are being roped in for lighting the diyas. With the plan to light at least 5.51 lakh diyas at least, volunteers will be drawn from the NCC, NSS, scouts and other self-help groups. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to maintain uniformity in decorations. Therefore, said an official, the background of all locations will be in the same colour. During the bhoomi poojan for the Ram Temple performed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the entire city of Ayodhya had been painted yellow. Uniformity will also be maintained in all events during 3 pm and 8 pm on Deepotsav on November 13. “During the Tilkotsava, Raj Tilak and Saryu Aarti, Brahmins will be chanting vedic hymns. This will be heard all across Ayodhya and the administration is appealing to all temples and other religious places that no other sound should interrupt the chanting,” the official said. As public participation will be restricted in most events due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all programmes will be telecast live on large screens and through screen fitted vehicles. A website will also telecast the programme to people across the world. An official said that to add to the festive spirit, the government is contemplating announcing an award for the best decorated locality. The modalities for this are being worked out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-to-have-arched-gates-on-ramayana-theme-for-diwali-fest/articleshow/79139090.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 10, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Law varsity firm on conducting intermediate semester exam||HUBBALLI: Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) has asserted that it will conduct the examination for intermediate semesters after reopening of colleges. Registrar (evaluation) Dr GB Patil has stated that KSLU has already sent a circular to all its affiliated law colleges for conducting the final year examinations, except intermediate semesters, as per the press release issued by the Bar Council of India (BCI) on June 9, October 5, and November 1 respectively. “There is misunderstanding and confusion among the intermediate semester students that there will be no examination. Hence it is once again clarified that students studying in intermediate semesters have been promoted to take admission for the next semester. The promotion of students to the next semester is only for the sake of admission,” stated Patil. “It is to note that all the intermediate semester students of various law courses, who have been promoted to the next class, are required to write intermediate examinations compulsorily as per the BCI press release issued on June 9. Further, the intermediate semester examinations will be scheduled after re-opening of the colleges, keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/law-varsity-firm-on-conducting-intermediate-semester-exam/articleshow/79136211.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||BJP backs Sangli leader for Pune grad seat polls||Pune: The BJP prefers Sangram Deshmukh, the party’s leader from Sangli, over the aspirants from the city for the Pune graduates’ constituency elections on December 1. Sources in the party’s Pune unit said former Kothrud MLA Medha Kulkarni, city general secretary Rajesh Pande and mayor Muralidhar Mohol were seen as the front-runners for the seat, which was last represented by BJP state president Chandrakant Patil. The seat became vacant after Patil was elected to the state assembly from the Kothrud constituency. The party’s top leadership, however, preferred Desmukh, a former president of the Sangli Zilla Parishad and considered a popular Maratha face in the state’s Western region, a BJP source said. The announcement came as a surprise to the party workers from Pune city, especially the supporters of Kulkarni because they were expecting candidature for their leader. “Kulkarni had accepted the party’s decision to nominate Patil from Kothrud seat from where she was confident of winning a second time. In return, we were expecting a ticket for our leader. But the wait continues,” said a party worker from Kothrud. Another leader from the BJP’s city unit said the candidature from Pune was an obvious option because a large number of voters are from the city. Many leaders had put in efforts in the last few days to increase the voters’ enrolment, the leader said. For BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil, this election is crucial as he will face the challenge to retain the seat represented by the party for over a decade. Before Patil, the seat was represented by Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar. The party sources stated that Deshmukh, son of former MLA Sampatrao Deshmukh, has significant backing from Sangli district. The work he did while leading the Sangli Zilla Parishad was widely accepted, a source said. Deshmukh is likely to face challenge from the Nationalist Congress Party. However, parleys are still on over the candidatures among the Maha Vikas Aghadi partners — the NCP, Congress and the Shiv Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bjp-backs-sangli-leader-for-pune-grad-seat-polls/articleshow/79138091.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hubballi||Gandhi inspired non-Brahmins to take the plunge in freedom struggle in Dharwad||HUBBALLI: As the district gears up for the centenary celebrations of Mahatma Gandhi’s visit to Dharwad – he visited the district then in Bombay Presidency on November 10, 1920 – the spotlight has turned to his efforts to rope in non-Brahmins and women into the Congress, and by extension, the freedom struggle. History attests to the success the Mahatma had in this endeavour, as indicated by the spurt in the representation of women and non-Brahmin leaders across the Dharwad region. Honorary secretary of Gandhi Peace Foundation in Dharwad Basavaprabhu Hosakeri recalled that around the time of Gandhi’s momentous visit to Dharwad, Narayanrao B Kabbur, Ranganath R Diwakar, Mudaveedu Krishnaraya, Tirumalarao Joshi – all of whom belonged to the upper castes – were well-established leaders of the freedom struggle in the region. “In the wake of ‘Lokmanya’ Bal Gangadhar Tilak’s death in August 1920, it was the Mahatma who had to shoulder the responsibility of ensuring that the freedom movement represented all sections of society. He motivated non-Brahmins such as Sir Siddappa Kambali, Gudleppa Hallikeri, Mailara Mahadeva, Hosamani Siddappa, Anadanappa Doddameti and women such as Umabai Kundapur, Krishnabai Panajikar, Kusumatai Deshpande to join the movement. It was Gandhi who inspired hundreds of youngsters among Muslims, Lingayats and other backward communities to join the Congress. The result of the increased participation from across the spectrum of society was that more demonstrations were held, one of which was the picketing of a liquor outlet at Jakani Bhavi Circle in July ’21 wherein three Muslims – Maliksab alias Mardansab, Gousab alias Khadersab and Abdul Gafar Chokathai – who were volunteers for the Khilafat Movement were martyred in police firing,” said Hosakeri. Recalling an interesting anecdote involving the Mahatma and Siddappa Kambali, Hosakeri said, “When Gandhi visited Hubballi on November 11, 1920, Kambali expressed his resentment about the Congress being dominated mostly by the upper caste members. Replying to this, Gandhi said that, should Kambali join the Congress, this inequality would be addressed. Gandhi was also worried whether or not Siddharrodh Swamiji, a sanyasi, would agree to preside over the meeting on Koppikar Road. But the seer assured the Mahatma, that while he may be a sanyasi, he was nevertheless a patriot.” Referencing NH Katgeri’s ‘Gata Kaalada Dharwad (Dharwad of yore)’, social worker Uday Yandigeri said that the the Muslims and Brahmins were the targets of the English’s ‘Divide and Rule’ policy. “The then collector of Dharwad district arrested 29 people for picketing at the Jakani Bhavi Circle, of whom 15 were Brahmins, 13 were Muslims and one was a Maratha. He wanted Lingayats as witnesses so he could file false cases. But members of the Linhayat community, inspired to join the struggle after Gandhi’s visit, only helped intensify the movement for freedom,” Yandigeri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gandhi-inspired-non-brahmins-to-take-the-plunge-in-freedom-struggle-in-dharwad/articleshow/79135597.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 10, 2020||Madurai||Four die in separate road accidents on Madurai outskirts||MADURAI: Four people died in separate road accidents in Madurai rural police limits on Sunday. S Balagurusamy, 37, of Medavakkam in Chennai died when his car collided with another car on the Ring Road near Viraganoor Junction. Veeralakshmi, his wife, and children Harshitha, 10, and Vaishali, 6, suffered injuries. Ganpath Singh from Rajasthan was booked in connection with the accident. A Solai, 52, of Keelamathur died on the spot when a government bus knocked him down while he was riding on a two-wheeler. Based on a complaint field by his wife, S Vijaya, a case was registered against the bus driver, K Muthuraman of Bethaniyapuram. T Vignesh, 42, a marketing executive from Periyar Nagar in Avaniyapuram, died when he fell off his motorcycle near Vadugapatti bus stop. Vignesh rode the motorcycle in a rash and negligent manner, according to police. V Sundaram, 40, of Peraiyur died after his two-wheeler collided with a car on the Usilampatti-Peraiyur Road. Based on a complaint from his wife, Selvi, a case was registered by the Peraiyur police against the car driver, identified as R Murugan, 40, of Ambattaiyanpatti near Usilampatti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-die-in-separate-road-accidents-on-madurai-outskirts/articleshow/79138090.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Will turn Old City into Hi-tech City’||HYDERABAD: BJP chief Bandi Sanjay alleged that votes of a particular community were being removed from voter lists for GHMC polls. After taking a ride in Metro for the first time on Monday, he said GHMC election date should be announced only after corrections of voter lists. “If people give us an opportunity, we will turn Old City into another Hi-tech City,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-turn-old-city-into-hi-tech-city/articleshow/79138122.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Madurai||Sivakasi firework industries welcome NGT order for Diwali||MADURAI: Industry bodies have welcomed the directions by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday pertaining to permitting sale and lighting of fireworks for this Diwali, amidst Covid-19 concerns. It has given them temporary relief for this year’s festival and that the industry might not be completely wiped out, as feared. President of the Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufactures Association (TANFAMA) P Ganesan pointed out that the NGT order only bans fireworks in Delhi-NCR and restrictions for non-attainment cities. “We hope that states that banned fireworks also follow NGT guidelines and allow fireworks based on the ambient air quality standards of particular cities, instead of a blanket ban,” he said. On the impact of bans imposed by various states, he said that it would affect little more than 35% of the annual business as Rajasthan accounts for 12% of pan-India Diwali fireworks market, followed by Delhi, West Bengal and Odisha. This is in addition to the 30% drop in production this year. Vice-president of Indian Fireworks Manufactures Association (TIFMA), A S Rajendra Raja, said, “The whole of India is not polluted. The direction pertains to polluted areas like the Delhi NCR that comprises Delhi and parts of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and other areas based on the ambient air quality and type of fireworks that can be used there.” Secretary of Virudhunagar District Crackers and Matchbox Workers Association (CITU), P N Deva said the order has given them some relief. “The list of 122 non-attainment cities where the air quality is poor include those cities that account for a major share of the fireworks market,” he said. Environmentalist Shweta Narayan is concerned over the way the calculation is done to arrive at the list of 122 cities. According to the list, only Tuticorin and Trichy come under that category in Tamil Nadu. According to her, Chennai is among cities in the state that have a good case to be included as non-attainment cities. “Air quality cannot be restricted to these cities,” she said. Terming the NGT direction a knee-jerk reaction, she added that it has been done at the last minute and is too little and too late.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivakasi-firework-industries-welcome-ngt-order-for-diwali/articleshow/79138088.cms||M K Ananth
November 10, 2020||Pune||Missing businessman spotted in CCTV footage: Pune CP||PUNE: The city’s missing businessman, Gautam Pashankar, was spotted in footage of a few CCTV cameras and was identified by people knowing him, Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said on Monday. The city police chief avoided naming the places where Pashankar was spotted but said the businessman had been seen in parts of southern Maharashtra. A source in the crime branch said Pashankar was spotted in Kolhapur and parts of Konkan. Gupta said the police had secured and verified all leads about Pashankar’s movement in the first eight days since he went missing on October 21. “This (missing case) is not a criminal matter, but our search for him continues on a war footing and we are following up every minute lead,” Gupta told reporters on Monday evening. Two police teams were working full-time on the case to trace Pashankar, he added. Sources in the crime branch stated that the police teams had focused all their efforts in Kolhapur and Konkan to trace Pashankar there. On how Pashankar was travelling in these parts of the state, police said they did not have any clues about it at present. A senior crime branch officer told TOI, “He might be carrying cash with him and spending it for his stay and survival. We do not know why he left his house after writing a note. We shall verify it later.” Pashankar (64), the owner of a leading two-wheeler dealership in Pune city, was reported missing by his son, Kapil, on October 21 to the Shivajinagar police. Kapil told TOI on Sunday night, “Police are searching him and we, too, got to know from them that he is moving in Konkan at present. We want him back.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cp-missing-businessman-spotted-in-cctv-footage/articleshow/79138080.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Goa||One arrested for vandalising popular Calangute restaurant||CALANGUTE: Calangute police have arrested one person and booked many others, including some unidentified accused, after a popular beachside restaurant in Calangute was allegedly vandalised on Sunday. The video of the incident was seen being widely circulated on social media platforms. According to Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martin, around 30-40 persons arrived at the restaurant at around 1.30 am on Sunday and caused the damage. A compound wall, the stairs and a traditional paved pathway leading to the restaurant were damaged, besides smashing tables and potted plants. Some hotel staff members were also allegedly assaulted. The incident, said to be fallout of a dispute with the owner of a neighbouring property, was captured on CCTV cameras. Following a complaint by John Jude Lobo, the owner of the restaurant, Calangute police have registered an offence against Sameer Toraskar, Rajeev Arrora and other unidentified persons. Toraskar was arrested late on Sunday. Further investigations are on. The incident, said to be fallout of a dispute with the owner of a neighbouring property, was captured on CCTV cameras||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/one-arrested-for-vandalising-popular-calangute-restaurant/articleshow/79138139.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||Mothers join hands for smoke-free Diwali||Pune: A group of mothers from the city is has started an initiative to convince people to avoid bursting firecrackers this Diwali to safeguard the health of children. These mothers are a part of a pan-India movement called “Warrior Moms”. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has also endorsed a correlation between Covid-19-related mortalities and air pollution. Besides, the chemical contents present in firecrackers are harmful and toxic.Pashan-based Anuja Bali Karthikeyan, who is a part of the movement, said, “Our campaign started two weeks ago. It got a major boost after the Maharashtra government urged citizens to avoid bursting crackers to curb noise and air pollution that could affect patients with Covid-19 and other ailments.” Karthikeyan said, “We are using social media extensively to spread awareness. I have also decided to visit the slum dwellers in my neighbourhood to create awareness among them by showing videos about the health hazards of firecrackers.”She said, “Our members are sharing information about the chemical analysis of firecrackers released by Mumbai-based Awaaz Foundation and asking people to give priority to the health.” As a part of the campaign, the mothers have initiated conversations with relatives, friends as well as on social media groups to spread the word. “With the support of local bloggers and city-based mothers’ group, we are reaching out to people with their petition so that people can sign and give a missed call to pledge for a smoke-free Diwali,” said Hema Chari Madabhushi, a member and resident of Bhosalenagar.Medical expert Arvind Kumar of Lung Care Foundation and Doctors for Clean Air said, “In our zeal to celebrate a festival, we must not take our lungs for granted. We cannot afford to lose our guard, now that the country is reeling from the onslaught of Covid-19, which doesn’t have a cure or a vaccine yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mothers-join-hands-for-smoke-free-diwali/articleshow/79139525.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||AIIMS may manage Bollarum General Hospital||SECUNDERABAD: The management of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bibinagar may take up the responsibility of maintaining the Bollarum General Hospital in Secunderabad Cantonment. It is currently maintained by the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB). It could not cater to the needy due to lack of doctors, para-medical staff and infrastructure. On Monday, a delegation including TRS Rajya Sabha MP and member of Bibinagar AIIMS Board of Governance Banda Prakash, state planning board vice-chairman B Vinod Kumar, Secunderabad Cantonment MLA G Sayanna and Malkajgiri Lok Sabha TRS in-charge Marri Rajasekhara Reddy visited the Bollarum hospital. “A decision will soon be taken on the management of the hospital by the AIIMS management under the guidance of the Ministry of Defence (MoD),” said Rajasekhara Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/aiims-may-manage-bollarum-general-hosp/articleshow/79136612.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Thane||MSF constable saves boy who fell from train||THANE: A Maharashtra Security Force constable saved a six-year-old boy from rolling into the platform-train gap after he lost his balance while alighting from a running train at Mumbra station on Sunday evening. Railway police said Nilesh Baviskar was with RPF personnel at platform 2 when he spotted the boy escorted by his mother and an elderly relative stepping in around 7pm. The trio, from Amrut Nagar, Mumbra, were headed to Mumbai for personal work. “I was watching the boy as he stepped into the train while his family was unaware and still on the platform. When the train started moving, the boy got startled and jumped off but it picked up speed and he lost his balance, fell on the platform and was about to roll into the gap. Luckily, I was nearby and immediately pulled him away,” Nilesh told TOI. Mumbra RPF inspector Amit Yadav said the boy was saved due to the alertness of Baviskar, who joined the force in June. The boy’s colleagues and family praised his alertness. Watch Mumbai: Constable saves 6-yr-old boy who fell from train||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/msf-constable-saves-boy-who-falls-from-train/articleshow/79137036.cms||Manoj Badgeri
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Demolish illegal constructions, we will stay out of poll: Congress||HYDERABAD: The Congress has offered to stay out of the electoral fray if the TRS government demolishes all the illegal constructions on the nalas, lake beds, catchment areas and other water bodies before going to polls to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Throwing a challenge to TRS working president and municipal minister KT Rama Rao, who had alleged that illegal constructions had come up during the previous government’s tenure, Congress national spokesperson Dasoju Sravan on Monday demanded that TRS should go for polls to the civic body only after demolishing illegal constructions. Sravan asked KTR to stop playing politics over mud, muck and filth caused by the floods in the city. “The TRS is distributing flood relief in the form of cash in view of the forthcoming GHMC elections. It is planning to win the elections by distributing public money in the party’s name,” Sravan alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demolish-illegal-constructions-we-will-stay-out-of-poll-cong/articleshow/79138162.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||55-year-old man held for attack on Shirur resident||Pune: The rural police on Monday claimed to have arrested the man (55) behind the brutal assault on a 45-year-woman in which she lost her vision, at Nhavare village in Shirur taluka on the night of November 3.Superintendent of Pune rural police Abhinav Deshmukh said, “The suspect, Kundalik Bagade of Undavade Supe village in Baramati, was taken into custody from Chakan Chowk in Shikrapur on Monday evening.”Police will produce Bagade before a court on Tuesday for seeking his custodial remand. The woman was assaulted because she objected to the man’s presence while she was answering nature’s call in a field near her house. She had lost an eye on the spot and suffered grievous injury to her other eye. She underwent a surgery at a hospital in Pune, but still lost vision in her other eye, the police said.The rural police deployed eight teams for tracing the suspect. “The woman had given us his description. She had stated he was short and had shaved his head. He had covered his face with a red cloth,” Rahul Dhas, the deputy superintendent of police (Pune rural), said.The police received a tip-off a waiter at a food eatery at Nhavare village recently shaved his head. His description matched with that given by the woman. “The suspect had left the work. We started collecting footage of CCTV cameras from establishments along the road,” he said.Dhas said, “We got information the man was an alcoholic and short tempered. He would pose as a speech impaired person and beg from people. We succeeded in ascertaining his identity. He used to work as waiter at small eateries. After few days, he used to leave the job and spend the money on liquor.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/55-year-old-man-held-for-attack-on-shirur-resident/articleshow/79138132.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Agra||Cop crushed by sand mafia: 10 teams on task to hunt down the perpetrators||Agra: A day after constable Sonu Chaudhary was crushed to death by goons of sand mafia, Agra police on Monday formed ten teams to track down and arrest the accused. The 24-year-old constable was trying to stop the accused smuggling illegal sand from Rajasthan to Agra’s Kheragarh in tractor-trolleys on Sunday night when he was crushed to death. Police, meanwhile, conducted raids at possible hideouts of the accused in the vicinity of Khergarh and detained a few people for questioning. “Raids are also being conducted in the bordering state of Rajasthan in coordination with the local police. The accused will be nabbed soon,” SP (city) Botrey Rohan Pramod, who is also officiating SSP, told TOI. SP (West) Ravi Kumar, meanwhile, said around 100 police personnel were conducting raids to nab the accused. “Police have identified a few suspects and will soon be interrogating them. It is, however, difficult to trace perpetrators hiding in the treacherous Chambal terrain,” added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cop-crushed-by-sand-mafia-10-teams-on-task-to-hunt-down-the-perpetrators/articleshow/79135391.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: Over 1 lakh urban poor benefit from health scheme||PUNE: The urban poor health scheme has reached out to over one lakh citizens and the civic body paid bills worth Rs222 crore under this initiative in a decade after its launch. The scheme meant for families below poverty line (BPL) was launched on January 26, 2010. “The urban poor do not have enough money for treatment in private hospitals. This scheme facilitated the treatment of poor people in leading hospitals,” said former NCP corporator Nilesh Nikam, then chairman of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s standing committee. According to the PMC officials, the spurt in Covid-19 cases led to increase in demand for the scheme. The approval to include Covid-19 treatment under the scheme was given in July. “Many urban poor citizens have taken benefit from it. The bills of Covid-19 treatments were paid through this scheme at private hospitals,” said a senior official of the PMC. According to the data of the civic administration, around 14,900 patients took the benefit of the scheme since April 1 to November 2. The civic body has spent around Rs42 crore on this initiative this year so far. The PMC pays 50% of the bill of the patients undergoing treatment under the scheme. The civic body’s annual expenses on the scheme has gone up from Rs1 crore to Rs50 crore over the decade. The data showed that the civic body had spent Rs54 crore for this scheme in 2019. The expenses on the initiative in 2018 was Rs24 crore. Funds were diverted from different schemes to meet the increasing demand from the urban poor for the scheme. Earlier, the scheme was valid for the citizens with annual income up to Rs1 lakh. The cap was increased to Rs2 lakh per annum in 2019. The elected members are contemplating on several options to increase the beneficiaries’ benefits. Moves like introduction of generic medicines and giving additional funds for the scheme are some steps in that direction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-1l-urban-poor-benefit-from-health-scheme/articleshow/79139540.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||Covid lockdown slows down luxury car sales in Pune||PUNE: Car registrations in the city have witnessed a nearly 16% increase during Dasara than what it was during the corresponding period last year, but manufacturers and dealers now look forward to Diwali for the luxury segment to pick up speed. Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO) statistics revealed that while 1,500 luxury cars (each carrying a price tag of Rs20 lakh and above) were registered between April and October last year, the registration in the corresponding period in 2020 stood at 678, a drop of around 55%. RTO officials, however, said the decrease did not indicate any alarming situation because people were still buying luxury cars. “An analysis of the statistics revealed that the registration figures were less due to the Covid-19 induced lockdown. Shops, showrooms, offices and even the RTO were shut for business for nearly four months from the last week of March. This was unprecedented. This year’s figures show that people have bought luxury cars. We are anticipating a rise with Diwali around the corner,” an RTO official said. When it comes to the total registration of cars, the Pune RTO registered around 25,500 cars between April and October last year. In comparison, the Pune RTO registered around 15,000 cars during the corresponding period this year. “We have to consider the four months of closure in 2020. The registration figures could have been more otherwise. We cannot say the registration figures (15,000) between April and October this year were low. Dassara has been impressive in terms of registration with a 16% rise compared to last year,” another official said. In October this year, the Pune RTO registered the highest number of cars (5,170) since March. In comparison, the Pimpri Chinchwad RTO registered 3,505 cars during the period. Luxury car companies, however, agreed that the sale of their vehicles had dropped and they were presently striving to reach last year’s levels. A Mercedes Benz official said while they had sold 9,000 cars across the country in the first nine months last year, the sale dropped to 5,000 during the period this year. While unveiling the locally manufactured AMG model, Mercedes Benz India managing director and CEO, Martin Shwenk said, “The first priority is to get back to the 2019 levels and from thereon take the benefits of cost reduction due to localization to grow the business.” (With inputs from Satyanarayan Iyer)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-lockdown-slows-down-luxury-car-sales/articleshow/79138127.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 10, 2020||Madurai||I am sidelined on caste lines: SC woman panchayat president||SIVAGANGA: A woman panchayat president belonging to a scheduled caste community in a village in Sivaganga district has threatened to quit her post alleging that she has been sidelined on caste lines by the vice-president who belongs to another caste. Rajeshwari Pandi, 44, president of Kalpirivu village panchayat in Manamadurai panchayat union, lodged a complaint with the block development officer (BDO) on Monday to take appropriate action. She said that people were approaching her to solve various issues, including those related to civic amenities, which deserved her attention. But vice-president S Nagarajan, who belongs to the pillaimar caste, was not allowing her to work, she said. Most people in the village belong to Rajeshwari’s community. “I am being pressurised by people who elected me unopposed to the post to act on the civic issues. I could not get work done because the vice-president is pressurizing other staff not to pay heed to me. What is the purpose of continuing in the post. That’s why I decided to quit it if officials do not act on my complaint,” she said. She said Nagarajan was making diktats and didn’t consult her. “Whenever I asked him why I am not being allowed to exercise my duty, he said that they had given me the chair and I should quietly sit on it. I should not claim any rights,” she said. Nagarajan controls everything and is in possession of the keys. Panchayat secretary R Kannan, who is belonging to the konar community, is also dancing to the tune of the vice-president and refuses to do any work when she approached him, Rajeshwari said. Rajeshwari is the mother of two and has studied up to Class VIII.  She has contested in two elections earlier but lost. In the last local body elections, she was elected unopposed since the village was reserved for scheduled caste community, she said. Nagarajan refuted her allegations and said that she was misusing her caste status to threaten him. “We wanted to change the supervisor of 100-day work scheme as her tenure had ended. But the president wants her to continue as a supervisor against rules. She includes names of people who do not turn up for work but get money,” he said. Sivaganga district collector T Jeyakanthan is yet to respond to phone calls and message sent to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/i-am-sidelined-on-caste-lines-sc-woman-panchayat-prez/articleshow/79138125.cms||V Devanathan
November 10, 2020||Pune||Woman killed after container hits moped||Pune: A 37-year-old woman was killed, while her daughter suffered minor injuries after a container truck hit their two-wheeler near Talegaon Dabhade railway station chowk on Sunday evening. Police said the accident occurred when the woman, Kalita Santosh Torkade of Kanhe Phata, was on her way back home after shopping for Diwali in Talegaon Dabhade with her daughter . “Torkade was riding pillion on the moped being driven by her daughter, Devika (20). When they reached the railway station chowk, a container brushed against their moped. Due to the impact, Devika lost her balance and fell down on the opposite side, while her mother came under the rear wheels of the container. Torkade was rushed to a nearby hospital and declared dead on arrival,” sub-inspector KS Gavari of the Talegaon Dabhade police told TOI. Gavari stated that the victim, Torkade, worked as a nurse in a hospital. The officer said they had arrested the container driver, Ravi Singh (31) of Dhule, following the accident under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC), including 304A (causing death by negligence), and provisions of Motor Vehicle Act. “He was produced before a judicial magistrate first class court on Monday and was released on bail,” Gavari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-killed-after-container-hits-moped/articleshow/79138112.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Legal services day held in RR dist||Hyderabad: Y Renuka principal district judge, Rangareddy district on Monday called upon para legal volunteers and legal services officials to reach out to those who cannot come to courts for justice. She was speaking at a meeting organised in connection with the National Legal Services Authority Day at Rangareddy district courts complex. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/legal-services-day-held-in-rr-dist/articleshow/79136633.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Madurai||Software to drive mask rule enforcement in Madurai streets||MADURAI: City police commissioner Prem Anand Sinha on Monday inaugurated technology-driven mask rule enforcement. While the streets in commercial areas are overcrowded due to Diwali shopping, the initiative will help increase compliance to the mask rule, he said. A software designed for this purpose has been installed in 20 already existing CCTV cameras in Thilagar Thildal and Vilakkuthoon police station limits. The technology will help identify people who don’t wear masks and impose fine on them. “By upgrading the existing CCTV network with the help of this software, we intend to monitor mask compliance, register cases based on pictorial evidence and thus contribute to the fight against the pandemic,” Sinha said. Police officers, who have been given access to a mobile app connected to the software, will receive an alert if anyone crosses the camera without a mask. Based on this pictorial evidence, the violator will be fined. The commissioner said a Bengaluru-based company developed the software. The project is funded using the fine amount after getting due sanction from the district collector. The city police alone have booked 46,467 cases so far with an average of 8,448 cases a month. Rs 88.7 lakh has been collected as fine amount, the commissioner said. He said that since the software is in place, police need not to keep walking across streets to check mask compliance. They can stay near the CCTV camera and stop people once they get alert on their mobile phone. The initiative will increase the responsibility of the police officer in ensuring the mask rule as superiors will keep a tab on the number of alerts received and number of people who faced action. It will also create fear among the public that even if there are no policemen nearby, cameras will be watching their movement, he said. The software will help generate data on the percentage of people wearing marks in each area. The software was installed a month ago and the results have been satisfactory, a police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/software-to-drive-mask-rule-enforcement-in-madurai-streets/articleshow/79138130.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Bank of Maharashtra joins UPEIDA banks consortium||LUCKNOW: The UP Expressway and Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) on Monday included Bank of Maharashtra in the consortium of banks to wheel in funds for the 92-Km Gorakhpur link expressway, linking Gorakhpur with the Purvanchal expressway. Announcing the inclusion of Bank of Maharashtra in the consortium of banks, which also include PNB and UCO bank, UPEIDA chief executive officer (CEO) Awanish Awasthi said that three banks would help in channelizing around Rs 2,250 crore loan for the ambitious project. Until now, the three banks have provided a loan of Rs 1,250 crores for the expressway project. The consortium would be led by PNB which has also approved a loan of Rs 750 crore. The expressway is proposed to start from NH-27 near Gorakhpur and end in Azamgarh. It would help growth of Gorakhpur, Ambedkarnagar, Sant Kabir Nagar and Azamgarh. Still in its initial stages, the physical construction of the expressway is five per complete. The authority has done 81.33 percent clearing and grubbing and 16.43% work related to mud. The expressway is proposed to have two toll plaza, three ramp plaza, seven flyovers, 16 vehicular underpass, seven long bridges and 389 small bridges. The authority would also construct 35 pedestrian underpass and 50 light vehicular underpass. Awasthi said that the authority would also construct a 3.75-metre-wide service lane on one side of the expressway to help locals to get an access to the expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bank-of-maharashtra-joins-upeida-banks-consortium/articleshow/79139098.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||BJP names nine candidates for UP legislative council elections||LUCKNOW: BJP on Monday announced nine candidates for UP legislative council seats of graduate and teachers’ constituency. Eleven seats — five graduate and six teachers’ constituencies — had fallen vacant on May 6 after which the election commission had announced the notification for the legislative council elections. BJP is expected to announce the name of two more candidates by November 12. BJP has fielded Umesh Dwivedi from Lucknow division and Dinesh Chandra Vashisht from Agra for teachers’ seats. Vashishta has been a long time member of the BJP, while Dwivedi joined the party a year ago and this will be his first election. Dwivedi was also president of unaided colleges’ association. The party has fielded Shrichandra Sharma from Meerut region and Hari Singh Dhillon from Bareilly-Moradabad region. Meerut region was represented by Om Prakash Sharma, one of the oldest legislators in the legislative council. The party, however, did not announce the candidates for teachers’ constituencies from Gorakhpur-Faizabad region and Varanasi region which are currently represented by Dhruv Kumar Tripathi and Chet Narayan Singh, respectively. In case of graduate seats, BJP has announced five candidates. It has repeated two candidates – Kedar Nath Singh from Varanasi and Yagya Dutt Sharma from Allahabad-Jhansi region. Both have been with the BJP for the past many years and have been working in the party organisation in various capacities in their respective region. BJP has replaced Kanti Singh (Lucknow) with Awanish Kumar Singh, a former regional president of BJP. Aseem Yadav from Agra division has made way for Manvendra Pratap Singh. In Meerut division, BJP has fielded party functionary Dinesh Kumar Goyalreplacing Hem Singh Pundir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-names-nine-candidates-for-up-legislative-council-elections/articleshow/79139103.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Lift blockade completely: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh to farmers||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday evening appealed to the farmers’ unions to lift their rail blockade completely and allow even passenger trains to ply in the state, saying they should take into account the inconvenience caused to lakhs of people when Diwali is around. Capt Amarinder also expressed the hope that the talks convened by the Centre, scheduled for November 13 as per media reports, would pave the way for an early resolution of the crisis. The move indicated that the Centre was open to finding an amicable solution to the farmers’ problems, he said. “Now that the message that they wanted to communicate through their blockade had reached the Centre, the unions should step back and join the talks,” he said. Earlier in the day, Capt Amarinder had dubbed the railways’ decision to link the movement of goods trains in the state with the passenger ones as “totally irrational and illogical”. Passengers wanting to come to Punjab can easily travel by train to stations in nearby states, such as Ambala in Haryana, and Chandigarh, from where they could go by road to their destinations in a matter of a few hours. This was not an option for freight movement, he said. Amarinder added that by defending the Railways’ decision, the BJP was further fuelling the anger among farmers, who had shown more concern for citizens than the party was doing. Rejecting BJP state unit president Ashwani Sharma’s allegation of ‘arm-twisting’ the Centre, he said it was the BJP leadership that was inciting the farmers with its anti-Punjab stance on the issue. Instead of questioning the Railways and supporting the state government in persuading the Centre to allow freight trains to ply, they continued to indulge in dirty politics, he said. “What’s worse is that the BJP is not even concerned about our soldiers in Ladakh and Kashmir who are waiting desperately for critical supplies before the onset of snow, which would block them off completely from the rest of the country for the winter months,” he added. On Sharma’s accusation that the state government had failed to dissuade protesters from blocking train services, Amarinder said it was his government which had convinced the farmers to ease their blockade to let essential supplies come in. He said the adamant stand of the Railways, which the BJP was vehemently endorsing, suggested lack of intent to resolve the imbroglio on issue. “Why else would the Railways take refuge in one excuse after another to continue to suspend the services in Punjab, especially after the farmers had cleared all tracks for freight movement and I had personally guaranteed full safety to the goods trains even though Railway security rested with GRP?” he asked. Taking a dig at Sharma, Amarinder said he should not try to instigate the state government into cracking down on protesting farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lift-blockade-completely-cm-to-farmers/articleshow/79138166.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Ahead of mayor polls in Jaipur, horse trading audio clips go viral||JAIPUR: A day before the mayoral election in the city, BJP candidate Kusum Yadav’s husband Ajay Yadav’s alleged audio clips on ‘horse-trading’ went viral. Kusum is contesting for the mayor’s post in Heritage Municipal Corporation (HMC). In two audio clips, Yadav is heard talking to Congress worker and Kishanpole resident Akbar on horse trading. The leaked clips revealed that Yadav has allegedly offered to give garbage collection contract for five years and three-times commission to all the councillors who support his wife for the top post. The amount of money is not mentioned in the tapes and a figure of 25-25 can be heard. Congress councillor from Ward No. 42 Dashrath Singh, who registered a complaint with the ACB, accused councillors were offered Rs 25 lakh cash. “Money, chairmanship posts and car offers have been made to Congress councillors for cross-voting,” he said. Congress seems to be in a comfortable position to form the board in Heritage Municipal Corporation (HMC) after eight independent candidates extended their support to the party on Wednesday. After securing 47 out of 100 seats, the party required 4 more seats for an absolute majority.The party now claims to have 55 candidates including independents to form the board. Yadav in one of the audio clips could be heard requiring support of 4 to5 councillors. In the clips, names of Congress ward councillors Rohit Chavidiya and Sheram also surfaced. Refuting the allegations Ajay Yadav said, “Congress is insecure that Muslim candidates will vote for Kusum Yadav as we have cordial relationship with all the councillors. All the allegations levelled against me are baseless. I did not speak with anyone over phone. Also, the voice in the clips is not mine.” Congress cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachriyawas said, “The BJP should come forward and give the voice samples for investigation. BJP has always indulged in such practices of luring public representatives. Congress will comfortably form a board in Jaipur heritage.” After BJP had denied ticket to Yadav, she fought independently and emerged victorious. As the party was not left with many choices in absence of a prominent face, Yadav was fielded as a mayoral candidate from heritage city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ahead-of-mayor-polls-horse-trading-audio-clips-go-viral/articleshow/79138171.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||Two in neton charge of bouncer’s murder||Pune: Two men were arrested from Kothrud on Sunday in connection with the murder of a private security firm’s bouncer (25) in his house at Shindewadi Gaddavane village near Pirangut on Saturday night. Police identified the arrested duo as Akshay Shinde (25) and Rajendra Mankar (24), both from Sutardara in Kothrud. The rural police are searching for one more suspect. Victim Anirudha Pilane’s wife, Reshma (22), escaped with minor injuries in the attack, the police said. Citing preliminary investigation, sub-inspector Anil Lawate of the Paud police said, “The murder was the fallout of a petty dispute between friends. Pilane would frequently abuse the three suspects over a brawl they had earlier. Furious over his constant abuse, the trio hatched a plot to eliminate Pilane.” Lawate said, “The three men brandishing sharp weapons barged into the house of Pilane on Saturday night and brutally assaulted him. When Pilane’s wife tried to intervene, the trio beat her up too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-in-neton-charge-of-bouncers-murder/articleshow/79138150.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||PMC bans crackers in civic open places||Amid the spread of coronavirus, the pollution caused by crackers may lead to more problems for patients, he added. The order said citizens should be cautious while using sanitizers if they are going to burst crackers, as they are inflammable and may lead to burns. “Norms for social distancing should be followed while celebrating the festival. The use of a mask is a must. Any violation of the rules set for controlling Covid-19 spread will attract fines,” the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-bans-crackers-in-civic-open-places/articleshow/79139542.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 10, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Most parents open to idea of reopening govt schools||MADURAI: Consultative meetings were held on Monday with parents by all government, aided and private schools across the state, including Madurai, to get their opinions on reopening of schools for classes IX to XII. While some parents stressed the need for schools to reopen to continue their child’s education properly, others expressed concern about the possibility of Covid-19 spread. “I don’t see the rush for school reopening, especially as online classes are going on. Safety of children is priority. There is no fool-proof measure to keep them 100% safe. Further, with monsoon, travelling is also an issue when it rains. Dengue and other diseases are also a threat. The government can consider reopening by January at least,” said N Kavitha, a parent of a Class XI student from a private school. However, some parents also supported reopening soon stating that their child is unable to learn properly from home. K R Sharmila, a parent of a Class XII student from a private school, said that her son could not learn properly through online classes and regular schooling would be better as it is a board exam year. She added that students at that age are capable of following safety precautions. “In government schools, most parents were more than willing to let their child return to school. Most of them are already working and hence are unable to engage their children productively at home. They said that their children can focus on studying only if schools are reopened,” said the headmaster of a government school. On the other hand, in private schools, there was mixed opinion on reopening. “Parents have warmed up to the idea of school reopening now. But, the response is still mixed. Safety is still a concern especially with elderly at home as children could become carriers. Some parents wanted to wait for some more time after Diwali to see how the trend of Covid-19 cases are while some wanted only Class X and XII to have classes. We have to wait and see,” said the headmaster of a private matriculation school. Parents gave their opinions on school reopening by filling out questionnaires which were then collected and submitted by school headmasters. Parents also orally gave their opinion or submitted letters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/most-parents-open-to-idea-of-reopening-govt-schools/articleshow/79138159.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Ex-banker in ED net for Rs 24 crore embezzlement||LUCKNOW: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested a former official of a private bank from Prayagraj on Monday in connection with embezzlement of Rs 24 crore. The accused, Kamal Ahsan, worked as a relationship manager at Civil Lines branch of the bank in Prayagraj from 2013 to 2016. In September 2017, ED had registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, against Ahsan and 10 others for alleged embezzlement of Rs 24 crore from the accounts of an agricultural institute at Naini. “In connivance with the accountant of the institute and other staff, Ahsan fraudulently siphoned off money from the accounts of agriculture institute by using only cheque numbers and without any physical instruments during his stint at the bank,” a senior ED official said. He also invested the proceeds of the crime in purchase of immovable properties, mutual funds and insurance policies for himself and in the name of his family members, relatives and friends. The accused also opened various bank accounts in the name of his family members without their consent. “Investigation against Ahsan started after he began moving in luxury vehicles like Audi and Fortuner and started holidaying at expensive resorts in foreign countries,” the officer said. “The luxurious lifestyle was highly disproportionate to the salary offered to him by the bank. This first led to a vigilance inquiry. Finally, he was suspended by the bank and the case was given to ED,” a senior officer privy to the probe said. During investigation, properties worth around Rs 4.6 crore were also attached by ED on July 4, 2019. “Investigation is still underway. The role of accountant and other officials of the institute is also under scanner,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ex-banker-in-ed-net-for-rs-24cr-embezzlement/articleshow/79139107.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||15 seized vehicles gutted near police station||Pune: As many as 15 vehicles, including 13 four-wheelers, seized by the Pimpri Chinchwad police were destroyed in a major fire that broke-out on Monday evening near the Pimpri police station. Three fire tenders from the Pimpri Chinchwad fire brigade were pressed into service, which took around 40 minutes to douse off the fire. Police are yet to ascertain the reason behind the mishap. An officer from the Pimpri Chinchwad police stated that the open plot where the incident occurred was used by them for parking of the vehicles impounded in various criminal crimes. “Most of these vehicles had been parked there for over an year,” the officer said, adding, “The fire broke out around 3pm and we immediately alerted the fire brigade team.” A fire brigade officer told TOI that 13 four-wheelers and three autorickshaws were gutted in the fire. “There were about 100 scrapped vehicles parked in the plot. We managed to douse off the fire in 40 minutes,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/15-seized-vehicles-gutted-near-police-station/articleshow/79138164.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||Defamation case: No pre-arrest bail for accused in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: A sessions court on Monday rejected the anticipatory bail plea of Sameet Thakkar, accused of making defamatory comments against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on social media. While Thakkar was already arrested in a similar case registered at VP Road police station, this pertains to the FIR by BKC cyber police. Thakkar had on Saturday submitted the anticipatory bail plea, which the prosecution opposed. The accused was recently granted bail in the case registered in Nagpur with the court observing that investigations were almost completed. Thakkar was first arrested on October 26 from Rajkot in Gujarat. Immediately after he was granted bail by a local court in Nagpur. Thakkar on November 2 was taken into custody by city police and brought here by train. Thakkar was booked for defamation under Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/defamation-case-no-pre-arrest-bail-for-accused/articleshow/79137037.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Madurai||Theatres to reopen across Tamil Nadu from today, but owners in a spot of bother||MADURAI: After more than seven months, cinema theatres across Tamil Nadu, which were closed due to the Covid-19 pandemic, will finally reopen from Tuesday with safety protocols in place. However, theatre owners have expressed concern that with no new film releases having been scheduled any time soon, it will dampen the response from the public. On Monday, disinfection measures were carried out at various cinema theatres across Madurai city. The theatres will function with only 50% occupancy and preventive measures like use of hand sanitizers, temperature screening, wearing masks and maintaining social distancing etc., will be enforced strictly. “We would have expected a better response from public if there were new film releases. Now, since we will screen only films that are already released, the response may not be as good,” said Rajasekaran, manager, Ambiga Theatre. Tickets will be issued in such a manner that one seat is left free in the middle, Rajasekaran said and added that three shows are allowed to be screened in a day, he said. “We are planning to reopen only by Wednesday. There will always be those who are fans of watching films in theatres so we are expecting them to return to theatres. We have to wait and see if movies released on OTT platforms will be allowed to be screened or if there will be new releases,” said P K M Rajangam, Priya Enterplex. Some theatre owners are not too keen on reopening as there are no new film releases. Meanwhile, in Tuticorin, speaking to reporters, minister for information and publicity, Kadambur C Raju, said that all theatres will be strictly monitored by respective district and corporation officials for Covid-19 safety. “District collectors have been informed of the SOPs for theatres and officials will carry out inspections to ensure Covid-19 safety precautions are followed. In case they are not followed, strict action will be taken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/theatres-to-reopen-from-today-but-owners-in-a-spot-of-bother/articleshow/79138163.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Madurai||Call to save 121 Indian fishing boats in Sri Lanka||MADURAI: Leaders of various political parties have urged the Centre to intervene and save 121 mechanized fishing boats, from Ramanathapuram and other coastal districts of Tamil Nadu, which were detained between 2015 and 2018 and are likely to be destroyed following an order by a Sri Lankan court on Saturday. Expressing shock over the court’s direction, PMK founder S Ramadoss termed it an attempt by the island nation to destroy the livelihood of fishermen from coastal Tamil Nadu. He said that the recent order to destroy boats is unnecessary and will create unnecessary tension between fishermen of the two countries. Ramadoss felt that the issue could have been settled in a hassle free manner. He urged the Lankan court to grant time for fishermen to mend the boats and take it to India. TMC(M) founder G K Vasan in a statement appealed to the Union and state governments to resume diplomatic efforts to help the distressed fishermen get justice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/call-to-save-121-indian-fishing-boats-in-sl/articleshow/79138137.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Farmers protest new laws||HYDERABAD: Braving the pandemic, hundreds of farmers from 15 districts of the state staged a dharna in the city on Monday, to join the dharna organised by All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee at Indira Park. The farmers demanded the withdrawal of three Farm Acts and Electricity (Amendment) Bill. They also demanded that the state government should immediately issue crop loss compensation at Rs 20,000 per acre to all farmers affected by the rains in October. They also demanded that state should purchase all the crops at MSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/farmers-protest-new-laws/articleshow/79136653.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Passenger rail service hit hard amid festive season||CHANDIGARH: More than six weeks after farmer groups in Punjab started their ‘rail roko’ in the last week of September, the issue of no movement of passenger trains in the state has been pushed to the forefront by the railway ministry’s insistence that it would not allow freight trains to run without passenger trains. All 21 locations, where farmers had been protesting, have been cleared for the plying of goods trains but there seems to be no solution in sight to the impasse. Gurinder Mohan Singh, divisional railway manager (DRM), Ambala division, “We are ready to resume the services but waiting for the orders from the railway ministry. We are also aware of the announcement made by the Punjab government about clearing of the tracks but services will only be resumed once a go ahead signal is received from the ministry.” The passenger train services were completely withdrawn in the state from October 1, though the partial effect had started from September 24. Most of 300-plus passenger, mail, express and Rajdhani trains in the Ferozepur Division have either been short terminated or cancelled causing inconvenience to passengers, especially in the festive season Commenting on the issue, Rajesh Aggarwal, DRM, Ferozepur division, told TOI on Monday: “When a track is available for the train operation, it is available for all type of train operations and nobody can differentiate which type of train is coming and in confusion if somebody tries to prevent a particular type of train, then it may result in an unpleasant situation.” Since the short termination and cancellation of trains, the Ferozepur division refunded tickets to the tune of Rs 1.26 crore. Most trains in the division have been short terminated at Ambala. “Every second day, some or other delegation approaches us for the resumption of passenger as well as goods trains but nothing is in our hands, now it is a political issue. We are prepared to resume services at any given time but only after receiving a nod from Delhi,” said a source in the Northern Railway. No movement of passenger trains has upended the plans of an estimated 20,000 passengers either travelling to or from Punjab daily. The movement of persons on trains is at peak at this time of the year in Punjab with migrant workers travelling their home for the festive season. Hailing from Bihar, four migrant workers, who had come to Barnala railway station on Monday to know about the possibility of booking tickets for travel from Ambala in Haryana to Bihar, said, “Earlier Covid affected our plans and now due to farm protests, trains have come to a halt. We had to return after harvesting paddy but are unable to do so. We have booked a train from Ambala and will be going to Ambala by road by spending more money”. For workers travelling home for festival season, disruption of train services has badly affected their budget. resident Gobind Yadav, who lives outside Bathinda Refinery, wants to spend festival season at home with family. “I am going to Dabwali to check if I can get any train for UP or up to Delhi,” he said. With trains only running till Ambala, the cost of journey has increased manifold for long-distance travelers. The Ambala DRM said 20 pairs of special trains were to run during the festival period, but these were either cancelled or short terminated. “It is not possible to calculate how many passengers are getting affected as many passengers might be catching trains out of Punjab,” he added. The long distance trains being short terminated at Ambala are running with an average of 50% occupancy. Eighteen Puja Special trains have also been cancelled by the Northern Railway, which is notifying cancellation and short termination of trains on a daily basis. Long route Jan Shatabdi Express between Delhi and Una is being short terminated at Ambala and is running with a capacity of 46.52%. Similarly, Sachkhand Express connecting Amritsar with Hazoor Sahib in Nanded now ends at Ambala and is running with 69.74% capacity. Another long distance Kolkata-Amritsar Durgiana Special train too starts and stops in Ambala and is running with 51.23% occupancy and Mumbai Central-Amritsar Express is also running with 53.23% occupancy and terminates at Ambala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/passenger-rail-service-hit-hard-amid-festive-season/articleshow/79138157.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 10, 2020||Pune||1st frog species described from Maharashtra gets genetic identity after a century||PUNE: City-based researchers have identified and re-described cricket frog Minervarya syhadrensis, the first frog species from Maharashtra that Scottish zoologist Thomas Nelson Annandale described in 1919. Over the last 100 years, researchers faced problem in the identification of this frog species due to variations in its colour pattern and morphology, which matched with the other species (Fejervarya limnocharis from Indonesia), making its identification very difficult. A team led by Dr Samadhan Phuge from the Savitribai Phule Pune University and KP Dinesh from the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI), Pune, studied most of the cricket frogs of the northern Maharashtra and concluded that Minervarya syhadrensis was “morphologically cryptic” in nature. Their study started in 2017. They studied morphology, gene sequences and acoustic characters to fix the identity of Minervarya syhadrensis and also provided genetic proof for its wide distribution in India, with different colour morphs. The study got published in leading international journal ‘Zootaxa’ on November 4. Incidentally, the same species was described with new name in 2005 from the central Western Ghats due to unavailability of genetic data. In this study, the authors considered a wide range of samples across Western Ghats and India. They found the frog species exhibited different colour patterns and variable morphology in different parts of Western Ghats and Indian peninsular. “This study highlights importance of DNA barcode data for historical species described from the country,” Dinesh said. Researchers have predicted this frog could be distributed throughout India and possibly have their range of distribution in the neighbouring countries too. Phuge said due to morphological similarities, the males of Minervarya syhadrensis attempt to breed with females of the other species (Minervarya agricola) available in the field during breeding season, creating unviable interspecies hybrids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1st-frog-species-described-from-state-gets-genetic-identity-after-a-century/articleshow/79138180.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 10, 2020||Agra||Hathras gang rape case: Revision petition filed||AGRA: A revision petition challenging the Mathura chief judicial magistrate's (CJM) court order of granting UP Special Task Force (STF) the police remand of three men arrested under charges of sedition and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) while they were on their way to Hathras to meet the victim's family, was filed by the accused’s lawyer last week. The date of hearing is scheduled on November 27, confirmed advocate Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi. Meanwhile, bail pleas of all three men—Masood Ahmad, Atikur Rahman and Mohammad Aalam — were deferred till Tuesday due to court proceedings not being held. According to the revision petition, the UAPA offences are listed as a crime under National Investigation Agency (NIA) Act, 2008. The Act states that all offences under the UAPA, whether investigated by the NIA or by the investigating agencies of the state government, are to be tried exclusively by special courts set up under the NIA. Notably, the court should be designated under sections 11 or 22 by notification issued by either the Centre or the state, respectively. However, the CJM's court in Mathura, in this case, was not the designated one. Besides, the STF was not authorised to take the custody of the three men. In fact, section 6 of the NIA Act states that after registration of offence under the Act, the station in-charge should give his report to the state, which informs the Centre. The Centre then takes a decision within 15 days - whether it is a scheduled offence or not and investigation by NIA is required. However, the station house in-charge "will continue its probe", till then. The bail plea of the fourth accused, Siddique Kappan, a Delhi-based journalist and secretary of the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, Delhi unit, who was also arrested with the three men, is scheduled to come up for hearing in the Supreme Court on November 16. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hathras-gang-rape-case-revision-petition-filed/articleshow/79135410.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Four of a family die after car rams into tipper||HYDERABAD: Four persons, including two kids, died after their car crashed into a tipper, which broke down on the road in Jagital district on Sunday night. The deceased were identified as Lalitha (35), Ramadevi (28), Serisha, Charan (5). Three others_ Srinivas, Srujan and Shruti _ escaped with injuries. Police said that Ramadevi was the mother of Serisha and Charan while Srujan and Shruti are children of Srinivas and Lalitha. Ramadevi and Lalitha are sisters. The mishap occurred around 9.50 pm. The two families dropped Ramadevi’s husband Chandra Kumar at Jagital bus stop. Kumar was scheduled to reach the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport to take a flight to the UAE. The accident occurred immediately after Kumar boarded the bus and others were returning to their residence in Mallapur. Srinivas was at the wheel. The car rammed the tipper at Gumlapur village. The tipper was on the road as one of its tyres was deflated. Srinivas failed to notice that the vehicle was parked on the road. “Due to the impact, the car got crushed under the tipper. The car crashed into the right tyre while and tipper’s driver and cleaner, who were repairing the left tyre, escaped,’’ Korutla Inspector Rajasekhar Raju told TOI. Lalitha died on the spot while others succumbed to injuries in the hospital. Police had collected the blood samples of Srinivas to check whether he was drunk. A case was registered against him under section 304A (negligence causing death) of IPC. After being informed about the mishap, Chandra Kumar returned only to find that his wife and both children had passed away. A case was registered against tipper driver by Jagital police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/four-of-a-family-die-after-car-rams-into-tipper/articleshow/79136689.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress’s effort to connect with voters||HYDERABAD: With the slogan ‘SpeakUpHyderabad’, Congress is inviting the participation of people in preparation of party’s ward-wise and also an overall city-level manifesto. AICC in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore and Congress election manifesto committee chairman M Shashidhar Reddy urged the citizens to suggest changes they want to see.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congresss-effort-to-connect-with-voters/articleshow/79138209.cms||Roushan Ali
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: BJP trying to make urban-rural divide||PHAGWARA: Punjab is facing “economic blockade” and being treated like an enemy, alleged Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal. He has also warned incumbent BJP against “attempts to create an urban-rural divide” in the state. “Economic blockade is being done like an enemy is being treated. It is condemnable. I am surprised at the BJP government. They are laying blockade against Punjab which has done so much for the country,” Badal said while speaking to media persons after addressing a protest rally on the issue of post-matric scholarship scam. “In a democracy government move forwards but has to step back also. It is only in dictatorship that such strong pre-conditions are put,” he said. Responding to another query, Sukhbir said, “It seems that they (BJP) are doing it intentionally to create rift between urban and rural areas. Impact of economic blockade will be in urban sectors and this would lead to urban-rural divide. It seems to be deliberate. If that is the thinking, then it is condemnable and I warn BJP against it,” Sukhbir said. When asked if BJP’s approach to Punjab was similar to the Congress’s approach in the past, he said that it was much different as the Congress had attacked Sikh religion and massacred them. They (the Congress) damaged the state economically also but now Punjab was being targeted only at economic level, he said. He also said Kartarpur corridor should be opened. “Building the corridor was such a big step and now The Government of India should open it once,” he said adding that he would try to take a delegation to the Prime Minister about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-trying-to-make-urban-rural-divide/articleshow/79138192.cms||IP Singh
November 10, 2020||Pune||970 recover in PMR, 418 test positive, 14 dead||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region recorded 14 fatalities due to Covid-19 on Monday, taking its toll to 8,093. Besides, PMR recorded 970 recoveries as against 418 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking its total discharges and caseload above 3.10 lakh and 3.28 lakh, respectively. Among the new cases, the PMC limits recorded 160, followed by the rural and cantonment areas (182) and the PCMC limits (76). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that of the 3.10 lakh recoveries in PMR, about 49% (1.54 lakh) were from the PMC limits, followed by the PCMC limits (85,884) and the rural as well as cantonment areas (70,268). As for the fatalities, 10 patients succumbed to the infection in the PMC limits, while three patients died in the rural areas and one death in the PCMC limits. The count of active cases dropped further to 10,298 on Monday evening, including 4,446 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals PMR and 5,852 in home isolation. The region conducted 4,555 tests on Monday, pushing total sample testing to 14.73 lakh. The rural areas conducted 2,160 tests, which were the highest in the region followed by PCMC (1,209) and PMC (1,192). Health officials said though cases had come down, people needed to exercise utmost caution in view of the festival season. “Ahead of Diwali, people are rushing to markets, resulting in overcrowding,” a heath official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/970-recover-in-pmr-418-test-positive-14-dead/articleshow/79139547.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||Sensex at new peak as Biden victory spurs foreign buying||Mumbai: A ‘Biden rally’ pushed Indian markets to record highs on Monday. News of a likely potent Covid vaccine has now set the stage for it to soar higher. At close of session, the sensex was up 704 points at 42,597 while the nifty was up 198 points at 12,461, both all-time peaks. The news over the weekend that Democratic nominee Joe Biden will be the next US president—that will ensure easy liquidity and a weaker dollar for the global market—prompted foreign fund managers to press the buy button in almost all the emerging markets, including for Indian stocks, institutional dealers and fund managers said. As a result, net buying by foreign funds in the domestic market was Rs 4,548 crore, one of the highest single-session inflows in recent months, which at a record Rs 164.5 lakh crore made investors richer by about Rs 2.2 lakh crore. Post the market’s closure, Pfizer’s announcement took the Dow Jones and S&P 500 indices in the US to new peaks. The positive news about a Covid vaccine, combined with the recently announced good quarterly results by Indian companies is expected to keep the domestic market rally going. Since its multi-year low of 25,639 points on March 24 this year—just after a nationwide lockdown was announced—the sensex has rallied over 66% while BSE’s market cap has jumped by Rs 63.6 lakh crore. According to Taher Badshah, CIO–Equities, Invesco Mutual Fund, a clear verdict in the US, combined with the vaccine news, would ensure two things. In the US, there would be a credible plan to control the second wave of the Covid pandemic and a better plan for the stimulus for the largest economy in the world. These factors makes the “global outlook better”, he said. On the domestic front, domestic investors could draw “comfort, confidence and strength from the normalcy of (corporate) earnings, even though many parts of the economy are yet to return to the pre-Covid levels”, Badshah said. Although the leading fund manager feels that in the short term valuations in India can fluctuate a bit, global factors and Indian corporates’ return to normalcy are expected to hold the market at elevated levels. Chartists too feel that the rally is unlikely to fizzle out in a hurry. “Near term trend of nifty continues to be positive and more upside could be in store in the coming sessions,” said a note from Nagaraj Shetti, Technical Research Analyst, HDFC Securities. On Monday, buying was across the board with ICICI Bank, HDFC Bank, Infosys, Reliance Industries and Axis Bank contributing nearly two-thirds of the sensex’s gains. On Tuesday, the market may witness some volatility due to results of Bihar state elections, market players said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sensex-at-new-peak-as-biden-victory-spurs-foreign-buying/articleshow/79139111.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Pune||MSRTC to run over 500 extra buses from Pune on Diwali eve||Pune: The MSRTC will ply 532 additional buses, as against 1,000 announced earlier, from Pune for three days starting Tuesday on the occasion of Diwali. “Many visit their homes on the eve of Diwali. This time, number is expected to be a bit less, but we aren’t taking chances and have put in additional buses on different routes in and around Maharashtra. We expect decent rise in number of commuters this festive season,” MSRTC official said.MSRTC had earlier said an additional 1,000 buses would ply for Diwali between November 11 and 14. “There has been a slight change and the buses will run from November 10 to November 13 now,” the official said. MSRTC’s Pune division employees said buses plying to neighbouring states had now increased to 35. — Joy Sengupta||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msrtc-to-run-over-500-extra-buses-from-pune-on-diwali-eve/articleshow/79138178.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC adjourns plea on FYJC admissions||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Monday said there was no urgency and adjourned to November 23, a petition by Mumbai advocate Vishal Saxena seeking orders for a speedy plan by the state government to complete FYJC admissions, suspended since a September 9 stay by Supreme Court, on Maratha quota. A vacation bench of Justices B P Colabawalla and Abhay Ahuja said, “We find no urgency that cannot wait till reopening.” It said, “In these circumstances, the matter be listed before the concerned bench on November 23.’’ The state’s plea to vacate an SC stay on implementation of Maratha reservations under SEBC Act for admissions this year and for state jobs, is yet to be heard before the apex court. Saxena said “half the academic year’’ has gone by, so there was urgency for HC to hear and pass an order as it was causing stress to students. His daughter’s admission to FYJC had been held up, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-adjourns-plea-on-fyjc-admissions/articleshow/79137055.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Customs at Jaipur airport on extra alert to curb gold smuggling||JAIPUR: Cases of gold smuggling at the city airport ahead of Diwali have put customs officials on high alert. They have specifically been told to properly frisk passengers coming from Dubai, Kuwait and Sharjah. The process of interrogation and arrest of the passenger who was caught on Sunday with 760 grams of gold biscuits was on till Monday evening. “In recent cases, we have arrested carriers who have brought gold in various forms from Dubai, Kuwait and Sharjah. Ahead of Diwali, we can’t rule out possibility of more attempts by these carriers. Thus, various SOPs have been put in place for our men to be more cautious and vigilant,” said a senior officer of customs department. In this year, customs authorities at the airport have caught 23 people for gold smuggling. “We have seized nearly 35.257 kg of gold worth nearly Rs 17.653 crore since July especially when Vande Bharat flights from various countries started arriving,” the officer added. It may be recalled that 31.998 kg of gold was seized from the airport by customs authorities from the possession of 14 passengers in July. “In this particular case, we had arrested the kingpin of this racket,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/customs-on-extra-alert-to-curb-gold-smuggling/articleshow/79138199.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Will not let passenger trains run: Farmers unions in Punjab||PATIALA: Farmer unions in Punjab reiterated on Monday that they will not change their decision banning any movement of passenger trains as part of their protest against the central-government’s agriculture laws. They said the rail-roko agitation had already been suspended and the railway tracks, including the branch lines of private plants, were cleared by the agitating farmers in the interest of common people but the passenger trains would be allowed to run on the tracks only if all their demands are met. All Indian Kisan Sangarsh Coordination committee member Darshan Pal said, “We have been agitating against the central government farm laws and the decision to not to allow the passenger trains run on the tracks is not changed. The farmers will not allow the central government to run passenger trains. We are planning for the Delhi Chalo march planned for November 26 and 27. BKU Ekta Dakaunda Punjab president Boota Singh Burjgill said, “Our decision will not change in any way. We will not allow passenger trains to move on the tracks in Punjab until our demands are met”. All farmer unions are scheduled to meet on November 18 in Chandigarh to plan action on Delhi Chalo protest call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/will-not-let-passenger-trains-run-farmers/articleshow/79138176.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Nashik||No hawkers on Mithai street this Diwali||Nashik: Mithai Street in Deolali Camp area will not witness the usual hustle and bustle this Diwali as the Cantonment Board Delolali (CBD) administration has banned the hawkers from setting up their stalls over there. The hawkers have been asked to set up their stalls on the Wadner Road near Deolali Camp police station. For years, Mithai Street had been the place to go to for buying puja-related articles for Diwali. However, the administration has taken the decision in order to stop the spread of Covid-19. In view of the rush of people to buy these articles, Deolali Camp police barricades the street from both the sides to prevent motorists from using the road. Corporator and former vice president of CBD, Bhagwan Kataria said, “CBD CEO Ajay Kumar explained it to the hawkers the reason behind taking the decision. Due to the pandemic, they have been asked to sit along Wadner Road near Deolali Camp police station.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/no-hawkers-on-mithai-street-this-diwali/articleshow/79135432.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai civic chief clears Sewri TB Hospital head’s removal||MUMBAI: Following an internal committee’s recommendation, civic chief I S Chahal on Monday approved removal of medical superintendent of Sewri TB Hospital from the post and ordered a full-fledged departmental enquiry against 16 staff, including 12 nurses, a medical officer, an engineer, a clerk and a cleaner. This came three weeks after the decomposed body of a 27-year-old TB-Covid patient was found in the hospital toilet. Chahal said Dr Lalit Anande, holding additional charge as hospital medical superintendent, was discharged from the post with immediate effect. Dr Anande will continue as a chief medical officer (CMO) at the hospital. The decision was based on the recommendation of a seven-member inquiry committee that said Dr Anande was “not able to carry out the hospital’s administrative responsibilities”. TimesViewWhile the civic body’s promptness in fixing responsibility in the TB Hospital incident is appreciable, there is no denying that much bigger reforms are required at Asia’s biggest TB hospital. The apathy and lack of accountability have long been criticised and talked about but there have hardly been any proactive steps to improve patient well-being.The detailed inquiry against the 16 medical and administrative staff will decide further action against them. BMC also instituted brief inquiries against three ayahs, who are likely to face minor action. Written memos were also issued against a senior matron, a junior assistant officer, a medical officer, three CMOs and medical superintendent. Warnings were also issued to 17 multi-purpose contract labourers, in-charge of cleaning toilets and wards. BMC said the incident would have a bearing on renewal of their contracts. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said as it was a case of grave negligence, those facing a detailed inquiry are likely to face major punishment. “Those facing minor inquiries too will face action,” he said. BMC may appoint a new medical superintendent in a day or two. Suryabhan Yadav (27), a TB patient, was referred to Sewri TB Hospital after he tested positive for Covid-19 on September 30. He had been missing from his hospital bed since October 4. The hospital claimed it sent a letter to his official address and called, thinking he had absconded. They updated his details on the Covid portal as a case of LAMA (Leave Against Medical Advice), even as patients of ward 12 on the first floor complained of foul smell from the toilet. His decomposed body was found by a staffer on October 18. Dr Anande (58), due for retirement this year, said he was yet to receive any official orders. He has been holding charge of in-charge medical superintendent since 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tb-hospital-chiefs-removal-gets-bmc-nod-16-staff-to-be-probed/articleshow/79137079.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Waste-to-energy plant launch at Jawaharnagar today||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) minister will inaugurate a waste-to-energy plant at Jawaharnagar dumpyard on Tuesday (November 10). As part of the state’s sustainable urban development efforts, the second debris recycling plant in Fathullaguda will be operational by Sankranthi. The first plant in Jeedimetla was inaugurated on November 7. The waste-to-energy plant uses equipment sourced from original equipment manufacturers across the world. The plant has been equipped with a multi-stage flue gas cleaning system. “Ever since the synchronization of the plant after a trial run on August 20, the plant has generated around 15 million units of power with one boiler. As per power purchase agreement with TS TRANSCO, the green power is being evacuated with negligible transmission losses,” read a statement issued by Ramky Enviro Engineers Ltd. Further, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in a statement said that the plant will act as a sustainable source of green power for the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waste-to-energy-plant-launch-at-jawaharnagar-today/articleshow/79136704.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Officials denied entry into secretarait, Gandhi hospital||HYDERABAD: Officials of the ground water department had no access to the premises of the old Secretariat and Gandhi Hospital for the past few months to measure the groundwater table owing to the demolition works and the pandemic, respectively. “We could not record the groundwater table for the past few months in the secretariat since the police department has been restricting us due to the ongoing demolition of the Decretariat blocks,” a senior hydrologist in the department told TOI. The official said that the police department had advised the department officials to obtain permission from the General Administration Department (GAD) concerned to enter the demolished site. “We do not know what has happened to the piezometer we had installed at the old secretariat and its state,” said the official. The department officials added that since a large number of patients infected with Covid-19 are admitted to Gandhi Hospital and the rise in number of cases, the police and health departments have restricted the ground water department officials entry into the hospital premises. Deputy director, Hyderabad district ground water department, K Jagannatha Rao said, “A letter will soon be sent either to the chief secretary or principal secretary, GAD, seeking permission to enter the old secretariat to measure the groundwater level, which is mandatory for us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-denied-entry-into-sectt-gandhi/articleshow/79136715.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 10, 2020||Varanasi||Rs 3cr penalty on Varanasi plant for polluting Ganga||Lucknow: Furthering the cause of clean Ganga, the Yogi Adityanath government has initiated the biggest-ever strike on pollution in the holy river. The Namami Gange department of UP has slapped a fine of Rs 3 crore on a Varanasi-based company for callousness in running a sewage treatment plant (STP). The action came on the directions of principal secretary of the department Anurag Srivastava. Sources said that it was brought up during a recent review meeting that some of the projects were going very slow and were delayed. “The desired results were missing,” said the source, adding that the need for an “effective and strict” action was felt. Teams of Namami Gange conducted raids at around 12 places across the state to check if STPs met the parameters and quality standard set. The first action was in Varanasi where Ramana STP was found not to be operating at the fixed parameters. Quality of sewage disposal was not up to the mark either. After completion of the probe, the Namami Gange department slapped the fine of Rs 3 crore on the company. The Yogi government has scaled up action and monitoring of the parameters and quality of STPs, both government and private, to ensure impetus on the National Mission for Clean Ganga. Nine teams have been constituted to conduct surprise inspections and investigate sewage disposal. Sources said that it’s a month-long exercise as water samples will be tested. “The crackdown was on the government’s mind for quite sometime,” added a source. Uttar Pradesh has 104 operational STPs, of which 44 are under the purview of Namami Ganga. The state government has rolled out an extensive awareness campaign for people towards cleanliness of Ganga. To ensure that ghats are clean and that drains do not flow into the river, STPs are being made on a large scale. Srivastava said that a clean and flowing Ganga is very dear to and on priority for the government. “We are moving in that direction...action will continue to be initiated to ensure that sewage and pollutants do not find their way into the river, pollution levels are brought to zero and awareness is spread,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/rs-3cr-penalty-on-varanasi-plant-for-polluting-ganga/articleshow/79139112.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Pune||Pune: 1.6km stretch dug up, Metro team set to pull out 2 TBMs||PUNE: The Metro’s two tunnel boring machines would be pulled out in phases at the Civil Court station site following the completion of excavation of 1.6km stretch from the Agriculture College. “We have started preparations for the next phase of excavation. Before that, there is a huge task of pulling out both the machines from the tunnels as the location of breakthrough is about one km inside them. The teams are working on it,” an official of the Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro). The next stage of tunnelling work is expected to begin in a month. From the Civil Court station, the Metro tunnel will go towards the Mutha. After crossing the river, it will stretch to Kasba Peth — the next station on the route. The first tunnel boring machine (TBM) had reached the Civil Court station site in the last week of September. The two machines have dug two parallel tunnels for the Up and the Down tracks of the Metro rail. The first TBM had started the excavation in December 2019 and the second in January 2020. The tunnels are now ready for further works like laying of tracks and power supply cables. A source in MahaMetro said the excavation had slowed down during the Covid-19 lockdown. The work was expedited in the last two months. The TBMs were working in two shifts to make up the working hours lost during the complete shutdown. The excavation was completed in about eight months. Another official from the MahaMetro said the excavation work did not face any major hurdles. “The tunnels are placed about 18 to 20 metres below the ground-level. By and large, uniform basalt rock was found on the entire stretch of excavation so far. There have been no reports pertaining to damages to buildings along the stretch of excavation,” the official said. The MahaMetro has also started the work of the Civil Court station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-6km-stretch-dug-up-metro-team-set-to-pull-out-2-tbms/articleshow/79138208.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 10, 2020||Nashik||City police want 33 villages in its limits||Nashik: City police have sought the opinion of the district administration to include 33 villages, currently under the jurisdiction of Nashik rural police, into the city police commissionerate for better policing. While 22 villages fall under Nashik taluka police station, nine are under Ozar police station and two are under the Dindori police station. DCP (HQ) Pournima Chaugule said that the opinion of the district administration is necessary for including these villages into the police commissionerate. “Once the district administration gives its consent the same can be forwarded to the office of the Director General of Police in Mumbai for expansion of the police commissionerate,” she said.“The villages concerned are close to the boundaries of the city police commissionerate and the villagers would find it more convenient to visit the police station of the commissionerate than the current existing police stations,” another officer said.Nashik taluka police station is located in the heart of Nashik city, but its jurisdiction falls outside the city police commissioneate. Though there are beat police in some of the villages, in the event of any crime, the taluka police need to cross the entire police commissionerate to reach the incident spot and it is the same for the villagers who wish to file an FIR.“It is also important to include villages in Ozar under our jurisdiction as the Ozar airport falls under the rural police. Most of the times, senior state and union ministers alight at the Ozar airport after which they come to Nashik city. Due to this both rural and city police are involved for the security arrangements. Hence, if these villages are brought under the Nashik police commissionerate, city police alone can take up the task of arranging the security measures,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-police-want-33-villages-in-its-limits/articleshow/79135440.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Little clues help cops crack kid’s murder case, two arrested||JAIPUR: A few uneaten biscuits, clues from children and a sniffer dog proved handy for Jaipur (rural) police to solve the mystery behind the murder of an 8-year-old girl, whose body was recovered on Sunday by Shahpura police in Jaipur (rural) district. Police have arrested the neighbour of the girl, along with a woman for the murder. Police stated that the girl had seen them in a compromising position and they killed the girl to ensure their affair does not come out in open in the village. According to the police, the 8-year-old girl was found dead on Sunday after she went missing on November 6 at Lamoda ki Dhani hamlet under Khori village panchayat of Shahpura police station area. “It was found out that the girl was playing with the children of her locality and the kids entered into the house of the accused. The accused Ramchandra Khatana (46) offered some money to the kids and asked them to go and buy biscuits and snacks for themselves. After getting the biscuits, the girl accidentally entered the house of the accused again and saw him in a compromising position with a woman,” said Shankar Dutt Sharma, superintendent of police (Jaipur rural) while talking to TOI. He added that after the body was recovered, the police’s sniffer dog took them to the house of the neighbour, from the spot where the body was found. “The children also told us that initially, they were together with the girl at the accused’s house where they were playing. Thereafter, while playing hide-and-seek, the 8-year-old girl went missing,” Sharma added. Police had also recovered a sachet of biscuits from the frock of the murdered girl. “The kids in the locality told us that the packet of biscuits recovered from her, was the same which was purchased the day the girl went missing. That’s how we got suspicious towards Ramchandra Khatana. He was interrogated thoroughly and was arrested,” he added. Ramchandra was arrested along with Rekha Devi. “They were in a relationship and planned the murder to ensure that the girl may not make their affair public. Both Ramchandra and Rekha Devi are married to other people. Both have been arrested,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/little-clues-help-cops-crack-kids-murder-case-2-arrested/articleshow/79138221.cms||Ashish Mehta
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||Protest over farm laws in Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s seat||KARNAL: Farmer outfits led by Swaraj India carried out a protest march in chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s constituency Karnal on Monday against the three agriculture laws enacted by the Centre. The farmers wanted to gherao the CM’s camp office, but they were stopped by cops. Addressing the gathering, Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav criticised the Centre for enacting the laws and praised Congress-led state governments of Punjab and Rajasthan for opposing the laws. He said, “Now, Centre has enacted another strict law, on burning of crop residue. Farmers and labourers of the state made Khattar chief minister, but he did not raise their concern with the central government of his party when anti-farmer laws were being enacted.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protest-over-farm-laws-in-hry-cms-seat/articleshow/79138206.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Kanpur||‘Barter’ scheme to check stubble burning in Uttar Pradesh's Unnao||KANPUR: The Unnao district administration has launched a unique barter scheme to find a permanent solution to the practice of stubble burning by farmers. “Under the scheme, the farmers will be provided one trolley of bio-fertiliser against the submission of two trolleys of stubble across 135 ‘gaushalas’,” district magistrate Ravindra Kumar informed TOI on Monday. For over five years, burning rice stubble has caused severe air pollution in the region. Estimates show that 15-20 million tonnes of paddy stubble burnt in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh emit PM2.5 that is 4-5 times more than the annual PM2.5 emissions from all vehicles plying in Delhi. Acting tough, over 1,100 FIRs have been lodged against 2,000 farmers across the state for stubble burning. Thirty-five-year-old Sanjay is a rice farmer in Gadan Kheda village and he hasn’t burnt rice straw after he came to know about the barter scheme.  “I am preparing bundles of rice straw to further transport it on my tractor-trolley to a ‘gaushala’ to exchange it with bio-fertiliser,” he said. Earlier, he used to burn the stubble. “I had also availed the barter scheme of district administration. Such an initiative will not only lessen the increasing pollution level, but the bio-fertiliser provided by the ‘gaushala’ authorities will also increase my yield, besides our stray cattle will now no more die of hunger due to sufficient fodder stock across the ‘gaushalas’ in the district. Also, one will also not land in a legal tussle,” said Shiv Kumar, another farmer. “We have received an overwhelming response from the farmers. There are in total 135 temporary ‘gaushalas’ in the district. Nearly, 1000 quintals of stubble had already been received by officials across these ‘gaushalas’. It’s an effective solution to the problem of burning stubble and it will only make the soil more fertile,” the DM said. “Also, directions have been given to the revenue department officials to spread awareness among farmers against stubble burning and for proper disposal of crop residue by involving village committees and village heads,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/barter-scheme-to-check-stubble-burning-in-unnao/articleshow/79139115.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Congress protests handing over MIA maintenance to Adani||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee (DCC) staged a protest at Kenjar on Monday protesting against the handing over of Mangalore International Airport (MIA) to Adani Group for maintenance. Former minister and senior Congress leader B Ramanath Rai said the handing over of MIA to Adani Group for maintenance is an injustice to the people of the coastal district. “Congress leaders, including former parliamentarian U S Mallya, were instrumental in bringing many development projects to Dakshina Knnada district, including MIA. It is an injustice to the people of Dakshina Kannada that an airport set up by former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and U S Mallya has been handed over to private company,” Rai said addressing the gathering. Former MLA of Mangaluru City South, J R Lobo said the Modi government has already merged banks that took its birth in undivided Dakshina Kannada and thereby erased the names of the founders of the banks. Dakshina Kannada District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai said the MIA should be named after Koti-Chennaya. “BJP government is supporting capitalists by privatising public sector units,” he added. Konkani activist and founder of World Konkani Centre at Shaktinagar, Basti Vaman Shenoy urged that the MIA be named after Ullal Srinivasa Mallya, who served as a member of Parliament||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/congress-protests-handing-over-mia-maintenance-to-adani/articleshow/79136328.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Amid agitation, IRCTC books tickets to nowhere||LUDHIANA: Utter confusion prevails among the passengers wishing to travel by train to and from Punjab, Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh, as while train after train are being cancelled due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation, IRCTC site is allowing booking of tickets. These tickets either later get cancelled automatically with the cancellation of trains or people do it themselves after learning about the unavailability of trains via Punjab. According to information, a lot of defence personnel posted in far-off places in the region have been booking tickets in the hope of joining their families during the festival season, only to see the tickets getting auto-cancelled by the IRCTC system on the date of departure. Sharing his experience, a defence personnel, who did not wish not to be named, said, “I was to travel to my home in UP and as the trains were shown running for today (November 9), I booked the ticket and made all preparations for the journey. But, I was shocked to receive the message of cancellation of my ticket just hours before departure. Now, I am desperately exploring air and road options.” Speaking to TOI, Ferozepur Division DRM Rajesh Aggarwal said, "The system is showing cancellation of trains a bit late. Ideally, for a train scheduled for tomorrow, cancellation should happen the previous morning, but currently the system is showing it cancelled the previous evening. I have already intimated the headquarters about this problem and we hope to resolve it very soon. As for the passengers receiving the intimation of train cancellation, the SMS is being delivered on the day of departure, which again the system should have sent the previous evening itself.” Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, told TOI, “The trains are shown running on both IRCTC app and its website, and the system is even accepting bookings. The railways should fix the problem at the earliest, as it is causing avoidable troubles to the people desiring to travel by train.” To counter-check the facts, this correspondent on Monday tried booking a ticket for New Delhi by 02030 Amritsar Shatabdi Express for Tuesday, and a confirmed ticket was booked in no time. However, in this case, the ticket was auto cancelled around 6pm on Monday itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/amid-agitation-irctc-books-tickets-to-nowhere/articleshow/79138241.cms||Mohit Behl
November 10, 2020||Pune||Eyes glowing yellow in photos indicative of Coats’ disease||Pune: A ‘yellow’ glow in Anway’s left eye is what struck his parents while looking at some of his photographs. Though they did not dismiss it as a camera malfunction, they approached the doctor only after the boy’s eyes started showing misalignment. On examination, Anway was found with Coats’ disease. “When an eye is affected by Coats’ disease, light reflects off cholesterol deposits and it glows yellow in photos,” said eye surgeon Aditya Kelkar, director of the National Institute of Ophthalmology. Kelkar successfully operated on Anway on August 28 this year.Blood vessels provide blood and oxygen to retina. But when they are dilated, abnormally twisted and leaky, the person has Coats’ disease. It can also progress to vision loss or blindness in one eye, if not treated.In Anway’s case, his fundus (the part of the eyeball opposite the pupil) examination showed retinal detachment too, besides the eye vessels becoming twisted and leaky. “When there is too much of this fatty built-up, retina may get detached. When that happens, consequence is vision loss,” Kelkar said.Surgery was the only option to save the visual potential of Anway’s eye. “An external sclerotomy, a surgical procedure that creates an incision in the sclera (white of the eye), was performed first to drain the accumulated fluids and settle the retina. Then, we used the freezing technique (cryopexy) to constrict the abnormal blood vessels to stop the fluid leakage. At the third stage, we carried out surgery to treat retinal detachment,” Kelkar said.Treatment doesn't guarantee a normal vision. But if left untreated, the eye may have lost all the hope. In a good news, the disease stops on its own or may not recur at all occasionally . Luckily, Anway's right eye has normal vision. “Before surgery, he only had light perception with the left eye. Postsurgery, he can recognize people and his toys when looked at close distance with other eye closed,” said Anway’s parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eyes-glowing-yellow-in-photos-indicative-of-coats-disease/articleshow/79138225.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 10, 2020||Nashik||Active cases drop below 200 in Nandurbar||Nashik: The number of active Covid-19 cases in Nandurbar district has reduced below 200 for the first time since the decline in the number of cases. According to the sources from the district administration, the number of active cases in the district has dropped to 199 on Monday from 251 on Sunday. As many as 52 patients were discharged from various Covid facilities and no cases were reported on Monday. The sources said the numbers of active cases has fallen from 3,200 to below 200, which was about 93% fall since mid-October. The sources pointed out that rigorous drives of tracing and tracking patients were conducted in rural areas. “Every time a patient was found in a village, a special health check-up was conducted and all those, who were vulnerable, were particularly taken care of. In this way, the administration was able to cut down on the fresh cases at a faster rate,” the sources said. Besides, most of the people, who tested positive, had mild symptoms or no symptoms so they were home quarantined. Elderly and patients with comorbidities were taken to the facilities.  Nandurbar taluka had 112 active cases, followed by Shahada with 49, Taloda with 12, Navapur with 24 and Akkalkua with two active cases. The recovery rate stands at 94% as 5,592 patients have recovered from the total numbers of 5,939 patients so far. Meanwhile, the tribal welfare minister and district guardian minister advocate KC Padvi inaugurated the ophthalmology department at the district civil hospital. The facility will provide a diagnosis of ailments related to eyes and the surgeries for the tribal population of the district||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/active-cases-drop-below-200-in-nandurbar/articleshow/79135457.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Jaipur||Police point finger at rival gang for murder of Sodala youth||Jaipur: Police investigating the murder of the 26-year-old youth who was gunned down by unknown assailants in Sodala on Sunday evening said the deceased had a criminal background and was a history sheeter in Nadbai police station of Bharatpur. Police on Monday said a rival gang of Bharatpur eliminated him and did not rule out the possibility of contract killing. Police have detained at least six people and a team of Jaipur police has been sent to Bharatpur, Dholpur and some parts of Uttar Pradesh. Sachin Meena was passing through Govind Puri locality in Sodala when two bike-borne assailants gunned him down on Sunday evening. “He died on the spot. We have got some breakthrough and are working on it. Nothing concrete can be shared as of now,” said Manoj Kumar, deputy commissioner of police (South). Police said the murder could be the outcome of some rivalry of the deceased with other gangs and criminals in Bharatpur region. “It appears that they were tracking his movement and finally after spotting him in Sodala he was eliminated,” said a senior officer on condition of anonymity. Police stated that Meena was involved in firing at an MLA in Alwar some years ago and was wanted in various cases of loot, extortion and violence. “He is a history sheeter of Nadbai police station. We have intimated Bharatpur police to check his criminal antecedents,” the officer added. On Monday, police got some CCTV footages and have also got the call detail record of the deceased to get more clues to solve the murder mystery. “Motive of the murder is certainly not for gain, but the actual reason would be ascertained only after the arrests of the assailants,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-point-finger-at-rival-gang-for-murder-of-sodala-youth/articleshow/79138244.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Nashik||Bhujbal for more sporting arenas||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal stressed on including more sporting arenas in the proposed renewal of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Stadium, the oldest stadia in Nashik.Bhujbal reviewed the renovation plan of the stadium owned by Nashik Zilla Parishad on Monday.The state government has already given Rs 8 crore for the renovation of the stadium and accordingly the district sports office (DSO) was asked to present the plans for the redevelopment.“We reviewed the plan and we have decided to add more sporting arenas for sportsperson instead of hostel facility in the complex,” said Bhujbal.According to the district sports officer Rajendra Naik, “The stadium has been sanctioned the status of a district sports complex and so the government has given Rs 8 crore for the development. However, after the structural audit of the stadium was carried out, it was found that it was not in good shape and has to be demolished.”The officer said the plan of pulling down the old stadium and raising the new one was drawn. It included the construction of a hostel for players coming from rural areas for practice, but now that has been removed.As the stadium is in the heart of the city, it has been decided to have maximum number of sporting facilities. , Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-for-more-sporting-arenas/articleshow/79135453.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 10, 2020||Agra||At 474, AQI ‘severe’ in Agra; Taj barely visible in blanket of thick smog||Agra: Covered in a thick blanket of smog, the Taj Mahal was barely visible on Monday morning. Agra was the seventh most polluted city in the country with its Air Quality Index (AQI) touching 474, just behind Dharuhera (491), Manesar (483), Ghaziabad and Gurugram (482), Hisar (480), Bhiwadi (479), Delhi and Noida (477), according to a bulletin released by the pollution control board on Monday. A day earlier, it was the most polluted city in the country on Sunday. The air quality of Agra continues to remain in the “severe” category despite the interventions of the apex court and the NGT. Experts believe that the air quality might deteriorate due to the current weather conditions, stubble burning and the festive season. The index, monitored by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) across the country, showed that the worse air quality was recorded in 21 cities out of the total 110 and six of them of UP —Agra (474), Bulandshahr (468), Ghaziabad (482), Greater Noida (478), Noida (477) and Kanpur (403). PM 2.5 continued to remain the biggest contributor to the air pollution. PM 2.5 is the minutest and finest particle in the air that is able to travel deep into the respiratory tract and the 24-hour permissible level is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. The situation is much worse than the last year as AQI in Agra on November 9 was recorded — 98 (satisfactory), and ‘moderate’ on —November 8 (142), November 7 (147), and November 6 (139). Dr Hemendra Agarwal, a physician in Agra, said the increasing PM 2.5 level is dangerous for health, especially for heart patients and those that were asthmatic. “Children aged between three and 10 are more prone to allergy and asthma. Prolonged exposure to PM 2.5 levels beyond safe limits can harm the respiratory system, as the ultra-fine particulates can find their way deep into the lungs and also enter the bloodstream,” Dr Agarwal said. The PM-10 (presence of particles in the air with a diameter of less than 10 micrometres) is considered less dangerous than PM 2.5. Meanwhile, authorities continued to crack the whip on those burning stubble. A paper mill in Muzaffarnagar was also sealed for burning plastic waste. But, despite the crackdown, stubble burning continued unabated in parts of west UP and adjoining Haryana districts. Regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Bureau (UPPCB) Bhuvnesh Yadav said that the high AQI was due to low wind speed and no dispersion at height. “We will get immediate relief if there is either rain or high wind speeds,” he added. ENT surgeon Dr Debashish Bhattacharya told TOI that those with respiratory disorders should stay indoors as the pollution can deteriorate their health condition. “If they cannot avoid going out into the smog, they should use masks, which is mandatory otherwise too,” he said and warned against using ordinary surgical masks which do not offer any protection from pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/at-474-aqi-severe-in-agra-taj-barely-visible-in-blanket-of-thick-smog/articleshow/79135451.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP, Congress allege irregularities in ward-wise electoral rolls||HYDERABAD: The BJP and Congress have alleged that the names of voters belonging to a particular community have been deleted and those from another community have been included in several wards to suit the political needs of TRS-MIM friendly parties. BJP leaders Ponna Venkatramana and K Pawan from Old City and Congress election committee convenor G Niranjan levelled the allegations at a meeting of all political parties convened by GHMC commissioner-cum-election officer Lokesh Kumar at the civic body’s office here on Monday. Stating that the published ward-wise electoral rolls will serve no purpose, the Congress demanded that the SEC should publish polling booth-wise voters list after final rationalization of polling centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-cong-allege-irregularities-in-ward-wise-electoral-rolls/articleshow/79138278.cms||Roushan Ali
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Water board revenue dips as tanker bookings see sharp drop||HYDERABAD: The torrential rains in October have not only filled up the reservoirs, which supply water to the city, but have also phenomenally increased the ground water table. As a result of this, there has been a huge drop in the bookings of water tankers across the city and Greater Hyderabad areas. This kind of drop in bookings has never been seen since the inception of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB), a senior HMWS&SB official admitted. As a result of this drop in bookings, the HMWS&SB, which had earned nearly Rs 2 crore a month, saw their income drop to Rs 1 crore. The Water Board’s efforts in ensuring uninterrupted water supply to its consumers has also seen a reduction in dependence on water tanker supply There has been over 60 percent drop in tanker bookings between June and October. “For instance, in September, the Water Board had received 24,256 bookings, whereas in October the number of bookings dropped to 19,838,” HMWS&SB chief general manager (revenue) Amarender Reddy told TOI. “In normal days, we used to receive 800 bookings in a day but now we are receiving 500 bookings a day,” he said. The bookings are the highest during the summer season with the daily bookings going up to 5000, said the official. But this year, the bookings were much less due to Covid-19. Between March and August this year, a total of 3.31 lakh bookings were registered by the consumers. During the same period in 2019, a total of 5.30 lakh requisitions were received, said the Water Board official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-revenue-dips-as-tanker-bookings-see-sharp-drop/articleshow/79136729.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 10, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Vendors ready with green crackers||HUBBALLI: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa's announcement appealing to people to burst "only green crackers" and keep the celebration of the festival of lights simple and meaningful had left firecracker vendors a worried lot. With dealers investing crores to buy crackers, the sudden announcement by the CM had left them confused and in the lurch. However, dealers in the twin districts of Hubballi-Dharwad claim since 2017 they have been selling only green crackers  Green crackers have small shelf size compared to traditional crackers. Thye release water vapour and don't allow the dust particles to rise. They are designed to have 30% less particulate matter pollution. Vimal Talikoti, secretary, Hubballi-Dharwad Fireworks Dealers Association, said when the initial ban was announced dealers went into a tizzy, but when the government did a flip flop, the dealers heaved a sigh of relief. Since 2017 Hubballi-Dharwad and other places in the district have been selling only green crackers. "We have decided not to sell high density bombs and others including LARS of 10,000, 5,000. Cracker dealers from Dharwad, Navalgund and other areas too gathered in Hubballi on Saturday and decided to sell only green crackers," he added. A firecracker dealer from Navalgund was furious at the government’s decision. “Such decisions must be taken well in advance not with 10 days to go for the festival when dealers have already placed orders for crackers. The lockdown and the ban on crackers during Ganesha fest really hit us hard,” he added. Talikoti said that they will sale only green crackers and completely ban sale of loud sounding crackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vendors-ready-with-green-crackers/articleshow/79135983.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 10, 2020||Lucknow||NITI Aayog lauds UP’s response to Covid cases in NCR||LUCKNOW: Even though the number of Covid-19 cases is on the rise in western UP districts just like New Delhi and Haryana, the NITI Aayog has lauded Uttar Pradesh for its sustained efforts to contain the pandemic situation. In an assessment undertaken by the policy think tank last week, experts noted that Uttar Pradesh has managed to keep the positivity rate below 5% despite increase in cases. The weekly average of cases in NCR districts of UP, comprising Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Baghpat, has gone up by about 28%. The corresponding figure for New Delhi is 32% and that for NCR, Haryana is 36%. Expressing concern over the surge in novel coronavirus cases, NITI Ayog officials said that the trend in Delhi and Haryana was serious and called for urgent measures to control the infection, involving the “whole of society, whole of governance, with all possible public health measures”. The experts used data analytics to gauge the situation and caution authorities. The assessment indicated that Delhi has shown the highest peak of daily new cases since June which reflected in its case positivity of about 13%. Likewise, test positivity in Faridabad and Gurugram is around 15%. UP NCR districts are also showing increasing trends. But unlike Delhi and NCR Haryana, UP has been able to maintain a positivity rate of below 5%. Health officials in UP pointed out that the credit goes to sustained emphasis on testing. “The state has maintained an average of 1.5 lakh tests per day,” said principal secretary health and family welfare Alok Kumar on Monday. Expressing happiness over the appreciation by NITI Ayog, Kumar said: “it is encouraging but these words in no way mean that the risk of coronavirus spread had declined. People of the state must understand that prevention is in our hands as specific medicine and vaccines are still away.” Meanwhile, an assessment of state bulletin on Covid-19 showed that while cases in Gautam Budh Nagar, Meerut and Baghpat were rising, those in Ghaziabad kept swinging. For instance, testing positivity of Gautam Budh Nagar went up from 3% in the October 17-23 week to 5% now. Likewise, Meerut’s positivity rate increased from 2% to 3% now and that for Baghpat has grown from 0.5% to 1% now. Case positivity rate for Ghaziabad was 5% in the October 17-23 week and has now declined to 4% which is higher than the state average. Meanwhile, 1,647 new cases in the past 24 hours took the state’s total to 4,99,210. Only three districts recorded more than 100 cases in 24 hours namely: Lucknow (207), Gautam Budh Nagar (163) and Meerut (102). The number of recoveries took over the new cases once again on Monday. As many as 1,895 discharges from hospital took the number of recovered to 4,69,003. The state also recorded the death of 25 persons taking the total number of casualties to 7,231.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/niti-aayog-lauds-ups-response-to-covid-cases-in-ncr/articleshow/79139121.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 10, 2020||Nashik||OPDs, pulse oximeter banks on the cards||Nashik: Nashik district administration is considering opening outpatients departments in the open and having pulse oximeter banks in case there is a surge in Covid-19 cases. District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said that based on suggestions from experts in the health field, they had decided to conduct OPDs in the open near the existing health facilities across the district. “It will help to cut down the spread of the disease,” Bhujbal said. With the OPDs conducted in the open, there will be minimal chance of people touching the infrastructure indoors and it will also encourage people, who are sceptical about going inside a room, to come for check-ups.Speaking about the pulse oximeter bank, Bhujbal said that since the units are expensive, people generally tend to take treatment in some Covid-19 facility and avoid home isolation. “We are, therefore, considering having a bank of pulse oximeters, which can be used by people when required and returned when their use is over,” Bhujbal said. In the district, at present, there are 450 covid-19 patients requiring oxygen among the total 2,800 active cases. Another 50 people are on ventilator. “More than 15,000 vacant beds in Covid-19 facilities in city and rural areas. But that doesn’t mean covid-19 is over,” Bhujbal said.He has asked the police to be strict againt those not wearing masks in public places. Police should bring such people to the police station and make them to sit there for couple of hours.Bhujbal pointed out that there would be no blanket ban on bursting of firecrackers, but urged citizens to stay away from them this year because the gas and smoke from the crackers could prove harmful for the Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/opds-pulse-oximeter-banks-on-the-cards/articleshow/79135475.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 10, 2020||Agra||71 test Covid +ve in Agra, district tally now 7,808||Agra: At least 71 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 7,808. The patients included two junior doctors of SN Medical College. Besides, four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Moreover, 50 Covid patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 7,808 cases reported, 91.2% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases increased from 514 on Sunday, to 536 on Monday. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 7,122 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/71-test-covid-ve-in-agra-district-tally-now-7808/articleshow/79135479.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Record rain in Oct pushes up city groundwater levels to 20-yr high||Hyderabad: The incessant and heavy rains last month have resulted in a rise in groundwater levels. Hydrologists monitoring the groundwater level say that the water could be found around 100-150 feet deep. Citing 84% excess rainfall than normal rainfall in October as the main reason for the rise, the state ground water department confirmed to TOI that the net rise in groundwater levels of 8.73 metres was observed in October as compared to May this year. Senior hydrologists who measured groundwater levels in 16 mandals in Hyderabad district said that such a rise in the ground water table was observed after a span of 20 years. “Enough rainwater has percolated into the earth’s surface after the heavy rains and flooding,” a senior hydrologist said. Experts say consumers in the city can easily overcome water shortage next summer. “The drilling of illegal borewells can be curbed and the recharged groundwater can be used to meet the demand till next monsoon,” deputy director, ground water department, K Jagannatha Rao told TOI. He said that Marredpally mandal, for instance, was the worst-hit mandal in Hyderabad district in terms of groundwater depletion as the groundwater shortage continued for several years. However, the mandal saw a rise of 5.73 metres in ground water table in October compared to September this year. On the overall rise in ground water level in the district, the department officials said that a net rise in ground water level of 2.64 metres was observed during October 2020 as compared to October 2019. “For the first time after a gap of 20 years, all 16 mandals including Asifnagar, Bandlaguda, Bahadurpura, Charminar, Himayathnagar, Nampally, Saidabad, Ameerpet, Khairatabad, Marredpally, Musheerabad, Shaikpet, Secunderabad and Tirumalagiri have enough ground water to meet the demand for a year,” said the deputy director. Replying to a query, the official said, “In the last two months, it has been observed that more property owners are seeking feasibility report to dig borewells. On an average, the department receives 600 to 800 pleas in a month and our hydrologists inspected the sites and issued the reports. But tahsildars of mandals concerned can only dig borewells as per the Water Land and Tree Act (WALTA) rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/record-rain-in-oct-pushes-up-city-groundwater-levels-to-20-yr-high/articleshow/79136757.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 10, 2020||Agra||71 test Covid +ve in Agra, district tally now 7,808||Agra: At least 71 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 7,808. The patients included two junior doctors of SN Medical College. Besides, four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Moreover, 50 Covid patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 7,808 cases reported, 91.2% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases increased from 514 on Sunday, to 536 on Monday. CMO RC Pandey said, “So far, 7,122 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/71-test-covid-ve-in-agra-district-tally-now-7808/articleshow/79135478.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Popular in rural areas, birth-control camps grind to halt||MYSURU: Thanks to fear of Covid-19, the state health and family welfare department has been forced to suspend two camps that resonated with people in rural areas, especially at the hobli level in Mysuru district: Cataract surgeries and birth control procedures such as tubal ligation, vasectomy and IUCD (intra-uterine contraceptive device) insertions. The department suspended these drives/ camps when the pandemic broke seven months ago for an indefinite period and although there is a huge demand, especially from rural women folk, to restart these camps now that Covid cases are falling, health department authorities are still wary. The demand for birth control procedures was so robust that the state health department was conducting camps twice a month at community-level health centres. The health department’s annual report states that in 2018-19, a total 2.8 lakh sterilizations were carried out across the state and 1.3 lakh IUCDs inserted. But now that that the drives have stopped, doctors working in primary healthcare centres and taluk health officers say enquiries are growing by the day. “In private health facilities, these procedures are very expensive,” doctors said. “So we get calls every day from people wanting to know when these camps will reopen. They are putting pressure on us through Asha workers also.” One doctor said, “In villages, family planning procedures like tubal ligation [getting the tubes tied as it is commonly referred to] are very popular compared to other birth control methods. But since Covid-19 is raging, it is not easy to resume these camps or procedures.” Dr Ravi Kumar, HD Kote taluk health officer, said the department released SoPs for both sterilisation camps and cataract surgeries. “We wanted some clarifications. We will soon relaunch the camps,” he said. Health department officials say following SoPs is a challenge. “The SoPs mentions only limited procedures and patients in a day, Covid-19 test, etc. It is not possible due to the backlog. So, we have sought clarifications on these SoPs,” said senior official. Dr T Amarnath, Mysuru district health officer, admitted that he is aware of the demand, but insisted that the procedures were not full halted. He said some underwent these procedures in hospitals during the past seven months, although they weren’t many. He promised to relaunch the camps. “We conducted only a few procedures due to Covid-19, but we will resume them on a full-scale in a few days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/birth-control-camps-popular-in-rural-areas-grind-to-a-halt-on-covid-fears/articleshow/79136169.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 10, 2020||Nashik||City sees no fatality third time in 8 days||Nashik: Nashik city has recorded zero Covid deaths three times in the last eight days of November, indicating a significant drop in the number of deaths due to the infection. The city has recorded eight deaths per day in September and four deaths in October. Nashik city has recorded only eight deaths between November 1 and 8, which means on an average only one death per day was reported in the period. The NMC officials said there has been a drop in the number of new cases and the number of patients recovering has also increased. The first Covid-19 patients were reported on April 6, while the first Covid death was recorded on May 5. The officials said the zero death was recorded twice in the last month, October 20 and 25. Moreover, the zero death was recorded around two months ago on August 15 and 8. The city had also recorded zero death on June 5. There has been a drop in the death rate in Nashik city during the last three months. It has reduced to 1.38% from 2.92% in July.  Officials said they have set a target of bringing the Covid death rate below 1%. The increase in tracing and testing of Covid suspects has yielded good results.  The recovery rate of Covid patients has reached 95.87% so far. NMC officials said the number of new cases has dropped below 178 cases during the last nine days. Nashik dist adds 240 cases The district reported 240 fresh Covid-19 cases, including 135 from Nashik city, in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 95,744. The district has also reported six deaths due to the infection, including one from the city. The death toll stands 1,707 in the district. As many as 218 patients were discharged from across the district on Monday, of whom 205 patients were from Nashik city. The district has 2,823 active cases, including 1,762 in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-sees-no-fatality-third-time-in-8-days/articleshow/79135496.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP plans to release 151 manifestos in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Gearing up for the GHMC elections, BJP is focusing on local manifestos for each ward. There will be 151 manifestos, including one common manifesto (150 wards plus one for the entire city). The BJP will come out with an independent manifesto unlike last time where a common manifesto of TDP-BJP was released with the slogan ‘Happy Hyderabad’. The independent manifesto will have four pages with the slogan ‘Our Hyderabad’. The party assigned the duty of identifying the issues ward-wise and preparing manifestos to local leaders. “We are involving not only party leaders and activists, but also local think-tank and activists to identify the people’s issues,” N Ramchander Rao, former BJP city vice-president, said. BJP is currently using the drive to register voters for the MLC elections as a tool to engage with voters for GHMC elections also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-plans-to-release-151-manifestos-in-city/articleshow/79138319.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Srinivas Reddy joins saffron party||HYDERABAD: TRS corporator T Srinivas Reddy joined the BJP in presence of state party president Bandi Sanjay on Monday. The BJP leaders expressed confidence that more leaders from the TRS and Congress would join the saffron party ahead of the GHMC elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/srinivas-reddy-joins-saffron-party/articleshow/79138333.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Agri sector to be back to normalcy in a month||Except for floriculture pockets of Hosur and parts of north-eastern Tamil Nadu, agriculture has bounced back in Tamil Nadu post-Covid imposed lockdown, says Tamil Nadu Agricultural University vice-chancellor N Kumar. In an interview to TOI, the VC, who was part of the C Rangarajan committee that recommended measures for revival of economic activity in the state, talks about the need for more mechanisation in the farming sector, use of disease-resistant crops, introduction of more technological innovations and getting farmers market-conscious.Q: How did Covid-19 impact agriculture?The impact was felt only at the peak of lockdown. Our remote sensing technology found that 2 lakh hectares of standing crops — which includes sugarcane, maize and banana were left unharvested in April because of labour shortage and non-availability of transport. They also required machines to harvest the crops, but machine operators were not available. Thousands of acres of roses, chrysanthemums and carnations cultivated along Hosur and Krishnagiri could not be sold. Many farmers had to dump their flowers. We are yet to have a clear data on acreage affected and the extent of monetary losses suffered by farmers.North-eastern and costal districts, where they sow paddy in January and harvest in April, were the most affected. It is called the “Navarai” season. They struggled getting labour and transport, but finally managed it with their own family members, getting passes for their trucks.Q: What were the measures you recommended as part of the committee’s proposals to revive agricultural economy?Agriculture is one of the sectors expected to bounce back by December. Among our many recommendations, we suggested extending electronic trading platform e-naam to all regulated markets, so that farmers can see where their produce has maximum demand and fetches best price and sell it there. We also recommended extending minimum support price to eight other crops, including pulses, oil seeds and banana. I have also recommended establishing food parks and food processing centres in all districts, so that farmers can sell finished products which attract a wider market and higher prices. We have also recommended that support should be provided to purchasers and farmers to get into legal contract farming to protect both parties.Q: Shifting to less-water intensive crops is one of the recommendations. Will that not reduce availability of paddy in TN?We have enough and more paddy cultivation in the delta region. We produce more than 1,00,000 tonnes of paddy, which is more than what we need. We can afford to shift to nutri-cereals and pulses, which require less water. Farmers need to change their mindset and be willing to try cultivating newer crops, rather than sticking to safe and traditional crops.Q: How challenging will it be to implement the measures recommended?Most of our recommendations have been taken up by the government, including setting up food processing parks and encouraging formation of farmer producer organisations, we are only recommending extension of these measures to more crops and districts, which should not be too difficult to do.Q: What are your suggestions to farmers during this period of economic slowdown?Farmers should practice collective farming through farmer producer organisations, so that they get access to good machinery, create water ponds for water harvesting and share borewells. They should also become more market-savvy and find out which are the crops are likely to be in demand and cultivate those. We also recommend that they follow TNAU’s price forecast and take cultivation and selling decisions based on it. Farmers should move away from uni-cropping patterns to multi cropping and agro-forestry, which will protect them from market volatility.Q: Is our grain, vegetable and spice prices likely to get affected by the economic slowdown?We expect prices to fall or be low in January, not due to the economic slowdown, but because we are expecting a bumper harvest as a result of a good southwest monsoon.Q: What are the various research projects that TNAU is working on?About 25% of our efforts are into developing disease-resistant and high yielding varieties of paddy. We are also developing therapeutic varieties of rice including VGD 1, which gives three times the yield of traditional jeera samba rice and working on new ways to handle white fly and fall army worm menace, developing growth promoters with multiple microbes and mechanisations for small farm holdings; for instance coconut climbers, like the ones used in Shimoga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/agri-sector-to-be-back-to-normalcy-in-a-month/articleshow/79136792.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Agra||Three killed, 7 hurt after 8 vehicles pile up on Yamuna eway due to smog||AGRA: Three persons were killed and seven others were injured when eight vehicles piled up on Yamuna Expressway in Hathras early on Monday because of low visibility due to smog. In another accident, a sub-inspector, posted in Maharajganj was also killed when his car rammed into a divider on Agra-Lucknow Expressway. The deceased in the Yamuna Expressway pile-up were identified as Dinesh Pal (28) and Amresh (29), both of them from Unnao, and Rajveer Singh (32) from Firozabad. The injured have been admitted to various hospitals in Agra for treatment. Hathras superintendent of police Vineet Jaiswal said that the accident took place around 7 am when eight vehicles piled up due to low visibility on the expressway. He said that bodies have been sent for post-mortem and the injured were rushed to the hospital for treatment. Sub-inspector Yogendra Kumar, who was travelling to his home town in Bulandshahr after taking a 14-day leave, lost control over his vehicle near Matsena area in Firozabad around 4 am. He died on spot, said police. His body was handed over to his family after conducting a post-mortem. Kumar had joined the police force in 1996 as a constable and he was re-designated as sub-inspector after clearing the exam two years ago. His elder brother is posted in GRP Delhi and younger brother has retired from the Army. He is survived by his wife Susheela Devi and two minor children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-killed-7-hurt-after-8-vehicles-pile-up-on-yamuna-eway-due-to-smog/articleshow/79135505.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 10, 2020||Goa||Goa most searched for staycation location, but new policy proves hurdle||PANAJI: As the country reopens for tourism, Goa continues to be the most searched-for homestay destination for staycations, industry data shows. With the Covid-19 pandemic laying all the more stress on cleanliness and hygiene, travellers are showing a preference for family homes and individual villas while taking a break from the pandemic, said stakeholders. However, the tourism department’s recent regulations for homestays and bed-n-breakfast properties has created confusion and threatens to derail the sector which for long functioned in a grey area. “People are ready to get out after staying at home for so many months that we are calling it vengeance tourism,” said member of Hotel Association of India’s Goa chapter Victor Albuquerque. “All types of people are coming to Goa, but are now opting for private villas and homes where a cook is available and the safety of food is ensured.” More than 20% of searches made on the Airbnb platform are for long durations with Goa being the most searched destination followed by Lonavala, Shimla and Uttarakhand. “People are looking to travel, but with health and safety as the foremost consideration. We are seeing a preference for secluded and lesser-known locales or properties,” said Amanpreet Bajaj, general manager for Airbnb India, Southeast Asia, Hong Kong and Taiwan. While some hotels and resorts have reported high occupancy over the weekends, homestays are yet to see the same traction. Though the demand is visible, concerns about the Covid-19 pandemic are keeping travellers away. “Hinterland tourism has hardly 10% occupancy and at that too, only on weekends. The people who are coming are from Maharashtra and Karnataka and the remaining are local Goan families,” said Chinmay Tanshikar, who runs the Tanshikar’s Working Spice Farm and Ecological Rest House at Netravali. Melvyn Da Silva, who runs a homestay at Dona Paula, said that the tourism department’s new regulatory requirements have further dampened the homestay industry. “With the confusion that Goa Tourism has created, I don’t want to get into a tangle so though calls are coming in, I am refusing guests,” said Silva. “There is great demand but I am hoping that the Goa government understands the confusion that they have created and rectifies what they have started.” Bajaj said that the new norms make it harder and more expensive for homestays to operate. “The crisis should give all governments pause to consider whether regulatory framework or proposals remain fit-for-purpose. Putting in place the right regulatory framework will help the local tourism industry’s recovery,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-most-searched-for-staycation-location-but-new-policy-proves-hurdle/articleshow/79138391.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||PCB asks for a mnth to furnish report to NGT||HYDERABAD: The Telangana state Pollution Control Board has requested the National Green Tribunal to grant it one month for submission of an action taken report on polluting industries located in Mahbubnagar. The request was made after a Task Force committee of TSPCB, zonal office, Hyderabad, called the concerned industries located in the Pollepally SEZ for a meeting on October 30. The committee recommended granting 15 days for submission. The report is to decide on the amount to be recovered under the polluter pays principle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pcb-asks-for-a-mnth-to-furnish-report-to-ngt/articleshow/79138368.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Opinions differ over change in pattern of board exams||PUNE: Opinions are scattered among teachers on the best way to conduct the board examination this year. The choices are the conventional way, a completely MCQ based test, and a 50-50 method wherein 50% would be a written examination while the remaining would be an internal assessment. Most teachers said they did not want the state to further reduce the syllabus from the current 25% cut. The survey was conducted last week in an online manner by Mumbai based Jaywant Kulkarni. He said as many as 543 teachers, principals and non-teaching staff participated in the survey, adding that he was encouraged because the state’s decisions never sought teachers’ opinions “Teachers and students are the biggest stakeholders who understand the ground situation. It is important that their opinion is sought on such matters. This was my way of helping the authorities arrive at a decision,” Kulkarni said. N A Kulkarni, principal of Fergusson Junior College, said, this is such a hard year that nobody knows what to do and what are the right choices. “An offline examination means there would be too much contact among the students, student-teacher and among teachers. Social distancing may not be possible for such a large number of people. Even after the examination, for assessment, revaluation, photocopying, a large number of people need to come in contact. All this can be reduced by an online mode of examination,” he said. Kulkarni added that an MCQ-based online test would be ideal. “For every other examination post standard XII, students appear for MCQ-based tests and this includes national tests like IIT JEE, NEET and others. Hence, there is no harm in taking such an exam for standard XII board exam too, at least for this year. This means there will be absolutely no crowding during the assessment and minimum contact between people as all the assessment and other processes would be online,” he said. Manisha Ashtaputre, a senior teacher at SNDT junior college, said there is a need to change the pattern of exams for this year but have an inclusive exam system. “Many students do not have a smartphone and are unable to attend the lectures. There are many who cannot cope and hence the board needs to take an inclusive decision,” said Ashtaputre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/teachers-divided-over-board-exam-pattern-change/articleshow/79138363.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 10, 2020||Nashik||Civic body plans to spend Rs 225cr for repairing roads||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has prepared a plan of Rs 225 crore for repairing and relaying of the city roads. According to a civic official, the work will be taken up after Diwali. “Most of the city roads were damaged during monsoon. Though temporary repair works were taken up, the roads will now be relaid and repaired after the festive season,” he said.Mayor Satish Kulkarni told TOI that tenders for various road works across the six divisions of the city are to be floated within a week and the road works are expected to begin by December-end.“These roads have been proposed in the budget of the civic body for the current financial year (2020-21). The budgetary provisions have been made in the budget,” Kulkarni said, adding that there are many roads in the city that are to be re-laid shortly.“I am receiving complaints regarding potholes. There had been rains last month and now Diwali is around the corner. The NMC has repaired some potholes on the roads, but we are yet to complete the work due to lack of workers,” he added.When contacted, city engineer Sanjay Ghuge said, “We have identified the roads that are to be developed and relaid. The total length of the roads in the limits of municipal corporation is around 2,500 km, out of which 2,000 km is tar road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-body-plans-to-spend-rs-225cr-for-repairing-roads/articleshow/79135521.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 10, 2020||Nashik||Wholesale price of onions up again due to supply crunch at Lasalgaon||NASHIK: The average wholesale onion price shot up by Rs 1,251 per quintal to Rs 4,651 due to shortage of supply at the Lasalgaon APMC on Monday.The minimum and maximum prices were recorded at Rs 1,100 and Rs 5,115 per quintal, respectively, at the market. Sources at the APMC said the price trend will be upward in the next to three days and the average price may increase up to Rs 5,500 per quintal due to a drop in the supply. The average price of Rs 3,401 per quintal at the APMC on Saturday had brought some respite to consumers, but the situation is again moving to back to square one. According to APMC officials, the fresh kharif onions have started arriving in the market, but in a very low quantity. The arrival of summer onions has also reduced as stocks with farmers are exhausting fast. “The average wholesale price will start declining after the arrival of the new kharif variety post Diwali vacation,” said the officials. The summer onions, which are harvested in March and April, have a shelf life of over six months and farmers prefer storing them in the hope of getting better price. The summer onions arriving in the market are six months old and farmers have already cleared most of the stocks. Sources in the APMC said that the arrival of kharif onions is expected to increase when the market reopens after Diwali. The average wholesale price will start declining as arrival of kharif crop increases gradually. “The wholesale prices are, however, are likely to be under control by the first week of December,” said the sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/wholesale-price-of-onions-up-again-due-to-supply-crunch-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/79135513.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 10, 2020||India||Dental council prez sacked over illegalities||The health ministry has declared that Dr Dibyendu Mazumdar ceases to be president of Dental Council of India (DCI) with immediate effect as his  to the post, held on December 15 last year, was “illegal and invalid”. The ministry has sought a fresh election. After receiving a complaint regarding the December poll, the ministry had constituted a two-member panel on January 6 and reconstituted it in February to enquire into the complaints and file a report. According to the panel’s report, the very membership of Dr Mazumdar is illegal as he had “attained the age of 65 years on July 9, 2019”, well before the election. It also said there were illegalities in the electoral roll used for the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dental-council-prez-sacked-over-illegalities/articleshow/79139990.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Mumbai||Aspiring model held for Rs 3-lakh gold theft in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Oshiwara police recently arrested an aspiring model for allegedly stealing gold ornaments worth over Rs 3 lakh from her relatives’ Jogeshwari home last month. Sheetal Gholap (26), also an advisor with an insurance company, allegedly did it after she lost her job during lockdown. Police recovered Rs 2 lakh of the stolen ornaments that she had sold. Her relative Sunita Agavane has gone out with her family during Dussehra. A police officer said Gholap needed money to continue attempts to get modelling assignments. Gholap was arrested from her Kranti Nagar residence in Jogeshwari (W). Senior inspector Dayanand Bangar said Gholap was released on bail on November 7. “Gholap visited Agavane’s house and left her phone there. She revisited the house after taking a key and stole the valuables,” said an officer. Agavane learnt about the theft when she checked her cupboard for valuables to use for the festival. A team visited Agavane’s house and during questioning, Gholap confessed. Gholap was booked under Indian Penal Code section 380 (theft). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/aspiring-model-held-for-rs-3l-gold-theft/articleshow/79137092.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Pay cuts; Teachers forced to take part-time jobs||MANGALURU: Rolson (name changed), a private school teacher with more than a decade experience, works as a food delivery executive to make ends meet. "My wife and I are teachers. With schools shuts and a steep cut in salary, I was forced to look for an alternative job," he said. Like Rolson, hundreds of teachers in private schools in Daskhina Kannada have had to resort to part-time jobs since managements have not been able to pay full salaries. Several schools are paying teachers only 50% of their salaries. "The entire private school teacher -fraternity is going through a difficult time," said Reena D’Souza, a teacher from a school in Thokkottu. "We never imagined that we would have to suffer like this. I am anxiously waiting for school to reopen so that life gets back to normal." With uncertainty over schools reopening, some teachers are also in a dilemma whether to take up part-time jobs. "There is a lot of confusion," said one teacher. "School management had asked us to prepare ourselves as schools may reopen any time. At the same time, we are receiving hints that this is going to be a zero academic year. I have started looking for a part-time job and hope to find something that will help me tide over things until the next academic year." Private institutions have requested the government to intervene and provide financial help. "The government does not seem to be interested in our woes. Teachers and schools from budget private schools are worst hit among all," expressed Jayashree GS, president, DK District Headmasters’ Association. "Teachers cannot manage monthly expenses on 50% salary."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pvt-school-teachers-forced-to-take-part-time-jobs-to-make-ends-meet/articleshow/79135545.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 10, 2020||Pune||Students defy poverty to achieve academic goals||PUNE: The son of a vendor selling roasted peanuts in the village market, the daughter of a domestic help and the son of an autorickshaw driver cleared National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 and will soon start undergraduate degree courses to become doctors. The students were part of the Lift for Upliftment (LFU) project, started by students and alumni of BJ Medical College, Pune, that runs a free coaching class for NEET aspirants from economically weaker sections of the society. This year, the organization has achieved 40% success rate. The students said that even as their course begins, they would teach underprivileged students through LFU state so that more students without access to private coaching can hope to become doctors. Ramprasad Jungare (18) from Nanded, who scored 625 marks in NEET, would accompany his father every Sunday to sell roasted peanuts. “We have no farm. Selling peanuts is our only source of income. I came to Pune to complete Std XI-XII from Fergusson College. Here I came to know about LFU from my friends at the government-aided Ambedkar hostel. Once I pass out, I will earn enough that my parents would not have to toil day and night to feed the family,” said Jungare. Rutuja Mulgir (19) lives in a rented house in Kharadi. Her parents moved to Pune from Parbhani after they mortgaged their small farmland and had no means to repay the loan. Her mother is a domestic help and father works as a security guard at a gated society. “We are three sisters and one brother. My mother is illiterate while my father has gone to school but never studied further. It didn’t matter how hard our lives were, my parents trusted me and never asked me to quit studies. I am glad that their trust has paid off,” said Rutuja, who scored 602 marks in NEET. Rohan Jadhav (19) from Osmanabad had considered quitting education to earn a living and support his family after he scored just 64% in Std XII. “My elder brother is in BSc Nursing and we have taken a loan from villagers to pay his fee. My father is an autorickshaw driver and I thought if I am unable to score well, maybe I should just start working and contribute to the family income. The lack of awareness in villages is so much that we didn’t even know that there is a concept called education loan. I am glad I was able to get LFU coaching. Once I pass out, I will be the first doctor in my entire village and no matter from where I complete my studies, I will come back to this village and serve here,” said Jadhav, who scored 544 marks in the test. Omkar Goyar (20) and his elder sister Disha Goyar (22) repeated NEET but didn’t seek admission in BSc or such courses as a backup option. “We could not afford the fee and we were sure that becoming a doctor is our goal in life. I know it was risky but we gave it our all,” said Disha, who scored 508 marks in NEET. Their father works as a security guard in Dapodi while their mother is a homemaker. “We will be the first generation to even get admission for an MBBS course as nobody in our extended family has done this. Our parents are extremely happy. I hope, through LFU, I am able to help more students achieve their dreams. All that students, especially from poor economic backgrounds, require is guidance and we are ready to work hard,” said Omkar who scored 552 marks in NEET.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/students-defy-poverty-to-achieve-academic-goals/articleshow/79138367.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 10, 2020||Chennai||Fireworks industry stares at a dim future in Sivakasi||CHENNAI: The future is uncertain for the 1,070 units of the nearly century-old fireworks industry that employs lakhs of workers in and around Sivakasi – the pyrotechnics capital of India. Hit by the pollution row over the past four years the owners of the industries are clueless on the way forward. Read the entire story on TOI+Why the fireworks industry is staring at a dim future||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fireworks-industry-stares-at-a-dim-future/articleshow/79136808.cms||M K Ananth
November 10, 2020||Agra||Agra admin prohibits sale and use of firecrackers, traders decry ‘sudden move’||Agra: With barely four days left for Diwali, the Agra district administration on Monday decided to prohibit the sale and use of firecrackers in Agratill November 30 in a bid to check the rising levels of air pollution. The district administration has stopped issuing licences to firecracker manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers. It has also suspended the temporary licenses to sell firecrackers for three days. The air pollution level in Agra, which falls in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ), has been in the ‘severe’ category for the last two days. According to the central pollution control board (CPCB), the air pollution level is so bad that it would seriously impact those with existing diseases. “Sale and use of firecrackers will be strictly prohibited in Agra till November 30. The decision has been taken following the NGT orders to prevent a further increase in air pollution level due to the busting of firecrackers,” district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said. “Police and administration teams will be checking that no sale and use of firecracker takes place. We are expecting directives from the state government regarding action to be taken against people who violate the orders," he added. Meanwhile, a group of firecracker dealers staged a protest at the collectorate against the order, claiming that the sudden ban would result in major losses for them. “We would have not raised any objection had the district administration announced the ban the sale of firecracker 15 days earlier. Now, we have invested money in the stocks and the ban has been imposed less than a week ahead of Diwali. This is completely unfair. The stubble burning and the dust has been the main source of air pollution in Agra which the district administration has failed to control,” a firecracker retailer, Santosh Gupta said. Earlier, the district administration had invited applications for setting up sale outlets at 12 places where temporary market to sell crackers would be setup, like the previous years. A total of 286 shops were to be allotted at 12 places. On Sunday, 90 applicants were allotted space at Kothi Meena Bazaar from 12 to 14 November. Now, all these allotments have been cancelled by the district administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-admin-prohibits-sale-and-use-of-firecrackers-traders-decry-sudden-move/articleshow/79135526.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Nine out of every 10 Covid-19 patients in Karnataka have recovered||BENGALURU: A steep fall in new cases and early detection that has been possible by enhanced testing has taken Karnataka’s recovery rate to nearly 95%. Coupled with a consistently low case fatality rate (CFR), this means recoveries can only improve. However, the expected impact of an anticipated second wave could see the recovery rate drop again, but that cycle would also be complete with the return of high recoveries, unless something goes drastically wrong and more people succumb to the disease. As of November 8, the state’s recovery rate stood at 94.7% with only one district — Bengaluru Rural — reporting less than 90% recoveries. The district, which still has less than 17,000 total cases, has added most of the numbers after mid-August, which explains the comparatively low recovery rate (80.7%). Most of the 3,000-odd patients still under treatment are likely to have been infected in the past fortnight or a month and will be discharged soon. The confidence of the local administration that most of them will recover is supported by the fact that the CFR in the district is under 1%, which is better than the state average. The state’s CFR, at 1.3%, is better than the national average, and what this indicates is that at least 98 of every 100 people with Covid will eventually recover. “Learning from experiences of other countries and some states in our own country, we shifted the strategy early on to focus on preventing deaths rather than infections. We realised that the virus was spreading fast so we focused on saving lives. This helped the state maintain a low CFR. We want to emerge from this pandemic with a rate that is less than 1%,” one official said. In fact, the recovery rate in 23 of the 30 districts is better than the state average and six other districts also have a rate that’s more than 90%. In absolute numbers, 8,01,799 people out of the 8,46,887 infected in the state have recovered as of Sunday (November 8), and only 33,678 are still being treated for the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nine-out-of-every-10-covid-patients-in-karnataka-have-recovered/articleshow/79136228.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Agra||At 474, AQI ‘severe’ in Agra; Taj Mahal barely visible in blanket of thick smog||AGRA: Covered in a thick blanket of smog, the Taj Mahal was barely visible on Monday morning. Agra was the seventh most polluted city in the country with its Air Quality Index (AQI) touching 474, just behind Dharuhera (491), Manesar (483), Ghaziabad and Gurugram (482), Hisar (480), Bhiwadi (479), Delhi and Noida (477), according to a bulletin released by the pollution control board on Monday. A day earlier, it was the most polluted city in the country on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe air quality of Agra continues to remain in the “severe” category despite the interventions of the apex court and the NGT. Experts believe that the air quality might deteriorate due to the current weather conditions, stubble burning and the festive season. The index, monitored by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) across the country, showed that the worse air quality was recorded in 21 cities out of the total 110 and six of them of UP —Agra (474), Bulandshahr (468), Ghaziabad (482), Greater Noida (478), Noida (477) and Kanpur (403). PM 2.5 continued to remain the biggest contributor to the air pollution. PM 2.5 is the minutest and finest particle in the air that is able to travel deep into the respiratory tract and the 24-hour permissible level is 60 micrograms per cubic metre. The situation is much worse than the last year as AQI in Agra on November 9 was recorded — 98 (satisfactory), and ‘moderate’ on —November 8 (142), November 7 (147), and November 6 (139). Dr Hemendra Agarwal, a physician in Agra, said the increasing PM 2.5 level is dangerous for health, especially for heart patients and those that were asthmatic. “Children aged between three and 10 are more prone to allergy and asthma. Prolonged exposure to PM 2.5 levels beyond safe limits can harm the respiratory system, as the ultra-fine particulates can find their way deep into the lungs and also enter the bloodstream,” Dr Agarwal said. The PM-10 (presence of particles in the air with a diameter of less than 10 micrometres) is considered less dangerous than PM 2.5. Meanwhile, authorities continued to crack the whip on those burning stubble. A paper mill in Muzaffarnagar was also sealed for burning plastic waste. But, despite the crackdown, stubble burning continued unabated in parts of west UP and adjoining Haryana districts. Regional officer of Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Bureau (UPPCB) Bhuvnesh Yadav said that the high AQI was due to low wind speed and no dispersion at height. “We will get immediate relief if there is either rain or high wind speeds,” he added. ENT surgeon Dr Debashish Bhattacharya told TOI that those with respiratory disorders should stay indoors as the pollution can deteriorate their health condition. “If they cannot avoid going out into the smog, they should use masks, which is mandatory otherwise too,” he said and warned against using ordinary surgical masks which do not offer any protection from pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/at-474-aqi-severe-in-agra-taj-barely-visible-in-blanket-of-thick-smog/articleshow/79135534.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 10, 2020||Mangaluru||Udupi claws its way back in fight against pandemic||UDUPI: Udupi once a model in managing the global pandemic took yet another ‘positive’ step on Saturday in this direction. In recording 18 positive cases for the day, the district that once went 57 days without a single positive case from March 29, registered its lowest positive case count for a day since July 4. The 18 positive cases also meant that the district had recorded less than 20 positive cases (see box) in a day since the aforementioned date. Attributing this sub-20 report of cases to focussed testing of vulnerable groups, district health and family welfare officer Sudhir Chandra Sooda this is also keeping in line with declining trend of active cases in the district. The district on November 3 reached a ‘high’ in this fight against the pandemic when the active cases dipped below 500 to touch 463. This downward trend meant that the active case in the district as on Saturday was 377. Dr Sooda said the slight upper hand that Udupi has gained in its fight against the pandemic can also be gauged from the fact that the positivity rate that stood at 8.40% for the week starting October 12 dipped to 4.07% for the week starting October 19. This further slid to 2.53% for the 7-days from October 26. The positivity rate from October 26 to November 1 for Kundapur taluk was 1.61%; Karkala 2.76% and Udupi 3.54%, Dr Sooda said.  From a situation where all 85 ICU beds were full and patients had to wait for one in August/September, the district presently has just 5-6 patients occupying these beds. Compliance to guidelines issued by the administration and penalties levied on violators too has helped, Dr Sooda added. The focus on adherence to SOPs – sanitisation, wearing masks and ensuring physica; distancing will continue with vigour till the battle against the pandemic is won, said DC G Jagadeesha. “Slip ups in SOPs at social gatherings including marriage/mehendi ceremonies have come to our notice,” he said. Action will be initiated against officials responsible for monitoring such gatherings as well as persons concerned who have applied to conduct such functions, he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/udupi-claws-its-way-back-in-fight-against-pandemic/articleshow/79136398.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Will defeat KT Rama Rao in Sircilla: BJP||HYDERABAD: The state BJP unit came down heavily on TRS working president KT Rama Rao saying that he would lose Sircilla assembly seat in 2023 elections and end up like Congress leader Rahul Gandhi who had lost the Amethi Lok Sabha seat. Addressing a press conference on Monday, BJP Nizamabad MP Dharmpuri Arvind said KTR was lying about the Centre not extending flood relief to the state. He said the Centre had given Rs 224 crore as immediate support for flood relief operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-defeat-ktr-in-sircilla-bjp/articleshow/79138385.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Puducherry||6 held for sexually assaulting minors for years in Puducherry||PUDUCHERRY: Police arrested six people on Monday on charges of sexually assaulting five minor girls aged between nine and 14 years for several years in the Union territory of Puducherry. Police also launched a hunt for several others, who reportedly sexually assaulted the girls over the years. Senior superintendent of police (law and order) Pratiksha Godara said a duck farmer L Kanniappan, 52, from Saathamangalam near Villianur ‘bought’ five minor girls for Rs 3,000 each from their parents in Sivaganga district in Tamil Nadu. Initial inquiries revealed that the girls were sexually assaulted by several men including Kanniappan, his son K Rajkumar, 24, and nephew N Pasupathi, 20. The committee members recorded the statements of the girls and forwarded a complaint to police. The SSP said Kanniappan confessed to the crime Two of minor girls were rescued by child welfare committee on October 21. The committee rescued the other three girls on October 22 from the farm. The girl were sent to a child care institution before being sent to the Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children’s hospital for a medical examination. Police registered a case against the men under Sections 6 (punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of children from sexual offences (Pocso), Act 2012 and Section 376 (iii) (Sexual intercourse by a person in authority) of the Indian penal code and arrested Kanniappan, Rajkumar, Pasupathi, V Iyyanar, 19, V Siva, 23, and C Moorthy, 19. Police formed two teams to nab the other accused. Godra said it was unfortunate that many people despite knowing that the girls were being exploited did not come forward to report the crime. She appealed to the public to alert Childline (1091) and police if they come across incidents of child labour and sexual abuse through toll-free numbers - 100, 112 and 1031.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/6-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minors-for-years-in-pondy/articleshow/79136834.cms||Bosco Dominique
November 10, 2020||Agra||Agra basic edu dept to terminate 5 absentee teachers from service||AGRA: The basic education department in Agra district has initiated proceedings to terminate service of five primary school teachers appointed in Pinahat block for remaining absent from duty without prior information for at least 18 months. Following complaints by villagers, the basic education department had issued notices to these women teachers, but they did not respond. Earlier, the block education officer in Pinahat had sent to the basic shiksha adhikari (BSA) a list of six teachers who were absent from work without any prior notice for several months. The BSA office issued three notices to the teachers concerned. A notice was also published in newspapers on October 21. Only one of the six teachers responded to the notice. Rajeev Yadav, BSA, Agra, said, “Of the six absentee teachers, only one had sent a clarification. We are investigating the particular case. The remaining five teachers have not communicated with the department even after repeated notices. They will soon be terminated from service."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-basic-edu-dept-to-terminate-5-absentee-teachers-from-service/articleshow/79135552.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||Bihar gets award from Centre for deploying over 7,000 buses to move 25 lakh migrants during pandemic||NEW DELHI/ PATNA: Amid criticism of the Nitish Kumar government for poor handling of migrants during the pandemic, which also became a major poll issue in Bihar, the state transport department on Monday received an award from the Centre for “commendable initiative” for deploying more than 7,000 buses on PPP mode for movement of over 25 lakh migrants during the Covid crisis. The state transport department had also set up an emergency response team within 24 hours of Covid-induced lockdown facilitating real-time monitoring through the transport management system. The first two awards of excellence for “Innovation in Urban Transport during Covid-19” went to Capital Region Urban Transport (CRUT), Bhubaneswar and the Agartala Smart City Ltd (ASCL), Tripura at the virtual summit on urban mobility organised by the housing and urban development ministry (MoHUA). The CRUT in Odisha capital had converted the neighbouhood bus stops into vegetable vending zones and provided ‘grocery-on-wheels’. It also developed mobile apps such as “MoBus MoStory” and “Games of MoBus” to sensitise people. It also focussed on cashless and contactless ticketing by promoting use of “Mo Card”. “Mo” in Odia means “my”. The ministry said CRUT took the initiative of a virtual training programme of “Bus Pathsala” for more than 1,200 bus crews and staff on safe and eco-sensitive driving during the pandemic. The ASCL in Tripura capital constructed and initiated a 5-km pedestrian walkway during the pandemic. On the initiative taken by the Bihar transport department, the state transport secretary, Sanjay Kumar Agarwal said a total of 25.5 lakh people, labourers and students, coming from other states were safely taken to their homes, district blocks and district headquarters. “As no means of transportation was running during the nation-wide lockdown, the department arranged the buses for people, who entered the state from Gopalganj, Kaimur, Nawada and Siwan,” he said. “At least 7,165 buses were operated during the pandemic and as many as 1,556 shramik special trains were operated to bring people trapped in cities like Delhi, Mumbai and Kota among other places during the nation-wide lockdown,” Agarwal said adding that to prevent the spread of Covid infection during the operation of buses, each and every bus was sanitised and safety protocols were followed by the department. The other city entities that got the award for commendable initiative are Gurgaon Metropolitan Development Authority, Rajkot and Surat Municipal Corporations in Gujarat and Ernakulam Jilla Autorickshaw Drivers Cooperative Society, Kochi. Covid-19 could lead to behavioural change in urban mobility : Govt Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri said Covid-19 could lead to behavioural change in urban mobility and also give an opportunity to align urban transport towards long term development goals. He said new advancements like smarter transportation systems and traffic management applications would also be used in major cities to increase mobility while highlighting how cities are seeing a rise in transport options like cycling. MoHUA secretary, D S Mishra said the city developments will now be more citizen-centric and there will be more focus on public transport and non-motorised transport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-gets-award-from-centre-for-deploying-over-7000-buses-to-move-25-lakh-migrants-during-pandemic/articleshow/79139988.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 10, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth targets GHMC chief||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress working president and Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy on Monday alleged irregularities in the flood relief fund. He also came down heavily on GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar for being unavailable for a meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-targets-ghmc-chief/articleshow/79138399.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Ask parents to pay fees, private schools urge govt||BENGALURU: The Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools (AMPSS) has urged the government to direct parents of students in unaided private schools to pay tuition fees. This would help school managements pay teachers, who have been suffering for eight months without salaries, the association said. Some managements are paying teachers only 50 salaries, while others have withheld salaries fully. Most nursery and primary teachers have been laid off. D Shashi Kumar, AMPSS general secretary, told TOI, "Schools were shut in March, before final examsand the end of the academic year and parents didn’t pay final instalment fees. Even after online classes were launched, some parents made partial payments. About 65% of parents are yet to pay up. How can privately managed schools without government aid pay salaries if none pay fees?" Kumar said a delegation had met primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar and had appealed to him to urge parents to pay up. "We requested the government to issue an order asking parents to pay the final instalment of the previous academic year," he said. Kumar said teachers in state-board private schools are worse off and many have been asked to leave. There are about 19,000 private schools in Karnataka and about 1.7 lakh teachers are affected by the situation. CBSE, ICSE and State Board Private School Management Association (CISPMA) president Sudhakar Shetty says the problems faced by teachers in tier-II cities and taluks is even worse. "The percentage of parents paying school fees in taluks is far less than Bengaluru, Mysuru and other major urban areas," he said. "I have requested the minister for an appointment to discuss problems faced by private teachers outside urban areas. There are about 25,000 teachers in Mysuru, Mandya, Chamarajanagar, Hassan and Kodagu alone."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pvt-school-assn-wants-minister-to-direct-parents-to-pay-fees/articleshow/79135609.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 10, 2020||Bareilly||Two, including woman, beaten to death in separate incidents in Uttar Pradesh||BAREILLY: Two people, including a woman, were allegedly beaten to death in separate incidents in Kheri district in 24 hours. In the first incident, a woman was thrashed by her neighbours over a petty issue, while the second incident was reported from Isanagar area, where a man was beaten to death when he had gone to defecate in a field on Monday morning. Siyawati (32) was thrashed by her neighbours Vedprakash, Prempal and Siyaram after a tiff over dumping of garbage in the locality. She was shifted to the district hospital where she succumbed to her injuries. An FIR was registered under IPC section 304 (culpable homicide) against all the three accused and police were searching for them. The body of Harnaam (20), a resident of Durgapur Pandri village, was found in a field where he had gone to defecate in the open. An FIR against unidentified accused was registered for murder on the complaint of his father Prasadi Lal. Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull said, “Three teams have been deployed to investigate the case and the accused will be identified and arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-including-woman-beaten-to-death-in-separate-incidents-in-kheri/articleshow/79133527.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 10, 2020||India||Will reopen only if given 1L for every 500 kids: Schools to Maha||NAGPUR: Various associati- ons representing grant-in-aid school trustees and principals have refused to reopen their institutes till the Maharashtra government funds Covid-19 related costs. These aided schools have demanded Rs 1 lakh for every 500 students to carry out sanitization of premises and meet medical and staff expenses. TOI had reported on July 2 itself that many schools will not reopen unless the government meets their Covid-19 costs. Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal, a state-level association of trusts which control one or more institutes, has written to CM Uddhav Thackeray that schools shall remain locked till the money is deposited in their accounts. Ravindra Fadnavis, executive member of MRSSM who signed the letter to the CM, said, “We are not against reopening of schools, but we are against a callous attitude. We cannot risk the health of any child which is why the campus needs to be fully sanitized as per government guidelines. But for aided schools like us, who cater to low- income families, there is no scope of generating such funds.” The organization says Rs 1 lakh per 500 students is the minimum which must be provided. “We will be spending thousands of rupees daily to sanitize the campus if we are to provide a safe environment for our students,” said Fadnavis, who manages a century-old Marathi school and junior college. Education minister Varsha Gaikwad did not respond to TOI’s calls for a reaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-reopen-only-if-given-1l-for-every-500-kids-schools-to-maha/articleshow/79140008.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 10, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: UBSE postpones date for submission of exam form||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand Board of School Education (UBSE) has postponed the date for the final submission of the examination forms till November 25. These examination forms are meant for the students of Class X and XII who are going to appear for the UBSE board exams next year. The final date for submission has been postponed in view of the Covid-19. After November 25, the students will still be allowed to submit the examination form till December 1. However, they will be charged an extra amount as late fees. The UBSE board examination form submission process usually concludes by August but this year, the process got delayed due to the schools remaining closed for a major part of the current academic year due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ubse-postpones-date-for-submission-of-exam-form/articleshow/79135607.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Key accused in 2008 serial blasts to enter witness box||Ahmedabad: In a rare instance, one of the prime accused in the 2008 serial blasts case, Qayamuddin Kapadiya, has volunteered to enter the witness box in a bid to give evidence on oath. The move is aimed to purportedly counter the huge volume of evidence that prosecution has piled up in the last decade during the trial.While offering himself as a witness to give evidence in support of the defence side, Kapadiya has also invited a risk of being cross-examined by the prosecution. There is a high chance that he might end up furnishing evidence which may act against his interest and that of other co-accused.As the lengthy stage of recording of evidence has entered its last stage, Kapadiya tendered an application through his advocate M M Shaikh to the court to permit him to give evidence on oath. The application was tendered under provisions of Section 315 of the CrPC.Kapadiya was to be examined by his advocate on Monday. However, the state government took objection and filed an application stating that as a witness, Kapadiya cannot be examined by a defence lawyer. This will amount to examination-in-chief, the state government argued. The government submitted that as Kapadiya has volunteered to give evidence, he is required to furnish evidence by himself and not according to the questions put across by his advocate. The state government has requested the special court not to permit advocate Shaikh to examine Kapadiya.The e court has sought reply from the defence lawyer to the prosecution's objection by Tuesday.According to sources, the prosecution has examined more than 1,130 witnesses in this case and most of them stood their ground. While the defence is also examining witnesses, it felt the need to bring more evidence on record. following which Kapadiya offered to enter the witness box. Earlier, one of the accused had chosen to turn an approver and the court accepted his proposal.In all, 78 persons are facing the trial in this case. A series of 19 bombs had rocked the city of Ahmedabad on July 26, 2008 in which 56 persons were killed and 200 other sustained injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/key-accused-in-2008-serial-blasts-to-enter-witness-box/articleshow/79138455.cms||Saeed Khan
November 10, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP MLA accuses Cong, SAD of colluding with drug mafia||Times News Network Ludhiana: Reacting to the arrest of Gurdeep Singh Rano, who was allegedly involved in a drug trafficking case, Aam Aadmi Party Barnala MLA and state youth wing president Meet Hayer accused Akali and Congress leaders of colluding with drug lords in Punjab. Addressing media persons on Monday, Meet Hayer said the drug smugglers had been operating under the patronage of then leaders of the Akali government. Nothing changed after the Congress took over in Punjab, he said, adding that Congress leaders were sheltering them now. Hayer said a CBI probe monitored by the high court is urgently needed. He said a large cache of drugs, cash and dozens of expensive SUVs seized from Rano were enough to establish rampant drug trafficking in Punjab under the patronage of the government. Hayer said CM Captain Amarinder Singh promised in the presence of Gutka Sahib to eradicate the drug menace within four weeks of assuming power but failed to fulfill the promise. Apart from drugs, transport, sand and other mafias are also active in Punjab under Congress and Akali leaders, he said. Saying that the Punjab government failed to take prompt action in the case of spurious liquor consumption, which caused several deaths, Hayer said this proved the Congress leaders were complicit with mafia lords. Hayer also took on the government on the postmatric scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-mla-accuses-cong-sad-of-colluding-with-drug-mafia/articleshow/79135602.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Delhi||South Delhi emerges as Covid hotspot||NEW DELHI: The third and worst wave of Covid-19 cases has also led to a surge in the number of containment zones in the capital with their figure reaching 3,882 on Monday. Since September, many Covid-19 hotspots have also emerged. Around one and a half months ago, on September 24, the number of containment zones had breached the 2,000 mark. One reason behind the doubling in this relatively short period was the creation of micro-containment zones. Initially, at the beginning of the pandemic, it was not unusual for entire lanes to be barricaded with no one allowed to enter or exit the red areas. But most containment zones now comprise a single house or a few flats sharing a common corridor in a building. Around September-end, when the number of red zones was half of what it is now, containment zones were concentrated in the north, northwest and southwest fringes of the capital — Najafgarh, Rohini, Dwarka and Burari. While these locations are still among the five biggest Covid-19 hotspots in the city, a new entrant, Kalkaji, has the third highest number of containment zones at 73 after 97 in Burari and 81 in Najafgarh. These are followed by Dwarka (59) and Rohini (56). In fact, while there were no areas in south Delhi that had more than 20 active containment zones in September-end, now the number is seven, which includes Kalkaji, Badarpur (52), Chhatarpur (39), Mehrauli (33), Sarita Vihar (29), Sangam Vihar (29), Greater Kailash-I (20) and GK-II (6). The 73 active zones of Kalkaji include 22 in Govindpuri and 13 in DDA Flats. If added with active red zones in Greater Kailash and CR Park (14), this congruous south Delhi locality has 113 active containment zones. Currently, South district has the highest number of containment zones (659) with 290 active areas including Aya Nagar (14), Malviya Nagar (13), Saidulajaib (13) and Dakshinpuri (12), apart from Mehrauli, Greater Kailash, Chhatarpur, etc. The number of containment zones in South West district is 649, but it has 322 active red zones including hotspots like Najafgarh, Dwarka, Uttam Nagar (18), etc. Though both locations are spread over huge areas, the containment zones are concentrated in a few congested pockets in Najafgarh and a few adjacent sectors in Dwarka. The same scenario exists in Rohini. Both Dwarka and Rohini are sub-cities built by Delhi Development Authority. South East district has seen a spurt in the number of containment zones. Out of 384 red zones, 382 are active areas. The number of zones have gone up in Tughlaqabad (18), Sarita Vihar and Badarpur. The locations within Badarpur with more than 20 active red zones include Meethapur, Molarband and Jaitpur. Sant Nagar, Kamalpur, Amrit Vihar, Pradhan Enclave and Nathupura in Burari have the highest number of active containment zones in Central district. West district has the third highest number of containment zones at 504. Of these, 403 are active zones including areas like Paschim Vihar (40), Rajouri Garden (27), Hari Nagar (24), Kirti Nagar (20), Subhash Nagar (17), Moti Nagar (14) and Nihal Vihar (13).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/south-delhi-emerges-as-covid-hotspot/articleshow/79138472.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 10, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Special security plan chalked out for Diwali||VADODARA: If you are planning to take vacations in Diwali, you can call up a nearby police station and inform the police about your plans so that the cops can patrol in your area. With Diwali around the corner, the cops have drawn an elaborate plan to ensure that the city doesn’t witness a spike in crimes like burglaries and loots. The detection of crime branch (DCB) has formed several teams to monitor different areas, especially old city areas. “Usually, we have to deploy a lot of staff to patrol the city as most citizens take vacations during Diwali. But this time, people may not go out due to Covid-19 pandemic. Though, we are expecting that about half of those taking vacations every Diwali will go out this time too,” said Jaydeepsinh Jadeja, deputy commissioner of police (crime). “So, we are not taking any chances. The history-sheeters involved in crimes like burglaries and loots are being monitored,” Jadeja told TOI. The police are also keeping an eye on the illegal arms selling gangs in the city. According to the plans drawn by the cops, every police station has been asked to prepare a list of private finance firms, angadia firms, jewellery showrooms and banks in their areas. “We have asked the teams to patrol these areas and be in contact with these firms and banks during Diwali. When these firms will be closed during Diwali, our teams will visit their premises once in a day every day,” said Jadeja. A missive has been sent to private complexes and malls to ensure that their CCTVs are in working condition. The cops will visit such public places over the next one week to check whether they have dedicated security guards and if their CCTVs are operational. “Our focus will also be on communally sensitive areas in the city where chances of skirmishes are high. It will be ensured that lighting crackers doesn’t create any issues in such localities,” said Jadeja. A list of bootleggers in the city has also been prepared and the cops plan to pick them up over the next couple of days. “We have asked all the hotels to keep a list of their guests with their complete details,” Jadeja added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/special-security-plan-chalked-out-for-diwali/articleshow/79135645.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Key accused in 2008 serial blasts to enter witness box||Ahmedabad: In a rare instance, one of the prime accused in the 2008 serial blasts case, Qayamuddin Kapadiya, has volunteered to enter the witness box in a bid to give evidence on oath. The move is aimed to purportedly counter the huge volume of evidence that prosecution has piled up in the last decade during the trial.While offering himself as a witness to give evidence in support of the defence side, Kapadiya has also invited a risk of being cross-examined by the prosecution. There is a high chance that he might end up furnishing evidence which may act against his interest and that of other co-accused.As the lengthy stage of recording of evidence has entered its last stage, Kapadiya tendered an application through his advocate M M Shaikh to the court to permit him to give evidence on oath. The application was tendered under provisions of Section 315 of the CrPC.Kapadiya was to be examined by his advocate on Monday. However, the state government took objection and filed an application stating that as a witness, Kapadiya cannot be examined by a defence lawyer. This will amount to examination-in-chief, the state government argued. The government submitted that as Kapadiya has volunteered to give evidence, he is required to furnish evidence by himself and not according to the questions put across by his advocate. The state government has requested the special court not to permit advocate Shaikh to examine Kapadiya.The e court has sought reply from the defence lawyer to the prosecution's objection by Tuesday.According to sources, the prosecution has examined more than 1,130 witnesses in this case and most of them stood their ground. While the defence is also examining witnesses, it felt the need to bring more evidence on record. following which Kapadiya offered to enter the witness box. Earlier, one of the accused had chosen to turn an approver and the court accepted his proposal.In all, 78 persons are facing the trial in this case. A series of 19 bombs had rocked the city of Ahmedabad on July 26, 2008 in which 56 persons were killed and 200 other sustained injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/key-accused-in-2008-serial-blasts-to-enter-witness-box/articleshow/79138452.cms||Saeed Khan
November 10, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Key accused in 2008 serial blasts to enter witness box||AHMEDABAD: In a rare instance, one of the prime accused in the 2008 serial blasts case, Qayamuddin Kapadiya, has volunteered to enter the witness box in a bid to give evidence on oath. The move is aimed to purportedly counter the huge volume of evidence that prosecution has piled up in the last decade during the trial. While offering himself as a witness to give evidence in support of the defence side, Kapadiya has also invited a risk of being cross-examined by the prosecution. There is a high chance that he might end up furnishing evidence which may act against his interest and that of other co-accused. As the lengthy stage of recording of evidence has entered its last stage, Kapadiya tendered an application through his advocate M M Shaikh to the court to permit him to give evidence on oath. The application was tendered under provisions of Section 315 of the CrPC. Kapadiya was to be examined by his advocate on Monday. However, the state government took objection and filed an application stating that as a witness, Kapadiya cannot be examined by a defence lawyer. This will amount to examination-in-chief, the state government argued. The government submitted that as Kapadiya has volunteered to give evidence, he is required to furnish evidence by himself and not according to the questions put across by his advocate. The state government has requested the special court not to permit advocate Shaikh to examine Kapadiya. The e court has sought reply from the defence lawyer to the prosecution's objection by Tuesday. According to sources, the prosecution has examined more than 1,130 witnesses in this case and most of them stood their ground. While the defence is also examining witnesses, it felt the need to bring more evidence on record. following which Kapadiya offered to enter the witness box. Earlier, one of the accused had chosen to turn an approver and the court accepted his proposal. In all, 78 persons are facing the trial in this case. A series of 19 bombs had rocked the city of Ahmedabad on July 26, 2008 in which 56 persons were killed and 200 other sustained injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/key-accused-in-2008-serial-blasts-to-enter-witness-box/articleshow/79138440.cms||Saeed Khan
November 10, 2020||India||Salary pending, two staffers of Maha transport corp kill selves||MUMBAI: Two deaths by suicide -- by an MSRTC driver in Ratnagiri on Sunday and another by a conductor in Jalgaon on Monday morning-- led to widespread protest on Monday for payment of salaries that have been pending for the past three months. The state bus corporation staffers have threatened a strike that could cripple bus services. Sources said the deaths were attributed to non-payment of salaries. Stepping in to resolve the crisis, state transport minister Anil Parab announced workers would get a month’s salary with immediate effect and another month’s salary before Diwali, besides festival advance. For the remaining one month’s salary, he has sought the state’s help. He appealed to workers not to take any drastic step. Times ViewSalary is a right, not a gift. Every organisation, public or private, must follow this basic rule. Non-payment of salaries, especially to those who have little financial back-up, is nothing short of a crime. The state government must own up its responsibility. Apart from ensuring that salaries are paid to all on a regular basis, the families of the deceased must be compensated with jobs and a sincere note of apology“These are tough times, but we will find a solution,” he said.Senior officials said MSRTC requires an average of Rs 300 crore toward monthly salaries of employees. On Monday, drivers, conductors and other staff went on a flash strike at Jalgaon bus depot. Operations were completely shut, said an MSRTC spokesperson, adding, buses plied as per schedule at all other depots. Sources said conductor Manoj Choudhari had left behind a suicide note stating he was taking the drastic step “due to low salary in ST and monthly salaries not being disbursed on time for the past few months, leaving him frustrated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/salary-pending-two-staffers-of-maha-transport-corp-kill-selves/articleshow/79140013.cms||---
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||Pandemic has affected food security: Survey||Jamshedpur: A study conducted by Save the Children (STC), an NGO that is engaged in implementing integrated health, nutrition and child development programme in West Singhbhum district, has revealed that nutritious diet costs twice more than energy-only diet sponsored by the government. Based on the data, the study suggests that a diet that meets a typical household’s nutrient requirements, while taking into consideration the local dietary practices, is two times more expensive than the one that meets the household’s energy requirements only. “Nutritious diet in a standard Indian household of six members costs at least Rs 194 per day as against the basic energy-only diet costing Rs 92 a day,” the NGO said on Tuesday. Endorsed by NITI Aayog, the study has found that the Covid-19 pandemic leading to joblessness has had negative impact on food and nutrition security. “We are working with the government and communities in addressing the nutritional needs of marginalised families and making sure that affordable, nutritious and indigenous food are promoted and made easily available to children and families in need,” said the director, programmes & policy impact, STC, Anindit Roy Chowdhury. Based on the findings of the fourth National Family Health Survey (NFHS-4), the organization stated that Jharkhand is one of the states with high prevalence of child under-nutrition. It said the condition is worse in West Singhbhum, one of the aspirational districts of the state, where the percentage of wasted, stunted and underweight children is 40.6%, 59.4% and 66.9%, respectively. Sharing the findings and recommendations of its study, the NGO said government programmes such as PDS, take-home ration, iron folic acid supplementation and so on have the potential to reduce the cost of nutritious diet by 30%. However, the coverage of these programmes is still sub-optimal hence there’s a need to increase the momentum to deliver these interventions with coverage, continuity, intensity and quality. The study, which found more than 196 different types of food products in the mineral-rich district, advocates promotion of kitchen gardening, forest foods and household food production to improve access to low cost nutritious food, thereby minimising the cost and affordability gap. On the basis of the findings of its study, the NGO calls for provision of additional child grant of Rs 500 per month per child for two children for two years to contribute in reducing the poverty-borne irreversible damage to children’s physical and cognitive development. The team conducted the study between December 2019 and February 2020 jointly with the support and cooperation of the local authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-has-affected-food-security-survey/articleshow/79136680.cms||B Sridhar
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||Eight Covid deaths take Jharkhand's toll past 900-mark, cure rate above 95%||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded eight Covid casualties – the highest one-day figure since October 12 -- reported on Monday, taking the state toll past the 900-mark. In some respite, with 246 new cases and 458 recoveries reported through the day, the number of active cases of Covid infections dropped to 4,251 even as the recovery state breached the 95%-mark for the first time. On Monday, East Singhbhum reported three deaths, followed by Hazaribag with two and Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ranchi on each. Of the new cases, 52 were from Ranchi while East Singhbhum got 48 cases and Palamu reported 27. As per government data, as many as 1,04,688 people have been infected by the new virus till date and 99,532 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 95.07%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/8-cov-deaths-take-jkhand-toll-past-900-mark-cure-rate-above-95/articleshow/79136782.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||Only 400 can perform Chhat at Surya Mandir in Steel City||Jamshedpur: The Surya Mandir Chhat Puja Committee on Monday said only 400 devotees will be allowed to perform the rituals on the temple premises on November 20. The decision was taken during a meeting attended by former chief minister Raghubar Das, who is the chief patron of the committee. Das said the number of devotees was capped because of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and those who are allowed to perform the rituals should observe social distancing. He added that the selected devotees will be provided coupons on November 16 and only those with valid coupons will be allowed to enter and perform arghya to the Sun God. Meanwhile, BJP workers and Rastriya Atal Sena members have started cleaning various ghats in the Steel City where Chhat rituals will be performed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/only-400-can-perform-chhat-at-surya-mandir-in-steel-city/articleshow/79136725.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 10, 2020||Jamshedpur||Eight Covid deaths take Jharkhand's toll past 900-mark, cure rate above 95%||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded eight Covid casualties – the highest one-day figure since October 12 -- reported on Monday, taking the state toll past the 900-mark. In some respite, with 246 new cases and 458 recoveries reported through the day, the number of active cases of Covid infections dropped to 4,251 even as the recovery state breached the 95%-mark for the first time. On Monday, East Singhbhum reported three deaths, followed by Hazaribag with two and Bokaro, Dhanbad and Ranchi on each. Of the new cases, 52 were from Ranchi while East Singhbhum got 48 cases and Palamu reported 27. As per government data, as many as 1,04,688 people have been infected by the new virus till date and 99,532 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 95.07%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/8-cov-deaths-take-jkhand-toll-past-900-mark-cure-rate-above-95/articleshow/79146941.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 10, 2020||Jamshedpur||Don’t burst crackers during Diwali: Banna Gupta urges citizens||JAMSHEDPUR: State health minister Banna Gupta on Monday urged people of Jharkhand to celebrate forthcoming Diwali celebrations safely to avoid the Covid-19 virus. Gupta said people should follow the Covid guidelines and abstain from bursting firecrackers as it could aggravate air pollution and deteriorate the health of patients infected by the virus. Gupta's statement came at a time when the state government is yet to announce guidelines for Diwali and Chhat celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/dont-burst-crackers-during-diwali-banna-urges-citizens/articleshow/79136805.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||Virus Beats Yellow Fever: Dhanteras gold sales plummet||Ranchi: Even though the pandemic has cast its shadow on all things normal and festive this year, jewellers in the city are desperately hoping that gold does not lose its sheen as Dhanteras approaches later this week. The shop owners are trying every trick in the book, including showcasing their products on WhatsApp, to push up sales. “Although the footfall has increased from what it was last week, the volume of sale in down. Customers are only going for rings, nose pins and silver utensils, as opposed to the pre-Covid days when they would buy large sets of gold jewellery,” Pradeep Kumar, proprietor of Tribhuvan Jewellers, said. “Many are even wary of visiting the store and although we have tried displaying the products on our website for their sake, it has not picked up much momentum. It is difficult to run a jewellery business online as customers are unwilling to buy the products, especially when they are worth lakhs of rupees, without trying them on,” he added. Main Road-based Kuldip Sons Jewellers’ sales this year is 15% less than what it was last Dhanteras and although it is witnessing a surge in customers on some occasions, even that is proving to be a bane sometimes. “Many a times the customers are not entering the store when they see a crowd inside for fear of contracting the virus,” proprietor Surendra Kumar said. Asked if they have arranged for virtual shopping, he said, “The problem with online shopping is that even after you display the items online, a sale cannot be guaranteed unless the customer visits the shop and tries them on. We have tried selling jewellery through the e-route but so far, the response has been dismal. So I would urge our customers to pay us a visit during Dhanteras without any worry since we are maintaining social distancing and safety norms at our shop.” Praveer Tulsyan of Tulsyan Jewellers, on the other hand, sounded upbeat about recording a robust sale on Friday (Dhanteras). “I do not think sales would go down in this year. We have arranged for sending videos of our items to the customers on WhatsApp and are hoping that should suffice this festive season.” IT professional Nidhi Kedia has her reservations about buying jewellery online. “I’d rather go to the store and have a proper look at the jewellery than buy it online. In fact, I am planning to visit the store on Dhanteras,” she said. Kumar Shantanu, a senior executive at an automobile company, said, “I’ll finish off my Dhanteras shopping by Tuesday and unlike the previous years, my budget this time is very low.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/virus-beats-yellow-fever-dhanteras-gold-sales-plummet/articleshow/79136644.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||Victory rallies barred as Dumka, Bermo brace for bypoll results||Dumka/ Bokaro: The candidates and parties that emerge victorious in the Dumka and Bermo bypolls on Tuesday will not be barred from organizing and participating in celebratory processions in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Counting of votes for the two prestigious seats will begin at 8am on Tuesday and all arrangements for are in place to ensure there are no glitches in the process, officials said on Monday. In Dumka, postal ballots will be counted first, followed by votes polled on EVMs. The counting will take place in 18 rounds for 368 booths in three halls with a total of 21 tables have been arranged. Dumka deputy commissioner-cum- returning officer Rajeshwari B presided over a meeting with her colleagues on Monday to take stock of the preparedness. “Entry to the premises of the Polytechnic Building, where counting will be done, will be prohibited. We have deployed a sufficient number security personnel in the area,” SDO (civil) of Dumka Maheshwar Mahto said, adding the prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC will remain in force, banning victory procession and gatherings. In Bermo constituency in Bokaro district, Section 144 has been imposed and counting will be in 17 rounds. District election officer-cum-deputy commissioner, Rajesh Singh said, “Victory processions will be banned. We have put up sufficient arrangements in place to ensure error-free counting.” Singh added sub-divisional officers of Chas and Bermo have been ordered to impose Section 144 in their respective areas and ensure strict compliance. Deputation of magistrates at all the prominent places within their areas will be done for maintenance of law and order. This order will be effective from 5am till the end of counting of votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/victory-rallies-barred-as-dumka-bermo-brace-for-bypoll-results/articleshow/79136691.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||Expect warm Diwali: IMD Ranchi||Ranchi: The Ranchi centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that both the minimum and the maximum temperatures will increase across the state in the next few days, resulting in a warm Diwali. Abhishek Anand of IMD Ranchi said that there is a change in the direction of wind which may result in a slight increase in the day temperature. “Earlier when northern winds were blowing, the temperature came down. But gradually the direction of wind has changed to north-easterly and in the next two days, the wind will start blowing from the east,” he said. On Monday, both the lowest and the highest temperature in the state were recorded in Chaibasa — 12.4 degree Celsius and 30.8 degree Celsius, respectively. Whereas capital Ranchi recorded a minimum temperature of 12.5 degree Celsius and a maximum of 26.9 degree Celsius. This November has been colder in Ranchi than previous years. In 2019, Ranchi had recorded 12.6 degree Celsius. However, Ranchi recorded its lowest November temperature in 1970, when the temperature had fallen to 7 degree Celsius. The mean average minimum and maximum temperatures for the month of November in Ranchi are 13.6 degree Celsius and 26.5 degree Celsius, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/expect-warm-diwali-imd-ranchi/articleshow/79136990.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||J’khand cabinet nod to tribal religious code||Ranchi: The Hemant Soren cabinet on Monday cleared the proposal for a separate tribal religious code. The code will be tabled in Wednesday’s assembly session, specially convened for the purpose, to formally adopt it. Titled Adivasi/Sarna Code, the proposal will then be recommended to the Centre for the inclusion of the tribals under the code in the Census 2021. Till date, the tribals are either classified as Hindus or Christians and they have been demanding a separate religious category to safeguard their distinct identity and cultural practices. Of late, differences have cropped up among several sections of the tribal bodies over the nomenclature of the code. While some demanded that the word Sarna should be replaced by Adivasis to incorporate all the tribals who are not following Sarna, those practising the latter are adamant. To maintain a balance, the government has decided to name the proposal as Adivasi/Sarna code even though Congress MLA from Mandar, Bandhu Tirkey, and other tribal leaders are opposed to it. Following the decision, principal secretary to the CM, Rajiv Arun Ekka, said, “The cabinet has cleared the tribal religious code which will now be tabled in the House. So far, six columns (codes) exist in the census form. Once approved by the Centre, it will be the seventh. Adivasi/Sarna code is meant to accommodate all tribal groups.” In another significant decision in the interest of farmers and to boost paddy procurement for the khariff season, the cabinet has decided to provide 50% on-the-spot payment through direct benefit transfer (DBT) while procuring paddy from the farmers and the rest of the amount will be credited later. On the government's move, cabinet coordination secretary Ajoy Kumar Singh said, "For the first time, the state government has decided to provide on-spot payments to farmers who sell their paddy at the government procurement centres. After 50% on-the -pot payment through DBT, the rest of the amount will be paid following verifications. This year, we have set a target of procuring 4.5 lakh paddy from the farmers. While the state food corporation will set up procurement centres in 21 districts, we are requesting the Food Corporation of India (FCI) to set up the centres in Latehar, Chatra and Garhwa districts." Singh added that a three-tier committee will set up at state, district and block levels for efficient monitoring of the entire procurement system. Notably, the cabinet has also cleared the proposal of minimum support prices (MSP) of Rs 1,868 and an additional bonus of Rs 182 per quintal this year while grade A paddy will be given Rs 1,888 and the bonus. The cabinet also resolved to sign a memorandum of understanding with the Centre to increase the number of MBBS seats in the state-run Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) by 100 from the existing 150. If approved, the costs incurred for the additional seats will be borne between the Centre and state in the 60:40 ratio. Singh said, “The MoU is expected to be signed soon. An expense to the tune of Rs 120 crore is likely to be incurred for the additional seats." Over a dozen proposals were also cleared by the cabinet which included doing away with the entrance test for B.Ed admissions this year in the wake of the Covid pandemic. Kumar said, “The Jharkhand Combined Entrance Competitive Examination Board (JCECEB) will publish a merit list based on the marks scored by the candidates in their graduate courses and it will conduct counselling for admissions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-cabinet-nod-to-tribal-religious-code/articleshow/79136852.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 10, 2020||Rajkot||DGFT to finalize draft export promotion plan||Rajkot: To make each district an export hub going by 2020-21 budget announcements, formation of export promotion committee in each district of Gujarat has been completed. These committees have identified the potential products for export in around 20 districts and charted draft plans in the last one month. Traders and exporters have great expectations from the committee hoping it will give a boost to exports as well as address trading community’s issues. Various districts in the state have their own export clusters like textile and diamond in Surat, engineering in Rajkot and Morbi’s ceramic. The committee will not only work towards promoting the existing products, but also find other potential products that require export boost. The Director General Foreign Trade (DGFT) was given the responsibility to form this committee in each district headed by a district collector and to finalize the district export plan (DEP) in collaboration with officials of various departments and trade body leaders. The DEP will include assessment of a district to identify the current export profile and its further potential in the district. Sources in DGFT have confirmed that the draft export plan formed by the committees in around 20 districts in their first meetings in the last one and half months will be finalized in the next meeting. The DGFT will allocate a certain budget to its regional authorities (RA) for the committee’s functioning and will prepare a district-level export data for this purpose. Vice-president of Rajkot Chamber of commerce and Industry (RCCI) and a member of Rajkot district export committee, Parth Ganatra said, “The first meeting of our committee held last month discussed a few issues like rail and air connectivity to the city. State-level and local administration level issues were also discussed in the meeting.” The chairman of western region of Federation of Indian Export Organization (FIEO) was, however, skeptical of the process. Khan said, “Mere forming of a committee won’t solve our problems. We expect the committee to bring results and not become merely a formality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dgft-to-finalize-draft-export-promotion-plan/articleshow/79135422.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||Coal lifters attack GM’s vehicle, 1 injured in firing||Sindri: Tension prevailed in Kapasara locality of Magma area of Eastern Coalfields Ltd (ECL) on Monday after the bodyguard of the area general manager (GM) fired in the air to quell a mob of coal lifters when the latter attacked the vehicle of the GM. While one lady, identified as Geeta Devi, sustained a minor injury in the incident, the vehicle of the area GM has been badly damaged by the mob. According to reports, when GM B C Singh reached the colliery at around 8.30am, he found nearly 100 persons, mainly women, lifting coal from the outsourcing patch. When the security guards accompanying him asked the coal lifters to leave the area, they attacked the vehicle in which the area GM was travelling and damaged the wind shield and window panes of the car with stones, lathis and shovels which they had brought with them. “When the situation seemed to be going out of control, the body guard fired in the air in self-defence,” said Singh, adding that the colliery is a prohibited area and he was there to protect national property. The villagers later sat on a dharna demanding immediate removal of the area GM. They claimed that the women were there to lift coal for their daily use and were not coal thieves. “The GM asked the body guard to fire and a village woman got injured. She has been sent to the local PHC for treatment,” said a protestor. A protestor, Sharma Bagti, in her written complaint to Nirsa police station has alleged that the GM abused the women and kept saying that “Bhago nahin to goli maar denge (Leave or else you will be shot)”. Nirsa DSP Vijay Kushwaha said, “Police are probing the incident and appropriate action would be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/coal-lifters-attack-gms-vehicle-1-injured-in-firing/articleshow/79136617.cms||Anil Ashutosh
November 10, 2020||Ranchi||‘Pandemic can push child trafficking’||Ranchi: The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) on Monday launched a pilot project titled ‘Samvardhan’ to identify vulnerable families in the context of child trafficking. The plan aims to cover all vulnerable families with government’s social welfare schemes so that they are not forced to send their young members out for employment. The union tribal affairs minister Arjun Munda launched the scheme at an event, which was attended by NCPCR chairman Priyank Kanungo, among others. Under the scheme, over a dozen village-level stakeholders — like anganwadi sevikas, sahiyas, ASHA workers and sarpanches — would hold a meeting to identify families that are not able to look after their children. After preparing a database, the families and their children would be covered under 35 central and state welfare schemes. After Khunti, the project would be launched in Dumka district. Niti Aayog member Sanjay Mishra said that around 12,000 to 14,000 children are sold in Jharkhand every year. He added that the challenge to protect the kids has increased manifold as adult members of several families have become unemployed during the Covid period, and child traffickers are trying to exploit the situation. Kanungo said, “Our aim is to stop cases of child trafficking. We have come to the conclusion that lack of resources and financial distress in families were main causes of trafficking. So, there is a need to change from child–centric to family-centric efforts to handle the problem.” Munda said: “The task must be completed in a time-bound manner.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/pandemic-can-push-child-trafficking/articleshow/79136713.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 10, 2020||India||‘Dearth of jobs at home, 50% migrants eye return to cities’||It took a lot to uproot migrant workers from the cities they had placed all their hopes on. When the lockdown began, 80% did not get their rent waived, 74% did not get paid by their employers and 45% did not find a government quarantine facility. Now, as they start trickling back to cities, a study by non-profit Digital Empowerment Foundation (DEF) documents why they may be doing so despite what they went through when trying to get home. The DEF spoke to 200 migrant workers across 17 villages in four states — Haryana, UP, Bihar and Jharkhand. This was in June, three months into the lockdown. The report was published this week. It found that most migrants had waited it out initially, hoping for things to get better. It didn’t, and they had to return to their home states. The journey itself was arduous. Dharmendra Mahto, for instance, cycled 1,600 km for 11 days from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh to Khakhra in Jharkhand. He only travelled at night “to avoid the blistering heat” and was among 35% of those DEF interviewed who took more than a week to get home.  But if that was bad, being home was not much better either — 65% of the migrants interviewed said they did not find any employment back home. “I have been home for a month and got work for just 10 days. Its Rs 200 a day. I used to make Rs 25,000 a month,” said Harinder Paswan, a worker from Jogappati in Bihar. And that is why, shoving aside all concerns, 50% still want to go back to the cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dearth-of-jobs-at-home-50-migrants-eye-return-to-cities/articleshow/79140040.cms||Shobita Dhar
November 10, 2020||Delhi||No crackers in NCR till November 30: NGT||NEW DELHI: National Green Tribunal on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in NCR from the midnight of November 9 to that of November 30. Last week, Delhi government banned firecrackers in the capital after reviewing the Covid-19 situation. "There will be a total ban against sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from midnight of November 9-10, 2020 to the midnight of November 30-December 1, 2020, to be reviewed thereafter," said the bench headed by NGT chairperson Adarsh Kumar Goel. The tribunal had observed that considering the potential harmful consequences of bursting firecrackers amid the pandemic and approaching winter, the states of Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, NCT of Delhi and Union territory of Chandigarh had prohibited firecrackers to protect the vulnerable groups. NGT also ordered a similar ban in all cities/towns where the average air quality was in poor, very poor and severe categories in last November as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. Only green crackers will be allowed for two hours in the cities/towns where air quality was moderate or below during festivals like Diwali, Chhath, New Year/Christmas Eve. If nothing is specified by a state, NGT said, the timing will be 8-10pm on Diwali and Gurpurab, 6-8am on Chhath and, in case the ban continues, 11.55pm-12.30am on Christmas and New Year Eve. The tribunal directed all states/UTs and pollution control boards/committees to initiate special drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of potential of aggravation of Covid-19. The green bench observed that "air quality data published by CPCB reveals that both PM10 and PM2.5 increase on Diwali day if compared with pre-Diwali data in Delhi and other cities. Elevated PM concentrations and the signature elements like barium, aluminium (major ingredients of firecracker) in PM2.5 fraction on Diwali day indicate contribution of firecracker bursting in ambient air quality." NGT issued notices last week to the Union environment ministry, CPCB, Delhi Pollution Control Committee, Delhi Police commissioner, Delhi and its neighbouring state governments, questioning whether firecrackers should be banned in November. Watch NGT issues ban on firecrackers in cities with air quality below 'poor'||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-crackers-in-ncr-till-november-30-ngt/articleshow/79140053.cms||---
November 10, 2020||India||Travellers will prefer domestic travel in next one year & will be more price conscious: Survey||NEW DELHI: Nearly 70% Indian travellers will be more price conscious in planning an outing than before, and over half of them will prefer unseen domestic destinations in the next one year, a recent survey on the ‘Future of Travel’ by travel aggregator Booking.Com has shown. As pent up demand for travel sees domestic tourism pick up first, the global survey of over 20,000 travellers from across 28 countries, including nearly 1,000 respondents from India, predicts that in 2021, familiarity with ones surroundings, and staying closer home, is likely to make travellers feel safer. This also matches with the corresponding efforts made by the government and travel companies to promote destinations through the ‘Dekho Apna Desh’ campaign. Indian travellers, in particular, will prefer the road-not-taken in their states and the country, turn bargain hunters, expect travel companies to provide clearer cancellation policies, refund processes and trip insurance options, and go for travel options that are more sustainable, including rural, off-the-beaten-track immersive experiences. In a world reshaped by the coronavirus pandemic, while the desire to travel appears to have deepened manifold, Indian travel enthusiasts will also prefer “safer” locations to overcrowded ones and accommodations that follow cleanliness and hygiene standards. In an upside to the pandemic, the survey also says over one half of Indian tourists are now committed to reducing waste, recycling their plastic waste and protecting not just themselves, but also the places they travel to once all restrictions are lifted. But, only 51% Indians are willing to conform to quarantine norms in order to travel to a particular destination. Among the nine key trends that the survey says will shape the future of travel, nearly 86% Indians plan to be more cautious due to coronavirus and will look to the travel industry to help them gear up for this new normal. At the same time, 81% said they will accept wearing masks in public. With a vaccine for the virus still in the pipelines, the ‘Future of Travel’ survey also predicts working remotely will remain central to working lives, bumping up the demand for “Workcations” and making laptops the mainstays of holiday luggage. In fact, about 63% respondents have said they will be willing to quarantine if they can work remotely, propelling travel companies to tailor their offerings to showcase home office facilities and Wi-Fi speeds to attract the new wave of digital nomads. “2020 has been a year like no other and while it will be some time before travel returns to pre-pandemic levels, all signs point to the fundamental and enduring role that travel plays in all our lives,” said Ritu Mehrotra, country manager, India, Sri Lanka and Maldives at Booking.com.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/travellers-will-prefer-domestic-travel-in-next-one-year-will-be-more-price-conscious-survey/articleshow/79140041.cms||Swati Mathur
