November 11, 2020||Business||Blaming Rajan, Patel's clean-up efforts for current slowdown a 'tragedy': Ex-RBI DG Acharya||MUMBAI: Blaming the bank clean-up efforts of former RBI governors Urjit Patel and Raghuram Rajan for the current slowdown is a "tragedy", former deputy governor of the central bank Viral Acharya said on Tuesday. The public sector banking system is akin to a massive bad bank which has gobbled up $100 billion of taxpayer money in the last decade without delivering results, but no one cares about it because of the 'sab chalta hai' (anything goes) attitude, Acharya added. "Even now, there is a concern that what Dr Rajan and what Dr Patel tried to do was a mistake, (that) India is not ready for it and it really baffles me. "To think that central bank efforts to clean up and institutionally lift the quality of regulation were a mistake, to me that is a tragedy," Acharya, who resigned ahead of the completion of his term to go back to teaching in New York, said. He was speaking at the virtual launch of journalist Tamal Bandyopadhyay's book 'Pandemonium: The Great Indian Banking Tragedy'. Acharya worked under Patel when much of the clean-up efforts were carried out. Under Rajan, the RBI had begun an asset quality review to find out hidden stress in balance sheets which led to a massive jump in dud assets, higher provisioning and eroded profits for lenders. Acharya said there are analysts who blame the efforts undertaken by RBI under Rajan and Patel for the current slowdown. "When I see analysts talking about attributing the current slowdown to these governors, I feel really saddened that India doesn't recognize the good that some people have tried to do to put it on a better path," he said. Acharya said in India, banks do not like to be "earnest" about the quality of their balance sheets and usually it takes over four years before an asset is recognized as being dud and provided for. Without explicitly blaming the government, Acharya said everyone knows who has "killed" the Indian banking system and cited opinions of Rajan and other former governors including Y V Reddy, C Rangarajan, D Subbarao in the book, and also committees like the P J Nayak panel which spoke about the need to lessen the government's role. "We don't have governance in place for the public sector banks (PSBs). The government as the owner has failed, it has not empowered the boards to run the PSBs well and there is no discipline on the management through the shareholders," he said. Speaking at the event, Subbarao acknowledged that NPA problems happened during his tenure, but added there were reasons beyond cronyism as well for the bad loans mess. These would include the push for restructuring of assets from RBI which would have helped some insolvent accounts stay afloat, court interventions and a sense of policy paralysis under the Manmohan Singh government, he said. Acharya further said no one cares about the problems as well because of the 'sab chalta hai' attitude. "My observation is that no one seems to care because the entire social cost is being equalized through the taxpayer money. I think the real tragedy is for the children and the youth of our country who don't have as bright a future as we could provide them," he added. Acharya said in the last decade, over $100 billion has been thrown at the state-run lenders either by way of capital costs or the opportunity costs without much success and added that the same money could have been well utilised in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. A fix has not been found for the problems plaguing the PSBs for over three decades now, whereas in case a private sector bank goes rogue, there are ways of disciplining through the markets and otherwise, he pointed out. "Every time I look at it, I reach at no other conclusion rather than saying that we are basically running a massive bad bank and continuing to operate with it rather than running it off as quickly as possible. "If you don't have good governance working from your owner, from the external shareholders, from the regulators collectively keeping the ship (PSBs) in a good way on its journey, you will have more accidents than in other parts of the world," Acharya warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/blaming-rajan-patels-clean-up-efforts-for-current-slowdown-a-tragedy-ex-rbi-dg-acharya/articleshow/79158236.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Goa||Mumbai City want to win trophies by playing beautiful football: CEO||PANAJI: It made perfect sense for the City Football Group to make Sergio Lobera as the first signing for Mumbai City FC. The Spanish coach gave a wonderful account of himself with FC Goa, taking the team to two semifinals and one final in just three seasons, besides winning the Super Cup in 2019. All of this by playing football of butterfly beauty. At Mumbai, Lobera is joined by the likes of Hugo Boumous, Ahmed Jahouh, Mourtada Fall and Mandar Rao Desai, all of them influential players with FC Goa. With more signings at the club, notably A-League’s top scorer Adam Le Fondre and Bartholomew Ogbeche – joint top scorer last season in Indian Super League – Mumbai now have a squad capable of doing what the group wants – win beautifully. “The ambition and goals for all City Football Group clubs remain the same. Mumbai is no different. As a group, we want to build a winning team, but most importantly, we want to play beautiful and attractive football. “That’s what led us to Sergio. In Sergio, we found someone who shares our philosophy, ideology and the vision how the game should be played. Playing beautiful football is of paramount importance, and we want to be successful. We want to win trophies and by doing that elevate the profile of the club,” Damian Willoughby, CEO of City Football Group India, told TOI in an exclusive interview last week. With the squad that they have built, winning, and that too beautifully, shouldn’t be too much of an ask. With proven names all around, Mumbai should be favourites this season, but in the bigger scheme of things, where does the club lie? “Mumbai City is a strategic investment and we are adopting a strategic approach to building the club. We are fortunate that we could draw on lots of resource, expertise across the group, both in terms of player signings and the coaching staff we have appointed. “The City Football Group has been able to support, advice and consult Mumbai City. We have been in an extremely strong position and I am sure that Mumbai will continue to be a major focus for the organisation as we move forward,” said Willoughby. Since acquiring a majority stake in Mumbai City last year, CFG added two more clubs to its stable from Belgium and France. With such a vast network that includes Manchester City (Premier League), New York City (MLS) and Melbourne City (A-League), there is a growing belief that Indian football could also benefit. Willoughby doesn’t disagree. “Everyone within the Indian football fraternity has been welcoming. I think everyone is excited about what we can bring to the ISL and hopefully more broadly to Indian football “We want to support the long-term development of Indian football and Indian players. For sure, the future is undoubtedly bright, and we are excited to play an active role. We want to build a robust footballing pyramid and infra across our football operations,” he said. Mumbai City will open their campaign this season with a clash against NorthEast United FC on November 21 and then brace themselves for FC Goa, a much talked-about clash, given the movement of players and, of course, coach Sergio Lobera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-city-want-to-win-trophies-by-playing-beautiful-football-ceo/articleshow/79158299.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
November 11, 2020||Goa||ISL allows 5 substitutes, away goal rule stays||PANAJI: The Indian Super League (ISL) has told clubs they will be allowed to use five substitutes this season. The five substitutes rule was introduced last season when football resumed after the coronavirus pandemic brought all sporting activities to a halt. Since teams couldn’t train properly for the remainder of the season, authorities thought it best to allow five substitutes. “The ISL teams will have three opportunities to make a total of five substitutions, which doesn’t include half-time,” a source who has tracked the development told TOI on Tuesday. Players allowed to sit on the substitutes bench has been increased from seven to nine. The five substitutes rule has been enforced due to concerns over fitness and injury risk with games being played in a short period of time. Except the Premier League, leagues across Europe – and the UEFA Champions League -- allow teams to make five changes in a match in the current campaign. “It’s a good rule and should greatly help clubs who have the luxury of more strength in depth. There would be quite a few tactical innovations too due to this rule,” said one official. The organisers, though, have not made any changes to the away goal rule in playoffs, despite the league being played entirely in Goa and teams now without any real home advantage. According to ISL Rules, “if at the end of normal time of the second match of any home and away semifinal play-off match, the two competing clubs are level on score after taking into account the aggregate result over the two legs (aggregate score of home and away semifinals after the second leg), then the club which has scored more away goals shall qualify for the final.” The away goal rule will not apply to determine the winner after extra time, so if both clubs score the same number of goals during extra time, then penalty kicks will be taken to determine the winner. The seventh edition of the ISL kicks of on November 20 with ATK Mohun Bagan taking on the might of Kerala Blasters FC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-allows-5-substitutes-away-goal-rule-stays/articleshow/79158357.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
November 11, 2020||---||PM Modi hails NDA win in Bihar, says people have voted for development||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed NDA's victory in Bihar polls and said voters have made it clear that development is their only aspiration and priority. "Youth of Bihar have made it clear that new decade will be of Bihar and for self-reliant Bihar. Every voter in Bihar have made it clear that their only aspiration and priority is only and only development," PM Modi said in a tweet. बिहार के प्रत्येक वोटर ने साफ-साफ बता दिया कि वह आकांक्षी है और उसकी प्राथमिकता सिर्फ और सिर्फ विकास है। बिहार में… https://t.co/nqVqGstLHE— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605031879000"People's blessings to NDA's good governance even after 15 years of rule shows what are Bihar's dreams and expectations," he said. बिहार के युवा साथियों ने स्पष्ट कर दिया है कि यह नया दशक बिहार का होगा और आत्मनिर्भर बिहार उसका रोडमैप है। बिहार के… https://t.co/ZtfP1UINLA— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605031904000PM Modi also thanked NDA workers for their efforts in helping the party win. "With the blessings of the people, democracy has once again won in Bihar. The determination and dedication with which all NDA workers have worked is awe-inspiring. I congratulate the workers and express my heartfelt gratitude to the people of Bihar," he said. बिहार में जनता-जनार्दन के आशीर्वाद से लोकतंत्र ने एक बार फिर विजय प्राप्त की है।@BJP4Bihar के साथ एनडीए के सभी का… https://t.co/zUENKpdnxb— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605032918000The prime minister also assured the people of Bihar that NDA govt will work with full dedication for balanced development of every person, every region. Meanwhile, RJD and the Congress have alleged that some results were being withheld by returning officers in Bihar. However, the Election Commission, denied the allegations and said that it was working with due diligence and was not under anyone's pressure. As per the latest Election Commission figures, the NDA had won or was ahead in 124 seats, just above the majority mark of 122 for the 243-member Bihar assembly. While final results for more than 200 seats were declared, counting for the last few rounds continued till late night for the remaining seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/pm-modi-hails-nda-win-in-bihar-says-people-have-voted-for-development/articleshow/79158292.cms||---
November 11, 2020||India||BJP withstands heavy odds to come up trumps in Bihar||NEW DELHI: The outcome of assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls showed the BJP had cleared a challenge it had faced against heavy odds. The final outcome in Bihar is yet to be declared, but it is clearly the NaMo-fueled BJP which has brought the NDA to the brink of a victory in the face of RJD's extravagantly seductionist promise of lakhs of jobs, sullenness in a section of its voters towards Nitish Kumar, a blizzard of mood-altering feverish commentary about its meltdown and dire predictions by psephologists. BJP is now the senior one among the NDA partners and, with an ounce of luck, could even grab the single largest party slot. That the feat was achieved in a state where it carried the burden of being the "incumbent" should make the performance all the more gratifying. Taken together with its impressive run in byelections in several states, the outcome on Tuesday underscores the party's numero uno status and should boost its confidence for the West Bengal challenge scheduled for next year, and for dealing with the resistance to central government's farm sector reforms and criticism of its handling of the pandemic. The virus had upturned the lives of lakhs of migrants from Bihar who were forced to return home and to an uncertain future, while Congress had launched a campaign against the just-enacted farm sector laws. BJP's success in Bihar and the prospect of NDA holding on to the state owe greatly to PM Narendra Modi's credibility and his energetic campaigning in the state. According to senior BJP leaders in Bihar and at the Centre, while the impact of welfare schemes like free cooking gas connections, cash transfers to farmers, Swachh Bharat, housing for the poor and quota for poor among upper castes endures, recent measures like free foodgrain and cash transfer to women have enhanced the PM's pro-poor credentials. BJP sources said Modi swung the game for NDA in the second and third phases by reviving the memories of jungle raj. "We were also talking about it, but were not successful until he arrived," a Union minister from the state said. Speaking to TOI, defence minister Rajnath Singh attributed the victory to Modi's leadership. But the result also brings with it a fresh set of challenges, the foremost being how to manage a coalition which will be led by Nitish Kumar even when his party has finished a distant third in the seat count. BJP was always confident of posting a better strike rate than its ally and has stood firm by its commitment to back Nitish for another term, but the wide gap between their respective scores has created a new situation. Apart from the high probability of Nitish showing his reluctance, the party also has to think of ways of bolstering his authority. It also has to address the suspicion, being stoked by anti-NDA quarters, in JD(U) that LJP's Chirag Paswan was set up by sections in BJP to sabotage Nitish. Sooner than later, BJP also has to decide what to do with Chirag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-withstands-heavy-odds-to-come-up-trumps-in-bihar/articleshow/79158531.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 11, 2020||---||BJP withstands heavy odds to come up trumps in Bihar||NEW DELHI: The outcome of assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls showed the BJP had cleared a challenge it had faced against heavy odds. The final outcome in Bihar is yet to be declared, but it is clearly the NaMo-fueled BJP which has brought the NDA to the brink of a victory in the face of RJD's extravagantly seductionist promise of lakhs of jobs, sullenness in a section of its voters towards Nitish Kumar, a blizzard of mood-altering feverish commentary about its meltdown and dire predictions by psephologists. BJP is now the senior one among the NDA partners and, with an ounce of luck, could even grab the single largest party slot. That the feat was achieved in a state where it carried the burden of being the "incumbent" should make the performance all the more gratifying. Taken together with its impressive run in byelections in several states, the outcome on Tuesday underscores the party's numero uno status and should boost its confidence for the West Bengal challenge scheduled for next year, and for dealing with the resistance to central government's farm sector reforms and criticism of its handling of the pandemic. The virus had upturned the lives of lakhs of migrants from Bihar who were forced to return home and to an uncertain future, while Congress had launched a campaign against the just-enacted farm sector laws. BJP's success in Bihar and the prospect of NDA holding on to the state owe greatly to PM Narendra Modi's credibility and his energetic campaigning in the state. According to senior BJP leaders in Bihar and at the Centre, while the impact of welfare schemes like free cooking gas connections, cash transfers to farmers, Swachh Bharat, housing for the poor and quota for poor among upper castes endures, recent measures like free foodgrain and cash transfer to women have enhanced the PM's pro-poor credentials. BJP sources said Modi swung the game for NDA in the second and third phases by reviving the memories of jungle raj. "We were also talking about it, but were not successful until he arrived," a Union minister from the state said. Speaking to TOI, defence minister Rajnath Singh attributed the victory to Modi's leadership. But the result also brings with it a fresh set of challenges, the foremost being how to manage a coalition which will be led by Nitish Kumar even when his party has finished a distant third in the seat count. BJP was always confident of posting a better strike rate than its ally and has stood firm by its commitment to back Nitish for another term, but the wide gap between their respective scores has created a new situation. Apart from the high probability of Nitish showing his reluctance, the party also has to think of ways of bolstering his authority. It also has to address the suspicion, being stoked by anti-NDA quarters, in JD(U) that LJP's Chirag Paswan was set up by sections in BJP to sabotage Nitish. Sooner than later, BJP also has to decide what to do with Chirag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-withstands-heavy-odds-to-come-up-trumps-in-bihar/articleshow/79158344.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 11, 2020||India||Modi hails BJP's assembly bypoll victories across states||NEW DELHI: Hailing the BJP's strong performance in assembly bypolls in various states, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday praised the party's leadership there and expressed his thanks to people. Powered by the "progressive agenda" of the government under chief minister Shivraj Chouhan and the hardwork of its workers, the BJP has emerged as the "unparalleled choice" of people in Madhya Pradesh, Modi said, adding that the people's affection for the party is "invaluable". The BJP has won 16 seats and was leading in three others in the bypolls to 28 seats in the state. The @BJP4Karnataka’s victories in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira are extremely special. It reaffirms the people’s unw… https://t.co/G95If0KuwI— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605029650000In a tweet about the party's win in two bypolls in Karnataka, Modi said, "The @BJP4Karnataka's victories in Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira are extremely special. It reaffirms the people's unwavering faith in the reform agenda of the Centre and State Government under @BSYBJP Ji. I thank the people for their support and laud the efforts of our Karyakartas." Bond between the people of Gujarat & BJP is unbreakable! This affection is again seen in the 8 by-polls where… https://t.co/eGwI3ohJMU— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605029720000Lauding the party's win in all eight assembly seat bypolls in Gujarat, he said the bond between the people of state and the BJP is "unbreakable". This affection is again seen in the eight by-polls where the BJP made a clean sweep, he said, appreciating voters for support and the work of chief minister Vijay Rupani-led government. In Uttar Pradesh, the pro-people policies of the Centre and UP Government under @myogiadityanath Ji have endeared o… https://t.co/SDZLfK6znw— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605029817000"In Uttar Pradesh, the pro-people policies of the Centre and UP Government under @myogiadityanath Ji have endeared our party to the citizens. They have given unequivocal support to the BJP, for which I express gratitude. I also appreciate the good work of the @BJP4UP Unit," he tweeted. It won six of the seven seats where bypolls were held in the state. I thank the people of Dubbak for blessing @BJP4Telangana. This is a historic win and gives us strength to serve the… https://t.co/7MsWmxUkq7— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605029620000The prime minister also described the party's win in the solitary assembly bypoll in Dubbak in Telangana as historic. "This is a historic win and gives us strength to serve the state with greater vigour. Our Karyakartas worked very hard and I laud their noteworthy efforts in furthering BJP's development agenda," he said. I thank the people of Manipur for once again reposing faith in the development agenda of BJP! Congratulations to… https://t.co/wOKTckE4mm— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605029585000About Manipur, he tweeted, "I thank the people of Manipur for once again reposing faith in the development agenda of BJP! Congratulations to @BJP4Manipur for the phenomenal wins in the by-polls. These victories will strengthen the State Government under @NBirenSingh Ji and help fulfil people's aspirations." The BJP won four of the five assembly seat bypolls in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-hails-bjps-assembly-bypoll-victories-across-states/articleshow/79157746.cms||---
November 11, 2020||---||Nearly 7 lakh voters of Bihar have so far used NOTA option: Latest data||NEW DELHI: Nearly seven lakh voters in Bihar used the 'none of the above' or NOTA option in the assembly elections, according to latest figures. So far, results of 202 seats out of the total 243 have been announced. According to figures released by the EC, 6,89,135 people or 1.69 per cent of the voters so far have opted for the option whereby they preferred not to vote for any candidate while exercising their democratic right. The 'NOTA' option on electronic voting machines, introduced in 2013, has its own symbol -- a ballot paper with a black cross across it. After the Supreme Court order in September, 2013, the EC added the NOTA button on the EVMs as the last option on the voting panel. Prior to the apex court order, those not inclined to vote for any candidate had the option of filling, what is popularly called, 'form 49-O'. But filling the form at the polling station under Rule 49-O of the Conduct of Elections Rules, 1961, compromised the secrecy of the voter. The Supreme Court had, however, refused to direct the Election Commission to hold fresh polls if the majority of the electorate exercises the NOTA option while voting. There were several seats in Bihar where NOTA option got more votes than winning margin of candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nearly-7-lakh-voters-of-bihar-have-so-far-used-nota-option-latest-data/articleshow/79158588.cms||---
November 11, 2020||---||Bihar Assembly polls: Most exit polls miss the mark||NEW DELHI: The Bihar assembly election results appeared to belie predictions made by most exit polls which had given a clear edge to the Rashtriya Janata Dal-led Mahagathbandhan. The ABP-CVoter exit poll prediction was the closest among all. It had projected 104-128 seats for the NDA and 108-131 seats for the opposition grand alliance. According to the Election Commission's website, as of 10.30 pm, the NDA was ahead with a slender margin. It had either won or was leading in 122 seats while the Mahagathbandhan's tally stood at 113. The majority mark in the 243-member Bihar assembly is 122. Counting in a few seats is still underway. The RJD, however, was ahead of all parties – it had either won or was ahead in 77 seats. The BJP was close behind at 72. The JD(U) was a distant third and had either won or was ahead in 42 seats, the Congress in 19 seats. The Left parties tally stood at 17. Chanakya-CNN News18 on Tuesday projected 180 seats for the RJD-led grand alliance, 55 for the NDA and eight for others. India Today-Axis My India poll showed the RJD-led opposition was likely to win 139-161 seats, as against 69-91 for the NDA. It predicted three to five seats for the LJP and others. The ABP-CVoter exit poll predicted 104-128 seats for the NDA and 108-131 seats for the opposition grand alliance. It projected Chirag Paswan-led LJP to get one to three seats. A similar trend was predicted by Times Now-CVoter, which projected 116 seats for the NDA, 120 for the opposition alliance and a single seat for the LJP. It predicted six seats for others. Republic TV-Jan Ki Baat exit poll also gave a clear majority to the RJD-led alliance with 128 seats, while it projected 104 seats for the ruling NDA, seven seats for the LJP and four for others. TV9 Bharatvarsh projected NDA to win 115 seats, the grand alliance 120 and four each for LJP and others. The NDA comprises the JD(U), BJP, Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) and Hindustan Awam Morcha (Secular). The BJP contested 110 seats, leaving 11 to the VIP, while the JD(U) fielded candidates on 115 seats. It had given seven seats to the HAM. On the other hand, the RJD contested 144 seats, the Congress 70 and the three Left parties fielded candidates on 29 seats. The three-phase Bihar Assembly election ended on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-assembly-polls-most-exit-polls-miss-the-mark/articleshow/79157854.cms||---
November 11, 2020||India||A BJP sweep in bypolls, crucial gains in MP secure its govt||NEW DELHI: The BJP on Tuesday swept the assembly by-elections held last week winning and leading in 40 of 59 seats across 11 states, including Madhya Pradesh where it cemented its rule by bagging 17 seats and was poised to add two more. Overall, the Congress, which had sitting MLAs in more than 40 seats, won 11 seats and was leading in one, while two seats were won by the BJD. One seat each was won by the Samajwadi Party, the JMM and the NDPP, and two by Independents, according to the Election Commission data at around midnight. The BJP bagged 38 seats and was leading in two. India's ruling party wrested all the eight seats from the Congress in Gujarat, four seats in Manipur and also retained its six constituencies in Uttar Pradesh that went to the polls in the first pan-India electoral exercise in the pandemic. It won two seats in Karnataka and one in Telangana. The BJP's win in bypolls coincided with its impressive show in the Bihar Assembly elections. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the BJP victory in the bypolls in MP, UP, Gujarat and Manipur and thanked the voters. He expressed his gratitude to the electorate in Dubbak seat in Telangana, where the TRS was defeated, calling it a "historic win". Modi said BJP's victory in Karnataka's Rajarajeshwarinagar and Sira is special and the results reaffirm people's faith in the reform agenda of central and state governments. BJP chief J P Nadda and other party leaders too thanked the voters and party workers in these states. Votes were counted for by-elections in Madhya Pradesh (28 seats), UP (seven), Gujarat (eight) Manipur (five seats), Haryana (one), Chhattisgarh (one), Jharkhand (two), Karnataka (two), Nagaland (two), Odisha (two) and Telangana (one). If the by-elections spelt a big win for the BJP, it seemed dismal for the Congress, particularly in Madhya Pradesh where it earlier had sittings MLAs in 27 seats out of 28. The party won eight seats and was leading in one seat in the state. However, it did have a few scattered wins, including in BJP-ruled Haryana where it retained its Baroda seat with its candidate Indu Raj Narwal defeating BJP nominee and Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt. It won one seat each in Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh. The JD(U) was leading in Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha by-election in Bihar. MADHYA PRADESHThe BJP government, which needed eight MLAs for a simple majority, won 17 seats and was leading in two out the 28 Assembly seats in MP where bypolls were held. A buoyed Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the outcome proves that voters supported the decision taken by the Congress MLAs to pull down the previous Kamal Nath dispensation. The BJP came to power in March after the collapse of the Congres-led government following a revolt by a section of Congress MLAs led by Jyotiraditya Scindia. The Congress has secured victory on one seat and was leading in eight constituencies. In the 230-member house, the BJP tally has increased to 124 with the win, providing stability to the government. Powered by the "progressive agenda" of the government under Chief Minister Shivraj Chouhan and the hardwork of its workers, the BJP has emerged as the "unparalleled choice" of people in Madhya Pradesh, PM Modi said, adding that the people's affection for the party is "invaluable". MP Congress president Kamal Nath accepted the defeat and said the party made efforts to reach out to people. "We accept the mandate. We made every effort to reach out to voters. I also thank all voters who participated in the by-elections," Nath said in a tweet. Despite the BJP's gains, state minister Imarti Devi lost the bypolls from the Dabra assembly seat. Imarti Devi was among thee Congress MLAs who had switched from the Congress. Kamal Nath's 'item' jibe at her during campaigning had stoked a controversy. GUJARATThe ruling BJP on Tuesday won all the eight assembly seats in Gujarat where by-elections were held, dealing a blow to the opposition Congress which had bagged these constituencies in 2017. Prime Minister Modi said the bond between the people of Gujarat and the BJP is unbreakable and this affection is again seen in the bypolls victory. The BJP's tally in the 182-member Assembly has now reached 111. Eight Congress MLAs had resigned before the Rajya Sabha elections in Gujarat, and five of them, who were given tickets by the BJP, won on Tuesday. They are Pradhyumansinh Jadeja (who won from Abdasa seat), Brjesh Merja (Morbi), Akshay Patel (Karjan), Jitu Chaudhari (Kaprada) and J V Kakadiya (Dhari). On the Limbdi seat in Surendranagar district, former minister Kiritsinh Rana of the BJP, who lost in 2017, defeated Congress' Chetan Khachar. On the Scheduled Tribe-reserved Dangs seat, BJP candidate Vijay Patel was declared the winner by the EC. The BJP's Dalit leader and former minister Atmaram Parmar, who had lost in the last election, defeated Mohan Solanki of the Congress on the Gadhada (SC) seat in Botad district. As party workers broke into celebrations and burst firecrackers at its headquarters in Gandhinagar, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani told reporters his party's performance was a “trailer” for the upcoming elections to local bodies and the 2022 assembly polls. UTTAR PRADESHThe BJP, which already has a comfortable majority in the UP Assembly, retained six seats and the SP hung on to its Malhani constituency in the bypolls for seven assembly seats, the 6:1 outcome indicating that the ruling party continued its hold over the populous state. BJP candidate Sangeeta Chauhan won in Naugawan Sadat, Usha Sirohi in Bulandshahr, Prem Pal Dhangar in Tundla, Shrikant Katiyar in Bangarmau, Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi in Deoria and Upendra Nath Paswan in Ghatampur, according to the Election Commission. Samajwadi Party's Lucky Yadav won Malhani, the seat which was represented by his father Parasnath Yadav, whose death necessitated the by-election. He defeated independent candidate Dhananjay Singh by 4,632 votes. A tough see-saw battle was fought for the Naugawan Sadat seat held earlier by Chetan Chauhan, the former cricketer who was a minister in Yogi Adityanath's BJP government. MANIPURAccording to Election Commission, the BJP had won four seats and one was bagged by an Independent. The by-elections were necessitated as Congress MLAs quit the party to join the BJP. In Singhat assembly constituency, BJP candidate Ginsuanhau was elected unopposed in October this year. KARNATAKAThe ruling BJP won both the seats for which by-elections were held, wresting Sira from the JD(S) and Rajarajeshwari Nagar from the Congress. It created history by recording its first-ever victory in the Sira assembly segment Dr C M Rajesh Gowda winning with a margin of over 12,000 votes. In R R Nagar, N Munirathana emerged winner with a margin of over 58,000 votes against his nearest Congress rival Kusuma. JHARKHANDThe JMM-led ruling coalition of Jharkhand retained Dumka and Bermo assembly seats, albeit with reduced margins from the 2019 state polls. JMM candidate Basant Soren, who is the younger brother of Chief Minister Hemant Soren, defeated his nearest BJP rival Lois Marandi, a former minister, by 6,842 votes, in Dumka seat. The winning margin of the Jharkhand Mukti Morcha reduced almost by half compared to what it was in last year's assembly election. In Bermo constituency, Kumar Jayamangal alias Anup Singh of the Congress defeated Yogeshwar Mahto "Batul", his nearest BJP rival, by a margin of 14,225 votes. ODISHAThe state's ruling Biju Janata Dal won both the Balasore, which was held by the BJP, and Tirtol seats for which by-elections were held. HARYANAIn a big win for the Congress, its candidate Indu Raj Narwal defeated the BJP's candidate, Olympian wrestler Yogeshwar Dutt, in the Baroda assembly seat in BJP-ruled Haryana. The Congress retained the seat with Narwal winning by over 10,000 votes, said officials. “The victory of Indu Raj Narwal is a win of farmers and labourers. I assure residents of Baroda that the Congress will live up to their expectations,” tweeted Congress leader Kumari Selja. CHHATTISGARHThe ruling Congress won the Marwahi Assembly bypoll, necessitated by the death of Janata Congress Chhattisgarh (J) founder Ajit Jogi. Congress candidate Dr K K Dhruw won by 38,197 votes. TELANGANAThe BJP wrested the Dubbak Assembly constituency from the ruling TRS in Telangana. BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao defeated his nearest rival Solipeta Sujatha of the ruling TRS by 1,079 votes. Sujata was the wife of sitting TRS MLA Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy whose death in August this year led to the bypolls. NAGALANDThe National Democratic Progressive Party bagged the Southern Angami-I seat in Kohima while an Independent candidate won in the Pungro-Kiphire assembly segment in Kiphire district. The votes for the November 3 and 7 by-elections were counted along with the ballots for the Bihar polls and progressed in accordance with Election Commission guidelines restricting the number of people in counting halls, officials said. Extensive measures were taken to ensure social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-bjp-sweep-in-bypolls-crucial-gains-in-mp-secure-its-govt/articleshow/79159153.cms||---
November 11, 2020||World||Fauci says he will take new Pfizer vaccine if FDA approves it||WASHINGTON: US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci said he will take Pfizer Inc's new coronavirus vaccine if the Food and Drug Administration approves it and that he has confidence in the company and the government agency. Asked on MSNBC if he would take the vaccine, Fauci said: "I'm going to look at the data, but I trust Pfizer. I trust the FDA. These are colleagues of mine for decades, the career scientists. If they look at this data, and they say this data is solid, let's go ahead and approve it, I promise you, I will take the vaccine, and I will recommend that my family take the vaccine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/fauci-says-he-will-take-new-pfizer-vaccine-if-fda-approves-it/articleshow/79159314.cms||---
November 11, 2020||World||Brazil regulator says suspension of Sinovac Covid-19 vaccine was technical||BRASILIA: Brazil's health regulator Anvisa said on Tuesday that its decision to suspend trials for China's Sinovac COVID-19 vaccine was purely technical and dismissed any "politicization" of its work to ensure a safe and effective vaccine.  "We had no choice but to suspend the trials given the event," the head of the agency Antonio Barra Torres said at a news conference. Reuters reported earlier on Tuesday, citing a source familiar with the matter, that the event was the suicide of a volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/brazil-regulator-says-suspension-of-sinovac-covid-19-vaccine-was-technical/articleshow/79159564.cms||---
November 11, 2020||India||BJP wins 41 out of 59 bypoll seats, 31 of them at expense of Congress||In a tidal sweep of byelections in seven out of 11 states, the BJP or an ally on Tuesday won 41 of the 59 seats at stake –– as many as 31 of them at Congress’s expense. Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat provided the big bang in this cracker of a pre-Diwali performance, with the saffron party wresting 26 seats from Congress in these two states alone. In Gujarat, BJP’s “double engine” steamrollered Congress in all eight seats to which bypolls were held, including five in Saurashtra and the tribal-dominated constituency of Dang. Five of the victors are turncoat Congress MLAs who had switched sides ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls. In the 182-member House, BJP now has 111 seats to Congress's 65. Manipur was the third state where BJP scored a near-perfect 4 in Congress strongholds. The fifth Congress-held seat was captured by an independent. Uttar Pradesh, too, played to BJP's script, strengthening CM Yogi Adityanath's hand with a six-on-six show in seats held by the party, including the Bangarmau constituency that rape and murder convict Kuldeep Singh Sengar used to represent. One of the BJP victors was the late cricketer-turned-politician Chetan Chauhan's wife Sangeeta Chauhan, who won the Naugawan Sadat seat that fell vacant when her husband died after a bout of Covid-19 in August. The Samajwadi Party narrowly retained the seventh UP seat that went to poll, maintaining status quo in the assembly. Read AlsoBJP tops with 66% strike rate, will get more power playA Narendra Modi-fired NDA was on course to claw out a slender win in Bihar, beating back a spirited challenge from Tejashwi Yadav in a contest which marked the coming-of-age-party of the young RJD leader while diminishing incumbent Nitish Kumar's JD(U).BJP continued its march in Karnataka, wresting the Sira seat from JD(S) and RR Nagar from Congress to silence CM BS Yediyurappa's detractors and possibly put a lid on talk of a leadership change. As in Gujarat, voters re-elected a turncoat Congress MLA contesting the RR Nagar seat on a BJP ticket. Winner N Munirathna's resignation after crossing over had necessitated the bypoll. The saffron party's strength in the House now stands at 119, while Congress has 67 and JD(S) 33 MLAs. In Telangana, BJP engineered a coup of sorts when its candidate M Raghunandan Rao beat the Chandrashekar Rao-led TRS's nominee Solipeta Sujatha by a wafer-thin margin of 1,079 votes in the Dubbak byelection. For Raghunandan, it was fourth time lucky in Dubbak after thrice ending up on the losing side. Sources said the verdict could well be an affirmation of how Telangana’s future politics will play out, with BJP replacing Congress as the main opposition party in the state. The first sign of this was BJP winning four seats for the first time in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. In MP, 18 of the 19 seats won by BJP were those that Congress lost. For the grand old party, the big gain was in Chhattisgarh, where it wrested the Marwahi (ST) seat — a stronghold of the Ajit Jogi family for almost two decades. Dr Krishna Kumar Dhruw defeated BJP’s Dr Gambhir Singh by over 38,197 votes there. The nearly 25% difference in vote share told the story — while ruling Congress got 56% votes, BJP managed 30.4%. With this win, Congress now has 70 seats in the 90-member assembly after winning the Dantewada and Chitrakot (ST) byelection in September last year. One of the two Nagaland seats that went to poll was won by NDPP, a BJP ally. The other went to an independent. Watch BJP sweeps byelections in 7 out of 11 states, wins 41 out of 59 bypoll seats||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-wins-41-out-of-59-bypoll-seats-31-at-congs-expense/articleshow/79158640.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||For the love of pets: Lucknowites celebrate a cracker-free Diwali||With actress Madalsa Sharma urging people to not burst crackers for the love of animals in her recent interview and Lucknowite and actress Jaya Bhattacharya, who is an animal activist, also making a special request for the cause, we find out about how pet parents in Lucknow keep their safe during the Diwali festivities. Enakshi Chandel, a pet parent to several labradors, says she is extremely careful with her pets on Diwali. “It’s been more than 12 -years since we have burst crackers because my babies are afraid of the noise. A few of them start shivering so I sit with them till the crackers are being burst. I also play some loud music or turn the volume of the TV up so the sound of the patakhas is muffled. I ensure that I don’t leave them alone even for a minute, so they feel reassured and comforted.” For the more sensitive ones, Enakshi says she puts cotton in the dog’s ears. Enakshi Chandel (BCCL)Aakarshita Srivastava, a pet lover and parent keeps her German Shepherd dog indoors on Diwali. “Firstly I don’t burst crackers, and I try not to be too clingy with him as they are already stressed and may get more confused seeing my behaviour. I also keep him comfortable in a room with lots of water and food around. And I am extremely careful and ensure that he doesn’t get out even by mistake, because the loud noise makes animals extremely stressed and anxious and to hide away from it, they may just run away blindly and get lost. Also, I normally feed my dog before the fire crackers are burst so that he is at peace.” Nekisha Taneja with their pets (BCCL) Similarly for Nekisha Taneja, a class XI student, who has switched to a greener Diwali ever since she adopted her Persian cat, Cappuccino. “We used to burst crackers every year worth thousands of rupees. It was in the family to celebrate the festival with so much noise. But ever since Cappuccino made an entry into our lives we don’t burst crackers as she is very scared of the noise. For the whole of Diwali we sit with her and don’t go out much too. The whole celebrations are centred around keeping her at peace on Diwali,” says Nekisha. Pallavi Mishra, a homemaker, will be celebrating her first Diwali with her pet Rambo, a labrador. “We don’t know how dogs react to the sound of crackers bursting yet as it is our first time; we have just heard stories. So in order to keep him comfortable, we have decided to keep him in his dog house in a room, where less noise of the crackers can reach. We have also got special earbuds for him so that the sound doesn't bother him much,” she says. Animal communicator Reshma Baran Motwani has a few tips for pet parents on how to keep their pets safe and comfortable during Diwali Ensure your pets are inside and in a safe place. Try and be near your pets, or if you are going out, try and have a house help be near them. That way they feel safe. Keep water for them because some pets tend to drool and salivate excessively due to anxiety and stress. Please do not burst crackers with loud noise near your pet. Their ears are very sensitive and loud noises hurt them. Play music or keep stroking them when the crackers are being burst outside. Dogs and cats especially. are allergic to some fragrances, so avoid lighting strong fragrant agarbatti or dhoop if you have a pet around. Some cats are very allergic to camphor or kapoor. Write your name and phone number on your pets’ collar before Diwali so that in case they run away in fear, they can be traced back to you. For feeders and animal caretakers of strays, keep a first aid box handy to tend to those injured on the roads. Do not feed cats and dogs chocolates or raisins, they can be fatal for them. Share sweets but in small quantities with your pet babies.  Teach kids, yours and those you know, to be kind to animals. Whether at home or strays||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/for-the-love-of-pets-lucknowites-celebrate-a-cracker-free-diwali/articleshow/79156470.cms||Iti Shree Misra
November 11, 2020||---||Bihar poll results victory of PM Modi: Chirag Paswan||NEW DELHI: Lok Janshakti Party president Chirag Paswan described the Bihar polls results as a "victory" of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying people have shown their trust in him. With his party winning only one seat while being instrumental in the defeat of the BJP's ally JD(U) in many seats, Paswan tweeted that he was "proud" that his party did not bend down for power. His party had won two seats in the 2015 polls. "All LJP candidates fought gloriously on their own without any alliance. The party's vote share has increased. It had gone to the polls with the resolve of 'Bihar first Bihari first'. It has been strengthened in every district. This is bound to benefit the party in the future," he said, while thanking people. The LJP received 5.68 per cent of votes while contesting on nearly 140 seats in the elections to the 243-seat Bihar assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-poll-results-victory-of-pm-modi-chirag-paswan/articleshow/79159706.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Ban on firecrackers fuels hopes for city’s earthen diya makers||The festival of lights is upon us and firecrackers have been banned. This has caused revellers to invest money budgeted for crackers in pretty lights, especially earthen diyas. Diya makers, who have been grappling with abysmally low demand since the pandemic struck us, are now hopeful of a revival in business. Santanu Bhattacharya, an HR official who works at a tech firm, was seen buying diyas for his young daughter, who is really looking forward to Kali Puja. “With online classes and lack of outdoor activities, this has been a stressful year for her. Since there is no phooljhari or rang mashal this time, we’ve decided to decorate the house with matir pradip (earthen diyas). My wife has been coaching our daughter on the fire safety drill and she seems to be enjoying that,” he told us.  The increasing demand has brought a whiff of fresh optimism to vendors across the city. Bishnu Naskar, a diya vendor in Gariahat who sells mobile accessories for the rest of the year, said, “The demand for terracotta diyas is high this year. Candles and oil lamps too are seeing many takers. After the monumental hardship we have gone through for months, this is a bit of good news for us. However, Chinese lights continue to be a threat for us.” Pradip Sarkar, another diya seller from Lake Market, wholeheartedly thanked the High Court for banning firecrackers. “This order will help control air pollution, which is hazardous for everyone, especially COVID-19 patients. We are expecting people will now concentrate more on lighting diyas as part of celebrations, which will improve our business. We are also hoping that people who usually spend a lot on crackers will use that amount on earthen diyas this time,” he said. Pradip has stocked up on a variety of decorative diyas to lure customers. “My only worry is that many are still sceptical about stepping out and going to the markets. The footfall at market areas is still quite low,” he added. Madan Prajapathi, who belongs to a diya makers neighbourhood in Golaghata, Dakshindari, says the demand is gradually picking up ahead of Kali Puja and Diwali. “Sales have started going up from last week. Earlier, we used to get a lot of customers from Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Assam. There has been a massive, almost 80%, fall in demand from these outside buyers. Then the hike in clay prices and labour costs in the pandemic came as another blow. But finally, things are beginning to look up,” he said. Model-actress Susmita Chatterjee, who was spotted buying diyas at Gariahat, said, "On Diwali, I love decorating my house and balcony with earthen diyas, floating candles and flowers. Earthen diyas are aesthetically pleasing and I always prefer them over other kinds of lights. This is a difficult year for all of us, so let’s pray for each other and spread love this Diwali. Light up your house and say no to crackers." Check out diyas with an eco-friendly twistSome diya makers have also come up with earthen diyas that can be planted once the festival is over. “These diyas have seeds of marigold, mustard, tomato, bean and so on. People hardly reuse old diyas. So, instead of throwing them away, one can think of planting and watering them,” said Smita Bhattar, who makes plantable diyas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ban-on-firecrackers-fuels-hopes-for-citys-earthen-diya-makers/articleshow/79160653.cms||Ruman Ganguly
November 11, 2020||India||BJP tops with 66% strike rate, will get more power play||PATNA/NEW DELHI: A Modi-fired NDA clawed out a slender win in Bihar, beating back a spirited challenge from Tejashwi Yadav in a contest which marked the coming-of-age-party of the young RJD leader while diminishing incumbent Nitish Kumar's JD(U). Nitish is on the brink of getting his sixth term. Though his first term lasted just four days and the fourth one accrued to him only because he had resigned midway through his second only to resume, he has joined an elite league of satraps.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The NDA crossed the majority mark of 122 seats in Bihar by winning 125 seats, three more than the halfway mark needed for a victory, and crushed Tejashwi’s hopes of leading his father's RJD to victory after 14 years. Read AlsoNDA gets simple majority in Bihar assembly; BJP comes out with flying coloursA stellar performance by the BJP enabled the ruling NDA to attain a simple majority in the Bihar assembly notwithstanding a sharp fall in the tally of the JD(U) headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, according to final results announced early Wednesday.​Chirag Paswan's maiden outing as the leader of family outfit LJP did not go that well. Paswan Jr did manage to partly achieve his objective of damaging Nitish, with several of his candidates eating into NDA's votes to RJD's benefit. However, it was a pyrrhic achievement as it also exposed his claim for parity with JD(U) as hollow.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Congress, which had wrested 70 seats from RJD in exchange for its acquiescence in Lalu Prasad’s insistence to project Tejashwi as CM candidate, fared poorly, proving to be a drain on RJD. In contrast, RJD's other allies did very well with CPI (M-L) Liberation notching 12 seats and CPI and CPM registering two wins each. The nail-biter which saw the rival camps engaged in seat-to-seat combat was in keeping with the roller coaster that defined a lead-up which saw BJP-JD(U) being transformed from the overwhelming favourite to the underdog. It was Tejashwi who turned the game around with his promise to provide 10 lakh government jobs to the youth on his very first day in office. It was a recklessly extravagant promise which, if implemented, could have bankrupted the state which struggles to meets its basic minimum needs. But it turned out to be an ultra-seductive proposition in a state where the Covid-19 pandemic has worsened rampant unemployment. Read AlsoPM Modi hails NDA win in Bihar, says people have voted for developmentNEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed NDA's victory in Bihar polls and said voters have made it clear that development is their only aspiration and priority. "Youth of Bihar have made it clear that new decade will be of Bihar and for self-reliant Bihar. Every voter in Bihar haveThe RJD scion also tried to decouple himself from the legacy of RJD — the 15-year-long reign of his parents which remain etched in the minds of millions as unbridled anarchy — as an outreach to sections outside RJD's Yadav-Muslim core. The outreach also saw him entering into crucial tactical seat-sharing pacts with Congress and Left parties. In the end, however, he seemed to have come up just short, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi stalling him in his tracks in the second and third phases of the polls. Modi, who had played the game-changer earlier too, threw himself into the campaign with characteristic vigour, cashing in on the standing he appears to enjoy in the state and deploying his entire oratorical skills. He sought to undercut Tejashwi’s promise of jobs and growth by reviving memories of the lawlessness under RJD's 15-year hegemony, and put paid to the young leader's attempt to make a clean break from his party's past by dubbing him “jungle raj ka yuvraj”. Bihar election results 2020: Live updatesThe PM also sought to cash in on the goodwill welfare measures launched by his government to reach out to women and the poor. His was not an easy task. For, apart the challenge from Tejashwi, the strength of which was amplified by the turnout at his rallies, BJP was also having to deal with signs of sullenness, especially among BJP's upper caste constituency and Hindutva hardliners, towards Nitish. The obstacles could be overcome with the help of the constituency that Modi has acquired among the poor and women. Nitish's constituency among Extremely Backward Castes and Mahadalits appear to have remained intact, providing another bulwark. In fact, the elections mark yet another instance of BJP's attempt to cast itself as the party of the poor which underlay the toppings of sections of upper castes and Hindutva votaries. Read AlsoBJP withstands heavy odds to come up trumps in BiharNEW DELHI: The outcome of assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls showed the BJP had cleared a challenge it had faced against heavy odds. The final outcome in Bihar is yet to be declared, but it is clearly the NaMo-fueled BJP which has brought the NDA to the brink of a victory in the face of RJD'sThe outcome shows the effectiveness of the Modi factor but also presents fresh challenges. RJD and Congress have screamed foul but that is a far easier task compared to the issue of how to manage Nitish. The BJP leadership is firm in its pre-poll commitment to retain him as CM irrespective of how the two parties fared, but it also has to brace itself for the task of assuring the incumbent that he would have the same authority that he enjoyed by virtue of being the senior partner. Besides, it will also have to assuage suspicions in certain JD(U) quarters about Chirag having been set up to undercut Nitish. JD(U) leaders have in the past been prone to conspiracy theories. His reduced numbers notwithstanding, Nitish has once again displayed his support among EBCs and women, something which gives him enough space for future manoeuvres. The Bihar result capped a bad day for Congress, marking a setback for Rahul Gandhi's high-wattage campaign to target Modi on diverse issues of China's aggression, handling of the pandemic and farm sector laws. He is unlikely to give up yet, but the results have brought out the task staring at him. Watch Bihar results 2020: NDA wins majority with 125 seats, set to form govt again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-tops-with-66-strike-rate-will-get-more-power-play/articleshow/79160743.cms||---
November 11, 2020||---||BJP tops with 66% strike rate, will get more power play||PATNA/NEW DELHI: A Modi-fired NDA clawed out a slender win in Bihar, beating back a spirited challenge from Tejashwi Yadav in a contest which marked the coming-of-age-party of the young RJD leader while diminishing incumbent Nitish Kumar's JD(U). Nitish is on the brink of getting his sixth term. Though his first term lasted just four days and the fourth one accrued to him only because he had resigned midway through his second only to resume, he has joined an elite league of satraps.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The NDA crossed the majority mark of 122 seats in Bihar by winning 125 seats, three more than the halfway mark needed for a victory, and crushed Tejashwi’s hopes of leading his father's RJD to victory after 14 years. Read AlsoNDA gets simple majority in Bihar assembly; BJP comes out with flying coloursA stellar performance by the BJP enabled the ruling NDA to attain a simple majority in the Bihar assembly notwithstanding a sharp fall in the tally of the JD(U) headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, according to final results announced early Wednesday.​Chirag Paswan's maiden outing as the leader of family outfit LJP did not go that well. Paswan Jr did manage to partly achieve his objective of damaging Nitish, with several of his candidates eating into NDA's votes to RJD's benefit. However, it was a pyrrhic achievement as it also exposed his claim for parity with JD(U) as hollow.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Congress, which had wrested 70 seats from RJD in exchange for its acquiescence in Lalu Prasad’s insistence to project Tejashwi as CM candidate, fared poorly, proving to be a drain on RJD. In contrast, RJD's other allies did very well with CPI (M-L) Liberation notching 12 seats and CPI and CPM registering two wins each. The nail-biter which saw the rival camps engaged in seat-to-seat combat was in keeping with the roller coaster that defined a lead-up which saw BJP-JD(U) being transformed from the overwhelming favourite to the underdog. It was Tejashwi who turned the game around with his promise to provide 10 lakh government jobs to the youth on his very first day in office. It was a recklessly extravagant promise which, if implemented, could have bankrupted the state which struggles to meets its basic minimum needs. But it turned out to be an ultra-seductive proposition in a state where the Covid-19 pandemic has worsened rampant unemployment. Read AlsoPM Modi hails NDA win in Bihar, says people have voted for developmentNEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed NDA's victory in Bihar polls and said voters have made it clear that development is their only aspiration and priority. "Youth of Bihar have made it clear that new decade will be of Bihar and for self-reliant Bihar. Every voter in Bihar haveThe RJD scion also tried to decouple himself from the legacy of RJD — the 15-year-long reign of his parents which remain etched in the minds of millions as unbridled anarchy — as an outreach to sections outside RJD's Yadav-Muslim core. The outreach also saw him entering into crucial tactical seat-sharing pacts with Congress and Left parties. In the end, however, he seemed to have come up just short, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi stalling him in his tracks in the second and third phases of the polls. Modi, who had played the game-changer earlier too, threw himself into the campaign with characteristic vigour, cashing in on the standing he appears to enjoy in the state and deploying his entire oratorical skills. He sought to undercut Tejashwi’s promise of jobs and growth by reviving memories of the lawlessness under RJD's 15-year hegemony, and put paid to the young leader's attempt to make a clean break from his party's past by dubbing him “jungle raj ka yuvraj”. Bihar election results 2020: Live updatesThe PM also sought to cash in on the goodwill welfare measures launched by his government to reach out to women and the poor. His was not an easy task. For, apart the challenge from Tejashwi, the strength of which was amplified by the turnout at his rallies, BJP was also having to deal with signs of sullenness, especially among BJP's upper caste constituency and Hindutva hardliners, towards Nitish. The obstacles could be overcome with the help of the constituency that Modi has acquired among the poor and women. Nitish's constituency among Extremely Backward Castes and Mahadalits appear to have remained intact, providing another bulwark. In fact, the elections mark yet another instance of BJP's attempt to cast itself as the party of the poor which underlay the toppings of sections of upper castes and Hindutva votaries. Read AlsoBJP withstands heavy odds to come up trumps in BiharNEW DELHI: The outcome of assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls showed the BJP had cleared a challenge it had faced against heavy odds. The final outcome in Bihar is yet to be declared, but it is clearly the NaMo-fueled BJP which has brought the NDA to the brink of a victory in the face of RJD'sThe outcome shows the effectiveness of the Modi factor but also presents fresh challenges. RJD and Congress have screamed foul but that is a far easier task compared to the issue of how to manage Nitish. The BJP leadership is firm in its pre-poll commitment to retain him as CM irrespective of how the two parties fared, but it also has to brace itself for the task of assuring the incumbent that he would have the same authority that he enjoyed by virtue of being the senior partner. Besides, it will also have to assuage suspicions in certain JD(U) quarters about Chirag having been set up to undercut Nitish. JD(U) leaders have in the past been prone to conspiracy theories. His reduced numbers notwithstanding, Nitish has once again displayed his support among EBCs and women, something which gives him enough space for future manoeuvres. The Bihar result capped a bad day for Congress, marking a setback for Rahul Gandhi's high-wattage campaign to target Modi on diverse issues of China's aggression, handling of the pandemic and farm sector laws. He is unlikely to give up yet, but the results have brought out the task staring at him. Watch Bihar results 2020: NDA wins majority with 125 seats, set to form govt again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-tops-with-66-strike-rate-will-get-more-power-play/articleshow/79160654.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Patna||BJP tops with 66% strike rate, will get more power play||PATNA/NEW DELHI: A Modi-fired NDA clawed out a slender win in Bihar, beating back a spirited challenge from Tejashwi Yadav in a contest which marked the coming-of-age-party of the young RJD leader while diminishing incumbent Nitish Kumar's JD(U). Nitish is on the brink of getting his sixth term. Though his first term lasted just four days and the fourth one accrued to him only because he had resigned midway through his second only to resume, he has joined an elite league of satraps.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The NDA crossed the majority mark of 122 seats in Bihar by winning 125 seats, three more than the halfway mark needed for a victory, and crushed Tejashwi’s hopes of leading his father's RJD to victory after 14 years. Read AlsoNDA gets simple majority in Bihar assembly; BJP comes out with flying coloursA stellar performance by the BJP enabled the ruling NDA to attain a simple majority in the Bihar assembly notwithstanding a sharp fall in the tally of the JD(U) headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, according to final results announced early Wednesday.​Chirag Paswan's maiden outing as the leader of family outfit LJP did not go that well. Paswan Jr did manage to partly achieve his objective of damaging Nitish, with several of his candidates eating into NDA's votes to RJD's benefit. However, it was a pyrrhic achievement as it also exposed his claim for parity with JD(U) as hollow.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Congress, which had wrested 70 seats from RJD in exchange for its acquiescence in Lalu Prasad’s insistence to project Tejashwi as CM candidate, fared poorly, proving to be a drain on RJD. In contrast, RJD's other allies did very well with CPI (M-L) Liberation notching 12 seats and CPI and CPM registering two wins each. The nail-biter which saw the rival camps engaged in seat-to-seat combat was in keeping with the roller coaster that defined a lead-up which saw BJP-JD(U) being transformed from the overwhelming favourite to the underdog. It was Tejashwi who turned the game around with his promise to provide 10 lakh government jobs to the youth on his very first day in office. It was a recklessly extravagant promise which, if implemented, could have bankrupted the state which struggles to meets its basic minimum needs. But it turned out to be an ultra-seductive proposition in a state where the Covid-19 pandemic has worsened rampant unemployment. Read AlsoPM Modi hails NDA win in Bihar, says people have voted for developmentNEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday hailed NDA's victory in Bihar polls and said voters have made it clear that development is their only aspiration and priority. "Youth of Bihar have made it clear that new decade will be of Bihar and for self-reliant Bihar. Every voter in Bihar haveThe RJD scion also tried to decouple himself from the legacy of RJD — the 15-year-long reign of his parents which remain etched in the minds of millions as unbridled anarchy — as an outreach to sections outside RJD's Yadav-Muslim core. The outreach also saw him entering into crucial tactical seat-sharing pacts with Congress and Left parties. In the end, however, he seemed to have come up just short, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi stalling him in his tracks in the second and third phases of the polls. Modi, who had played the game-changer earlier too, threw himself into the campaign with characteristic vigour, cashing in on the standing he appears to enjoy in the state and deploying his entire oratorical skills. He sought to undercut Tejashwi’s promise of jobs and growth by reviving memories of the lawlessness under RJD's 15-year hegemony, and put paid to the young leader's attempt to make a clean break from his party's past by dubbing him “jungle raj ka yuvraj”. Bihar election results 2020: Live updatesThe PM also sought to cash in on the goodwill welfare measures launched by his government to reach out to women and the poor. His was not an easy task. For, apart the challenge from Tejashwi, the strength of which was amplified by the turnout at his rallies, BJP was also having to deal with signs of sullenness, especially among BJP's upper caste constituency and Hindutva hardliners, towards Nitish. The obstacles could be overcome with the help of the constituency that Modi has acquired among the poor and women. Nitish's constituency among Extremely Backward Castes and Mahadalits appear to have remained intact, providing another bulwark. In fact, the elections mark yet another instance of BJP's attempt to cast itself as the party of the poor which underlay the toppings of sections of upper castes and Hindutva votaries. Read AlsoBJP withstands heavy odds to come up trumps in BiharNEW DELHI: The outcome of assembly elections in Bihar and bypolls showed the BJP had cleared a challenge it had faced against heavy odds. The final outcome in Bihar is yet to be declared, but it is clearly the NaMo-fueled BJP which has brought the NDA to the brink of a victory in the face of RJD'sThe outcome shows the effectiveness of the Modi factor but also presents fresh challenges. RJD and Congress have screamed foul but that is a far easier task compared to the issue of how to manage Nitish. The BJP leadership is firm in its pre-poll commitment to retain him as CM irrespective of how the two parties fared, but it also has to brace itself for the task of assuring the incumbent that he would have the same authority that he enjoyed by virtue of being the senior partner. Besides, it will also have to assuage suspicions in certain JD(U) quarters about Chirag having been set up to undercut Nitish. JD(U) leaders have in the past been prone to conspiracy theories. His reduced numbers notwithstanding, Nitish has once again displayed his support among EBCs and women, something which gives him enough space for future manoeuvres. The Bihar result capped a bad day for Congress, marking a setback for Rahul Gandhi's high-wattage campaign to target Modi on diverse issues of China's aggression, handling of the pandemic and farm sector laws. He is unlikely to give up yet, but the results have brought out the task staring at him. Watch Bihar results 2020: NDA wins majority with 125 seats, set to form govt again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-tops-with-66-strike-rate-will-get-more-power-play/articleshow/79160745.cms||---
November 11, 2020||---||Left scores in 16 out of 29 seats in Bihar, CPI-ML wins 12 of 19||NEW DELHI: Though the Mahagathbandhan fell short of the halfway mark, its tally was buoyed by a resurgent Left — the combine of CPI (Marxist-Leninist) Liberation, CPI and CPM — which won 16 of the 29 seats they jointly contested. CPI and CPM contested six and four seats, respectively, and won two each. However, it was CPI (M-L) Liberation which emerged the biggest gainer, winning 12 out of 19 seats it contested. Speaking to TOI, CPI (M-L) Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya said, “We were expecting our own tally to be better, but what is more disappointing is that Congress underperformed and the JD(U) did better than we expected. As we head towards a hung assembly, I believe this is an anti-NDA mandate.” Once a major force in Bihar, the presence of the Left has gradually come down over the last two assembly elections. In 2010, while CPI won one seat, in 2015, when the Left alliance — comprising CPI, CPM, CPI (M-L) Liberation, SUCI, Forward Bloc and RSP — contested together, all but Liberation drew a blank. CPI (M-L) Liberation won three seats. This time too, Bhattacharya said a “more rational” seat adjustment with the Congress — a 50-50 division of seats — could have helped the Left garner better numbers. “The conversations around seat sharing were not very systematic or structured. Also, this was a different election in that it was movement-led, and with a youth upsurge. While the Left is in agitation mode round the year, Congress was more laid back and did not have the organisational strength that the RJD and the Left do,” he said. Bhattacharya said the mandate had sent a strong message to Left ranks and the entire pro-democracy camp. For the elections in West Bengal and Assam, the focus, Bhattacharya said, should remain on fighting the BJP. “The message, going forward in Bengal and Assam, is clear. We have to fight the BJP and stop it. We have to be more anti-BJP than anti-TMC. We have to compete with TMC only to defeat the BJP,” he said. CPI and CPM contested six and four seats, respectively, and won two each. However, it was CPI (M-L) Liberation which emerged the biggest gainer, winning 12 out of 19 seats it contested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/left-scores-in-16-out-of-29-seats-in-bihar-cpi-ml-wins-12-of-19/articleshow/79161263.cms||Swati Mathur
November 11, 2020||World||We are beginning transition, says US President-elect Joe Biden||WASHINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday said that despite Trump's refusal to concede defeat in the US Presidential elections, he is ready to begin the transition to assume the presidency. "We are already beginning the transition, we are well underway, and the ability for the administration in any way the failure to recognise our win does not change the dynamic of what we are able to do," Biden said while addressing a press conference at Wilmington, Delaware. He also expressed confidence that the unwillingness of his opponents to acknowledge his victory at this point was not of much consequence in his planning and what he will be able to do between now and January 20. "I think that the whole Republican party has been put in a position with a few notable exceptions of being mildly intimidated by the sitting President," he said. On being asked on what he would say if he met Trump, he said: "Mr President, I look forward to speaking with you." Biden, a former vice president, in his third attempt at the White House, defeated Trump in a closely contested election to become the 46th president of the United States. The four-decade Washington figure received around 74 million votes, 4 million more than the President. Moments after Biden was projected to be the winner of the US presidential elections, Trump refused to concede defeat, saying that the election was "far from over", and promised legal challenges by his re-election campaign. Trump's campaign has filed several lawsuits to challenge the results in a few battleground states after the president spent months spreading unsubstantiated claims that mail-in ballots could open the election up to fraud, reported The Hill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/we-are-beginning-transition-says-us-president-elect-joe-biden/articleshow/79161328.cms||---
November 11, 2020||World||We are beginning transition, says US President-elect Joe Biden||WASHINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday said that despite Trump's refusal to concede defeat in the US Presidential elections, he is ready to begin the transition to assume the presidency. "We are already beginning the transition, we are well underway, and the ability for the administration in any way the failure to recognise our win does not change the dynamic of what we are able to do," Biden said while addressing a press conference at Wilmington, Delaware. He also expressed confidence that the unwillingness of his opponents to acknowledge his victory at this point was not of much consequence in his planning and what he will be able to do between now and January 20. "I think that the whole Republican party has been put in a position with a few notable exceptions of being mildly intimidated by the sitting President," he said. On being asked on what he would say if he met Trump, he said: "Mr President, I look forward to speaking with you." Biden, a former vice president, in his third attempt at the White House, defeated Trump in a closely contested election to become the 46th president of the United States. The four-decade Washington figure received around 74 million votes, 4 million more than the President. Moments after Biden was projected to be the winner of the US presidential elections, Trump refused to concede defeat, saying that the election was "far from over", and promised legal challenges by his re-election campaign. Trump's campaign has filed several lawsuits to challenge the results in a few battleground states after the president spent months spreading unsubstantiated claims that mail-in ballots could open the election up to fraud, reported The Hill.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/we-are-beginning-transition-says-us-president-elect-joe-biden/articleshow/79161329.cms||---
November 11, 2020||---||NDA gets simple majority in Bihar assembly; BJP comes out with flying colours||PATNA: A stellar performance by the BJP enabled the ruling NDA to attain a simple majority in the Bihar assembly notwithstanding a sharp fall in the tally of the JD(U) headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, according to final results announced early Wednesday. The saffron party, which had contested 110 seats, won 72 and was leading in another two while the JD(U) which fought 115, won only 42 and was ahead in another. With four seats each won by junior allies HAM and VIP, the NDA is poised to have 125 seats in its kitty, three more than the number required for a simple majority. Read AlsoBJP tops with 66% strike rate, will get more power playA Narendra Modi-fired NDA was on course to claw out a slender win in Bihar, beating back a spirited challenge from Tejashwi Yadav in a contest which marked the coming-of-age-party of the young RJD leader while diminishing incumbent Nitish Kumar's JD(U).The opposition Grand Alliance fell way short of the magic mark. The total number of seats won by all its five constituents stood at 110. Nonetheless, the RJD emerged as the single largest party in the assembly bagging 75 seats. Its vote share at 23.03 per cent was also the highest for any single party in the elections. The Congress managed to win only 19 of the 70 it had contested. The Left parties, though, sprang a surprise winning 16 out of the 29 seats the CPI(ML), the CPI and the CPI(M) had contested. The performance of CPI(ML), the most radical among the mainstream Left groups, stood out as it won 12 of the 19 seats it contested. The CPI and the CPI(M) won two seats each. Read AlsoA BJP sweep in bypolls, crucial gains in MP secure its govtOverall, the Congress, which had sitting MLAs in more than 40 seats, won 11 seats and was leading in one, while two seats were won by the BJD. One seat each was won by the Samajwadi Party, the JMM and the NDPP, and two by Independents, according to the Election Commission data at around midnight.Asaduddin Owaisi's AIMIM clinched five seats while its alliance partner in Bihar, Mayawati's BSP, bagged one. Chirag Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party, which pulled out of the NDA and contested nearly 150 seats, managed to win just one. The winners also included an Independent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-gets-simple-majority-in-bihar-assembly-bjp-comes-out-with-flying-colours/articleshow/79161356.cms||---
November 11, 2020||India||Verdict on cops’ plea for Goswami’s police custody to come on Thursday||MUMBAI: A sessions court in Alibaug on Tuesday concluded hearing of a revision plea filed by the police for custody of Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and two others arrested in connection with the 2018 abetment of suicide of an interior designer Anvay Naik. The sessions judge reserved his order and will pronounce it on Thursday. Bail applications made on Monday by Arnab Goswami, Neetish Sarda and Firoz Shaikh would also be heard on Thursday, the sessions court said, but the state is to file its replies on Wednesday, the court said. On Tuesday, Goswami moved the Supreme Court against the Bombay high court’s rejection of his plea for interim bail. The Alibaug chief judicial magistrate had on last Wednesday (November 4) rejected the police’s request for police custody and remanded the trio to magisterial custody instead till November 18. Two days later, the Alibaug magistrate permitted the police to interrogate the three in judicial custody for three hours daily. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeSessions Judge R G Malashetti on Tuesday rejected a plea by Sarda’s counsel Vijay Aggarwal on maintainability of the revision plea and heard the police application on merits. Special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat said the remand order is entirely based on the foundation that the ‘A’ summary closure report was accepted, but with the HC also saying that sans notice to the complainant, it cannot be, the foundation stands removed. He said police have a right to the trio’s custody to carry out custodial interrogation, which stands impeded by the magistrate’s order. Goswami’s counsel Aabad Ponda argued that the Alibaug chief judicial magistrate’s remand order was “well-reasoned” and hence, as held by the apex court, unless there is “patent perversity,” it cannot be interfered with in a revision plea. Ponda argued that an order for judicial custody, “unless palpably erroneous or demonstrably perverse,” cannot be set aside merely because two views are possible. An order for police custody requires reasons, he said, adding that the police have “not pointed out any illegality” in magistrate Sunayna Pingale’s order. Aggarwal also opposed the police custody plea and said that the magistrate’s order “is perfectly valid,” and the case of all three was not linked to each other. There was no common intention, he said. Advocate Neha Raut, appearing for Shaikh’s kin, opposed the police plea, cited some aspects of the case and said it was closed. Karan Kadam, lawyer for Sarda, said Sarda has been cooperating all along with police probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/verdict-on-cops-plea-for-goswamis-police-custody-to-come-on-thursday/articleshow/79161378.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 11, 2020||India||Republic TV’s distribution head arrested||MUMBAI: The Mumbai police’s crime branch probing the TRP manipulation scam on Tuesday arrested Ghanshyam Dilipkumar Singh (44), the distribution head of Republic TV, on charges of paying a monthly sum to artificially increase viewership figures of the channel, reports Ahmed Ali. Singh, a resident of Ghodbunder Road in Thane, is the 12th accused to be arrested in the case. Singh, the vice-president of the channel, was questioned earlier by the police on multiple occasions. A metropolitan magistrate remanded him in police custody till November 13. Singh is accused of paying monthly sums to Abhishek Kolawade of marketing company Max Media to increase the TRP of Republic Bharat between January 2020 and July 2020, the remand application submitted by the police in the court said. Kolawade also has accepted money from officials of Wow music channel, officials said. The crime branch is probing the role of six channels — Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation, Mahamovies and Wow — for inflating viewership figures, a key parameter that media-buying houses consider while placing advertisements. The channels are accused of paying money to households (in those houses where barometers are installed) for keeping the channels on. Singh is the distribution head of AGR Outlier Media Pvt Limited, the company that operates Republic TV, and he is in contact with several officials of Multi System Operators (MSO) and Direct to Home (DTH) service providers, the remand application said. Police said that they wanted to interrogate him to know more about the payments made. Police further said that Kolawade also received Rs 15 lakh per month from Singh to increase the TRP of Republic TV channel and he even received money from hawala operators, the remand application said. Police are looking for those hawala operators who could be witnesses in the case, remand application said. Police said Singh paid money to another arrested accused, Ashish Choudhary too. Choudhary in turn paid money to Kolawade, the application said. Read AlsoVerdict on cops’ plea for Goswami’s police custody to come on ThursdayA sessions court in Alibaug on Tuesday concluded hearing of a revision plea filed by the police for custody of Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and two others arrested in connection with the 2018 abetment of suicide of an interior designer Anvay Naik. The sessions judge reserved his order and willKolawade then distributed the money he received among the other accused, viz, Ramji Verma, Dinesh Vishwakarma and Umesh Mishra, who in turn paid money to those households where the barometers were installed and who were asked to keep Republic TV on. Police had recovered Rs 11.72 lakh from Kolawade’s house and Rs 2 lakh from Choudhary’s office in Thane during a recent raid. To measure TRPs, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) company has installed barometers in the homes of select audiences. BARC had given the contract of monitoring the barometers to Hansa Research. A metropolitan magistrate remanded him in police custody till November 13. Singh is accused of paying monthly sums to Abhishek Kolawade of marketing company Max Media to increase the TRP of Republic Bharat between January 2020 and July 2020, the remand application submitted by the police in the court said. Kolawade also has accepted money from officials of Wow music channel, officials said. The crime branch is probing the role of six channels — Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation, Mahamovies and Wow — for inflating viewership figures, a key parameter that media-buying houses consider while placing advertisements. The channels are accused of paying money to households (in those houses where barometers are installed) for keeping the channels on. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeSingh is the distribution head of AGR Outlier Media Pvt Limited, the company that operates Republic TV, and he is in contact with several officials of Multi System Operators (MSO) and Direct to Home (DTH) service providers, the remand application said. Police said that they wanted to interrogate him to know more about the payments made. Police further said that Kolawade also received Rs 15 lakh per month from Singh to increase the TRP of Republic TV channel and he even received money from hawala operators, the remand application said. Police are looking for those hawala operators who could be witnesses in the case, remand application said. Police said Singh paid money to another arrested accused, Ashish Choudhary too. Choudhary in turn paid money to Kolawade, the application said. Kolawade then distributed the money he received among the other accused, viz, Ramji Verma, Dinesh Vishwakarma and Umesh Mishra, who in turn paid money to those households where the barometers were installed and who were asked to keep Republic TV on. Police had recovered Rs 11.72 lakh from Kolawade’s house and Rs 2 lakh from Choudhary’s office in Thane during a recent raid. To measure TRPs, the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) company has installed barometers in the homes of select audiences. BARC had given the contract of monitoring the barometers to Hansa Research.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/republic-exec-paid-2-of-accused-in-trp-scam-cops/articleshow/79161445.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 11, 2020||Business||A few Harley Davidson customers in the lurch over spares||Chennai: Harley Davidson India’s decision to exit the India market could potentially leave some of its Street 750 customers in the lurch, as the model has been discontinued. “We have not been getting spares support from the company since the announcement (to exit India) and there is no clarity on future spares supplies either. Customers will be in trouble particularly for the parts of the Street 750 which has been discontinued,” said Manish Gupta, Harley Davidson dealer from Indore. The Street 750 and Street Rod were the mass market products for Harley priced between Rs 4.6 lakh and Rs 6 lakh. Dealers said nearly 16,000 units over the past 5 years. Harley Davidson sold around 17,700 units in India between 2016-2020 and 25,000 units since inception in 2009. Harley Davidson India did not respond to an email questionnaire on the issue. Hero Motocorp, which has now tied up with Harley Davidson to handle its India business, refused comment. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/a-few-harley-davidson-customers-in-the-lurch-over-spares/articleshow/79157426.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 11, 2020||Business||Mitsubishi Corporation to invest in TVS Logistics||Chennai: Mitsubishi Corporation (MC), Japan has picked up a minority stake in TVS Supply Chain Solutions Limited (TVS SCS). MC’s investment is through a secondary market transaction which will allow an existing investor — Tata Opportunities Fund — to secure a partial exit, TVS SCS said in a statement. The Tata Opportunities Fund (TOF) initially came on board in 2015 as a minority partner and has invested across multiple rounds in TVS SCS to fund acquisitions and to support future growth. TOF will continue to hold a residual stake and remain a key strategic investment partner for TVS SCS, said the statement. Part of the $8.5 billion TVS group, TVS SCS is an integrated supply chain management services company. R Dinesh, MD, TVS SCS said, “Our innovative solutions and differentiated approach make TVS Supply Chain Solutions Limited a preferred supply chain partner to our clients. Through our partnership with Mitsubishi Corporation, we aim to accelerate our growth in the years to come.” For TVS SCS Limited, this investment will “strengthen its leadership position, to a much larger customer footprint, by extending its complete suite of digital supply chain solutions and value-added services,” said the company statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/mitsubishi-corporation-to-invest-in-tvs-logistics/articleshow/79157482.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Business||Sensex shoots past 43k on vaccine news, Q2 results||Mumbai: A global rally on the back of Pfizer’s vaccine news took the sensex to a new high at 43,316 points in late trades on Tuesday. It finally closed 680 points up at 43,278 points, also a new closing high. On the NSE, the Nifty too set a record close of 12,631, a surge of 170 points. The day’s gains came on the back of a net foreign inflow of Rs 5,627 crore, although domestic funds recorded a net outflow of Rs 2,309 crore. It was the seventh consecutive session of gains for the sensex. During these sessions, the sensex has added 3,664 points — or 9.2% — on a closing basis. The strong buying also made investors richer by Rs 8.3 lakh crore with the BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 165 lakh crore, also an all-time high. In Tuesday’s market, the BSE’s market cap rose by about Rs 60,000 crore. The gains of the day were built on the end of uncertainty related to the US presidential elections, a positive news about the vaccine for Covid-19 that came on Monday evening and the faster-than-expected recovery among Indian corporates in terms of quarterly results, said Motilal Oswal AMC head (research) Santosh Kumar Singh. “The markets may not see a big correction from here and, in the medium to long term, we see markets doing well,” Singh added. “In my view, financials is still an area where good upside may be left with all the banks reporting better credit quality.” The day’s rally was across the board although IT stocks were relatively subdued and selling in these stocks limited the overall gain in the sensex. HDFC, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Reliance Industries contributed the most to the index’s gain, BSE data showed. On the other hand, Infosys, TCS and HCL Tech were the top laggards. Market players said that since a potent vaccine can allow people around the world to go out freely, this in turn may lead to less demand for tech-driven services, and hence the selling in software exporters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-shoots-past-43k-on-vaccine-news-q2-results/articleshow/79159940.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Patna||Exit polls ‘fail’ again||PATNA: Exit polls, they say, at least make it clear which way the wind is blowing. However, when it comes to Bihar, pollsters often go the wrong way. If the ‘close’ but ‘decisive’ victory of National Democratic Alliance (NDA) this time and the ‘unexpected’ win of Mahagathbandhan the last time when Nitish Kumar-led JD(U) had contested the polls in the state in alliance with RJD amid Narendra Modi ‘wave’ is anything to go by, predicting poll outcome in a politically conscious state like Bihar is always a risky affair. Unlike last time when almost all exit polls had predicted a ‘resounding’ victory for NDA only to see Mahagathbandhan comprising JD(U), RJD and Congress sweeping the election, the scene was different this year, but the results almost remained the same. Though most agencies had predicted a neck-and-neck fight between the Mahagathbandhan and NDA and some saw the former sweeping the polls, none gave the latter an edge. However, at the end of the day, Nitish Kumar-led NDA has proved the poll pundits wrong, though by a close margin. “In Bihar, poll calculation is simple, something that pollsters fail to understand. There are three main parties in the state — BJP, RJD and JD(U). When it comes to forming the government in the state, two of these three parties can do so any time by joining hands with minimal support from smaller parties,” said Manoj Jha (72), a voter from Patna’s Digha constituency who has never missed exercising his franchise since attaining the age of 18. In fact, when counting started at 8am on Tuesday, there were many who kept exit poll results out of equation. “Ye public hai, ye sab jaanti hai,” said Kalpana Verma (42), a housewife and resident of Danapur. “Voters in Bihar are smart. They don’t give split verdict. Be it assembly or Lok Sabha polls, people of the state always give a clear verdict,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/exit-polls-fail-again/articleshow/79158661.cms||Sanjiv Das
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Parents to submit ‘consent documents’ for full fee payment||KOLKATA: Parents deciding not to avail of the 20% waiver on tuition and session fees for the pandemic months, as allowed by the Calcutta High Court, might be asked by schools to submit a “willingness” document to pay the entire fees before actually going ahead with the transaction. Some leading schools in the city have decided to take signed documents from parents, declaring they were willing to pay in full, lest in future they claim they paid out of fear or were forced to do so. The eight Loreto schools in the state, six of them in Kolkata, have a Covid Committee that has decided on taking this declaration. Such parents should “immediately write to us at the dedicated email address of the committee”, said the notice sent to parents of students at Loreto House. “It is the same for all the Loreto schools. This small gesture of goodwill for the respective schools will help reduce our burden. The letter from parents will also show their willingness to help,” said Jessica Gomes Surana, principal of Loreto Convent, Entally. Among the other schools that are taking these “consent documents”, as they are being called, are Julien Day group’s four schools, Calcutta Boys’ and Modern High School. The latter is still drawing up its proforma and will be ready to send it to parents after Diwali. “We don’t want any parent to feel pressured while giving us the consent to pay 100% fees. The document will show their willingness to pay and help the school. Those who can’t are free to take the waiver,” said Julien Broughton, chairman of Julien Day group of schools. Modern High School had already reduced its fees before the high court order and amounts under certain heads, such as bus services and laboratories, were not charged as children were not availing of the facilities. “So for our parents, 100% was already less than what it was earlier. Those who are willing to pay this amount in full and not seek further waiver will fill up a separate proforma, while those who take the waiver will fill another format. These will be ready after the Diwali break,” said Devi Kar, director of the school. According to the “mandate” drawn up by Calcutta Boys’ School, parents who wish to pay full fees will sign that they would like to “help the school and agree to pay full fees”. By doing so, the parents also agree to the high court order that if they fail to pay the amount by court-assigned date of November 30, the students concerned will not be entitled to attend school in any mode and will be denied all facilities being offered by the school. Parents of South Point School students willing to pay 100% fees have been given the “privilege” to pay after November 30. But those availing of the 20% waiver will have to pay by the end of the month. “A large number of parents have already emailed us their willingness to pay full fees and have said they have not been financially hit by the pandemic and so, will not need waivers,” said spokesperson Krishna Damani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/parents-to-submit-consent-docus-for-full-fee-payment/articleshow/79159726.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 11, 2020||Patna||RJD workers vow to stand with Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: RJD workers waited for the results of the state assembly polls with bated breath throughout the day on Tuesday. The jubilant and excited functionaries, however, became anxious as soon as the poll trends shifted in the NDA’s favour. On Tuesday morning, a large number of RJD workers queued up outside the 10, Circular Road bungalow with flowers and sweets. Earlier, on Monday, their excitement knew no bounds as exit polls predicted the Mahagathbandhan’s victory in the assembly polls. Senior leaders of the RJD also looked confident and assured the workers of their victory. A party member, who was standing with a group of men outside the 10, Circular Road on Tuesday evening, told TOI, “We have worked really hard at the grassroots level and expect the result to be in our favour.” Youth wing members of the party burst crackers and raised slogans in favour of RJD president Lalu Prasad, party’s vice-president Rabri Devi and Tejashwi. However, the atmosphere at the RJD headquarters turned dull after the NDA’s victory, but supporters vowed to stand with the party. An RJD worker, Mohammad Mohsin Raza, said, “We will stay strong in every situation.” Another supporter, Vivek Rajpal, claimed that he would “always be with Tejashwi bhaiya”. A property dealer by profession, Mangal Yadav, blamed the EVMs for the RJD’s defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-workers-vow-to-stand-with-tejashwi/articleshow/79160711.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: Bahubalis, their kin call the shots again||PATNA: Bahubalis (musclemen) in Bihar have managed to rule by proxy once again. If the trends are any indication, they have not only emerged victorious in some places, but also managed to ensure victory of their kin in the electoral battle. For example, sitting MLA from Mokama Anant Singh alias Chhote Sarkar is set to win for the fourth consecutive term by defeating his nearest rival Rajiv Lochan Narayan Singh of JD(U). Anant, against whom three dozen cases are pending, has been representing the Mokama assembly seat since 2005. Apparently delighted over her husband’s likely victory, Anant’s wife Neelam Devi said, “He (Anant) will be able to deliver more to the people of his constituency. He will work with more interest and enthusiasm since people have posed faith in him once again. This time he had contested on an RJD ticket.” The don-turned-legislator’s wife was seen monitoring the feast organized at their residence in the state capital as a mark of victory celebration on Tuesday even though the result of Anant’s win was not officially declared by the Election Commission till late in the evening. Anant is currently lodged in the Beur central jail. Another don-turned-politician, Ritlal Yadav, was also leading in Danapur constituency against BJP’s Asha Devi by a comfortable margin. Rital, who is facing charges of killing Asha’s husband about 17 years ago, contested on an RJD ticket. Chetan Anand, son of jailed muscleman Anand Mohan, is also set to register his victory from Sheohar assembly seat. He too was fielded by RJD. Chetan’s mother and former MP from Vaishali Lovely Anand also contested as an RJD nominee from Saharsa. Manorama Devi, wife of muscleman Bindi Yadav, was in the fray from Atari in Gaya district. However, some other musclemen like Narendra Kumar Pandey alias Sunil Pandey (Tarari), his brother Hulas Pandey (Brahmapur) and Munna Shukla (Lalganj) are not so fortunate. They were trailing over their political rivals with huge margins. Some babubalis worked hard to ensure victory for their close relatives. For example, Veena Singh, wife of muscleman Rama Kishore Singh alias Rama Singh, was leading over her rival from Mahnar assembly constituency in Vaishali district. She was allotted ticket by RJD after former Union minister late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh opposed entry of Rama in RJD. “The results of wives of some bahubalis, such as Lovely Anand (wife of Anand Mohan), Vibha Devi (wife of Raj Ballabh Prasad Yadav), Kiran Devi (wife of Arun Yadav) and were not declared by the EC till late in the evening. The EC had earlier asked all the political parties to explain to people as to why they preferred candidates with criminal antecedents. Altogether 3,755 contestants, including 370 women and one transgender, were in the fray. Of them, 1,157 candidates criminal antecedents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bahubalis-their-kin-call-the-shots-again/articleshow/79158649.cms||Ramashankar
November 11, 2020||---||Bihar elections: NDA, MGB supporters’ mood swings with trends||PATNA: The mood of the supporters of both the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan (MGB) at the counting centre at AN College on Boring Road here fluctuated as the trends continued to favour one alliance or the other throughout Tuesday. Impervious to the news from the centre, however, were LJP supporters, who found solace not in the performance of their own candidates, but in the defeat of JD(U) candidates against whom their party had fielded nominees. The ambience at the counting centre initially was one of calm and silence, with some party supporters and political workers turning up during the first few rounds of counting. Most of them were RJD supporters, easily recognisable by the trademark green towel around their shoulders. Their numbers rose steadily as the counting showed MGB to be leading. Once the NDA inched ahead around mid-morning, however, the number of RJD supporters dwindled. The BJP supporters, who were initially missing from action, started showing up soon after trends began favouring their alliance. Sanjay Kumar Gupta, the counting agent of road construction minister and BJP leader Nand Kishore Yadav, was found relaxing with several other party workers at 6pm. “We feel relaxed now. We will form the government,” he said. This was around the 29th round of counting, when Yadav was ahead of Congress Pravin Singh by 10,173 votes. Sanjeev Chaurasia was also spotted inside the centre with two supporters early on Tuesday, analysing the votes garnered by him. Raju Yadav, a supporter of RJD’s Aniruddh Kumar, was spotted buying a garland from a vendor for his leader, who won Bakhtiyarpur. Yadav said he was confident of Aniruddh’s win. “Lekin party ke liye dhukdhuki laga hua hai… Hum log abhi bhi sarkar bana sakte hai… (But my heart palpitates when I think of the party… We are still in the position of forming the government…),” he said on the statewide trends. Around 6pm, a large number of RJD and Left supporters crowded the entrance of the centre, ignoring both social distancing and Section 144 of the CrPC. The RJD supporters raised slogans for their leaders Lalu Prasad, Rabri Devi and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. While excited for their respective candidates, many of who were winning, the crowd was also chuffed at having given a tough fight to the NDA. A worker of the newly launched Plurals Party was also spotted with the party’s Bhaktiyarpur candidate, Kundan Kumar. Restricted to a few hundred votes, a disheartened Kumar said they had expected to be treated as an alternative to the bigger parties, but had been handed a reality check. Vikas Chandra, alias Guddu Baba, a social worker who tried his luck in elections for the first time from the Digha seat on the symbol of Bhartiya Party (Loktantrik), was spotted at the centre early on Tuesday. Having garnered only 837 votes, Chandra said the polls were a learning experience for him. Bachchu Paswan, an Independent candidate from Phulwari seat and also a poll débutante like Chandra, said he had realised that parties, not candidates, mattered to voters. Having learnt a lesson , these newcomers did not hang around the counting centre. LJP supporters, albeit few in number, kept a close eye on the performance of JD(U) candidates. LJP’s Parshuram Kumar, who contested from Masaurhi constituency, said he wasn’t concerned with whether he had won or not. “Our aim was to damage JD(U), which we have done,” he said. Kumar got 9,669 votes while JD(U)’s Nutan Paswan got 66,337 votes. The winner from Masaurhi was RJD’s Rekha Devi with 9,84,998 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-mgb-supporters-mood-swings-with-trends/articleshow/79162806.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 11, 2020||---||Over 55% strike rate enthuses Left parties in Bihar||PATNA: The Left parties are steadily on course to register their significant presence in the 243-member state assembly as their combined win in double digits is nearly certain. The Left parties had already won one seat and were leading on 15 seats at the time of going to press. The Left parties had contested 29 seats in the state in alliance with RJD and Congress. The good show by Left parties has made it clear that they may be on the wane, but are still in picture. The strike rate of Left parties, slightly over 55%, was arguably the best among the Grand Alliance partners. Of the three Left parties, the CPI(ML) has won the Dumraon seat and is expected to win 11 other seats. The 11 other seats where the CPI(ML) was leading included Paliganj, Ara, Agiaon, Tarari, Karakat, Arwal, Ghosi, Ziradei, Darauli, Phulwari and Balrampur. Incidentally, at Balrampur, the party’s leader in the House, Mahboob Alam, defeated VIP candidate Barun Kumar Jha by over 50,000 votes. Similarly, the CPI-M has won two of the four seats where it fielded its candidates. The seats won by it are Manjhi and Bibhutipur. On the other hand, the CPI has won two (Bakhri and Teghra) of the six seats it had contested. However, the counting of votes was stopped at the Bachhwara seat, where three EVM machines malfunctioned. “We have sent our written complaints to the institutions concerned and are hoping for their judicious intervention. At the moment, engineers have been engaged to rectify the EVM machines. Alternatively, the situation might result in re-polling at the booths concerned, but that is in the domain of the Election Commission,” CPI state acting secretary Ram Babu Kumar said. After their “marginalisation” under the RJD led by Lalu Prasad from 1998 onwards and the gradual rise and coming into power of the saffron party and the JD(U) from 2000, the number of the Left MLAs in the state assembly fell substantially. There were seven MLAs of the CPI and CPI-M in the House in 2000 and four MLAs of the CPI and CPI-M in February and November 2005, followed by one of the CPI in 2010 and three of the CPI(ML) in 2015. After the CPI’s tally at 12 in 1962, the CPI and CPI-M had won 24 and four seats in 1967, respectively, in combined Bihar. Subsequently, following the vigorous agitation course that the CPI adopted on the land-related issues, it registered 35 wins and also secured the post of the leader of opposition in the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/over-55-strike-rate-enthuses-left-parties-in-state/articleshow/79162731.cms||Abhay Singh
November 11, 2020||Patna||Over 55% strike rate enthuses Left parties in Bihar||PATNA: The Left parties are steadily on course to register their significant presence in the 243-member state assembly as their combined win in double digits is nearly certain. The Left parties had already won one seat and were leading on 15 seats at the time of going to press. The Left parties had contested 29 seats in the state in alliance with RJD and Congress. The good show by Left parties has made it clear that they may be on the wane, but are still in picture. The strike rate of Left parties, slightly over 55%, was arguably the best among the Grand Alliance partners. Of the three Left parties, the CPI(ML) has won the Dumraon seat and is expected to win 11 other seats. The 11 other seats where the CPI(ML) was leading included Paliganj, Ara, Agiaon, Tarari, Karakat, Arwal, Ghosi, Ziradei, Darauli, Phulwari and Balrampur. Incidentally, at Balrampur, the party’s leader in the House, Mahboob Alam, defeated VIP candidate Barun Kumar Jha by over 50,000 votes. Similarly, the CPI-M has won two of the four seats where it fielded its candidates. The seats won by it are Manjhi and Bibhutipur. On the other hand, the CPI has won two (Bakhri and Teghra) of the six seats it had contested. However, the counting of votes was stopped at the Bachhwara seat, where three EVM machines malfunctioned. “We have sent our written complaints to the institutions concerned and are hoping for their judicious intervention. At the moment, engineers have been engaged to rectify the EVM machines. Alternatively, the situation might result in re-polling at the booths concerned, but that is in the domain of the Election Commission,” CPI state acting secretary Ram Babu Kumar said. After their “marginalisation” under the RJD led by Lalu Prasad from 1998 onwards and the gradual rise and coming into power of the saffron party and the JD(U) from 2000, the number of the Left MLAs in the state assembly fell substantially. There were seven MLAs of the CPI and CPI-M in the House in 2000 and four MLAs of the CPI and CPI-M in February and November 2005, followed by one of the CPI in 2010 and three of the CPI(ML) in 2015. After the CPI’s tally at 12 in 1962, the CPI and CPI-M had won 24 and four seats in 1967, respectively, in combined Bihar. Subsequently, following the vigorous agitation course that the CPI adopted on the land-related issues, it registered 35 wins and also secured the post of the leader of opposition in the state assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-55-strike-rate-enthuses-left-parties-in-state/articleshow/79158581.cms||Abhay Singh
November 11, 2020||Business||Travel cos rally, lab & food hit||TNN Mumbai: The news about a potent vaccine from global pharma giant Pfizer, along with Germany’s BioNTech, was a booster for hotel, airline and travel stocks. However, the same news adversely hit stocks like Info Edge (which owns a majority stake in food delivery major Zomato), Jubilant Foodworks (the franchise for Domino’s in India), and pathology laboratory chains like Thyrocare, Dr Lal PathLabs and Metropolis Healthcare. On the one hand, while an effective vaccine raises the chance for people to travel and go about freely, it would also limit demand for products and services of companies that benefited from the work-from-home months, market players said. In Tuesday’s session, Indian Hotels, which runs the Taj group of hotels, rallied nearly 15%, while Lemon Tree Hotels closed 10% higher. Among the airline stocks, Interglobe Aviation, which runs the country’s largest airline IndiGo, closed 9.1% higher, while IRCTC was up 4.7% at close. Tuesday’s rally also brought some cheer among shareholders of movie chain major PVR and gambling operator Delta. Both types of businesses are expected to see a turn in fortunes if people are allowed to move out freely, analysts feel. PVR closed 5.4% higher, while Delta was up 3.7%. Among the laggards due to the vaccine news were Thyrocare (down 8%), Dr Lal PathLabs (lost 6.4%) and Metropolis (down 5.2%). Market players feel launch of a vaccine for the masses will lead to lesser demand for services from these companies, and hence the selling. Most pharma stocks also witnessed selling during the session with BSE’s healthcare index closing 3.6% down on the day. Among the other laggards was Jubilant Food, which closed 4% lower, while Info Edge closed 2.7% off. In the international market, news reports pointed out that stocks like Netflix and Zoom were among the top laggards on the back of Pfizer’s vaccine news.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/travel-cos-rally-lab-food-hit/articleshow/79159081.cms||---
November 11, 2020||---||RJD workers vow to stand with Tejashwi Yadav||PATNA: RJD workers waited for the results of the state assembly polls with bated breath throughout the day on Tuesday. The jubilant and excited functionaries, however, became anxious as soon as the poll trends shifted in the NDA’s favour. On Tuesday morning, a large number of RJD workers queued up outside the 10, Circular Road bungalow with flowers and sweets. Earlier, on Monday, their excitement knew no bounds as exit polls predicted the Mahagathbandhan’s victory in the assembly polls. Senior leaders of the RJD also looked confident and assured the workers of their victory. A party member, who was standing with a group of men outside the 10, Circular Road on Tuesday evening, told TOI, “We have worked really hard at the grassroots level and expect the result to be in our favour.” Youth wing members of the party burst crackers and raised slogans in favour of RJD president Lalu Prasad, party’s vice-president Rabri Devi and Tejashwi. However, the atmosphere at the RJD headquarters turned dull after the NDA’s victory, but supporters vowed to stand with the party. An RJD worker, Mohammad Mohsin Raza, said, “We will stay strong in every situation.” Another supporter, Vivek Rajpal, claimed that he would “always be with Tejashwi bhaiya”. A property dealer by profession, Mangal Yadav, blamed the EVMs for the RJD’s defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-workers-vow-to-stand-with-tejashwi/articleshow/79162486.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 11, 2020||Patna||How Tejashwi Yadav emerged from his father’s shadow||PATNA: Sometime in mid-September, around a month before the assembly polls were to begin, a large hoarding outside the RJD headquarters on Beer Chand Patel Marg in Patna, caught the attention of the media and the political parties alike — it had a life-size photo of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, alone. His father, RJD chief Lalu Prasad and mother Rabri Devi, both a constant in RJD posters for at least a decade, were missing. The towering poster of Tejashwi, who turned 31 on Monday, overlooking one of Patna’s famous streets lined with party offices, and right opposite the JD(U) office, inevitably sparked a buzz about whether Tejashwi was “sidelining” his maverick politician father and taking full control of the party? The media speculated, and even his political rivals mocked him for “ignoring” his jailed father. But this bold step signalled the coming of age of the former cricketer, who also played a few IPL matches, as a politician in his own right emerging from the shadow of his famous father. “Lalu Ji’s shadow will always be there in the form of blessings on Tejashwi. And a father always feels very proud of his son is even more successful than him and outshines him. One day, Lalu Ji would be known as Tejashwi’s father,” says Bhola Yadav, the RJD chief’s closest aide and a candidate from Hayaghat in Darbhanga, obliquely acknowledging the generational shift in the party. “Tejashwi has inherited his father’s ability to connect with the masses during his rallies. While Lalu Ji had a more rustic humorous appeal in his language and interactions, Tejashwi is more serious in his approach, but has imbibed his father’s vision,” Bhola added, comparing the campaign styles of the father and son. RJD watchers say breaking away from his father's social justice agenda must have been a tough call for Tejashwi, who took the reins of the party at a difficult time when Lalu was jailed in the fodder scam in 2017, especially after the 2019 general election debacle. But Tejashwi persevered as he broke away from the RJD’s standard campaign issues and moulded the party in a short span in his own image, focusing on problems such as unemployment, migration, healthcare among others, including his promise of providing 10 lakh government jobs, which has taken the youths of the state by storm. “Employment had never been an issue in earlier state elections, but Tejashwi changed the trend. There is always an undercurrent in any political party, but Tejashwi is young. He knows this is the start of his career and will give his best,” said Patna-based political analyst D M Diwakar. Echoing Diwakar, a senior RJD leader, said, “With social justice given, he (Tejashwi) is now fighting for economic justice. He is fighting for youths of the state. He knows the importance of permanent employment.” From opting for the right alliance partners to picking the right issues, Tejashwi did not waver from his bread-and-butter issues despite attempts by the ruling NDA to steer the discourse towards national issues such as abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir and Ram temple among others. Political observers here believe it was Tejashwi who set the agenda for this election and compelled his opponents to match it. “Remember how opposition kept talking about 15 years of jungle raj, but Tejashwi has left behind that legacy. Of late in RJD posters, even his parents were not visible, which shows Tejashwi does not want that era to cast a shadow on the new one,” Diwakar said. “BJP, which mainly talked about Kashmir, Article 370 and Ram Mandir, had to promise to generate 19 lakh employment opportunities. While both JD (U) and BJP made fun of Tejashwi’s job promise, later they started singing the same tune,” said another political observer. Another shift away from RJD’s tradition stance is Tejashwi move to woo all sections beyond its Yadav-Muslim voter base by promising to work for all castes and religions. The younger Yadav scion was initially underestimated, not only by his opponents but also former alliance partners like RLSP, HAM (S) and VIP, who chose to move out of the Mahagatbandhan and join the NDA. However, Tejashwi’s popularity became clearer when his physical rallies began drawing massive crowds despite the Covid scare. The surging crowds at his rallies eventually unnerved his main rival CM Nitish Kumar, who along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and other NDA leaders started making vitriolic personal attacks on Tejashwi. “While Tejashwi remained calm and showed his mature side, Nitish Kumar’s demeanour was the opposite. He stooped too low and started making personal attacks, breaking away from his style of not making personal attacks, which did not go down well with the common people. Even PM Modi lashed at him, but Tejashwi in reply called those attacks as blessings and instead asked the PM to talk on the real issues,” said Diwakar. Even Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said several times during the campaigning that the “Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj” barb does not cut the ice anymore as “Tejashwi comes with a clean slate”. If the Mahagathbandhan forms the government, Tejashwi, who celebrated his 31st birthday on Monday, will be the youngest chief minister of a full-fledged state in the country with the added distinction of being the only CM whose both parents were also chief ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/how-tejashwi-emerged-from-his-fathers-shadow/articleshow/79158606.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 11, 2020||---||From acting to politics, Chirag Paswan has a penchant for risky gambits||PATNA: Party workers like to recount that LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan’s decision to join the NDA ahead of the general election in 2014 was influenced by his son Chirag, who had just joined politics after an unsuccessful stint in Bollywood  in 2012. For a novice, party insiders say, he had a sharp sense of which way the wind was blowing, much like his father. So when Chirag began charting his own course ahead of the Bihar polls beginning with his sharp criticisms of NDA ally and CM Nitish Kumar, it came as no surprise when his Dalit icon father fully backed him in his decisions in tweets posted from his hospital bed. The move from acting to politics, followed by the inevitable rise as the boss of the LJP in 2019, the 37-year-old Chirag had a relatively smooth journey till his life was rocked by the death of his ailing father on October 8, weeks before the assembly polls were to be held. A B.Tech in computer science, Chirag now finds himself at the threshold of a long political career without his father by his side. When his film career ended after his debut movie 'Mile Naa Mile Hum' did not do well, he could lean on his father’s shoulders who brought him into politics. For Chirag, the transition from the glamorous world of cinema to politics was not a cakewalk. He began working with his seasoned parliamentarian father, who taught him the ropes of surviving the rough and tumble of Bihar politics. LJP functionaries say, as JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar snapped ties with ally BJP and decided to contest the 2014 Lok Sabha polls on its own, Chirag’s prodding of his father to join hands with NDA proved successful. LJP contested the 2014 general election and registered tremendous success with Chirag entering the Lok Sabha winning the Jamui seat. He got re-elected from the same constituency in 2019. LJP is now contesting the 2020 assembly election alone for the first time without the senior Paswan. The party had Chirag walked out of NDA ahead of the assembly polls and decided to go solo for obvious reasons. His father's relationship with Nitish had not been cordial since the February 2005 assembly election, which he showed as among the major reasons for walking out of NDA. However, Chirag repeatedly said he was not against PM Narendra Modi and will remain loyal and faithful to him for his support and guidance. “I am PM Modi’s Hanuman, if I tear open my chest you can see his image there,” Chirag had said. LJP MP from Hajipur and Chirag’s uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras said, “It was a part of a well-crafted strategy to fight the Bihar assembly election on our own. The party fielded its candidates in 143 assembly constituencies on the recommendation of the party's parliamentary board.” He, however, admitted that candidates have been fielded on seats mostly being contested by JD(U). At some places, BJP nominees are also pitted against those of LJP. Chirag has repeatedly said Nitish Kumar would no longer remain the CM of Bihar after November 10. “I can give you in writing that Nitish Kumar will not remain as CM after the results of the assembly polls were out,” he said. By unseating his political rival Nitish to settle a personal score, the LJP chief is also likely to damage the NDA's poll prospects in the state. “In the process, he has virtually set his master's house on fire,” said a senior BJP leader, who didn't want to be named. The BJP leader’s words may just come true if the exit polls hold. After LJP’s performance in the 2019 parliamentary election, an elated Ram Vilas appointed Chirag as the national president of the party in November last year. “Now I am a relaxed man, Chirag is competent enough to deal with affairs of the party,” the senior Paswan had told this correspondent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/from-acting-to-politics-chirag-has-a-penchant-for-risky-gambits/articleshow/79162645.cms||Ramashankar
November 11, 2020||Patna||From acting to politics, Chirag Paswan has a penchant for risky gambits||PATNA: Party workers like to recount that LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan’s decision to join the NDA ahead of the general election in 2014 was influenced by his son Chirag, who had just joined politics after an unsuccessful stint in Bollywood  in 2012. For a novice, party insiders say, he had a sharp sense of which way the wind was blowing, much like his father. So when Chirag began charting his own course ahead of the Bihar polls beginning with his sharp criticisms of NDA ally and CM Nitish Kumar, it came as no surprise when his Dalit icon father fully backed him in his decisions in tweets posted from his hospital bed. The move from acting to politics, followed by the inevitable rise as the boss of the LJP in 2019, the 37-year-old Chirag had a relatively smooth journey till his life was rocked by the death of his ailing father on October 8, weeks before the assembly polls were to be held. A B.Tech in computer science, Chirag now finds himself at the threshold of a long political career without his father by his side. When his film career ended after his debut movie 'Mile Naa Mile Hum' did not do well, he could lean on his father’s shoulders who brought him into politics. For Chirag, the transition from the glamorous world of cinema to politics was not a cakewalk. He began working with his seasoned parliamentarian father, who taught him the ropes of surviving the rough and tumble of Bihar politics. LJP functionaries say, as JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar snapped ties with ally BJP and decided to contest the 2014 Lok Sabha polls on its own, Chirag’s prodding of his father to join hands with NDA proved successful. LJP contested the 2014 general election and registered tremendous success with Chirag entering the Lok Sabha winning the Jamui seat. He got re-elected from the same constituency in 2019. LJP is now contesting the 2020 assembly election alone for the first time without the senior Paswan. The party had Chirag walked out of NDA ahead of the assembly polls and decided to go solo for obvious reasons. His father's relationship with Nitish had not been cordial since the February 2005 assembly election, which he showed as among the major reasons for walking out of NDA. However, Chirag repeatedly said he was not against PM Narendra Modi and will remain loyal and faithful to him for his support and guidance. “I am PM Modi’s Hanuman, if I tear open my chest you can see his image there,” Chirag had said. LJP MP from Hajipur and Chirag’s uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras said, “It was a part of a well-crafted strategy to fight the Bihar assembly election on our own. The party fielded its candidates in 143 assembly constituencies on the recommendation of the party's parliamentary board.” He, however, admitted that candidates have been fielded on seats mostly being contested by JD(U). At some places, BJP nominees are also pitted against those of LJP. Chirag has repeatedly said Nitish Kumar would no longer remain the CM of Bihar after November 10. “I can give you in writing that Nitish Kumar will not remain as CM after the results of the assembly polls were out,” he said. By unseating his political rival Nitish to settle a personal score, the LJP chief is also likely to damage the NDA's poll prospects in the state. “In the process, he has virtually set his master's house on fire,” said a senior BJP leader, who didn't want to be named. The BJP leader’s words may just come true if the exit polls hold. After LJP’s performance in the 2019 parliamentary election, an elated Ram Vilas appointed Chirag as the national president of the party in November last year. “Now I am a relaxed man, Chirag is competent enough to deal with affairs of the party,” the senior Paswan had told this correspondent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/from-acting-to-politics-chirag-has-a-penchant-for-risky-gambits/articleshow/79158675.cms||Ramashankar
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Harish Rawat leads Congress protest rally against laws in Nakodar||JALANDHAR: Congress Punjab party affairs in-charge Harish Rawat on Tuesday led a tractor rally to protest the new farm laws, from Nakodar to Talwan via Nurmahal. He said the Centre was bent upon making farmers slaves of corporates and if the laws were allowed, mandi and MSP systems would collapse. He was accompanied by Jalandhar MP Santokh Singh Chaudhary, Phillaur assembly constituency in-charge Vikramjit Singh Chaudhary and Nakodar constituency in-charge Jagbir Singh Brar. Later, Rawat held a meeting with party leaders and workers in Jalandhar. Though it was said to be a workers’ meeting, only former minister Avtar Henry and MP Santokh Singh addressed the meeting in Rawat’s presence. Two workers rose to express dissatisfaction that organisational set-up had not been put in place in the state for the last close to eleven months. They also said that those coming from SAD were getting more importance. Rawat said he would sit in the Circuit House where workers could convey him the feedback personally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rawat-leads-cong-protest-rally-against-laws-in-nakodar/articleshow/79159680.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Shiromani Akali Dal asks Centre, Punjab to resolve issue||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern over the economic loss caused to farmers and industry in Punjab by the ongoing train blockade, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Tuesday urged the Centre and the state governments to hold talks to resolve the issue at the earliest. SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal, while presiding over a party core committee meeting, said Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh preferred to go to Delhi to hold a one-hour sham ‘dharna’, but did not meet the railways minister or the Prime Minister to ensure freight train services were resumed in the state. The core committee was of the view that Punjab was paying a heavy price due to the ongoing ‘fixed match’ between the BJP-led central government and the Congress government in Punjab. “While farmers are not getting supply of much-needed fertiliser for sowing the wheat crop, the trade and industry is losing crores on a daily basis due to the blockade. Even as the state’s economy is bleeding, there is danger of social unrest spoiling the peace of Punjab,” said Sukhbir. He added it appeared the chief minister was deliberately not taking any initiative to resolve the imbroglio because he felt that the more the issue lingered on, the more attention would be diverted from the failures of his government. The SAD president added such an attitude could have a dangerous fallout on industry in Punjab which was witnessing huge losses due to non-availability of raw material as well as pile up of finished goods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sad-asks-centre-pb-to-resolve-issue/articleshow/79159689.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan anticipates fresh wave in December, boosts testing facilities||JAIPUR: The health department is strengthening its testing facilities in anticipation of a fresh wave of Covid-19 by mid-December. With three new Covid testing facilities at Pratapgarh, Hanumangarh and Jaisalmer, the state now has a total of 43 such centres. “Two of them have become operational while one of the three new facilities needs clearance for bio-medical waste,” said a senior health department official. Every week, the state is conducting tests of people between 1.3-1.4 lakh. According to the state government’s figures, 11 districts of the state have positivity rate of more than 5%, while in rest of the 22 districts, the positivity rate is below 5%. The districts which have more than 5% of positivity rate witness spread of the virus rapidly. Such 11 districts include Ajmer, Alwar, Bharatpur, Bhilwara, Bikaner, Sriganganagar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Pali and Sikar. The health department claimed that they have expanded the healthcare facilities for Covid-19 across the state due to which the recovery rate has improved a lot and mortality rate has gone done significantly. Among the facilities expanded for Covid-19 are testing facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-anticipates-fresh-wave-in-dec-boosts-testing-facilities/articleshow/79159690.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur doctors prefer antibody test for corona confirmation||JAIPUR: Doctors are opting for antibody test among Covid patients who have completed 14 days of isolation but still test positive in RT-PCR test. At Jaipur’s SMS Hospital, doctors have admitted two patients in post-Covid ward even though they are positive. Doctors say the RT-PCR test might give wrong results as it reads dead proteins in the blood and shows the patient as Covid-19 positive. In such cases, antibody test give a clearer picture. “Even after a patient has recovered from Covid, the RT-PCR detect dead protein of virus and shows that the patient is still positive. In such cases, antibody test is quite instrumental as it shows that the person was infected with the virus and recovered,” said Dr Ajit Singh, medical superintendent, dedicated Covid-19 RUHS Hospital. A lot of persons, who had fever and influenza-like illness earlier and are not aware that they had been infected with Covid-19 and have post-Covid complications, are also being recommended antibody test. “A positive antibody test suggests past Covid illness. Covid antibodies start forming as early as 7-10 days of infection and may last for 3 months. We need longer follow up studies to say till when they would last. In RT-PCR test, often the dead virus DNA also shows positive results in which case patient is not infectious,” said Dr Sheetu Singh, director Covid-19 pulmonary rehab, at a private hospital. She said RT-PCR may be positive for up to a month or more after acute Covid-19 infection. “This is often seen in elderly patients, comorbid illnesses such as diabetes, obesity and those with severe illness,” said Dr Singh. Doctors are using the antibody test on patients who are continuously being tested positive for Covid through repeated RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-doctors-prefer-antibody-test-for-corona-confirmation/articleshow/79159685.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Surat||Reopening schools a disaster in making, cautions docs’ body||SURAT: At a time when the state health and education departments are finalising the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening schools after Diwali, the Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Surat chapter has raised concern over the state government’s decision. It has claimed that students, especially those in the primary and secondary schools may become super-spreaders with the second wave of Covid-19 set to strike the state during winter. Medical experts and IMA office-bearers on Tuesday urged the state government to reconsider its decision and cautioned that there should not be any lapse that would put the students, parents and their family members at risk. IMA office-bearers said that they will be launching a campaign on social media to spread awareness among the parents and students once the government finalises the SOPs. A meeting in this connection was held between the medical experts with Dr Kamlesh Upadhyay, HOD of Medicine department of BJ Medical college at the SUDA Bhavan on Monday. IMA members strongly opposed the government’s decision to reopen the schools. Dr Hiral Shah, president of IMA’s Surat chapter told TOI, “Since the first lockdown was announced in March, children were at home and they were safe. If we see the profile of Covid-19 infected people in Surat, hardly 20% are women. When children will start going to school they will contract infection and spread to their mothers first. Even elderly people will be put at a greater risk.” According to Dr Shah the children from class 1-9 are the most vulnerable sector, who are at a higher risk of contracting the infection. “In the meeting, Dr Kamlesh Upadhyay anticipated surge in Covid-19 cases during winter and that the students can become super-spreaders,” said Dr Shah. Pramod Chaudhary, president, Surat Unaided School Association (SUSA) told TOI, “Though it is a big challenge for us to reopen schools, it will be practically possible only for the students of higher secondary section. Once the SOP is framed, we will discuss with the members and take decision accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/reopening-schools-a-disaster-in-making-cautions-docs-body/articleshow/79156313.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Business||WhatsApp brings button for shopping to Indian market||BENGALURU: WhatsApp is rolling out a shopping button in India, indicating it has a bigger plan for a commerce play in its largest market. The move comes days after securing a nod from the authorities to launch its payments services in the country. For now, through this button, users can see catalogues of small businesses on WhatsApp and interact with them to place orders. Payments to merchants are still not enabled. But a user can pay to the small store owner through a peer-to-peer transaction on the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) platform, if they wish to. The shopping button was launched globally three weeks ago and it’s coming to India following the launch of WhatsApp Pay, which is available to 20 million users for now. WhatsApp said the shopping button would make it easier for people to discover a business’s catalogue to know the range of goods and services being offered. “Previously, people had to click on the business’s profile to see if it had a catalogue. Now, when a person sees the shopping button, which looks like a storefront icon, they will immediately know the business has a catalogue so they can browse products and start a conversation about an item they see with just one tap,” the company said in a statement. WhatsApp has 15 million users for WhatsApp Business, which is used by these business owners to reach out to consumers. According to the company, 3 million Indians check these catalogues every month. In total, it has 400 million monthly active users in India. The shopping button will replace the voice call button. To find that, users need to tap on the call button to select either a voice or video call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-brings-button-for-shopping-to-indian-mkt/articleshow/79159019.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Mysuru||Madikeri: Elephants charge at riders, smash bike||MADIKERI: Three elephants attacked a biker in Kurchi village near Srimangala on Tuesday. Fortunately, the biker Alletira Viju Machaiah (60) and the pillion rider escaped unhurt. Alletira Viju was on his way to the estate on his bike along with labourer Pushpa Raj around 8.15am when the wild elephants that stood in the middle of the road confronted the two. According to Viju, when he turned the bike at a crossroad, three wild elephants were standing right in the middle of the road. While two elephants ran into the estate, one female elephant came charging towards them and they left the bike and ran for their life. After the riders left the bike at the spot and escaped, the elephants trampled the bike, damaging it badly. Srimangala RFO Veerendra said that the forest staff have chased the three wild elephants from the estate to the forest area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/elephants-charge-at-riders-smash-bike/articleshow/79159486.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Business||Retired PSU bankers may get one rank, one pension plan||MUMBAI: A one-rank, one pension (OROP) kind of scheme is in the works for retired PSU bank employees. OROP was a longstanding demand of armed forces’ veterans, where the pension would be reworked so that everyone who retired in the same rank will get the same pension, irrespective of the date of retirement. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman has sounded off banks to do more for employees who retired earlier so they are not discriminated against in terms of pension. The government has also asked banks to review the family pension scheme so that the pension for the spouse is the same as the government. The family pension scheme is likely to be announced on Wednesday when the Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) is set to unveil the 11th bipartite wage settlement. This has been due since November 2017 and, although the memorandum of understanding was signed in July, the deal took time to finalise. Banks currently have a family pension scheme, but it is a truncated version of what is available for other government employees (see graphic). An updation of the pension scheme is seen as necessary because a bank employee who retired in the 1990s gets a fraction of the pension that a recently retired employee draws. This is because the pension is linked to the last drawn basic salary, which was capped at Rs 10,000 in the 1990s. To remove this difference, banks will need to update their pension scheme. Employees who retired between 1986 and 2010 are eligible for a defined benefit pension. Banks have done some rough calculations based on an actuarial valuation of pension liabilities done in 2018. Although the annual outgo is not very high, there will be an upfront cost to revamping the family pension scheme. Banks are required to maintain funds to meet future pension liability and this provision requirement keeps going up as interest rates fall and life expectancy increases without any change to the pension scheme. So, an increase in future liabilities could result in a sharp one-time increase in provisioning. Sitharaman sounded off banks on the need to treat pensioners fairly during her interaction with them at the IBA’s 73rd annual general meeting on Tuesday. The annual meet was attended by bank chiefs, including IBA chairman Rajkiran Rai. Bankers are understood to have said that the health of the industry was better than expected. . In the meeting, Sitharaman appreciated the work done by bankers during the Covid pandemic and acknowledged the role of every banker and business correspondent. She called upon banks to ensure that no Indian is left behind and that every underprivileged citizen has an Aadhaar-linked bank account where they can receive government benefits. The finance minister also urged banks to make available digital banking services to all Indians and urged the lenders to issue RuPay cards and try to see that every Indian has one. Addressing the amalgamated banks, Sitharaman said that the country needs six to seven large banks with the size of State Bank of India to meet the needs of large borrowers. At the same time, there was room for medium and small banks and non-banking finance companies and it was up to the lenders to differentiate their products, she said. Watch Retired PSU bankers may get one rank, one pension plan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retired-psu-bankers-may-get-one-rank-one-pension-plan/articleshow/79159912.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala KSRTC to hold referendum||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The referendum of the employees of the Kerala state road transport corporation (KSRTC) for the recognition of the employee unions in the corporation will be held on December 30. The referendum this year is being conducted one-and-a-half years after the term of previous employee union expired. As a prelude to this, election notification will be issued on November 13. The draft voter list will be published on November 17. The objections to the draft voters list can be filed till November 23 and the hearing on the complaints will be held on November 25. The final voters list will be published on November 30. The nominations can be filed on December 2. The scrutiny will be conducted on the same day, and the model ballot paper will also be published on the same day. The voting will be held from 7:30am on December 30 till 5:30pm. The declaration of the results will be on January 1, 2021. As many as 100 booths will be set up across the state for the elections. There are also plans to set up a booth at Sabarimala for those who are on Sabarimala duty. Approximately 29,000 employees who are on the electoral rolls are eligible to vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ksrtc-to-hold-referendum/articleshow/79158223.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Business||RIL helps cash-strapped Big Bazaar restock shelves||NEW DELHI: Future Group’s flagship retail chain Big Bazaar, which was facing an acute inventory crunch as a result of non-payment or late payment of dues to suppliers, has received a fresh lease of life, due to Reliance Industries’s (RIL’s) JioMart. JioMart, a part of RIL’s retail arm Reliance Retail, has stepped in to help the brick-and-mortar retail chain with fresh stock. A purchase order has been signed last week and goods from Reliance Retail are set to replenish shelves at Big Bazaar stores across India, sources said. The move comes at a time when Kishore Biyani-led Future Group is locked in a bitter legal feud with Seattle-headquartered Amazon over the sale of its retail and wholesale assets, including 1,550 Big Bazaar stores, to RIL for around Rs 24,700 crore. “RIL’s move to bail out Big Bazaar exudes the confidence both companies have in closing the deal despite Amazon’s legal moves against it,” said a person familiar with the development. While Future Group did not comment on this matter, an RIL spokesperson, too, did not respond to an emailed query. Amazon, which owns 49% stake in one of Future Group’s unlisted companies — Future Coupons — claimed that the deal that was announced in August violated contractual agreements between the e-tailer and Biyani’s conglomerate, which operates several retail chains across India, including, FBB, Foodhall, EasyDay and WHSmith apart from Big Bazaar. “Future Group has started talking to its old suppliers, too, apart from taking supplies from JioMart,” said a person close to Future Group. “But Amazon’s legal proceedings have complicated things further for its lenders.” Future Retail on Saturday filed a suit in the Delhi high court seeking relief against Amazon from interfering in the deal. Future argued that Amazon was “misusing” the interim award passed by the emergency arbitrator of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) in October that has put the RIL-Future deal on hold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-helps-cash-strapped-big-bazaar-restock-shelves/articleshow/79158886.cms||John Sarkar
November 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar elections: NDA, MGB supporters’ mood swings with trends||PATNA: The mood of the supporters of both the NDA and the Mahagathbandhan (MGB) at the counting centre at AN College on Boring Road here fluctuated as the trends continued to favour one alliance or the other throughout Tuesday. Impervious to the news from the centre, however, were LJP supporters, who found solace not in the performance of their own candidates, but in the defeat of JD(U) candidates against whom their party had fielded nominees. The ambience at the counting centre initially was one of calm and silence, with some party supporters and political workers turning up during the first few rounds of counting. Most of them were RJD supporters, easily recognisable by the trademark green towel around their shoulders. Their numbers rose steadily as the counting showed MGB to be leading. Once the NDA inched ahead around mid-morning, however, the number of RJD supporters dwindled. The BJP supporters, who were initially missing from action, started showing up soon after trends began favouring their alliance. Sanjay Kumar Gupta, the counting agent of road construction minister and BJP leader Nand Kishore Yadav, was found relaxing with several other party workers at 6pm. “We feel relaxed now. We will form the government,” he said. This was around the 29th round of counting, when Yadav was ahead of Congress Pravin Singh by 10,173 votes. Sanjeev Chaurasia was also spotted inside the centre with two supporters early on Tuesday, analysing the votes garnered by him. Raju Yadav, a supporter of RJD’s Aniruddh Kumar, was spotted buying a garland from a vendor for his leader, who won Bakhtiyarpur. Yadav said he was confident of Aniruddh’s win. “Lekin party ke liye dhukdhuki laga hua hai… Hum log abhi bhi sarkar bana sakte hai… (But my heart palpitates when I think of the party… We are still in the position of forming the government…),” he said on the statewide trends. Around 6pm, a large number of RJD and Left supporters crowded the entrance of the centre, ignoring both social distancing and Section 144 of the CrPC. The RJD supporters raised slogans for their leaders Lalu Prasad, Rabri Devi and Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. While excited for their respective candidates, many of who were winning, the crowd was also chuffed at having given a tough fight to the NDA. A worker of the newly launched Plurals Party was also spotted with the party’s Bhaktiyarpur candidate, Kundan Kumar. Restricted to a few hundred votes, a disheartened Kumar said they had expected to be treated as an alternative to the bigger parties, but had been handed a reality check. Vikas Chandra, alias Guddu Baba, a social worker who tried his luck in elections for the first time from the Digha seat on the symbol of Bhartiya Party (Loktantrik), was spotted at the centre early on Tuesday. Having garnered only 837 votes, Chandra said the polls were a learning experience for him. Bachchu Paswan, an Independent candidate from Phulwari seat and also a poll débutante like Chandra, said he had realised that parties, not candidates, mattered to voters. Having learnt a lesson , these newcomers did not hang around the counting centre. LJP supporters, albeit few in number, kept a close eye on the performance of JD(U) candidates. LJP’s Parshuram Kumar, who contested from Masaurhi constituency, said he wasn’t concerned with whether he had won or not. “Our aim was to damage JD(U), which we have done,” he said. Kumar got 9,669 votes while JD(U)’s Nutan Paswan got 66,337 votes. The winner from Masaurhi was RJD’s Rekha Devi with 9,84,998 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-mgb-supporters-mood-swings-with-trends/articleshow/79160667.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 11, 2020||Patna||EC dismisses GA complaints||PATNA: A Mahagathbandhan delegation of senior RJD and Congress leaders met the Chief Electoral Officer in Patna late on Tuesday evening, alleging foul play by the district administrations in awarding the winning certificate. Former minister Shyam Rajak, who was a part of the delegation, said the EC has assured that it will look into their grievance. “It all happened when deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi went to the CM House. Both CM and deputy CM put pressure on the district administration to favour their candidates using unfair means,” Rajak alleged. He added, “This has happened in at least two dozen seats where our candidates were verbally announced as winners but were not given the winning certificates. The district administration is being partial.” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said, “They (NDA) are trying to stop us from winning.” Before heading to the EC, RJD on its official Twitter handle uploaded a list of 119 Mahagatbandhan candidates claiming they had won. “These are 119 seats where Mahagatbandhan candidates won after counting. The returning officers congratulated them but later did not give them certificates saying the candidates had lost. Even on ECI’s website, they are being shown as the winner. Such loot in democracy will not be allowed,” tweeted RJD. Congress senior leader Randeep Singh Surjewala also posted several tweets alleging his party candidates were not given certificates despite winning. Surjewala named Sakra, Kishanganj and Rajapakar assembly constituencies in his tweets. “Is this the test for democracy? Why is EC not taking any note?” he tweeted. However, CEO HR Srinivasa said the complaint was arbitrary. Among those who met the CEO include RJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha, former minister Shyam Rajak and senior Congress leaders Tariq Anwar, Madan Mohan Jha and Akhilesh Singh. On the other hand, CPI-ML demanded recounting at Bhore, Ara and Daraunda assembly seats through an email to the EC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ec-dismisses-ga-complaints/articleshow/79160702.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 11, 2020||Business||July-Sept 2020 best quarter for PC market in 7 yrs: IDC||Chennai: As more people moved into work from home (WFH) mode, personal computer shipments driven by laptops, registered their best-ever quarter in the last seven years during the period July-September. At 3.4 million units, the PC segment (inclusive of desktops, notebooks, and workstations) recorded a strong 9.2% year-over-year (YoY) growth in shipments this quarter, as per estimates by International Data Corporation (IDC). The share of desktops as a proportion of total shipments reduced from 29% in the same quarter last year to 16% in July-September 2020. Correspondingly, the share of laptops increased from 69% to 83%. Consumer segment recorded its biggest quarter ever. At 2 million units, shipments grew over 40% YoY and nearly tripled from the previous quarter. Schools and colleges contining to function virtually led to a surge in demand for laptops, especially in metros and large cities. In the commercial segment, enterprises reduced their dependency on desktops anticipating a longer work from home possibility but SMBs resumed purchases as business operations started with a relaxation in lockdown. “Despite the supply challenges, vendors were able to stock up for the upcoming online festivals. However, the demand for notebook PCs [laptops] remains much higher than the current supply, which is likely to lead to another strong quarter of shipments in October-December,” analysts at IDC said. “This demand is expected to stay strong as India remains underpenetrated in PCs. To add to this, the growing broadband connectivity in the country is making online learning easier for students,” Bharath Shenoy , market analyst for PC Devices at IDC India, said. HP Inc. retained the top position in the market with a share of 28.2% in 3Q20. Lenovo was at second spot with a share of 21.7%. Dell Technologies followed closely behind with 21.3% share in the overall PC market. The shipments of Apple grew almost 20% YoY as the tech giant recorded its biggest quarter of shipments in India. Surging demand for laptops also prompted newcomers Xiaomi and Avita to leverage the opportunity, but the brands remained outside of the top five companies in the consumer segment, IDC said. “Unfortunately, shortages of some key components continue to be a challenge. Vendors that will be able to manage the supplies of these components will benefit from this opportunity more as there is still a lot of untapped demand for PCs in the country,” Jaipal Singh, associate research manager, Client Devices, International Data Corporation India, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/july-sept-2020-best-quarter-for-pc-market-in-7-yrs-idc/articleshow/79158017.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 11, 2020||Business||Theatres tap pvt screenings to keep show going||Chennai: Hit hard by the pandemic, cinema halls are offering private screenings in a bid to make cinemagoers more comfortable to get back to theatres. Theatre chains such as PVR and Inox are already running private screenings since they reopened after the pandemic, and other multiplexes TOI spoke to said they are launching similar shows to make movie-watching a close-knit affair. Audiences are likely to be more at ease when they personally know everyone in the hall and theatres are also able to tackle lack of fresh content by offering a catalogue of classics, they said. PVR Cinemas, which had been offering curated private shows prior to the pandemic as well, rolled out the new programme around two weeks ago and notes a “phenomenal response”. “If current trends continue, and with opening of Maharashtra and other markets as well, we may expect a number of around 200 screenings per week, making it about a 1,000 screenings in a month,” PVR Cinemas CEO Gautam Dutta said. Given that the biggest concern for audiences is to share a closed space with unknown people, he is hopeful of a robust response. PVR’s packages start from Rs 1,999 and go up to Rs 5,000 per screening (food & beverages cost extra in these services across cinema chains), depending on the theatre and requirements.Inox said it has seen over 300 inquiries for private screenings in the past three days across regions.It has already executed approximately 50 such private movie sessions for friends, families, couples and other groups in cities where they have reopened.Inox Leisure CMO Saurabh Varma said the idea to offer a personalised movie experience came from customer feedback. “We believe that a large segment of our audiences would feel more comfortable enjoying a movie with just their family members and friends, or even by themselves,” he said. Inox offers private screenings starting at around Rs 2,999 per show and the number of people can range from just two till the prescribed 50% of the auditorium capacity. “We even hosted a honeymoon couple in Bengaluru recently for one such private screening,” Varma adds. Chennai-based Mayajaal Multiplex is also gearing up to launch private screening when it reopens in Tamil Nadu. “Private screenings will help us get the business momentum going, and ease the cash burn situation in the short-term till we are able to go back to full occupancy,” Mayajaal Entertainment MD and CEO Udeep B said. Industry trackers said that private screenings, offered in the price range of Rs 2,000-Rs 3,000 typically, will help multiplexes break even on the operational costs per show. “This (private screening) should become a regular product as it increases revenue opportunity even without continued flow of content,” analysts at Motilal said in a note. All safety standards and protocols are followed for private screenings as well, the theatres said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/theatres-tap-pvt-screenings-to-keep-show-going/articleshow/79158046.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 11, 2020||Patna||26 female candidates prove their mettle, emerge victorious in polls||PATNA: Of the 370 female candidates, who were in the fray this time, altogether 26 proved their mettle in the state assembly polls, the results of which were announced on Tuesday. Out of the 12 women, whom the BJP had fielded, nine emerged victorious. While seven from the RJD and six from the JD (U) won, two from the Congress and one each from the HAM (S) and the VIP emerged victorious. The JD (U) and the LJP had fielded the maximum number of female candidates (22). The RJD, on the other hand, had pitted 16 women, followed by the BJP (12). Other parties like the RLSP, BSP, Congress, NCP and VIP had fielded nine, eight, seven, five and one female candidates, respectively. As many as 114 women contested the polls independently and 154 from other registered parties. BJP candidate and Commonwealth Games gold medallist shooter Shreyasi Singh, who was pitted against RJD strongman and sitting MLA Vijay Prakash in Jamui, emerged victorious. Congress sitting MLA Vinay Varma lost the poll battle against his cousin’s wife Rashmi Varma of the BJP at Narkatiyaganj in West Champaran. Other winners from the BJP were Bagirathi Devi (Ramnagar), Renu Devi (Bettiah), Gayatri Devi (Parihar), Nisha Singh (Pranpur), Kavita Devi (Korha), Aruna Devi (Warisaliganj) and Nikki Hembram (Katoria). Congress candidates, who emerged victorious, were Nitu Kumari (Hisua) and Pratima Kumari (Raja Pakar). JD (U)’s Bima Bharti (Rupauli) and Veena Bharti (Triveniganj) defeated LJP’s Shankar Singh and RJD’s Santosh Kumar. Other winners included Shalini Mishra (Kesaria), Mina Kumari (Bahubarhi), Ashwamedha Devi (Samastipur), Leshi Singh (Dhamdaha) and Sheela Kumari (Phulparas). RJD’s Kiran Devi defeated Shweta Singh of the LJP in Bhojpur by a margin of 41,505 votes. Another candidate of the party, Sangita Kumar, won the Mohaniya seat by defeating BJP’s Niranajan Ram. Other winners were Bina Singh (Mahnar), Divya Prakash (Tarapur), Rekha Devi (Masaurhi), Anita Devi (Nokha), Manju Aggarwal (Shergatti) and Viha Devi (Nawada). The lone female candidates from the VIP and the HAM (S) — Swarna Singh and Jyoti Devi — defeated RJD’s Afzal Ali Khan and Samata Devi, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/26-female-candidates-prove-their-mettle-emerge-victorious-in-polls/articleshow/79158103.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 11, 2020||Patna||Jubilant BJP and JD(U) workers celebrate ‘victory’||PATNA: As soon as the poll trends shifted in the NDA’s favour on Tuesday, BJP and JD (U) workers reached their respective party offices and celebrated the victory by beating drums and blowing conches. While both the party headquarters wore a deserted look in the morning, the atmosphere changed in the evening, elevating the mood of the party workers. Sharing ‘laddos’ with party functionaries, BJP media incharge (legal cell) Praveen Sinha beamed with confidence, but waited for “the right time to celebrate”. “Few workers may be upset with the exit polls, but we were sure we would win,” he told TOI. The party’s state spokesperson, Arvind Kumar, who was standing next to Praveen, said nothing could stop the NDA from forming the government. Even women could be heard raising slogans and seen dancing at the BJP office. “Kyun pade ho chakkar me, koi nahi hai takkar me,” they shouted while hugging each other. A member of the Patna Mahanagar (women cell), Dimple Sinha, claimed that she and others had worked hard and expected the results in their favour. BJP Adhivakta Manch member, Bhubneshwar Pandey, said he would burst crackers when the final results would be announced. JD (U) workers were equally jubilant as they thronged the party office in the evening. The party’s minority cell vice-president, Najmul Hoda, said, “People have shown their faith in chief minister Nitish Kumar. They have also proved that they are silent voters.” JD (U) workers Naresh Kumar Mandal, Anil Kumar and Imteyaz Alam, who reached the party office in the evening, said, “Most of us have come here after completing our work. We believe in behaving decently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jubilant-bjp-and-jdu-workers-celebrate-victory/articleshow/79158161.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 11, 2020||---||How Tejashwi Yadav emerged from his father’s shadow||PATNA: Sometime in mid-September, around a month before the assembly polls were to begin, a large hoarding outside the RJD headquarters on Beer Chand Patel Marg in Patna, caught the attention of the media and the political parties alike — it had a life-size photo of Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, alone. His father, RJD chief Lalu Prasad and mother Rabri Devi, both a constant in RJD posters for at least a decade, were missing. The towering poster of Tejashwi, who turned 31 on Monday, overlooking one of Patna’s famous streets lined with party offices, and right opposite the JD(U) office, inevitably sparked a buzz about whether Tejashwi was “sidelining” his maverick politician father and taking full control of the party? The media speculated, and even his political rivals mocked him for “ignoring” his jailed father. But this bold step signalled the coming of age of the former cricketer, who also played a few IPL matches, as a politician in his own right emerging from the shadow of his famous father. “Lalu Ji’s shadow will always be there in the form of blessings on Tejashwi. And a father always feels very proud of his son is even more successful than him and outshines him. One day, Lalu Ji would be known as Tejashwi’s father,” says Bhola Yadav, the RJD chief’s closest aide and a candidate from Hayaghat in Darbhanga, obliquely acknowledging the generational shift in the party. “Tejashwi has inherited his father’s ability to connect with the masses during his rallies. While Lalu Ji had a more rustic humorous appeal in his language and interactions, Tejashwi is more serious in his approach, but has imbibed his father’s vision,” Bhola added, comparing the campaign styles of the father and son. RJD watchers say breaking away from his father's social justice agenda must have been a tough call for Tejashwi, who took the reins of the party at a difficult time when Lalu was jailed in the fodder scam in 2017, especially after the 2019 general election debacle. But Tejashwi persevered as he broke away from the RJD’s standard campaign issues and moulded the party in a short span in his own image, focusing on problems such as unemployment, migration, healthcare among others, including his promise of providing 10 lakh government jobs, which has taken the youths of the state by storm. “Employment had never been an issue in earlier state elections, but Tejashwi changed the trend. There is always an undercurrent in any political party, but Tejashwi is young. He knows this is the start of his career and will give his best,” said Patna-based political analyst D M Diwakar. Echoing Diwakar, a senior RJD leader, said, “With social justice given, he (Tejashwi) is now fighting for economic justice. He is fighting for youths of the state. He knows the importance of permanent employment.” From opting for the right alliance partners to picking the right issues, Tejashwi did not waver from his bread-and-butter issues despite attempts by the ruling NDA to steer the discourse towards national issues such as abrogation of Article 370 in Kashmir and Ram temple among others. Political observers here believe it was Tejashwi who set the agenda for this election and compelled his opponents to match it. “Remember how opposition kept talking about 15 years of jungle raj, but Tejashwi has left behind that legacy. Of late in RJD posters, even his parents were not visible, which shows Tejashwi does not want that era to cast a shadow on the new one,” Diwakar said. “BJP, which mainly talked about Kashmir, Article 370 and Ram Mandir, had to promise to generate 19 lakh employment opportunities. While both JD (U) and BJP made fun of Tejashwi’s job promise, later they started singing the same tune,” said another political observer. Another shift away from RJD’s tradition stance is Tejashwi move to woo all sections beyond its Yadav-Muslim voter base by promising to work for all castes and religions. The younger Yadav scion was initially underestimated, not only by his opponents but also former alliance partners like RLSP, HAM (S) and VIP, who chose to move out of the Mahagatbandhan and join the NDA. However, Tejashwi’s popularity became clearer when his physical rallies began drawing massive crowds despite the Covid scare. The surging crowds at his rallies eventually unnerved his main rival CM Nitish Kumar, who along with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, and other NDA leaders started making vitriolic personal attacks on Tejashwi. “While Tejashwi remained calm and showed his mature side, Nitish Kumar’s demeanour was the opposite. He stooped too low and started making personal attacks, breaking away from his style of not making personal attacks, which did not go down well with the common people. Even PM Modi lashed at him, but Tejashwi in reply called those attacks as blessings and instead asked the PM to talk on the real issues,” said Diwakar. Even Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala said several times during the campaigning that the “Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj” barb does not cut the ice anymore as “Tejashwi comes with a clean slate”. If the Mahagathbandhan forms the government, Tejashwi, who celebrated his 31st birthday on Monday, will be the youngest chief minister of a full-fledged state in the country with the added distinction of being the only CM whose both parents were also chief ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/how-tejashwi-emerged-from-his-fathers-shadow/articleshow/79162510.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 11, 2020||---||Bihar elections: Bahubalis, their kin call the shots again||PATNA: Bahubalis (musclemen) in Bihar have managed to rule by proxy once again. If the trends are any indication, they have not only emerged victorious in some places, but also managed to ensure victory of their kin in the electoral battle. For example, sitting MLA from Mokama Anant Singh alias Chhote Sarkar is set to win for the fourth consecutive term by defeating his nearest rival Rajiv Lochan Narayan Singh of JD(U). Anant, against whom three dozen cases are pending, has been representing the Mokama assembly seat since 2005. Apparently delighted over her husband’s likely victory, Anant’s wife Neelam Devi said, “He (Anant) will be able to deliver more to the people of his constituency. He will work with more interest and enthusiasm since people have posed faith in him once again. This time he had contested on an RJD ticket.” The don-turned-legislator’s wife was seen monitoring the feast organized at their residence in the state capital as a mark of victory celebration on Tuesday even though the result of Anant’s win was not officially declared by the Election Commission till late in the evening. Anant is currently lodged in the Beur central jail. Another don-turned-politician, Ritlal Yadav, was also leading in Danapur constituency against BJP’s Asha Devi by a comfortable margin. Rital, who is facing charges of killing Asha’s husband about 17 years ago, contested on an RJD ticket. Chetan Anand, son of jailed muscleman Anand Mohan, is also set to register his victory from Sheohar assembly seat. He too was fielded by RJD. Chetan’s mother and former MP from Vaishali Lovely Anand also contested as an RJD nominee from Saharsa. Manorama Devi, wife of muscleman Bindi Yadav, was in the fray from Atari in Gaya district. However, some other musclemen like Narendra Kumar Pandey alias Sunil Pandey (Tarari), his brother Hulas Pandey (Brahmapur) and Munna Shukla (Lalganj) are not so fortunate. They were trailing over their political rivals with huge margins. Some babubalis worked hard to ensure victory for their close relatives. For example, Veena Singh, wife of muscleman Rama Kishore Singh alias Rama Singh, was leading over her rival from Mahnar assembly constituency in Vaishali district. She was allotted ticket by RJD after former Union minister late Raghuvansh Prasad Singh opposed entry of Rama in RJD. “The results of wives of some bahubalis, such as Lovely Anand (wife of Anand Mohan), Vibha Devi (wife of Raj Ballabh Prasad Yadav), Kiran Devi (wife of Arun Yadav) and were not declared by the EC till late in the evening. The EC had earlier asked all the political parties to explain to people as to why they preferred candidates with criminal antecedents. Altogether 3,755 contestants, including 370 women and one transgender, were in the fray. Of them, 1,157 candidates criminal antecedents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bahubalis-their-kin-call-the-shots-again/articleshow/79162546.cms||Ramashankar
November 11, 2020||---||Experts believe prohibition damaged Nitish Kumar in polls||PATNA: Has the RJD and Congress announcement to review the prohibition law in state if voted to power affected the outcome of assembly election results in Bihar? Surprisingly, even HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, an ally of CM Nitish Kumar in this election, termed the prohibition as anti-poor and advocated for its review at his election rallies. Prohibition was enforced in state on April 1, 2016 and landed more than 3.12 lakh people in jail for its violation across Bihar. But the state machinery failed to check liquor smuggling as 1.27 crore litres of smuggled India made foreign liquor had been seized till September 30. More than 550 police personnel have been facing departmental proceedings while over 180 of them had been dismissed from service for their involvement in prohibition law violation. When asked, RJD spokesperson Chittaranjan Gagan was guarded in his statement. “Several innocent people have been put behind bars by misusing the prohibition law. Our party will see how they could be given some relief. We will review prohibition policy if come to power,” he said. “Liquor smuggling is rampant under the government officials’ patronage as it has a market of thousands of crores,” he added.  JD(U) spokesperson Dr Suheli Mehta said rolling back prohibition would be like cheating the women in Bihar. She said women across the state voted for her party due to prohibition as they were its biggest benefactors as well as beneficiaries. “That’s why neither RJD nor Congress dared give any clear statement about its rollback. Had they spoken about revoking it, their security deposits in election would have been forfeited,” she said. “Some people deliberately want prohibition to fail and wanted to make it an election issue. But only those associated with its smuggling are opposed to prohibition,” Mehta said. But many said prohibition harmed the Nitish government, politically as well. Sociologist DM Diwakar said the middle and upper class people took prohibition as a matter of interference with their personal food choice. “These people know what is good or bad for them,” Diwakar said and blamed prohibition for the low urban voter turnout in this election. Diwakar, however, said the situation was not the same in rural areas. “Women favour prohibition as liquor addiction of their male family members used to result in domestic violence and other crimes,” he said. Satyabir Bharti, a lawyer at Patna high court, said prohibition was a total failure and Nitish paid the price for that. “Prohibition resulted in joblessness and unemployment of those who were earning livelihood from liquor manufacturing factories in Bihar. Government provided no alternative to them,” Bharti said. He said prohibition also destroyed industries manufacturing chemicals, paints, homeopathic medicines from raw denatured alcohol. “Entire family get affected with the arrest of a single member. Lakhs of people got arrested for liquor consumption and sales,” Bharti said. “Legal system was not equipped to handle the massive count of cases in subordinate courts. A poor person arrested for violating liquor law remained in jails for several months as their bail matters could not be taken up by the courts due to large number of cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/experts-believe-prohibition-damaged-nitish-in-polls/articleshow/79162823.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 11, 2020||Patna||Experts believe prohibition damaged Nitish Kumar in polls||PATNA: Has the RJD and Congress announcement to review the prohibition law in state if voted to power affected the outcome of assembly election results in Bihar? Surprisingly, even HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi, an ally of CM Nitish Kumar in this election, termed the prohibition as anti-poor and advocated for its review at his election rallies. Prohibition was enforced in state on April 1, 2016 and landed more than 3.12 lakh people in jail for its violation across Bihar. But the state machinery failed to check liquor smuggling as 1.27 crore litres of smuggled India made foreign liquor had been seized till September 30. More than 550 police personnel have been facing departmental proceedings while over 180 of them had been dismissed from service for their involvement in prohibition law violation. When asked, RJD spokesperson Chittaranjan Gagan was guarded in his statement. “Several innocent people have been put behind bars by misusing the prohibition law. Our party will see how they could be given some relief. We will review prohibition policy if come to power,” he said. “Liquor smuggling is rampant under the government officials’ patronage as it has a market of thousands of crores,” he added.  JD(U) spokesperson Dr Suheli Mehta said rolling back prohibition would be like cheating the women in Bihar. She said women across the state voted for her party due to prohibition as they were its biggest benefactors as well as beneficiaries. “That’s why neither RJD nor Congress dared give any clear statement about its rollback. Had they spoken about revoking it, their security deposits in election would have been forfeited,” she said. “Some people deliberately want prohibition to fail and wanted to make it an election issue. But only those associated with its smuggling are opposed to prohibition,” Mehta said. But many said prohibition harmed the Nitish government, politically as well. Sociologist DM Diwakar said the middle and upper class people took prohibition as a matter of interference with their personal food choice. “These people know what is good or bad for them,” Diwakar said and blamed prohibition for the low urban voter turnout in this election. Diwakar, however, said the situation was not the same in rural areas. “Women favour prohibition as liquor addiction of their male family members used to result in domestic violence and other crimes,” he said. Satyabir Bharti, a lawyer at Patna high court, said prohibition was a total failure and Nitish paid the price for that. “Prohibition resulted in joblessness and unemployment of those who were earning livelihood from liquor manufacturing factories in Bihar. Government provided no alternative to them,” Bharti said. He said prohibition also destroyed industries manufacturing chemicals, paints, homeopathic medicines from raw denatured alcohol. “Entire family get affected with the arrest of a single member. Lakhs of people got arrested for liquor consumption and sales,” Bharti said. “Legal system was not equipped to handle the massive count of cases in subordinate courts. A poor person arrested for violating liquor law remained in jails for several months as their bail matters could not be taken up by the courts due to large number of cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/experts-believe-prohibition-damaged-nitish-in-polls/articleshow/79160716.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 11, 2020||Patna||JD(U) retains Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat in byelection||PATNA: JD(U) retained its Valmiki Nagar parliamentary seat in the byelection as its candidate Sunil Kumar defeated Congress nominee Prawesh Kumar by 22,539 votes. The byelection to the seat had been necessitated due to the death of sitting JD(U) MP Baidyanath Mahto. JD(U) fielded Mahto’s son Sunil, while Congress had also replaced its candidate in the 2019 parliamentary election, Shashwat Gautam. Curiously, Mahto, who had polled 6.02 lakh votes, had defeated the 2019 Congress nominee by 3.54 lakh votes taking advantage of the JD(U) and BJP alliance and the wave that PM Narendra Modi had created then. Clearly, the byelection was a keenly fought contest between the JD(U) and Congress this time. BJP national president J P Nadda at his Narkatiaganj rally had also appealed to the voters of the parliamentary constituency to vote for Sunil, who was also among the speakers there. Nadda had gone there to campaign for the NDA candidates for the assembly elections also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-retains-valmiki-nagar-lok-sabha-seat-in-byelection/articleshow/79160736.cms||Abhay Singh
November 11, 2020||Vadodara||12-ft crocodile takes a walk in Vadsar||VADODARA: When residents of Vadsar village were about to hit the bed on Sunday night, a visitor took them by surprise. A 12-feet-long crocodile, who was out for a walk, was spotted by the locals when he was crawling through the village. As the word spread, people gathered to catch a glimpse of the giant reptile but it walked by unmindful of the commotion around. “The reptile had ventured out of Vishwamitri River that flows near the village. It entered the drain and then crawled into the village on Sunday night. Some locals spotted it and called our volunteers,” said Siddharth Amin, who runs Life With Wildlife. The volunteers rushed to the village - located just six kms from the city’s centre - and began the rescue operation. It took them half-an-hour to rescue the reptile and hand it over to the forest department. “Villagers have often spotted crocodiles as Vishwamitri River - the home to hundreds of reptiles - flows very close to Vadsar. But not many times does a giant crocodile appear on the main road and crawls through the lanes,” said Amin. The locals have also been made aware of the reptiles and their habits, and asked to keep away from the river. “Crocodiles often migrate from one water body to another. We rescue them only if it is necessary,” Amin added. Another 12-feet-long crocodile had also entered a residential locality in Karelibaug on Sunday night. It had ventured out of a drain that is connected with Vishwamitri River.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/12-ft-crocodile-takes-a-walk-in-vadsar/articleshow/79155908.cms||Tushar Tere
November 11, 2020||Business||"HR must reassess workplace utilisation beyond hot desking"||By Anurag Malik The future of work arrived on the back of the Covid-19 pandemic, catapulting work-from-home and technology journeys years into the future. Successfully returning to the physical workplace is now a priority for all leaders. But this recovery is also an opportunity to reframe your organisation’s future. The pandemic has provided HR leaders with an opportunity to reset the workforce and the workplace experience, shifting from ‘return to office’ to ‘reimagining work’. As HR leaders plan this physical return to work, our advice is to switch between two gears — ‘transition’ and ‘transformation’. Here are four prominent areas to reimagine the future: * Reimagine physical workspace: Supporters of offices still argue that this is the place where we solve problems, build relationships and experience culture. Others believe that there is no need to return to the rigours and expenses of commuting to an office. While the debate is still on, organisations are redesigning the office for social distancing and restricting movements in congested areas. However, if the primary purpose of the office in the future will be to accommodate teaming, learning and solving problems, shouldn’t 75% of the space be designed for collaboration? While many organisations are expected to reduce their office space by 15-30%, some that are ready to go completely remote may give it up entirely. Instead of only resizing the current office space for the future, organisations need to reimagine the office footprint in 3 buckets — ‘owned/leased space’, ‘flex/co-working space’ and ‘remote work’. Co-working spaces spread across large cities can be a great alternative for providing mini teams the opportunity to work together without the need for long-duration commutes. * Reimagine operating models: Organisations seamlessly moved to remote working with minimal drop in productivity. As they plan a physical return to work, many organisations are currently struggling to estimate the percentage of remote work that can be institutionalised. The transformation opportunity here is to objectively design a new operating model based on what percentage of workforce returns to work, what percentage of work can be partly done remotely and what percentage can continue to be executed remotely for sustainable benefits. Organisations need to think of every job as ‘100% remote’, ‘hybrid’ or ‘100% office’. This will be core to forecasting and recalibrating workforce planning models for continued operations (including rostering), infrastructure, facilities, and services planning. Organisations can compute the remote working propensity for every role based on factors such as tools and technology required for executing the role, data privacy considerations, communication requirement, decision-making, knowledge-sharing, etc. Such an objective role-based evaluation approach is helpful for building a sustainable hybrid operating model for the future. * Rethink employee experience: Employee experience is no longer limited to the physical office buildings, it has expanded to an individual’s home. It is impacted by the workplace design, ambient lighting, noise and infrastructure at the place of remote work. Some organisations have rolled out new policies and allowances to take care of infrastructure & ergonomics (chairs, table, etc), and connectivity (broadband, etc). The focus is on enabling something close to the ‘employee experience’ provided in the office. However, the employee experience in office also included softer benefits like creche, gym, meals, transportation, etc. So, the question is, how does HR address these elements in a remote working scenario? Overall, the HR model needs to be reimagined through the employee experience lens of a hybrid workforce. Are there any HR processes that still need employees to be at the workplace? Can they be rapidly digitised? How can we improve our employee experience across HR processes using technology (AI screening, chat bots, zero touch on boarding, etc)? * Reimagine workforce models: The pandemic has accelerated ‘talent liquidity’, a new definition for remote-working talent that is not limited by geographical boundaries. If the location of a role does not matter, organisations can rapidly reduce the costs of resourcing through moving roles to low-cost locations or looking at alternate resourcing pools. As organisations around the world adopt hybrid workplace models, many are primarily focusing on cost savings linked to real estate. However, the transformational opportunity is to reimagine resourcing and employment models. HR leaders need to explore increasing the use of alternative talent pools and more holistically re-thinking the composition and size of the workforce of the future (for example, gig workers, contractors, vendors). The long-term cost advantage that talent liquidity provides can far outweigh the temporary benefits from real estate cost reductions. (The writer is partner - people advisory services, EY India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hr-must-reassess-workplace-utilisation-beyond-hot-desking/articleshow/79159995.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Business||Bidders hike DHFL offers, Oaktree’s remains largest||MUMBAI: Bidders for DHFL have submitted fresh offers for the beleaguered housing finance company following a demand from creditors, who were unhappy with earlier submissions. While the bids have been increased significantly, lenders say they are still below expectations, leaving them in a dilemma. Oaktree Capital, the biggest bidder which had offered Rs 28,000 crore, is understood to have increased the net present value too of its offer by around 10%. The Rs 28,000 crore promised does not show the net present value of the proposed investment as a large part of the bid amount will be paid after five years. Also, over a third of the amount is the free cash lying with the company that will be returned to lenders. Adani Properties, which has bid for the wholesale book, has hiked its original offer by 20% to around Rs 2,700 crore. Piramal Group is offering around Rs 25,000 crore for the retail book — an increase of over 60% over its previous bid. Despite the sharp revisions, the money offered by Oaktree’s for the whole book is more than Piramal and Adani’s offers put together. The dilemma for banks is that on the one hand the revised bids are still below expectation and, at the same time, there are no interested parties on the horizon. What makes things difficult is that the original promoters are being investigated for fraud and there are accusations against them of diverting funds. Also, unlike businesses in the realty sector where lenders can afford to wait, services companies lose value rapidly as every delay costs money in operational costs and there is no scope for appreciation in valuation as no fresh business is being done. While banks are free to liquidate the company and sell its assets, lenders say that they are unlikely to raise more than Oaktree’s bid amount under the liquidation process. DHFL ran into troubles after a forensic audit carried at the behest of lenders revealed that loans of close to Rs 20,000 core were not traceable. A subsequent report by Grant Thornton revealed that DHFL used software to create 2.6 lakh fictitious home loan accounts, which resulted in the administrator filing a case against the promoters for fraud of Rs 12,000 crore. Besides the three companies, SC Lowy had also put in a bid. However, the private equity investor is interested in only the non-slum rehabilitation projects of the lender for which it has bid Rs 2,300 crore. Earlier the company had put in a bid for Rs 1,500 crore. DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan had written to lenders, stating that its 10 projects are worth Rs 43,879 crore and offered them in settlement. Lenders, however, say that Wadhawan is trying to delay the resolution process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bidders-hike-dhfl-offers-oaktrees-remains-largest/articleshow/79158979.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 11, 2020||Pune||Five gold chains, six vehicles seized from arrested duo||PUNE: The Vishrantwadi police recently arrested two criminals on record and detected 11 cases — of five chain snatchings and six vehicle thefts. A police team led by sub-inspector Lahu Satpute under the guidance of deputy commissioner of police (zone IV) Pankaj Deshukh was investigating a chain snatching case that a 21-year-old woman reported at Kalas in Vishrantwadi on September 24, when zeroed in on a CCTV camera grab of a helmet-wearing duo on a motorcycle. The police team during investigations found that the arrested — Rupesh Yadav (36) from Vadgaonsheri and Halim Shaikh (40) from Sayyednagar — would steal motorcycles and use it to snatch chains in various parts of the city. Satpute said, “We scanned CCTV cameras at various places, established the identity of the suspects and arrested them at Chandannagar on November 5 following a tip-off. “The suspects, during questioning, admitted to their involvement in a series of chain snatching and vehicle theft cases. We have recovered five gold chains and six stolen vehicles valued at over Rs7.11 lakh from them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5-gold-chains-six-vehicles-seized-from-arrested-duo/articleshow/79159719.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Farm body to take call on Nov 20||Jandiala: Refusing to relent till the Centre rescinded theb new farm laws, the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has decided to announce its next course of action on November 20, a day before their ‘rail roko’ agitation ends. “Our core committee has scheduled a meeting on November 20 and has also invited stakeholders to hold discussions on the impact of the three laws,” KMSC gen secy Sarwan Singh Pandher said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farm-body-to-take-call-on-nov-20/articleshow/79159708.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||Over 30 people booked for destroying standing mustard crop on 10 acre||PILIBHIT: Police on Tuesday booked nine named and 20-25 anonymous persons for completely destroying standing mustard crop over a 10 acre area of a farmer in village Mataiyya Lalpur under Madhotanda police station. The accused forcibly ploughed the crop using tractors with intent of taking unauthorised possession of the land. Complainant Rajendra Singh, a resident of Civil Lines in Unnao, told police he had given his 10 acre plot for cultivation to one Kuldeep Singh of the same village on contract, on which the latter had sown mustard crop. One Vyant Singh of village Ramnagra under the same police station, along with eight relatives who have been identified and some goons armed with rifles, forcibly ploughed his crop with tractors and took unauthorised possession of the land, he said. Madhotanda SHO Ram Sevak said the accused were booked under sections 147 (rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or more) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/over-30-people-booked-for-destroying-standing-mustard-crop-on-10-acre/articleshow/79154632.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||Abandoned one and half years ago, baby girl reunites with her parents||Bareilly: Destiny finally smiles at one and a half years old girl rendered fateless by none other than her parents in May 2019 — believing hospital staff had changed their newborn boy with her — and reunited her with them on Tuesday. Based on a DNA test report that confirmed the couple to be her biological parents, the child welfare committee summoned the parents and warned them of booking them under section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act if they refused to own their daughter. The girl was born premature — after six and a half months of pregnancy — to Mamta Gangwa and Horilal — marginal farmers based in Raasdandiya village of Rampur district — at a private hospital in Milak town of the district on May 6. As the baby was critical, she was shifted to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. The girl was, however, “mistaken for a boy due to her abnormally enlarged clitoris" -- because of a medical condition (hyperthyroid clitoris) that she is cured of now, said doctors. The confused parents approached Premnagar police station alleging that their baby boy was exchanged with the girl by the hospital staff. Following a complaint, an FIR was registered against the hospital administration. Filing a closure report after the completion of his investigation, sub-inspector Vishnu Dutta, however, concluded that “the girl was not exchanged”. The couple turned down the police investigation report, prompting the CWC to order the DNA test of the girl in July last year. “It’s a perfect case of gender discrimination. The parents couldn’t develop emotion for their child as it’s not a boy,” said DN Sharma, a committee member, who has been pursuing the case since the beginning, and had even sought the support of Human Rights Commission after there was an inordinate delay in conducting the baby’s DNA test. “Even as the DNA test confirmed the couple to be their parents, they were not ready to take possession of their child. We, then, took the help of police and warned the couple of an FIR against them,” Sharma told TOI. “Every member of the CWC is happy after the parents accepted the girl. The hospital administration, too, forgave the parents for levelling serious charges after the couple apologised in writing. The parents, meanwhile, gave us a written assurance that they would take good care of the girl.” In their letter to the hospital administration, the couple — parents of four daughters now — apologised for defaming the hospital by levelling serious allegations and stated that they were ashamed for disowning their daughter. A sub-inspector with the forensic department in Lucknow had on October 19 submitted the DNA report to the CWC, which has been taking care of the baby since May 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/abandoned-one-and-half-years-ago-baby-girl-reunites-with-her-parents/articleshow/79155698.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Alappuzha: Excise sleuths seize 1,750 litres of spirit||ALAPPUZHA: Excise sleuths seized 1,750 litres of spirit from a minibus that had a board carrying the name of a Chendamelam group, on NH 66 near Cherthala railway station here on Tuesday early morning . The spirit stored in 50 cans was seized by a team led by excise enforcement and anti-narcotic special squad circle inspector R Biju Kumar. The excise team conducted the checks after they received a tipoff. Seeing the excise team, the bus stopped some distance away and the driver managed to escape. Percussion instruments were placed on the roof of the vehicle. The excise team said that they have not made any arrests so far and an investigation is on to trace the people behind it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/excise-sleuths-seize-1750-litres-of-spirit/articleshow/79158237.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||12 smugglers held with 16 quintal cannabis in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: As many as 12 people, including their gang leader Manish Jaiswal, were arrested by Shahjahanpur police with 16 quintals of cannabis in Khuthar area on Tuesday. All the accused are from Barabanki district and used to supply narcotics substance to licensed shops in UP and have a very large network in the state, said police. Police said they were booked under relevant sections. Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “This is an organised gang which deals in the supply of cannabis to various licensed shops and other buyers across the state. The operation was conducted by Khuthar SHO Jai Shankar Singh under the supervision of additional SP (rural) Aparna Gautam.” “The accused used to make small packets of smuggled cannabis and would supply to their clients. We are expecting to catch more people involved in the racket. We have recovered 1.3 quintal marijuana and nearly 15 quintals of bhaang (an edible form of cannabis) along with 11 mobile phones from the accused,” added the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-smugglers-held-with-16-quintal-cannabis-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/79154648.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 11, 2020||Pune||Cops recover six stolen motorcycles from 2 men||Pune: The Chandannagar police recovered six stolen vehicles worth Rs2.55 lakh, following the recent arrest of two criminals on police records. The arrested duo, Ramesh Chavan (21) and Mohan Nilvarne (20), hail from Parbhani district. Both were arrested from Chandannagar. Assistant inspector Gajanan Pawar and his team from the Chandannagar police took Chavan into custody, when he was found riding a stolen motorcycle and he failed to produce the vehicle’s documents upon enquiries by the police. Police said during the questioning, Chavan admitted to stealing vehicles from various districts across Pune. He later revealed the name of his accomplice, Nilvarne, who was residing in Aurangabad. Followiing thsi information, police fanned a team and Nilavrne was arrested. The Chandannagar police in a statement stated that they recovered six motorcycles, collectively worth Rs2.55 lakh, which were stolen by the duo from Pune, rural Pune, Ahmednagar and Parbhani, this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-recover-six-stolen-motorcycles-from-2-men/articleshow/79159752.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Topsia blaze leaves 250 homeless||KOLKATA: A massive fire broke out at Kolkata’s Topsia area around 3.30pm on Tuesday. As many as 60-odd shanties were gutted by the blaze. More than 12 fire tenders had rushed to the spot to douse the flames. Though none was injured, at least 250 slum dwellers became homeless. Cops said the presence of tarpaulin and chemical drums allowed the fire to spread quickly. Cooling, however, continued till late in the evening. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee also reached the spot. She had been monitoring the situation from the beginning and had instructed fire department, DMG and police to rescue and remove all residents to safety. Fire and Emergency Services Minister Sujit Bose, too, had rushed to the spot to take stock of the situation. For thousands of residents, who live within the two-kilometre radius, it was a fearful sight to see thick clouds of smoke billowing out from the area. Apart from the fire department and police, KMC, too has started a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/topsia-blaze-leaves-250-homeless/articleshow/79158251.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||GM inspects Dakshineswar Metro extn||Kolkata: Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi on Tuesday inspected the upcoming Metro extension to Dakshineswar. “We are hoping the pending work will be over by December-end and we can commission the section thereafter,” Joshi told TOI after the inspection.The GM and his team travelled 4km on a trolley from Noapara, the northern terminal of the north-south Metro, to Dakshineswar, so that he could check the tracks as well. They disembarked at the two new Metro stations — Baranagar and Dakshineswar — dotting the 4-km extension of India’s oldest Metro.The crucial “train protection warning system” (TPWS) equipment, a sophisticated software that prevents accidents, has now arrived from Germany’s Siemens. Dakshineswar Metro, which has missed several deadlines, would have been launched in July had the equipment not run into lockdown restrictions.Joshi said, “We reviewed the new section in entirety. Telecommunication and signaling system will be installed now. Extensive testing is required ahead before this. The TPWS will be a part of the signaling system. The most complex job is installing the signaling system and subsequent testing.” Work relating to the tracks is almost over. The general manager saw the ongoing installation of the Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA), a control system architecture that uses computers, networked data communications and graphical interfaces for high-level process supervisory management. Station control rooms for both stations will now be set up and linked to the operation control centre (OCC) of the Metro Bhavan. Only after all the nitty gritty of the system is in place, can train rolling or trial runs start. Joshi said, “The various aspects of the system have to synchronized, tested and fine-tuned. And only then can the first rolling stock propelled on the tracks. I guess trains can start rolling for trials sometime in December.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gm-inspects-dakshineswar-metro-extn/articleshow/79158232.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 11, 2020||Mumbai||BMC notice to clerk who permitted burial at disputed Aarey site||MUMBAI: BMC on Tuesday told Bombay high court it had issued a show-cause notice to a death record clerk who permitted a burial at a disputed site at Prajapur village, Aarey Colony. A bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Abhay Ahuja was informed by senior advocate Anil Sakhare, for BMC, that it had initiated action and depending on the clerk’s reply a full-fledged inquiry will be conducted. “Take action against those who conducted the burial. How can anyone bury a body where they want?” asked Justice Kathawalla. The court heard a petition by Shri Leva Patidar Bajrang Satsang Mandal, which said it was in possession since 1925 of land on which there are two temples and a welfare centre. It urged stopping construction on the adjacent 2,500-sqm burial ground for Muslims. The court was told on September 5 a burial took place. BMC said the mandal had no right on the land, which belonged to the state government. Its trust deed and an inquiry showed it did not own immovable property. The disputed portion is excluded from the development plan as the state is yet to sanction modification of a planning committee proposal to reduce reservation of hospital to cemetery. Sakhare explained that in 2014 the land was transferred by Aarey to the revenue department, which gave it to BMC health office, K East ward. BMC entered into an agreement in August 2014 with Anjuman Taleem-Ul-Quran Sunni Taha Masjid to maintain the land but no permission was given for burial. He said the land could not be used for anything till the state granted approval. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia said she would take instructions. Senior advocate Dinyar Madon with advocate Bahraiz Irani, for the petitioner, said they were in favour of an amicable solution to avoid communal tension. “Let the cemetery be shifted to where the Christian cemetery is. We are willing to compensate the Muslim trust,’’ said Madon. Anjuman’s advocate Karl Tamboly said BMC permitted it to dig pitches. The judges directed that in the meantime it should not use the land as for burials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-notice-to-clerk-who-permitted-burial-at-disputed-aarey-site/articleshow/79158383.cms||Rosy Sequeira
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Amdavadis, be extra cautious this festive season||AHMEDABAD: The heads of the top private hospitals treating Covid-19 patients are constantly fielding requests for a bed for a patient. About a third of the 70 member hospitals of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) did not have a single bed available on Tuesday evening. Another 33% had less than 20% beds vacant. These hospitals include HCG Hospital, Sushrusha Hospital, Little Flower Hospital, CIMS Hospital, SGVP Hospital, Parekhs Hospital, Trisha Hospital, Pukhraj Hospital, Lotus Hospital, Star Hospital, Avadh Hospital, Sanjivani Hospital and Saraswati Hospital, among others. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, medical director of HCG Hospital and president of AHNA, said that this has been the phenomenon observed over the past four days. “Multiple factors such as a change in the season, greater movement of people during Navratri and flouting of safety rules by the citizens could be responsible for the phenomenon. We urge citizens to exercise the utmost care during the festive season as the images we see of the shoppers are worrisome,” he said. Most hospitals are witnessing a rush from the western parts of the city such as Satellite, Vastrapur, Bodakdev, Anandnagar and Gota among others, said Dr Anish Chandarana, vice president of AHNA. “We have about 40 patients in waiting at the moment. Occupancy was below 50% last week. The number of patients from other cities is minuscule,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amdavadis-be-extra-cautious-this-festive-season/articleshow/79158271.cms||Parth Shastri
November 11, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt may accept L&T notice on chawl’s redevelopment project||MUMBAI: The state government is likely to soon accept infrastructure firm Larsen & Toubro’s notice for termination of a contract for the Rs 2,900-crore Naigaum BDD chawl redevelopment project. Three and a half years after the government awarded the project to L&T to redevelop a 13.3 acre plot, it has not been able to carry out a survey of tenants and decide on those eligible for free housing. The collector’s office tried to organise a survey of tenants in October but shelved it after local BJP MLA Kalidas Kolambhkar sought a postponement, Mhada sources said. MHADA is the nodal agency for the project and is now owner of chawl land at Naigaum, Worli and N M Joshi Marg. Times ViewThe Naigaum BDD redevelopment fiasco exemplifies how a project goes wrong in the absence of government support. Since it involved the sensitive issue of housing and rehabilitation, state agencies should have hammered out a consensus among residents before inviting bids or roping in a contractor. A rare opportunity to give the area a face-lift has been lost.Political interference has resulted in a stalemate. Local Congress leaders have opposed the project from the beginning, while BJP has been pushing for it. Mhada sources said the company, after waiting for long, in July served a termination notice. “It bagged a major contract from Cidco, where it got a vacant plot, and work has started. It does not make economic sense for them to wait indefinitely here for the government to do a survey and shift tenants,” said the source. The former chief officer did try to persuade L&T to stay for at least a year, but the company was firm about the termination. It had provided a Rs 120-crore bank guarantee while government paid Rs 10 crore as it was a cash contract. “Once we accept the termination, we shall settle accounts and focus on carrying out a survey of eligible tenants. We have permission but will not appoint a contractor till eligibility is decided,” said an official. Mhada had tentatively planned to build four sale buildings with 60 floors each at Naigaum. It had also proposed a 20-storey commercial building besides 20 buildings with 19-23 floors to house tenants of Naigaum chawls. TIMESVIEW: The Naigaum BDD redevelopment fiasco exemplifies how a project goes wrong in the absence of government support. Since it involved the sensitive issue of housing and rehabilitation, state agencies should have hammered out a consensus among residents before inviting bids or roping in a contractor. A rare opportunity to give the area a face-lift has been lost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/govt-may-accept-lt-termination-notice-for-bdd-chawl-redevpt-project/articleshow/79158390.cms||Clara Lewis
November 11, 2020||Delhi||Cloud-based healthcare management system, e-cards by August: Delhi CM||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday directed health officials to ensure implementation of the health information management system (HIMS) and introduce e-health cards in all Delhi government hospitals by next August. HIMS will be implemented to provide effective healthcare services to Delhiites through technologically empowered processes. Kejriwal, who chaired a high-level meeting to review the system, said the e-health card would make things convenient for Delhiites at the state government hospitals. “It is our duty to ensure that there is no inconvenience to the people of Delhi. This management system should be able to provide all healthcare facilities to the people,” Kejriwal said. Every resident of Delhi visiting a hospital will also be issued a card to avail of the benefits of government healthcare services, he added. “After issuing it, we have to ensure that this card is integrated with HIMS.” Delhi will be the only state in the country to have a cloud-based health management system, which will link all components of the healthcare delivery process, including patient care services, hospital administration, budgeting and planning, supply chain management and backend services. This will enable people to get information on one platform. The facility will be extended to private hospitals later. In the meeting, health officials gave a presentation highlighting various implementation features such as a web portal and a mobile app. The e-health card will be QR code-based to identify and track demographic and basic clinical details of every patient, and map them for all eligible schemes. There will also be a centralised health helpline to extend uninterrupted healthcare facilities to Delhiites. The government will set up a call centre to provide the patients telecounselling, address information requests, attend queries and complaints, and ensure follow-ups. “We will also link the call centre facilities to the app under HIMS. This will effectively resolve the issues of common people,” health minister Satyendar Jain said. The system will also ensure the availability of a doctor for the people 24x7, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-cloud-based-healthcare-mgmt-system-e-cards-by-aug/articleshow/79159794.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 11, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC recovers dues worth Rs 1.5 crore||KOLHAPUR: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has managed to recover Rs 1.5 crore from water tax defaulters since notices were issued to over 12,000 consumers around a week ago. Most of these defaulters have not paid the tax for the water consumed during last seven months. These are domestic connection holders who were expecting waiver in tax for water consumed during the lockdown. Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade said, “We have set a revenue target of Rs 68 crore from water and sewage management taxes for the current year. So far, we have recovered Rs 24 crore which quite less than the expected amount. After notices were issued, citizens have started clearing their dues. We have appointed five teams to recover the pending bills. In a week, around Rs 1.5 crore has been recovered.” Balkawade said most of the dues are also pending with the government offices. She said letters for recovering the dues from government offices have also been issued. “We are going to snap water connections of those consumers who fail to clear their dues. We have also started spot collection and spot billing of water tax. The consumers can pay the dues to the meter readers on the spot,” she added. Every year, the water supply department is unable to achieve the water tax collection target. The drive to snap connections is going to start in few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-recovers-dues-worth-rs-1-5cr/articleshow/79158275.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur: ‘SARPA’ app for rescuing snakes in human habitations||THRISSUR: : Forest department launched mobile application ‘SARPA’ to find and rescue snakes that enter into human habitations. The mobile application was developed by Wildlife Trust of India. According to snake researcher Sandeep Das, “People can download the mobile application from Google Play store. The app provides details of persons approved by the forest department to rescue snakes within 25km. While entering details of snakes, the list of rescue persons in the area will be listed in the application. When a rescue person approves the request, the details will be automatically sent to the forest department. The rescue details and photo will be available in the app.” “The primary details of poisonous and non-poisonous snakes are available in the application. The app also includes the list of antivenom treatment available hospitals in every district,” said Thrissur assistant forest conservator P M Prabhu. “The mobile application will provide accountability of the snake rescue and release in human habitations. Now onwards, only trained people have the right to catch and rescue from human habitations. If any non-licensed people catch snakes the forest department will take action against them. The Wildlife Trust of India has developed the mobile application as per the request from the Kerala forest department and included all details about snakes,” he said. The training camp for snake handlers was held at Peechi wildlife compound office last week. The training programme was conducted in two phases. Over 70 people from Thrissur district attended the training programme. Researcher Sandeep Das and snake catching expert Joju T S led the training programme. “Under the forest department over 30 people will get licence to catch snakes. Unscientific approaches and public show by snake catchers creates stress and harm to the animal and poses risk to their and others’ lives,” said Prabhu “Now onwards, the forest department will not allow public show of snakes after catching,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sarpa-app-for-rescuing-snakes-in-human-habitations/articleshow/79158278.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||3 die of Covid, 74 test positive||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 74 tested positive on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district casualties included an 85-year-old woman of Satguru Nagar, a 39-year-old man of Jammu Colony and a 74-year-old man of Mann village, Jagraon.The day also saw a Jalandhar resident succumbing to the virus and eight outsiders testing positive here.The district toll tally has mounted to 852 and that of outsiders to 339.The district case count is 20,965. As many as 19,436 patients (92.7%) have defeated the virus.Ashu contracts the diseaseCabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday. He was unwell since his return from Delhi on November 4. He is in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-die-of-covid-74-test-positive/articleshow/79156814.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Intas Pharma launches immunity booster to fight coronavirus||AHMEDABAD: A pharma major based in Ahmedabad on Tuesday launched a patented research formulation of Thymoquinone that is reported to boost immunity and give greater success in fighting infections. The formulation has been launched under the name Thymotas by Intas Pharmaceuticals Limited. “It has been tested clinically as a significant add-on to the standard treatment of Covid-19,” Intas said. Thymoquinone is the active biological component of Nigella sativa, (popularly known as kalonji, black cumin and kali jeeri). “Various scientific publications prove Thymoquinone’s multiple pharmacologically beneficial properties,” the company said. According to Intas, the formulation has been developed as a stable, standardized and ready-to-use tablet for the first time in the world. “Thymotas 12.5mg is very successful in building immunity and combating infections effectively,” said Dr Alok Chaturvedi, senior vice-president and head of medical affairs, Intas. The formulation fights infections through multimodal actions such as anti-viral, anti-bacterial, anti-inflammatory, immuno-modulatory and antioxidant properties. “Manufactured at a WHO-GMP certified plant, Thymotas is an immunity booster and prophylaxis. One tablet of 12.5mg is recommended daily after meals or as directed by the physician,” the company said. The research and development team at Intas has also developed a Covid-19 specific hyperimmune globulin as treatment for patients suffering from moderate to severe Covid-19 infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/intas-pharma-launches-immunity-booster-to-fight-coronavirus/articleshow/79158282.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Allahabad||9 researchers from Prayagraj in Stanford Univ list of top 2% scientists||PRAYAGRAJ: Researchers of Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT) and their counterparts at Allahabad University (AU) has brought laurels for their respective institutions. The research work carried out by the faculty members of these institutions and their research scholars has resulted in their names being featured in the top 2 per cent of the scientists from around the world, selected for distinguished achievements by Stanford University California, USA. Among the 1,594 scientists of the country, five are from MNNIT and four from AU. A couple of days back, Stanford University, US, came out with a list of top 2 per cent of the scientists across the world. Published in the journal Public Library of Science (PLoS) Biology, a team of scientists led by the Greek-American physician and scientist Dr John PA Ioannidis meticulously prepared the database of around 1,59,684 top scientists of the world. These scientists are from across all scientific fields based on their ranking of a composite indicator that considers six citation metrics to measure the impact of research publications. Scientists have been classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 subfields. Among these, 1594 scientists were from different institutes, research centres and universities of the Indian sub-continent. Among the Indian scientists in the rankings, five are from MNNIT and four of AU who have made it to the world ranking in the mathematical modelling derived by Stanford University. Among the faculty members of MNNIT, Prof Anil Singh of Agronomy and Agriculture is ranked 197 in the world, Prof Manoj Kumar of Applied Physics at 210, Prof Rajesh Gupta of Electrical and Electronics Engineering is at 1045 rank, Prof Nand Kishore of Energy has been placed at 3196 positions, and Prof R K Dutta who works in the field on Polymers finds himself at 695 ranks. Likewise, among the scientists from AU or who have been associated with the university includes name like Anil Kumar Nayan, who holds a DSc degree under the direction of a former professor of the Department of Chemistry, AK Srivastava. Nayan, who is currently an associate professor at Dayal Singh College, Delhi University, is at 227 place in the field of Chemical Engineering. Nayan has completed four major research projects, guided seven PhD students and has published 165 research articles in indexed refereed journals. His work focusses on the study of intermolecular interactions in industrially important binary/ternary solvent systems and systems containing electrolytes, amino acids, carbohydrates, drugs, ionic liquids, homoeopathic medicines using physicochemical and spectroscopic methods, informs the faculty member of DU. At the same time, other names from AU includes Prof Vandana Singh of Chemistry department who has got 1574 rank, Vivek Singh of the field of optics is at position 821, and R Kumar from the area of Physical Chemistry is at the 644 ranks in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/9-researchers-from-prayagraj-in-stanford-univ-list-of-top-2-scientists/articleshow/79137772.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Farmers force city stores of corporate house to shut down||Ludhiana: Farmers protesting against the Centre’s farm laws forced to shut down a corporate house’s jewellery shop near Fountain Chowk, four of its stores at a mall near Old Session Court Chowk and its outlet in Haibowal on Tuesday.After reaching the outlets, the farmers requested the customers to leave the premises. Thereafter, they made the employees down the shutters of the stores.They said in the coming days, they would get all the outlets of this and another corporate house closed in the city. A farmer union has also been staging a sit-in outside a mall on Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road since Sunday. District president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU Ekta), Ugrahan, Gurpreet Singh Noorpur said, “We will close down the business outlets of the two corporate houses in the city within the next few days. We will not allow any of their stores to open until the Centre revokes the farm laws.”On Monday, too, the farmer union had forced closure of two outlets of one of the corporate houses in Dugri, Phase 1, and Shaheed Bhagat Singh (SBS) Nagar at Pakhowal Road. Some members of the farmer union are also deputed outside a store to ensure that the employees do not reopen it. On Sunday, the farmers had closed down six of its stores in a mall at Ludhiana-Ferozepur Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-force-city-stores-of-corporate-house-to-shut-down/articleshow/79156834.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||Traffic restrictions for festive period announced||BAREILLY: From Friday, traffic police in the city will completely restrict movement of four-wheelers and public transport vehicles, including tempos, auto-rickshaws and e-rickshaws, at nine prominent locations, on the occasion of Dhanteras and Diwali, to ensure free vehicular movement and maintenance of social-distancing at market places. Operation of heavy vehicles, including trucks, etc, will remain completely restricted in the city during the period. The areas that have been restricted to light vehicles, including three- and four- wheelers, include Choupla crossing, Biharipur crossing, Novelty crossing, Koharapur tri-section, Ayub Khan crossing, Siklapur crossing, Bareilly college road near Kalibari, Shyamganj crossing and Ramganga flyover. SP (traffic) Sanjiv Kumar Bajpai said, “The restrictions will be enforced considering heavy rush in market places during festivities. Nine prominent locations have also been identified where movement of light vehicles will remain restricted, to ease traffic congestion during Dhanteras and Diwali and maintain social distancing. Also, entry of heavy vehicles in the city will be completely barred.” “We aim to ease the traffic burden of city roads and to facilitate construction of flyovers at three city locations — Choupla crossing, IVRI and Satellite crossing,” added Bajpai. Already, as a part of the ongoing traffic-awareness month, Bareilly traffic police has already issued 562 challans for various traffic violations, including not wearing helmets, seat-belts, driving without license, driving on the wrong side, speeding, among others, and recovered Rs 1.73 lakh in fines in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/traffic-restrictions-for-festive-period-announced/articleshow/79154671.cms||Maria Khan
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak debacle for TRS as BJP wins cracker of a contest||Siddipet: BJP engineered a coup of sorts on Tuesday when it beat the TRS by an extremely thin margin and won the Dubbak by-election. The saffron party’s M Raghunandan Rao won the seat against Solipeta Sujatha by just 1,079 votes. Congress candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy finished third. This could well be an indication of how Telangana’s future politics will play out with BJP replacing the Congress as the main opposition party in the state. In fact, the 2019 Lok Sabha election had shown the changing dynamics when BJP won four seats for the first time. Congress had got only three. Before results were announced, pollsters had predicted that TRS would win Dubbak easily and BJP would finish a strong second. But by late afternoon, all predictions went out of the window with BJP leading in many of the counting rounds. This despite the fact that everything was in TRS’ favour and it was the ruling party which had won all previous by-elections. Dubbak is largely a rural seat where TRS is strong, there were many beneficiaries of the state government’s numerous welfare schemes in the constituency, finance minister Harish Rao was helming the campaign and Raghunandan had lost Dubbak thrice in the past. Besides, the TRS candidate was the wife of the sitting MLA, Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy, who died earlier this year. TRS had expected a sympathy wave for her, but in the end, Raghunandan managed to scrape through. With this win, BJP will have two MLAs in the assembly. So far, the party had only Goshamahal MLA Raja Singh in the House. Sujatha’s loss came as a shock to TRS cadres who had gathered at Harish Rao’s home to watch the results on television screens. As TRS got an upperhand in the last few rounds, the hopes of the TRS cadres went up, but at the end of the 23rd round BJP candidate emerged victorious. “It was like watching a cliff-hanger IPL match,” a TRS worker said. As it became clear that Raghunandan would win, police in Siddipet had a tough time controlling enthusiastic BJP workers who took out a procession from the party office to the counting centre. In Hyderabad, TRS working president and minister K T Rama Rao conceded defeat and said the party would do some introspection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-debacle-for-trs-as-bjp-wins-cracker-of-a-contest/articleshow/79161270.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Trader held with Rs 50L illegal crackers||TNN Ludhiana: The police arrested a man for selling firecrackers illegally at his shop in Field Gunj, on Tuesday evening. The cops have also recovered crackers worth Rs 50 lakh from his possession.Narinder Kumar, owner of Chacha Sports and general store, could not produce any licence or permission to store firecrackers in the godown.ACP (central) Waryam Singh said the raid was conducted on a tip-off. “Kumar sold sports equipment from the shop and had stored firecrackers in the godown illegally,” he added.The police had to hire 10 mini load carriers to transport the seizure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trader-held-with-rs-50l-illegal-crackers/articleshow/79156824.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Navratri, Dussehra muhurats fail to boost vehicle demand||AHMEDABAD: Due to the pandemic, demand for vehicles has fallen greatly with both sales of cars and two-wheelers reporting major declines with each passing month. Even the Navratri and Dussehra muhurats failed to infuse optimism in vehicle sales. The registration of two-wheelers declined by 54% and that of cars fell by 28% in October this year against the same month last year, according to data from the Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA). Gujarat clocked 65,624 two-wheeler and 23,935 car registrations this October. According to dealers, while the festive muhurats failed to boost sales, demand for cars is seeing a good recovery in the smaller towns of Gujarat. Pranav Shah, chairman, Gujarat region, FADA, said, “The income of people in rural areas and smaller towns is relatively less affected than in cities. Moreover, with the agriculture sector doing well, there is an augmentation of income in some cases due to which vehicle sales have picked up.” Though average car sales declined across Gujarat, including in the Vadodara, Surat, Ahmedabad and Rajkot, data from the Union ministry of road transport suggests that car sales have grown in several districts in October. These include Sabarkantha, Dang, Panchmahal, Porbandar, Amreli, Bardoli, Botad and Devbhoomi Dwarka. “Even though the volume of sales comes from big cities, smaller towns are reporting a faster recovery in vehicle sales, particularly for cars. In general, two-wheeler sales have taken a major hit because the segment of people buying two-wheelers is the one facing income shortfalls after pandemic,” said a city-based dealer, who did not want to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/navratri-dussehra-muhurats-fail-to-boost-vehicle-demand/articleshow/79158303.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nashik||Nashik cops to start patrolling to check for ban violators||Nashik: The police on Tuesday announced that it would start patrolling the areas where the district administration has announced a ban on firecrackers — containment zones, silent zones and public spaces — from Wednesday and take strict action against people found bursting firecrackers there. Police commissioner Deepak Pandey told TOI that patrolling will start across the city to ensure that people are not violating the rules. “People who want to burst firecrackers can do so at their own places, like their gardens, verandahs, terraces etc. However, bursting firecrackers will not be tolerated in public places, containment or silent zones. Those found violating the norms would be booked and taken to the court,” Pandey said. He added people violating the norm would be booked under sections 110, 112 and 117 of the Bombay Police Act. Generally, people who are booked under these sections and produced before the court are slapped with a fine of around Rs 600. Last month, the Nashik city police had booked more than 3,400 people under various sections of the Bombay Police Act and Indian Penal Code for violating Covid-related norms — not wearing masks, failing to maintain distancing, crowding in front of shops and spitting in public places. Senior police officers said they would be instructing police station in-charge officers to ensure that they step up patrolling in their respective jurisdictions. Officers added that people should remember that bursting firecrackers not only causes sound and air pollution but also has the potential risk of spreading novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-cops-to-start-patrolling-to-check-for-ban-violators/articleshow/79158285.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 11, 2020||Varanasi||Mukhtar son’s property seized in Ghazipur||Varanasi: A joint team of district administration and police confiscated a commercial complex of Abbas Ansari, son of jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari, in Rajdepur area under Kotwali police station in Ghazipur district on Monday. The team, led by CO Sadar Ojaswi Chawla, raided the commercial complex raided the complex, which houses centre of a leading coaching institute and multibrand store to complete the formalities of confiscation. District magistrate Ghazipur MP Singh said that as per the decision taken in the controlling authority board, the action of confiscation of this building owned by Mukhtar’s family members have been confiscated. On November 7, Ghazipur officials had confiscated plots of Rs 28.58 crore value of Mukhtar’s wife Afsha Ansari and her brothers including Anwar Shahjad and Sharjil Raja in Chhavni Line area. The hotel Ghazal of Mukhtar’s family had been bulldozed in Ghazipur city on November 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mukhtar-sons-property-seized-in-ghazipur/articleshow/79137224.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Delhi||Elevated link for Mayur Vihar with Noida likely to open soon||NEW DELHI: Travelling between Mayur Vihar Phase-I and Noida is likely to become easier in near future. The cloverleaves being constructed by Public Works Department are getting final touches and may be opened for the public soon. Currently those travelling to Akshardham from Mayur Vihar have to travel nearly 700 metres on the opposite direction towards Noida before they can take a U-turn underneath the flyover and turn back towards Akshardham. After the cloverleaf is opened, such motorists will be able to get onto the cloverleaf directly from Mayur Vihar and get towards Akshardham without having to travel in the wrong direction. Similarly, those travelling to Mayur Vihar from Noida need to get onto the NH-9 and travel for nearly one kilometre before they are able to take a U-turn underneath the flyover and return. “We need to travel 2km extra while going to the office located in Noida from Mayur Vihar and then coming back home. More than travelling two more kilometres, it is about spending more time in travelling,” said Aditya Shankar, a Mayur Vihar resident. An official said that the government had asked the department to complete the final touch exercise as soon as possible and the cloverleaves would be opened very soon. A large number of people travel from East Delhi to Noida and vice versa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/elevated-link-for-mayur-vihar-with-noida-likely-to-open-soon/articleshow/79159829.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Water and sewerage tariff to be revised, some exemptions to go||MC HOUSE MEET Ludhiana: The municipal corporation general house gave the revision of water and sewerage tariff a go-ahead on Tuesday. As per the revision, the exemption given to houses build on 125 square yards has ended and even the 50 square yard multi-storey buildings will have to pay the water and sewerage bills. Along with this, water meter system will also be implemented in the city. After approval from the house, now the agenda will go to the local bodies department for final notification. A total of 31 resolutions were tabled in the meeting, of which on five, committees have been set up and 21 were approved. The rest were cancelled or will be put up later. Though the councillors from Akali Dal, BJP and Lok Insaaf Party asked mayor Balkar Sandhu to keep the resolution on water tariff pending, the latter claimed that since they wanted to take loan from the World Bank for canal-based water supply, they would have to revise the tariff. BJP councillor Sunita Rani tried to object, but Congress councillor Mamta Ashu intervened and said when the meetings took place, representatives from the BJP were also present and they didn’t object at the time. The MC house gave a nod to impose heavy penalty on illegal hoardings, but for religious hoardings, the members demanded there should be no fee. The mayor said they would not take any fee if the hoardings were purely religious without any other picture on it. On signboards, no religious or political hoardings will be allowed.  Parking plan The MC house approved a plan to float tenders for hiring a firm that can develop office of zone A, outside shed as well as a multilevel parking with a capacity of 500 cars, 3,000 two-wheelers and 1,000 small pick-up vans. User charges from pvt firms The house approved the recovery of user charges from private couriers, eatable manufacturers, sellers of electronics goods, motor vehicles, tyres, liquor, and home delivery agents and makers of thermocol, plastic plates and glasses. These user charges will be recovered for the disposal of waste generated by these companies in the form of packing material and multilayer plastic carry-bags. Various rates were approved by the house and if companies do not pay, there will be a 10% penalty. If the company does not pay fee for two months, they will not be allowed to do business in the city. The courier and home delivery companies will pay Rs 5 per delivery, multilayer packing system companies will have to pay 5% per packet, electronic goods and mobile selling firms will pay 2% on every item having a price of more than Rs 2,000, motor vehicle sellers will pay Rs 100 per two-wheeler and Rs 500 per four-wheeler, a tyre selling company will pay Rs 20 per two-wheeler tyre, Rs 50 per four-wheeler tyre and Rs 100 per tyre of heavy vehicles. Liquor sellers will pay Rs 2 per bottle of country-made liquor and Rs 10 per bottle of foreign oneManufacturers of thermocol, plastic plates, glasses, among others, will have to first register with the MC and retailers will pay Rs 1,000, dealers and wholesalers Rs 2,000 and manufacturers Rs 5,000 per month as registration fee.Biogas plant The civic body is eyeing revenue through installation of a biogas plant at Bhattian sewerage treatment plant as two firms have shown interest in setting it up. The house gave a nod to this proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/water-and-sewerage-tariff-to-be-revised-some-exemptions-to-go/articleshow/79156844.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||3 arrested for claiming Rs 30 crore ITC on bogus invoices||TNNLudhiana: The Special Investigation Team of Punjab State GST, Ludhiana, has arrested three proprietors of a firm in the city that had allegedly claimed fraudulently input tax credit (ITC) of over Rs 30 crore on bogus invoices.Tejbir Singh Sidhu, deputy commissioner (state GST), Ludhiana, said here on Tuesday that the search and seizure operations were conducted at four premises of the accused. A network of bogus firms using fake IDs in the names of daily-wagers, auto-rickshaw drivers, among others, was created across five states to pass on the fraudulently-claimed ITC to the final beneficiaries.The accused used the ITC generated on fake invoices for exports, which were IGST paid, and thereafter claimed refund from the customs authorities.It was found during investigation that the bogus billing network of the non-existent firms was used to generate fake invoices of more than Rs 350 crore and fraudulent ITC of more than Rs 30 crore. Officials said the accused had used about Rs 23 crore of the ITC claimed. The accused have been arrested under the GST laws and remanded to judicial custody. Action against other beneficiaries was also being initiated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-arrested-for-claiming-rs-30-crore-itc-on-bogus-invoices/articleshow/79156847.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Hakki pikki community to get govt help to certify their products||MYSURU: People belonging to Hakki Pikki community, one of the important nomadic communities of the state, are known for their various indigenous herbal products. Every year, tens of the community members travel across the globe to sell their products especially herbal oils. Many times, these people are caught by foreign police for selling these products as they are not certified or on charges of expiry of visa. Two important locations where this community is settled in the state are Pakshirajapura village in Hunsur taluk and Gautham Nagar in Shivamogga. Now, the state tribal welfare department has decided to help the community get their products certified and brand them to expand their market. In this direction, it will build herbal product centres in these two places, with support from the central government. According to the authorities, these centres will come up at an estimated cost of Rs. 2 crore each. The initiative was launched six months ago and is now at the final stage. As per the plan, through these centres, Hakki Pikki community members will be trained in preparing various herbal products, especially various oils, by following standard protocols required for the certification, branding, MRP fixation etc. Sangappa, Director of Tribal Welfare Department, said a common facility centre is also proposed to help the Hakki Pikki community to market their herbal products. “The biggest problem faced by the Hakki Pikki community is that they do not use any standard procedures to make their products, due to which the Ayush department cannot certify them. Certification is key to sell products in the domestic markets and abroad. We intend to help provide certification through the two centres after which their products can be sold anywhere.” “We are also planning to fix MRP for these products,” he added. “Most of these herbal products are prepared by women in this community. This initiative will empower them by ensuring a better price,” he said. Hakki Pikki community leader PS Nanjundaswamy of Pakshirajapura said, “We are expecting government support to continue our community profession. Many of us travel abroad who need support. We want to preserve our rich knowledge for our next generation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/hakki-pikki-community-to-get-govt-help-to-certify-their-products/articleshow/79159502.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand: Rain, snowfall in offing from Nov 16||Dehradun: The regional meteorological centre on Tuesday issued a forecast of snow and rainfall in the higher reaches of the hill districts of Uttarakhand on November 16 and 17. "A fresh western disturbance will be having an impact on the weather of Uttarakhand on November 16 and 17. High altitude places might receive snowfall while the foothills can witness rain," said Bikram Singh, director of regional meteorological centre. The places situated at an altitude of 3,500 metre and above, especially in Pithoragarh, Rudraprayag, Chamoli and Uttarkashi districts, are expected to receive snowfall. As a consequence of likely rain and snow activity, temperatures are likely to drop by a few notches in both hills and plains, according to the regional meteorological centre. In Dehradun, the maximum temperature was recorded at 28.3 degree Celsius, three notches above normal, while the minimum settled at 10.8 degree Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-rain-snowfall-in-offing-from-nov-16/articleshow/79155733.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Advisory for Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Ahead of Diwali, the Aurangabad district collector, citing the ongoing pandemic, has issued an advisory, asking people to take precautions and to celebrate an eco-friendly Diwali by abstaining from bursting firecrackers. Collector Sunil Chavan has requested people to not organise pre- and post-festival get-togethers to avoid the likelihood of catching the infection from an asymptomatic patient. Officials of the civic body and the city police have also expressed concerns given the social distancing norm violations in crowded market places. “For now, precaution is the best remedy. We request people to ensure social distancing. They should wear masks and use sanitizers,” said Chavan. In the advisory, the administration has asked citizens to ensure that children and the elderly avoid stepping out. People should also avoid get-togethers including Diwali pahat programmes and public camps. Citizens have been advised to light diyas (lamps) to mark Diwali, instead of bursting firecrackers. The advisory has not gone down well with the firecracker traders, who have already purchased the items. Firecracker market association president Gopal Kulkarni said: “Due to the lockdowns and the pandemic, almost all businesses have taken a hit. People have set up firecracker shops with the hope to make up for some of the losses they had incurred in their primary businesses.” At Ayodhyanagari ground, where 50 shops have come up, the traders are already worried. Bharat Mandore, a trader, said, “People buy firecrackers only after they are done with all other shopping. Given the slump in other sectors, we fear that it may affect our business too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/advisory-for-aurangabad/articleshow/79158295.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||KMC takes clean-air measures||Kolhapur: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has banned firecrackers in Kolhapur, Sangli and Solapur cities of the region along with 102 cities in the country. The ban on sale and use of firecrackers will be in place till November 30. The NGT said these cities have poor air quality index and, therefore, furthering of the air pollution may be detrimental to the health of the citizens, especially those who suffered or are suffering from Covid. It has, however, allowed use of the “green crackers” in the cities with “moderate” air quality index. The KMC has issued a public advisory, but it may soon start implementing the total ban. Samir Vyaghrambare, Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s head of environment department said: “We are yet to receive the directions regarding NGT order implementation. We are aware of the city’s deteriorated air quality. Kolhapur has been included in National Clean Air Programme. We are now focussing on reducing air pollution by non-seasonal means such as vehicle emissions and open burning. We have asked the sanitation inspectors to take action against violators. Also, we are going to deploy the fire tenders at garbage dumping sites as garbage mounds often catch fire. We are going to cap the garbage mounds in a year or two to address the concern permanently,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/kmc-takes-clean-air-measures/articleshow/79158322.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Dyeing units affecting health of residents’: NGT panel urged to conduct surprise checks||tnnLudhiana: Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar has requested the chairman of National Green Tribunal panel, the municipal corporation commissioner and the deputy commissioner to conduct surprise inspections at dyeing units in Ludhiana East that emanate black smoke and ash.In a letter to the NGT, the MC chief and the DC, he said this was affecting the health of the residents.The MLA said, “In East constituency, dyeing units are located at Tajpur Road, Tibba Road, Mahaveer Jain Colony, Rahon Road, Kakowal Road, Vijay Nagar, New Shakti Nagar, Guru Vihar Road, Bahadur Ke Road, Noorwala Road, Gajja Jain Colony, Beantpura, Hargobindpura, and Focal Point, among others. The units emanate black smoke and their ash flies to the nearby houses.” As a result, the residents were suffering from health issues and breathing problems. They could not sit on the terraces of their houses or dry laundry. The Ludhiana Central Jail inmates, too, have reported about the issue to the prison authorities as well as him, he added.“The issue had been raised several times with the Punjab Pollution Control Board and checks were also conducted in the past, but the situation remains the same. We urge the NGT panel to conduct surprise checks in these areas and hear the residents out. The inspections will help catch the erring units red-handed, so that action can be taken against them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dyeing-units-affecting-health-of-residents-ngt-panel-urged-to-conduct-surprise-checks/articleshow/79156859.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||HC upholds PASA for extorting, beating people||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has upheld thr invocation of PASA laws with the observation that acts of extortion and assaulting people on public roads amounts to a breach of public order. Justice Bela Trivedi rejected a petition filed by one Vijay Dabhi alias Chino, who was detained under the Prevention of Anti-Social Activities Act (PASA) after he was facing two FIRs at Isanpur police station. He was booked for theft, attempted murder and assault. City police slapped PASA against him on the basis of two statements made by the complainants in these FIRs. The anonymous victims made videographed statements that they were beaten on a public street by Dabhi and the incident drew crowds. However, nobody came forward to rescue them in two separate incidents. They did not get help because people were afraid of Dabhi. Before the high court, Dabhi questioned the PASA order arguing that while he was named in one FIR only and the accusations revealed that the offences were against individuals and not against society. These could be said to be incidents of breach of law and order and not public order, for which he can be branded a dangerous person. After hearing him, the court said Dabhi was shown to be trying to extort money from ordinary citizens by putting them under the fear of death and on their refusal to part with the money, he used to torture them on public road. This undoubtedly would affect the maintenance of public order and such activities cannot be said to be mere disobedience of law and order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-upholds-pasa-for-extorting-beating-people/articleshow/79158325.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||CJM orders SP to take action against SHO for not following court’s order||PILIBHIT: In a matter that involves defiance of an order delivered by the court of chief judicial magistrate (CJM) by the station house officer (SHO) of Puranpur Kotwali police station, the CJM has directed the superintendent of police (SP) to ensure necessary action against the erring police personnel and make him comply with the court’s orders without fail. The court has also ordered the SHO to appear on November 11 in person to file his clarification. The CJM court, by an order dated November 2, had directed Puranpur Kotwali police to return district Shiv Sena chief Pankaj Sharma a mobile phone and Rs 7,500 in cash, which had been seized by police after Sharma had been booked on October 4 for posting a false provocative statement of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on social media. Later, Sharma had informed the court through his lawyer that not only had Puranpur police declined to comply with the court order, but SHO (crime) Hari Shankar Verma had also badly abused him when he had approached the police station to serve a copy of the order. When questioned, the SP, Jai Prakash Yadav, said Sharma’s mobile phone had been sent to the government forensic laboratory for testing. Regarding the police’s failure in returning the cash, he guessed the officer in-charge of the store room at the police station was probably not present on duty the day Sharma had gone there. “We’ll present our version before court. We feel we have nowhere defied court orders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cjm-orders-sp-to-take-action-against-sho-for-not-following-courts-order/articleshow/79154709.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Independent’s chapati roller dented TRS’ car?||HYDERABAD: Did an unknown independent candidate who did not even campaign in the Dubbak assembly bypoll inadvertently trigger TRS’ defeat? While BJP’s Raghunandan Rao won by an extremely thin margin of 1,079 votes, independent candidate Bhandaru Nagaraju from Mungala in Suryapet district got 3,570 votes. TRS leaders say that Nagraju’s symbol of a chapati roller was so ambiguously designed that it was mistaken by many of their supporters as the pink party’s car symbol. TRS supporters say voters in rural areas can get confused with symbols that don’t clearly indicate what they stand for. In the past, TRS leaders suffered because a road-roller was mistaken for a car. Congress too alleged that the position of the candidate on ballot units led to confusion and some of their votes have gone to Nagaraju. Congress leader Guduru Narayan Reddy said, “Our candidate Cheruku Srinivas Reddy is first on the first ballot unit of EVMs. Nagaraju is first on the second ballot unit. Our party has been campaigning that we are first on the ballot unit. Voters may have been confused on which ballot unit to cast their vote. How else would an independent who has no connection to Dubbak and didn’t campaign get 2% votes?” The gap in the number of votes polled between TRS and BJP is less than 0.65%. Nagaraju, who holds a master’s degree in Botany from Acharya Nagarjuna University in Vijayawada, told TOI, “I have been watching the results on TV from Suryapet. I didn’t go to Dubbak on result day. I haven’t printed a pamphlet. I only pleaded with Dubbak voters to vote for a me on a couple of occasions when I visited the constituency.” Nagaraju runs a small NGO in Suryapet. “I thank Dubbak voters for giving me the fourth position,” he says. “I disagree that my symbol and position on the ballot unit created confusion. If my symbol resembles TRS’ car, why would I get 60 votes in postal ballots? I got 600 votes when I contested for the Nalgonda Lok Sabha seat last time and I got around 1,400 votes when I contested as the Huzurunagar assembly by-election last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/independents-chapati-roller-dented-trs-car/articleshow/79161272.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: NGT seeks report from panel and collector on waste plant||KOCHI: The national green tribunal (NGT) hearing the legacy waste petition filed with regards to Brahmapuram waste treatment plant has sought an action taken report (ATR) from the district collector. The division bench in Chennai, which heard the petition filed by Abdul Basheer via video conferencing on Tuesday, also sought a report from state-level monitoring committee (SLMC). It warned of serious action against the collector, in case the administration did not submit the report by February 9, 2021. In the previous hearing too, the green bench had sought an ATR from the collector as well as chief secretary (CS). Meanwhile, the Kerala state pollution control board (KSPCB) had also submitted its report before the bench in which it stated that compensation notice had been given to the Kochi corporation. The SLMC in its earlier report filed before the NGT had said steps taken were inadequate. “Since there is no scientific processing of solid waste, renewal of the authorization to Kochi corporation and other five municipalities that are transferring their waste to Brahmapuram dumping yard are not effective. About one lakh litre collection capacity for the leachate is nearing completion and it is to be diverted to a septage treatment plant. It is doubtful whether leachate can be treated in any ordinary septage treatment plant as it contains heavy metals. The progress appears to be very slow and in disregard to the statutory and constitutional obligation of providing a clean environment,” the report stated. The next hearing of the south zone bench will be after the principal bench, which is also hearing the issue on January 21, 2021. The principal bench, in September, had stated that there is a serious dereliction of duties of the state authorities under the ‘public trust doctrine’ to provide a pollution free environment. “No meaningful coercive measures have been adopted as expected from the KSPCB as a regulator. The local bodies as well as the urban development department have failed to take effective steps in the matter,” it said. It had directed the chief secretary to take remedial action by constituting a three-member team. The CS was asked to file a personal affidavit giving information about commencement of work relating to remediation of legacy waste site (s) and waste processing plant to handle day-to-day waste generation to avoid creation of legacy waste dump sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ngt-seeks-report-from-panel-and-collector-on-waste-plant/articleshow/79156875.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||50 digital outdoor displays to showcase city’s heritage||Aurangabad: A slew of installations, including digital displays, are in the offing to promote city’s heritage, tourism and vital information regarding traffic and pollution. The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) has taken up the project of Master System Integrator (MSI). As part of this, 50 digital outdoor display (DOD) screens are to be installed across the city. The first DOD screen installed at the railway station went live on Sunday. ASCDCL CEO Astik Kumar Pandey said that the 50 screens will play content promoting Aurangabad’s heritage, tourism and other vital information such as traffic updates, air quality status and bus time table.“These screens will also be used for advertising to generate revenue for Smart City projects. Tenders will soon be floated for the advertisement rights to these screens,” he said.The initiative is part of the measures being taken to give a facelift to the city, which is the tourism capital of Maharashtra.Speaking about the current status of the screens installation, ASCDCL deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam stated that screens have been installed at the entry and exit of the railway station and Ahilyabai Holkar chowk on station road.“Three more screens will be installed by Sunday. One at Mill Corner cross-road, one facing Central Bus Stand and another facing traffic from Bhadkal Gate and CIDCO Bus Stand. By November end, 50 such screens will come up all across the city,” he said.The screens will not be just informative to the residents and the tourists but will also change the look of the city, said Pushkal.Along with this, 700 CCTV cameras are also being installed, a command and control centre is being developed at police headquarters and an operation command centre is to be raised near Babasaheb Ambedkar Research Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/50-digital-outdoor-displays-to-showcase-citys-heritage/articleshow/79155773.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP hopes Dubbak will pave way for Telangana surge||HYDERABAD: BJP candidate Madhavaneni Raghunandan Rao’s majority — though in small numbers (22 votes) — from the village of Cheekode, 5 km from Dubbak town, sums up the saffron party’s emergence in Telangana. That Raghunandan pulled off these votes in the small village, which was adopted by TRS star campaigner and finance minister T Harish Rao, not only paved the way for his victory but also catapulted the BJP to a position from where it can challenge K Chandrasekhar Rao’s TRS in the 2023 assembly elections. With Tuesday’s victory, the BJP has — for all practical purposes — dethroned the Congress and emerged as the main challenger to the TRS. Buoyed by this win, party chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar went on to declare that the BJP would even wrest the communist citadel Khammam in the next elections. Raghunandan Rao’s rollercoaster journey after contesting four elections in Dubbak (three assembly and once as an MP candidate from Medak under which Dubbak constituency falls), facing setbacks and finally winning the seat reflects the hunger of BJP — in the last couple of years — to make its presence felt in Telangana. Raghunandan got just 1,400 votes in 2014 and six years later went on to bag over 63,000 votes, reflecting the saffron party’s surge in the state. BJP’s rise began with its win in four Lok Sabha seats in 2019. BJP’s game plan of playing out local issues and also claiming that it was responsible for getting the statehood to Telangana has curried favour with the voters. The party tasted its first major success in Nizamabad where Dharmapuri Arvind defeated CM KCR’s daughter and sitting MP K Kavitha. Interestingly, turmeric farmers’ woes in Nizamabad were raised by Congress initially but BJP took the lead and tried to champion their cause. Similarly in Dubbak election though Congress was targeting TRS with not being able to create enough jobs for the youth, BJP cashed on the same issue and took it among the voters as one of the main reasons for Telangana statehood movement and how the TRS had failed in its promise. Treating Congress as main opposition, TRS took many of its MLAs under its wing, which helped BJP as anti-establishment votes got transferred to BJP than to Congress. Though BJP did not play the Hindutva card, it gave importance to Munnuru Kapus (OBCs) and many of the BJP leaders, including party chief Bandi Sanjay, belong to the community. Thanks to this strategic shift, the community with a large number of voters has voted for the BJP in Karimnagar and Nizamabad elections and even in Dubbak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-hopes-dubbak-will-pave-way-for-t-surge/articleshow/79161273.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 11, 2020||Mumbai||MSRTC staff to get pending salaries before Diwali||MUMBAI: A day after two MSRTC staffers allegedly died by suicide due to non-payment of salaries, the state government on Tuesday announced a Rs 1,000-crore financial package for the loss-making body for six months. Transport minister Anil Parab, who announced on Monday that employees will get two months’ pending salaries before Diwali, on Tuesday said all three months’ pending salary will be released before Diwali. “We released a month’s salary and a festive advance on Monday. The remaining two months’ salary will also be released before Diwali,” said Parab. Senior officials said cumulative losses MSRTC made have touched Rs 3,000 crore and the transport department had initially sought relief of Rs 3,600 crore from the state, which considering the state’s financial position was not feasible. Times ViewWith the state offering a Rs 1,000-crore bailout package to MSRTC to pay pending salaries and meet other immediate expenses, the near-term situation at the transport undertaking looks stable. Employees can take heart from the fact that salaries for the lockdown period are assured. But the road ahead poses challenges. Even if the government partly subsidises the corporation, it will still need to find more ways to mobilise revenue and reduce its dependence on handouts. In the long run, a professionally-run enterprise is the best safeguard for the workforce.“The relief package given by the state will help us bring the state transport corporation back on the roads. This may not help us make it profitable but will help us continue with basic expenses like diesel and maintenance of buses,” said Parab. Sources said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray agreed to bail out MSRTC and the money, to be given in instalments, was approved at a meeting with finance minister Ajit Pawar. Of Rs 1,000 crore being given as part of the bailout, Rs 300 crore will be used to disburse two months’ salaries. Sources said MSRTC will give a job to next of kin in the case of the suicides involving a driver in Ratnagiri on Sunday and a conductor in Jalgaon. A bus driver said, “It is a good gesture by the government but sadly it happened after two lives were lost. If the government had the money, it should have given it in the past few months as salaries on time.” The government financial packages of Rs 550 crore in September to pay salaries for May and June, and now Rs 1,000 crore to pay three months’ salaries, will boost the morale of workers, especially a 70,000-strong force of drivers and conductors who are risking lives during Covid to ferry lakhs, said union leader Shrirang Barge. A senior official said MSRTC will not only depend on government funding but will explore areas to generate revenue. It launched ST-trucks for goods transportation across Maharashtra few months back and deployed more than 700 such vehicles, which are generating good business. The corporation is also setting up petrol and diesel pumps to earn extra, the official said. MSRTC’s revenue has touched Rs 7 crore, but is way behind pre-Covid revenue of Rs 22 crore daily. Besides, passenger strength dropped by one-fifth, from 65 lakh to around 13 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/msrtc-staff-to-get-pending-salaries-before-diwali/articleshow/79158378.cms||Somit Sen
November 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Cannot have justice if petitioners seek to withdraw pleas: HC||Vijayawada: The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Tuesday expressed displeasure over the petitioners who sought to withdraw habeas corpus petitions they have filed. The bench questioned the advocates representing the petitioners why they have come to the high court in the first place. If these petitions are filed with false allegations against the police, it is nothing but misleading the court. The high court bench of Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that they cannot do justice to the genuine petitioners because of these kind of petitions. Hearing a batch of habeas corpus petitions in which the high court earlier said that it will decide whether a constitutional breakdown has happened in the state and asked the petitioners’ lawyers to assist the court by taking a considerate view of other incidents in which the court has passed orders. Arguing on behalf of former TDP MLA, Tenali Sravan Kumar, advocate S Pranati told the court that the police are creating problems in the conduct of peaceful protests in the capital region. Though the farmers are staging protests opposing the trifurcation of capital in a most peaceful manner, police are arresting them. Sometimes, police do not give permissions and at other times, even if permissions are granted, police create other problems, the advocate said. The advocate told the court that the police are intentionally permitting counter protests on the same day and at the same venue to create tension and said the pro- and anti-Amaravati protests are being held in the capital region but the police are booking cases against only pro-Amaravati protesters. She mentioned the incident at Visakhapatnam airport during the visit of former chief minister N Chandrababau Naidu in which he was detained and clashes that took place at Tenali after the police gave permission to counter protests by ruling party members near the venue of opposition parties. As some of the advocates were not available in the hearing, the high court asked them to file affidavits wherever necessary and posted the matter for further hearing to November 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cannot-have-justice-if-petitioners-seek-to-withdraw-pleas-hc/articleshow/79156883.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Demand for CNG vehicles up but fuel stations inadequate||KOCHI: Increasing fuel price and financial crisis induced by the pandemic have forced people, especially those who depend on vehicles for their livelihood, to look for economically more viable options to lessen their financial burden. It seems, ‘CNG only’ vehicles have come as a blessing in disguise for such people, proof of which is rise in registration of such vehicles in the district, especially within city limits, in the past few months, according to data from motor vehicles department. Thirty CNG vehicles were registered in Ernakulam RTO limit till first week of November this year, whereas it was just five in 2019. Of the 30, 27 vehicles were registered in the past few months. Aluva, Mattancherry and Tripunithura also witnessed similar trend. In 2019, no CNG vehicles were registered in Mattancherry and Tripunithura. This year, after lockdown restrictions were relaxed, both these places together witnessed 21 CNG registrations. Most of the vehicles registered were autorickshaws. Stakeholders say lesser expenditure compared to diesel and petrol could have made people opt for CNG vehicles. Besides, more automobile companies have started launching CNG vehicles in the market. “Conversion from diesel to CNG is a cumbersome procedure. Moreover, operating CNG vehicles is financially more viable. More CNG and electric vehicles would be introduced in the market in near future as steps have been taken in that direction,” said Ernakulam RTO Babu John. But shortage of CNG fuelling stations in the district is a cause for concern for many owners. Only seven stations of the Indian oil corporation are functioning in Ernakulam. However, demand for the fuel has not picked up as movement of people have come down drastically, thanks to Covid-19. “We used to sell around 6,000kg of CNG fuel per day and most of our customers were auto drivers. Currently, we sell only around 2,000kg per day,” said Satheesh Kumar, supervisor of a fuel station in Cheranelloor. As on November 10, price of CNG is Rs.56.50 per kg. Whereas the price of diesel and petrol is Rs.74.28 and Rs.81.16 per litre, respectively. “Compared to diesel and petrol, pollution from CNG is minimal. However, new CNG stations are not expected in future as government’s thrust is on electric mobility,” says M B Symandabhadran, convener of Ernakulam auto drivers’ coordination committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/demand-for-cng-vehicles-up-but-fuel-stns-inadequate/articleshow/79156886.cms||T C Sreemol
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Two ‘man-eater’ leopards shot dead within 2 days in Uttarakhand||PITHORAGARH: A day after a leopard was neutralised in the Berinag area of Pithoragarh by forest department-appointed shooter Joy Hukil, another ‘man-eater’ big cat was shot dead on Monday night in the district. The eliminated female leopard was seven years old and 6.4 feet long, said forest officials. “The man-eater was shot near Pithoragarh town by hunter Sayad Ali Bin Hadi, who was assigned the task by the department. The big cat had killed a 37-year-old woman and a 10-year-old boy last month. Three other persons had also sustained injuries in these attacks. Taking cognisance, the wildlife warden had declared the female leopard on the prowl a man-eater,” Naveen Pant, SDO forest, Pithoragarh, told TOI. The forest department had also installed a cage and cameras to track the location of the leopard after it was declared a man-eater, said the official. “The big cat had triggered panic in the district. The canines and nails of the animal were not in good shape,” added Pant. Earlier on Sunday, a man-eater leopard, which had killed a six year-old girl in Berinag area of Pithoragarh recently, was also shot dead. According to the forest department, seven ‘man-eater’ leopards — including the two aforementioned big cats — have so far been terminated this year in Uttarakhand. (With inputs from Shivani Azad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-man-eater-leopards-shot-dead-within-2-days-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/79155769.cms||Prem Punetha
November 11, 2020||Kolhapur||BJP continues to woo Marathas in western Maharashtra||KOLHAPUR: The choice of Sangram Deshmukh, an influential politician from Sangli district, as a candidate for Pune division graduates’ constituency, indicates that BJP continues to look for a strong face to attract the dominant Maratha community in western Maharashtra. Sources in BJP said the party had long decided to field a Maratha candidate in Sangli considering the current social and political situation. The other districts in Pune division – Pune, Satara, Kolhapur and Solapur, have Maratha leaders like Udayanraje Bhosale, Subhash Deshmukh, Chandrakant Patil but Sangli district does not have Maratha leader, BJP leaders point out. BJP sources also said that the party decided to field a candidate from outside Pune city to attract voters from other districts. BJP leadership believes it can convince its supporters in the city to vote for Deshmukh. The other Maratha leaders, whose names were being discussed include Muralidhar Mohol, Harshavardhan Patil and Rohan Deshmukh. Sangram Deshmukh is considered to be close to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Deshmukh has twice in the past shown interest in contesting the assembly election from Palus constituency against minister Vishwajeet Kadam. Deshmukh had filed his nomination papers against Vishwajeet in the byelection, necessitated by the death of his father Patangrao. But consensus among all the parties to not contest the byelection forced Deshmukh to withdraw. In 2019 assembly election too, Deshmukh had made all the preparations to contest the election again but the seat went to Shiv Sena at the last moment. Sources in BJP said that Deshmukh was even advised to join Sena and contest the election but he refused to do so. BJP sources pointed out that in Deshmukh, the party had chosen a candidate, who does not have any background of Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS). All the BJP leaders, who represented Pune division graduate constituency in recent years, like Narayan Vaidya, Prakash Jawdekar and Chandrakant Patil, had affiliation with RSS. Deshmukh, however, has come from a family having Congress background. His father – Sampatrao was MLA and president of district Congress for a long time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-continues-to-woo-marathas-in-western-maha/articleshow/79158400.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Rajkot||RMC bus service awarded for initiatives during Covid-19||RAJKOT: Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC) won an award for taking precautions regarding Covid-19 in its public transport service. The award is conferred by ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoUHA) at the 13th Urban Mobility India Conference, 2020. RMC received the award for commendable initiative in the category for innovation undertaken in public transport during Covid-19 said Rajkot mayor Bina Aacharya. A special purpose vehicle Rajkot Rajpath Limited (RRL) is managing the city bus and BRTS bus services. RRL had sent a presentation in the conference regarding the bus service during the pandemic in the city. Aacharya said, “The expert penal of the ministry reviewed the presentation sent by RMC and awarded us.” RRL had prepared an intelligent traffic management system (ITMS) software during lockdown. This software helped RRL to implement a system called ‘vehicle planning scheduling and dispatch’. The system provided bus service only on specific routes as per requirement. RMC is also going to implement an automated fare collection system and install electronic ticketing machines enabling conductors to collect money from digital cards or a UPI based system. The staff also took steps like regular sanitization of buses, providing hand sanitizers for passengers and ensuring that all involved with the service including passengers and staffers wear masks. RMC buses are running with 75 percent capacity currently. There are 90 city buses and 10 BRTS buses in operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/rmc-bus-service-awarded-for-initiatives-during-covid-19/articleshow/79156929.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Police chowkeys in Aurangabad city to be upgraded||AURANGABAD: The poor conditions of the police chowkeys in the city limits have caught the attention of police commissioner Nikhil Gupta, who visited several of these places and decided to upgrade them. Since taking charge, Gupta has made surprise visits to police stations and several police chowkeys. This was followed by a marathon meeting with the senior officers. New police chowkeys will be added as well. To begin with, four of the many police chowkeys in the city, including Delhi Gate and Central Bus Stand, will be renovated and maintained The city also has police stations and police chowkeys, which belonged to the Nizam-era. police stations are comparatively in better condition as the chowkeys lack the basic facilities like toilets and a place to rest. On Tuesday, police commissioner Nikhil Gupta while returning from the election preparation meeting, took a surprise halt at the Delhi Gate police chowkey, which is one of the oldest chowkeys in this historical city, to inspect its condition. The officer said he wants the entire police infrastructure, including the police chowkeys to be in a liveable condition so it gives a sense of belongingness to the police personnel on duty. Deputy commissioner of police Nikesh Khatmode Patil, who accompanied Gupta to several of the police chowkeys in the city, has been tasked to personally overlook the entire work. Sources said in addition to the existing ones, several new police chowkeys are being planned at various strategic locations across the jurisdiction of Aurangabad police commissionorate. An officer privy to the development said the police stations with entry and exit points, sensitive locations as well as areas of commercial, tourism and administrative importance in the city will compulsorily have new police chowkeys.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/police-chowkeys-in-aurangabad-cityto-be-upgraded/articleshow/79155797.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Herbarium to come up in Subhash park soon||KOCHI: Subhash park will soon be a beehive of green activities as part of Interact-Bio-project being implemented through ICLEI-local governments for sustainability, south Asia. As part of the plan, a herbarium and a poly natural biodiversity park will come up in the city in a few months. These parks will have trees and plants as suggested by experts whose inputs contributed to a unique biodiversity action plan that was released recently. Restrictions imposed as part of Covid-19 protocol delayed the project implementation as experts from other cities could not come into the state. “The flora proposed for poly natural park will have trees and plants that attract migratory birds as Mangalavanam in the vicinity is the hub for one of the most exclusive Avian visitors to the state,” said Alex C J, project coordinator-biodiversity, C-hed, adding that a biodiversity interpretation centre is also being proposed to help generate discussions and studies. The project attains more importance as it is being developed after first-ever city biodiversity index (CBI) was carried out in the local body. Experts worked with ward members and people in the area to understand the local species before preparing the CBI, which is also known as the Singapore Index. It was developed so that cites and local bodies have a role to play in the implementation of a country’s national biodiversity strategy and action plan (NBSAP). The purpose of the index was to consolidate the available biodiversity-related indicators at local level, which could then help cities to evaluate and benchmark their biodiversity conservation efforts. Kochi City Biodiversity Index 2020 has been prepared based on a user manual updated in 2014. The city scored 45 out of 72 for 18 indicators. Since this was the baseline year, some indicators were not considered in the analysis, thus reducing the maximum possible score from 92 to 72. Kochi scored 17 out of 20 in the first set of indicators on ‘native biodiversity in the city’. “It scored so much in this section primarily because of the contribution of Kochi’s backwater area which covers a significant percent of the overall area of the city,” the CBI report said. In the second set of indicators (11-14) which is related to ‘ecosystem services provided by biodiversity in the city’, city scored six out of 16 points. Once again, the score in this section was primarily due to the contribution of backwater area. “Urbanisation and industrial activities are responsible for shrinking of green spaces and the deteriorating health of the city’s green-blue infrastructure,” it stated. Indicators 15-23 which correspond to ‘governance and management of biodiversity in the city’ contributed to a score of 22 out of 36 points. “This indicates that though the city needs to strengthen mechanisms in biodiversity governance and management, concrete steps such as the development of a local biodiversity strategy and action plan (LBSAP) are being taken up proactively,” the report further stated. The coastal region, Vembanad backwaters, estuary, mangroves, wetlands, fresh water ponds, Pokkali paddy fields, other mixed cultivation, home gardens and public open spaces are the major biodiversity habitats of Kochi city. But it lacks a comprehensive biodiversity profile although a People’s Biodiversity Register was developed for the area falling under corporation limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/herbarium-to-come-up-in-subhash-park-soon/articleshow/79156925.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Taj adds The Connaught to its ultra luxury hotels list||NEW DELHI: After remaining closed for years, The Connaught, an NDMC hotel in Connaught Place, has reopened as a Taj property. Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL), which runs Taj hotels, had in 2018 bagged the 1987-era hotel in an auction to run it for 33 years. The number of Taj hotels in Delhi-NCR has now gone up to 15, including two under development in Noida. The 104-room Connaught will be a part of IHCL’s SeleQtions brand, a collection of hotels and resorts. IHCL MD and CEO Puneet Chhatwal said, “The Connaught is the newest jewel in the crown of the SeleQtions portfolio. With its thoughtfully designed interiors, it reflects the best of the cultural and social milieu of the city.” The Connaught was built on land allotted for construction of a youth hostel in the run-up to the ’82 Asiad Games. The successful bidders ended up building a luxury hotel in 1987. NDMC cancelled the hotel’s licence in 1995, but the operator continued running the prime central Delhi property for 18 years till 2013. In 2017, NDMC decided to auction The Connaught after sealing it for non-payment of licence fees, which were Rs 120 crore. In the 2018 auction of NDMC, Taj also retained the Mansingh Road property, which it had been running since 1978, for another 33 years. The group is undertaking a major Rs 250-crore renovation of this flagship hotel. “The first phase of renovation covering public areas, including Machan, lobby, two floors of Chambers joined by a glass elevator, and three-room floors, being done at a cost of Rs 50 crore will be complete by the year-end. The remaining work will be completed over the next three years. Taj Mahal Hotel is our crown jewel and we have not scaled down our capex plans for it despite the pandemic,” Chhatwal had recently told TOI. IHCL is planning to have a dedicated floor of service apartments at Taj Mansingh. The number of rooms-cum-suites could reduce from 290 to 225-230 due to the service apartments and bigger renovated rooms. Taj hotels has been looking for more properties in central Delhi for some years. Apart from Taj Mansingh and Taj Diplomatic Enclave, Vivanta Ambassador and The Connaught have joined its list of ultra luxury hotels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/taj-adds-the-connaught-to-its-ultra-luxury-hotels-list/articleshow/79159921.cms||Saurabh Sinha
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||The hyena’s last pained laugh||AHMEDABAD: It was mob frenzy — people attacked a striped hyena and celebrated its bloody death at Kalana in Sanand taluka on November 4. The state forest department has booked five persons, including a juvenile, under charges of hunting and abetment to kill a Schedule-3 animal, under the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. So far, the department hasn’t been able to determine the reason for the slaughter. There has been no recorded attack by the animal in the past. A few videos and photographs were shared on social media platforms by some of the miscreants who had recorded the gruesome killing of the hyena. One video clip made its way to Amit Nayak, assistant conservator of forests (ACF) of Ahmedabad social forestry division; and Pradeep Vaghela, range forest officer (RFO) Sanand; and a few other forest officials. It, however, took some time for Nayak to realize that the killing had occurred in Sanand, which has seen intense industrial development over the past few years. “Many videos of harassment of animals from other states are misrepresented as being from Gujarat. So I wanted to be sure that we were not looking at a similar case,” Nayak said. He decided to personally go to the spot to investigate the matter. In the video clips, a group of people, mostly youngsters, are seen marching up and down, hurling abuses and blows at the hyena. The animal is seen writhing in pain. The hyena’s body was then burnt in what appeared to be an attempt to eliminate evidence. The forest department swung into action and a team of 10 people led by Nayak went to the spot. The hyena’s body was recovered around 12.45am on November 5. On November 6, an offence was registered by the forest department along with the local police against five persons including the juvenile. “This was a rare incident. But the department acted swiftly and we will ensure that the guilty are punished,” said Dinesh Kumar Sharma, principal chief conservator of forests and head of forest force (HoFF). “We will ensure that no one dares to repeat such a crime ever again,” Sharma said. While there have been stray incidents of poaching of birds in and around Nalsarovar and Thol in the past, such a heinous act of a mob attacking a wild animal is unheard of in the region. In absence of any recent history between the hyena and the villagers, the human attack is likely to be a case of empty fury fuelled by a mob. The hyena, a scavenger that also feeds on small animals including hares, made its way to the outskirts of Kalana village on November 4 where some people were working in farms. Some of them attacked the animal with a rod that got stuck in its neck. Soon, other villagers gathered and clubbed it to death. The attackers could not identify the animal and kept calling it a ‘wild dog’, said sources in the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/the-hyenas-last-pained-laugh/articleshow/79158432.cms||Maulik Pathak
November 11, 2020||Vijayawada||TTD looks to develop historic Anjanadri hills||TIRUPATI: Anjanadri hills, the birthplace of Lord Hanuman, will soon bask in the limelight as the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is all set to transform the historical place near Tirumala into a major tourist attraction. TTD executive officer (EO) KS Jawahar Reddy said there were many references in puranas and several other Hindu literature related to the birthplace of Lord Anjaneya Swamy which is located at Anjanadri near Tirumala. “Ancient Hindu scriptures state that Lord Hanuman during his childhood used to play around and destroy the beautiful gardens on Anjanadri hills here. In once such instance, his mother who got angry, handcuffed Lord Hanuman and made him stand in front of the Tirumala temple and it is because of this incident that today, we all worship at the Bedi Anjaneya Swamy temple that is located right opposite to the Tirumala temple,” said Jawahar Reddy. “We want to develop Hanuman Janmabhoomi on the Anjanadri hills near the Akasaganga Teertham at Tirumala in a big way. We are working out the modalities and will come out with a plan to take the concept forward. Historical places of Hindu worship should be promoted in a big way and the TTD will mobilise all necessary resources to establish and promote the Hanuman Janmabhoomi in a big way,” said Jawahar Reddy. The TTD is working out modalities and will come up with a plan to develop Hanuman Janmabhoomi on the Anjanadri hills near the Akasaganga Teertham at Tirumala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ttd-looks-to-develop-historic-anjanadri-hills/articleshow/79156919.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Surya Nagar residents firm on using NOTA in GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: An outdated sewage system coupled with a 30-year-old road network and an improper waste disposal mechanism, has come to haunt residents of Surya Nagar Colony and its adjoining localities — not very far away from the bustling Towli Chowki market. Their plight was further heightened during the recent rains when, apart from battling inundation, they also had to put up with completely damaged roads and water stagnation that has now resulted in a mosquito menace. Residents allege that multiple complaints made to local leaders and concerned officials has failed to change the fate of this area that falls within the Shaikpet division, under Jubilee Hills constituency. Frustrated, they have now decided to opt for NOTA in the upcoming civic polls. “Since the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has failed to address our long-standing demand, we have decided to press on NOTA,” said Fazal Siddiqui, president of the Surya Nagar Colony Welfare Association. In fact, another resident and social activist, Asif Hussain Sohail, said that they are even mulling not paying property tax to the GHMC from this year onwards. “If there’s no accountability, there’ll be no cooperation. Development of Hyderabad should be our collective responsibility. But time and again Shaikpet division has been ignored. If netas don’t help, we’ll opt for NOTA,” Sohail reiterated. Sofia Haseeb, president of neighbouring Adityanagar colony too lashed out at the authorities for the area being ridden with bumpy roads, heaps of garbage and overflowing nalas . “We are forced to live without basic amenities. The open nala always spews filth and stinks. Imagine what we would have gone through during the torrential rains. At night, we cannot even open our doors due to mosquito menace. Unless all these issues are addressed, we will use NOTA in the polls,” she said. When TOI contacted Vijay Kumar, executive engineer, GHMC, he said that an inspection of the area has been conducted, to ascertain the problems of residents and an estimate of expenses will be drawn up soon. “We visited the colony and noted down problems — including roads, footpaths etc. All of them will be addressed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/surya-nagar-residents-firm-on-using-nota-in-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79159990.cms||Omar bin Taher
November 11, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad administration gets tough on Covid protocol violators||GHAZIABAD: The district administration has launched a special drive to catch people not wearing masks and not adhering to social distancing norms. Officials said the campaign would be carried out area-wise with a focus on localities which are reporting a high number of Covid-19 cases like Indirapuram, Vaishali and Sahibabad among others. The district magistrate has formed teams to ensure that rules are being followed properly. The teams include incident commander and circle officer of the concerned area, local SHO, commercial tax officer and labour inspector. Checking will be done in markets to see whether protocols are being followed by people or not. At the same time, the administration will also distribute masks to the violators.  On the first day of the campaign on Monday, areas under Indirapuram were covered and 55 challans were issued. An amount of Rs 5,500 was collected. The violators were also warned of bigger challan in case they are caught violating the norms next time.  Meanwhile, the additional district magistrate (city) sent a letter to the shopkeepers, merchants and trade organisations to observe social distancing, use masks and follow Covid protocols. They were told to follow rules or be prepared to face penalties, said an administrative official.  District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “For the past few days, coronavirus cases in the district have increased again. In view of this, teams have been mobilized in such areas where a large number of cases are being reported. The campaign would continue daily from Wednesday.”  On Monday, 22 cases were reported from Indirapuram, eight cases from Sahibabad, four cases in Kaushambi, nine cases from Vijay Nagar and 26 cases were reported from Kavi Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/gzb-admin-gets-tough-on-covid-protocol-violators/articleshow/79159919.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||NE Railway provides leg massagers to de-stress loco pilots, guards||PILIBHIT: North Eastern Railway (NER) has provided one automatic calf and leg massager machine to each of its five railway stations falling under the jurisdiction of Izzatnagar division for loco pilots, assistant loco pilots and railway guards. This is the first time that such an innovation has been inducted in NER’s Izzatnagar division to de-stress and improve the efficiency of its staff associated with the operation of trains. Ashutosh Pant, divisional manager, of NER, said one machine each has been installed at Lalkuan, Kathgodam and Tanakpur stations in Uttarakhand and Kasganj and Mathura Cantt stations in UP. “We feel that in the course of ensuring the safety, security and the timely operation of trains, the physical fitness of the running crew is an essential need. The leg massagers have given excellent results in preventing muscular strain, pain and physical exertion of the pilots and guards who put in long hours at work," said Pant. The facility of massagers was benefiting over 450 loco pilots, assistant pilots and the guards. “We plan to extend this facility to other stations as well," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ne-railway-provides-leg-massagers-to-de-stress-loco-pilots-guards/articleshow/79154768.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Smart City uses new tech to fix roads after trenching||Aurangabad: The road stretches in the city impacted due to the laying of the CCTV cables are being fixed using latest technology, which reduces the effect on traffic. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation, in coordination with Aurangabad Smart City team, has started the work on fixing the road stretches. The road stretch along the Salim Ali Lake entrance near Khijri Gate is the first to be taken up for reinstatement. The reinstatement is being done using the latest technology in road repairs which requires minimum labour and equipment and without affecting the traffic. This solution is expected to minimize the inconvenience caused to the commuters due to the digging, while also restoring the roads to their original condition.Authorities said that it was feared that the trenching work would damage the newly-constructed roads. Earlier, Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) CEO Astik Kumar Pandey had instructed officials to minimize the width of the trench and carry out the reinstatement immediately. It was following the directives of the Aurangabad bench of Bombay high court in 2018 that the civic authorities removed all the illegally-installed cables running over the streetlights.Not taking any chance, the authorities associated with the smart city project decided and ensure that all the cables for the CCTV cameras are placed underground. The ASCDCL is currently in the process of installing 700 surveillance cameras through its appointed vendor. Several major roads had to be trenched to lay the optical fibre and power connection cables necessary for camera operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/smart-city-uses-new-tech-to-fix-roads-after-trenching/articleshow/79155831.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||State Foundation Week: Blood Donation camp to held today||Dehradun: In the wake of the state completing 20 years of its formation, Drishti Eye Institute will organise a blood donation drive in the city on Wednesday. A complimentary health check will be given to those who will volunteer for blood donation. The drive is being held at a time when blood donations have reduced significantly due to the outbreak of Covid-19. According to authorities, the drive will take place at Drishti Eye Care Clinic at 16 Subhash Road from 10 am to 4 pm. “Members of Rotary E-Club Doon and SJA Alumni Association will also be present to contribute towards making this event a success. Spreading awareness towards annual blood donation is also one of our objectives. The drive will help people in need of blood during emergency times,” said Luvkush Pandey, from Drishti Eye Care Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-foundation-week-blood-donation-camp-to-held-today/articleshow/79155822.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Central team visits EG to assess damages||Kakinada: East Godavari district collector D Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday told the inter-ministerial central team visiting the state to assess flood damages that losses to the tune of Rs 2,442 crore had been sustained across various sectors in East Godavari due to heavy rainfall and floods between August and October. The four-member central team lead by joint secretary of the Union ministry of home affairs Sourav Ray visited a number of places in the district to estimate damages and review losses. The district collector gave a presentation on the extent of damages to the team. Speaking on the occasion, the collector said damages to the tune of Rs 422 crore were sustained in the agricultural and horticultural sectors, while losses amounting to Rs 2,019 crore were estimated for basic facilities in the district. Elaborating on the damages that took place to basic infrastructure, the collector said assets amounting to Rs 908 crore and belonging to the roads and building department were damaged, while the water resources department suffered losses in assets worth Rs 819 crore and the panchayat raj department sustained losses in assets to the tune of Rs 288 crore. On the losses that occurred to the irrigation system in the district, the collector said 22 minor, nine medium and 95 major irrigation systems have been affected on account of natural calamities this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/central-team-visits-eg-to-assess-damages/articleshow/79156965.cms||Samson Raj
November 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada villagers send video highlighting ills to PM||MANGALURU: Villagers of Kamila-Mogra in Guthigaru gram panchayat of Sullia taluk in Dakshina Kannada have sent a CD that contains a documentary that narrates the pathetic condition of their village, which lacks basic infrastructure, to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Civic Action Committee of Kamila-Mogra shot a 3.5 minute documentary highlighting the woes of villagers, who face difficulties due to lack of roads and bridges. More than 50 members of the committee sent the CD to the PM on Tuesday, through the postal service. Though the village has a population of more than 2,000 people, it has not seen any development works being taken up since India got Independence, committee members stated. “We regret to bring this to your notice that our fundamental problems have not been solved since Independence. We would like to draw your kind attention to this issue by providing this video to your highness. We waited with a belief that this matter would be solved at the lower level than reaching your highness. Our basic needs like bridges and roads have not been solved yet. People are forced to cross the river to reach Mogra Government Higher Primary School, Mogra Temple, Primary Health Centre and the polling booth. In spite of our repeated demand for many years, the bridge has not been built. Approximately 250 families lose connectivity with the main road during the rainy season, due to the lack of a bridge,” the documentary narrates. “We have chosen India Post to send the CD to the PM, so that the central government should also think of strengthening the postal system in rural areas,” said Action Committee convener P S Gangadhara Bhat Puchchappady. Mahesh Puchchappady, a journalist from the village, told TOI that villagers of Kamila-Mogra did not hold protests to highlight their issues since they had trust in people’s representatives. “We trusted the promises being made by elected representatives who visit the village to seek votes. However, the problems we face due to lack of roads and bridges has not yet been solved. Roads in our village have not been asphalted for several years. Even bringing an ambulance in case of an emergency is a difficult task,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-villagers-send-video-highlighting-ills-to-pm/articleshow/79158452.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Mysuru||No car festival at MM Hills temple due to pandemic||MYSURU: Diwali and Karthika Rathotsava at Sri Malai Mahadeshwara Swamy Temple atop MM Hills in Chamarajanagar district are popular across south India. Every year, lakhs of devotees attend the annual events in the Hindu month of Karthika. However keeping in view the Covid-19 crisis this year, Chamarajanagar district administration has decided against celebrating the rathotsava (car festival). Jayavibhavana Swamy, secretary of the Temple Development Authority (MM Hills), said there will not be Diwali and Karthika Rathotsava that this year. This apart, Halarave Utsav, Teppotsava and other rituals will be a simple affair with only temple staff and priests being around. He also said that no devotee will be allowed to visit the temple between November 13 and 16. According to an order issued by the district administration, only priests and temple staff will be allowed to participate in Diwali-related rituals at the temple, including amavasya puja. However, people’s representatives have been exempted from this. According to the authorities, a large number of devotees from across south India trek long distances and gather at the holy shrine to witness various rituals during Diwali. However due to the pandemic, the district administration has decided against allowing crowds in the shrine. The temple management has already stopped devotees from reserving rooms at the temple guests houses between November 13 and 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-car-festival-at-mm-hills-temple-due-to-pandemic/articleshow/79159563.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||A day after announcing Rs 25k cr projects for Gairsain, CM lays foundation stone of secretariat in summer capital||Dehradun: In what is being termed as the biggest move towards realising the vision of developing Gairsain as the permanent capital of Uttarakhand, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday laid the foundation stone of a secretariat at Gairsain. After an assembly building, the state secretariat would be a major step in moving the official machinery to Gairsain. The office and seating arrangements of officials and state employees was a major concern as apart from the main assembly building, there was no such facility or infrastructure at Gairsain. The secretariat construction project is worth Rs 110 crore and sources maintained that its cost may go up even further. After reading out the state budget on March 4, this year, CM Rawat had announced Gairsain as the summer capital of Uttarakhand. The pooja ceremony was performed by priests and the likely structure of the secretariat building too was made public. Meanwhile, the CM also laid the foundation stone and inaugurated projects worth Rs 240 crore for Gairsain area on the day. The total worth of the projects for which he laid the foundation stones amounted to Rs 207 crore and projects worth Rs 32 crore were dedicated to the people. Soon after the events, the CM said, “There has been an increase in the development works in the hills. We are leaving no stone unturned in our efforts to provide better road connectivity in hills and rural areas. Majority of the projects dedicated to people include roads connecting villages.” On the issue of Gairsain, the CM maintained that “be it planning drinking water arrangement for the next 50 years, planning the infrastructure, announcing Rs 25,000 projects for the next 10 years or laying the foundation stone of an a state secretariat at Gairsain, we are moving ahead in the right direction and fulfilling the promises made to the people of Uttarakhand.” He did not fail to mention that a committee headed by the chief secretary had been constituted to suggest short term and long term projects for Gairsain. “We will take the opinion of experts on the recommendations made by the committee,” he said, adding that if required, private firms would also be invited for the development of the area. Later, he paid tribute to Veer Chandra Singh Garhwali at his memorial in Doodhatoli area of Pauri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/a-day-after-announcing-rs-25k-cr-projects-for-gairsain-cm-lays-foundation-stone-of-secretariat-in-summer-capital/articleshow/79155838.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 11, 2020||Patna||Parties tread with caution in early hours of counting||PATNA: All political parties in the state seemed to have learnt their lessons from 2015, when early trends on counting day had given the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) a massive lead, prompting constituents BJP, LJP, RLSP and HAM(S) to start bursting crackers and distributing sweets ‘prematurely’. This time, all the parties erred on the side of caution as counting progressed on Tuesday. Apart from a handful of RJD workers posing with live fish, considered auspicious in eastern India, there was no exuberance at the 10, Circular Road, residence of former chief minister Rabri Devi on Tuesday morning, although most news channels showed the Mahagathbandhan stealing a march over the NDA by a substantial margin, albeit on the basis of the counting of postal ballots. Even BJP and JD(U) netas avoided commenting on the outcome of the polls, barring JD(U) chief general secretary K C Tyagi, who was heard telling television news channels in the early hours of counting that the pandemic and the Chirag Paswan-led LJP’s ‘negative approach’ had harmed his party. Even coverage on news channels was muted. As trends began emerging from around 8 am, the channels curbed their enthusiasm to call the election for any alliance, perhaps taking cues from the 2015 experience when PM Narendra Modi was all over television screens and ‘achhe din’ had started trending on Twitter soon after counting started. “We were always confident of victory this time, in spite of exit polls giving an edge to the Mahagathbandhan. However, mature parties don’t react early when it comes to poll results. The final results will be there for everyone to see. The people of the state have once again voted against jungle raj,” said Manan Krishna, the IT cell chief of stte BJP, adding that the youth of the state, especially first-time voters, had supported NDA candidates overwhelmingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parties-tread-with-caution-in-early-hours-of-counting/articleshow/79160576.cms||Sanjiv Das
November 11, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Lokayukta directs BJP MLC to declare assets, liabilities||MYSURU: Former minister and BJP MLC AH Vishwanath, who is trying to get a berth in BS Yediyurappa-led cabinet, has not filed the statement of his assets and liabilities to Karnataka Lokayukta. The Lokayukta has directed the former minister to submit the same. As per Section 22 of Karnataka Lokayukta Act-1984, it is mandatory that every public servant submits to the Lokayukta a statement of his/ her assets and liabilities and those of their family members before June 30 of every year. If they fail do so, the Lokayukta will make a report to the competent authority about the non-submission of the statement and a copy of the report will also be sent to the public servant. If the public servant fails to submit the statement even after receiving the report, the defaulter’s name will be published in newspapers. Sources said that MLAs and MLCs who fail to submit the details by June 30 get two more months to submit statements with an explanation for late submission. The Lokayukta will send a report about legislators who have failed to submit to the governor. Vishwanath, who was then Hunsur MLA, has failed to submit the statement for 2018-19. When contacted, Vishwanath said he was not aware of the lapse as the submission of assets and liabilities statements is looked after by his personal secretary. “I will ensure the statements are submitted to the Lokayukta immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/lokayukta-directs-bjp-mlc-to-declare-assets-liabilities/articleshow/79159534.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Four held for trying to kidnap businessman to fund weddings in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The local crime branch of Aurangabad rural police on Monday night nabbed four suspects, who allegedly tried to kidnap a local businessman and get extortion money for their marriage. The suspects have been identified as Krushna Kale (23) of Sillod in Aurangabad, Sagar Sonawne (28) of Adgaon in Bhokardan of Jalna, Vaibhav Kalwile of Natvi in Sillod and Sachin Chintu Sonawne (25) of Kanchan nagar in Jalgaon. Investigations have revealed that Krushna and Sachin were planning to marry their respective girlfriends. However, their families were opposed to the idea of inter-caste marriage. The duo then decided to make some easy money by kidnapping the businessman and extorting Rs 50 lakh from him. Police said that on Sunday night, businessman Akhilesh Gupta (45), was returning from his farm to his house in Sillod, when three suspects waylaid his car. The suspects were carrying a firearm and sharp-edged weapons. They forced Gupta’s employees to step out of the car and made him sit in the backseat. When Gupta resisted, one of the suspect fired three rounds in the air. Hearing bullet shots, farmers from the neighbouring villages rushed to the spot. Seeing the local farmers gather, the suspects panicked fled the scene. Taking serious cognizance of the incident, superintendent of police Mokshada Patil formed multiple teams to identify the suspects and nab them. LCB inspector Bhagwat Phunde said the three suspects have been remanded in police custody for three days and a firearm, a live round, the bike used in the crime ans three mobile phones have been seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-held-for-trying-to-kidnap-bizman-to-fund-weddings/articleshow/79155840.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Graveyard mosque: Gujarat HC lifted stay on namaz||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has lifted the stay on offering prayers at a newly constructed mosque on a graveyard. The Gujarat State Waqf Tribunal had earlier stopped religious activities on the objection raised by a Muslim group against the construction of the mosque by erasing old graves. On Monday, Justice Vaibhavi Nanavati stayed the tribunal’s order passed last month by which it had restrained further construction at the mosque and offering of namaz in it. The place is a graveyard in Badarpur village near Palanpur town of north Gujarat. The dispute is regarding the control over the graveyard land between the members of Tablighi Jamaat and those following the Sufi school of ideology. The petitioner, Masjid Madrasa Kabrastan Balapir Waqf Trust, went to the HC against the tribunal’s order with an argument that the tribunal’s decision to stop prayers in the mosque amounted to denying religious rights to the villagers. While staying the tribunal’s order, the HC has asked the parties to maintain the status quo, but permitted religious activity with strict observation of social distancing. As the other group was anxious about the status of a shrine, Balapir Dargah, in the graveyard and their rights of practising rituals, the petitioner assured the high court that they would not be restrained from any religious observances. As the dispute about the property and the construction of a mosque was pending in a civil court in Palanpur, the trust has alleged that approaching the Waqf tribunal by the other side was forum shopping. The high court has ordered the tribunal to take the final decision on the dispute within six months and posted further hearing on the trust’s petition on December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/graveyard-mosque-stay-on-namaz-lifted/articleshow/79158464.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Cong holds tractor rally in CM’s constituency against farm laws||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of Congress on Tuesday held a “tractor rally” in chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat’s constituency Doiwala to protest against the farm laws, which were recently passed in the parliament. Led by state Congress chief Pritam Singh, the farmers from Dehradun and neighbouring Haridwar reached Doiwala in their tractors. On the occasion, Singh said that Congress would continue to oppose the laws as they are against the farmers of the country. On the issue, he said, “In each and every state, these laws are being opposed by the farmers.” Meanwhile, Congress state vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana pointed out that farmer suicides have been recorded for the first time in Uttarakhand in the last three years. “Even when Uttarakhand was a part of Uttar Pradesh, no farmer suicides were reported from this. Today, debt-ridden farmers are facing tough times and the government is in no mood to waive off their loans. On the contrary, the government is just interested in giving more loans to farmers in Uttarakhand. The three farm laws have further deepened the crisis for the farmers,” said Dhasmana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-holds-tractor-rally-in-cms-constituency-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79155847.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 11, 2020||Vadodara||Trucker gets the court’s goat by seeking release of 279 goats!||Vadodara: He knocked on the court’s doors seeking release of his ‘muddamal’ that was confiscated by the Vadodara rural cops. Nothing unusual in this man’s plea except for the fact that it wasn’t the normal pleas that flooded the court requesting release of cars, bikes, mobile phones or even cash, but of goats. Yes, not a couple of these animals, but a truck load of 279 in all!A judicial magistrate’s court in Vadodara recently came across the rib-tickling case, where the applicant, Bihar native Shahnawaz Mohammed Hasnain Ahmed, the cleaner of the truck in which the goats were being transported, wanted the animals be released as the climate in Vadodara may not be suitable for the goats!He argued that the goats can only survive in climates that are found in Rajasthan or in Mumbai and not in captive conditions in Banyan City. However, the ludicrous plea got the court’s goat, literally. The court of additional senior civil judge and additional chief judicial magistrate not only quashed Ahmed’s request stating that the manner in which the goats were being transported in the truck from Rajasthan to Mumbai itself shows that Ahmed had little concern for the animals’ well being. “Prima facie it seems that the animals have been subjected to cruelty,” the court observed.Clearly, the case proved the statement, “Every man can tell how many goats or sheep he possesses, but not how many friends0”. Ahmed surely didn’t have any in the court, that day!Vadodara rural police and an animal activist stopped Ahmed and three others on the Ahmedabad-Vadodara expressway on September 2. They were booked for ferrying 279 goats in a confined space of a truck and that too without food and water. The goats, which became muddamal, were shifted to a cattle shelter near Darjipura, where they are enjoying hospitality to the fullest.On behalf of the cattle shelter, advocate Bipin Thakkar argued that the cattle shelter has facilities to look after the goats while Ahmed had not provided fodder to the goats while transporting them throughout the long journey. He also argued that Ahmed also failed to spell clearly where he intends to keep the goats if he were to be given possession, nor does he have a veterinarian’s certificate which is a violation of the Supreme Court’s guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/trucker-gets-the-courts-goat-by-seeking-release-of-279-goats/articleshow/79135902.cms||Jay Pachchigar
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||798 apply for 250 M.Phil seats in Bamu||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) has received around 798 final submissions for M.Phil degree course as against the cumulative intake capacity of around 250 seats. As the academic year 2020-21 will be the last batch of the M.Phil course, the Bamu has received such an overwhelming response. The course will be discontinued from the next year as per the provisions in the New Education Policy (NEP) of the Centre. Sanjay Shinde, the public relations officer of Bamu, said the highest number of application (106) was received for political science, followed by commerce (77), English (70) and history (55) among the total 18 subjects. “Barring the subject of library and information science, all the other 17 subjects have more number of takers than the intake capacity. These two subjects in the past also witnessed lower response during M.Phill admissions. The knowledge streams such as social sciences and languages have reported the highest response,” he said. As per the official schedule charted out by Bamu, the Common Entrance Test (CET) for admissions to M.Phil course is scheduled on November 20 through online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/798-apply-for-250-m-phil-seats-in-bamu/articleshow/79155852.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 66k mark in U’khand||DEHRADUN: The novel coronavirus case tally in Uttarakhand crossed the 66,000-mark on Tuesday as 328 fresh infections were reported from the state on the day. The cases now stand at 66,005 in the Himalyan state. Also, five more fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 1,080 in the state. Among the fresh cases, Dehradun recorded the maximum of 130 infections. The capital city has been reporting the maximum number of Covid-19 cases in the state for 10 days now. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, told TOI, “Dehradun has reported 18,285 Covid-19 cases since March 15. This is 7,000 more than the number of cases recorded in Haridwar, which has the second most number of Covid-19 cases.” Till Tuesday, Haridwar has recorded 11,323 cases of Covid 19, followed by 9,759 cases in Udham Singh Nagar, and 7,657 cases in Nainital. “All the nine hill districts have collectively reported 18,981 cases,” said Tripathi. Dehradun also accounts for the maximum number of coronavirus-related deaths. The district alone has reported deaths of Covid-19 deaths. “So far, Nainital has reported 151 deaths, followed by 125 in Haridwar, and 97 in Udham Singh Nagar. The other nine hill districts have collectively reported 91 deaths,” added Tripathi. Apart from fresh cases, 505 patients recovered from the Covid-19 infection on Tuesday, taking the number of cured cases to 60,429. With 541 Covid-19 patients migrating out of the state, Uttarakhand had 3,955 active cases till Tuesday. Meanwhile, the Dehradun district administration on Tuesday released a list of six areas where the restrictions of containment zones have been removed. The areas are — Akriti Viharat Turnerroad, Vidya Vihar phase 2, parts of Rochipura, Bakralwala, Arya Nagar and Shastri Nagar at Haridwar road. According to the officials, the containment zone regulations in all the six areas were imposed for a period of 28 days. However, no new case of coronavirus has been reported from these areas in the past 14 days. In view of this, the office of chief medical officer and district administration took the decision of removing the restriction in the areas. The officials also said that the health department will, however, monitor the situation in these areas for another few days. (With inputs from Abhijeet Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-66k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/79155857.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Madurai PD court will try custodial deaths case: HC||Madurai: A special bench of the Madras high court which was constituted to decide on the jurisdiction of the court to try the Sathankulam custodial deaths case, on Tuesday, held that the Madurai chief judicial magistrate would commit the case to the Madurai principal district court for trial. The court also said that after committal, the court can proceed in accordance with law.A division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and V Bharathidasan passed the order in a reference sent by Tuticorin principal district and sessions judge (PDJ) N Logeswaran seeking clarification on jurisdiction to try the Sathankulam custodial deaths of the father-son duo.The Tuticorin PDJ had sent a reference to the high court Madurai bench seeking clarification since the bail applications of the accused in this case are being entertained and disposed of by the Madurai principal district court. The Tuticorin PDJ had stated that as per Section 177 of the CrPC, every offence shall be ordinarily inquired and tried by a court within whose local jurisdiction it was committed.Earlier, when a bail application was taken up for hearing before the Tuticorin PDJ, the special public prosecutor for CBI cases raised an objection stating that the chief judicial magistrate at Madurai is designated to try the offences and placed the notification issued by the high court dated September 9, 1976.During the course of hearing, the public prosecutor for CBI submitted that the Madurai CJM would commit the case to the Madurai principal district court for trial after a final report is filed.It maybe recalled that the CBI, which had completed the investigation in the case filed the final report against nine policemen before the Madurai CJM court on September 25. Earlier, while hearing a bail plea moved by one of the accused cops, the assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri appearing for the CBI informed that the trial in the case would commence from Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-pd-court-will-try-custodial-deaths-case-hc/articleshow/79160787.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Woman commits suicide with baby in Aurangabad, husband arrested||AURANGABAD: The police arrested a man on Tuesday, a day after his wife jumped into a well, along with their 14-month-old daughter. The mother and baby have both died. The incident took place within the Waluj police station limits. The woman’s husband and mother-in-law have been booked on the charges of abetment to suicide. The deceased have been identified as Yogita Raut (25) and Akshada. Inspector Sandeep Gurme said Yogita’s husband Vithal Raut has been arrested. The officer, citing contents of the complaint lodged by Yogita’s father Atmaram Gawli, said the woman had married Vithal, a farmer, about five years ago. Vithal allegedly is a liquor addict and wanted Yogita to get Rs 20,000 from her father. As per the complaint, Yogita had made multiple calls to her father requesting him to give the money. But he was unable due to bad economic conditions and crop loss. Vithal and his mother allegedly started harassing Yogita physically and mentally. When she called her father again, he promised that he would get the money by Tuesday. But unable to bear the domestic violence, the woman, along with her 14-month-old daughter, allegedly jumped into a well near their house in Raut Vasti of Dahegaon, in Gangapur tehsil, on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-commits-suicide-with-baby-husband-arrested/articleshow/79155845.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman beaten by teen son over her divorce||AHMEDABAD: A 40-year-old woman on Tuesday filed a police complaint against her son alleging that he had thrashed her over an old feud stemming from her divorce. In her FIR filed with the Gaekwad Haveli police, Farida Meman, a resident of Jamalpur, said that she had divorced her husband Abdul Razaq about five years ago. She had two sons Aaquib, 19, and Arbaz, 10, from her marriage. After her divorce, her son Aaquib had started picking quarrels with her. He said he felt aggrieved that she had left his father. On Tuesday evening, when she went to feed sparrows near Jamalpur Darwaza, Farida ran into Aaquib. When she returned home, Aaquib was behind her. He began abusing her for going out. Then he began thrashing her severely. She screamed for help and her neighbours rescued her. She alleged that her son threatened to kill her when she left home. Gaekwad Haveli police have registered an FIR. Aaquib is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-beaten-by-teen-son-over-her-divorce/articleshow/79158475.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Counselling for MBBS from Nov 17: Health minister||TRICHY: Counselling for MBBS, BDS admissions in the state could begin tentatively by November 17, state health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar has said. Speaking to reporters at the Trichy International Airport on Tuesday, Vijayabaskar said that online applications from candidates will be accepted till November 12. “The rank list will be released on November 16 after which the counselling will commence between November 17 and 19, according to the decision of the chief minister,” he said. Terming the 7.5% reservation for students of government schools in medical admissions as an historical achievement of the AIADMK government, the health minister said that students of rural schools would secure a minimum of 303 seats in the counselling. He also ridiculed DMK president and opposition leader M K Stalin for taking credit for the 7.5% reservation. On the status of Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, the health minister said that the Tamil Nadu government has successfully completed the first round of trial by administering the vaccine to 75 volunteers who developed no side effects. He said that the next phase of the trial will start soon. Vijayabaskar also appealed to the people to wear face masks and follow social distancing during the festival to avoid the second wave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/counselling-for-mbbs-from-nov-17-health-min/articleshow/79159943.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Affair discovered during lockdown, wife files complaint||AHMEDABAD: A 36-year-old woman from the Amraiwadi area of the city on Sunday filed a complaint at the Women’s police station (East) alleging that as her husband’s affair with another woman was exposed when he had to remain indoors during the lockdown, he thrashed her and deserted her after the lockdown ended. In her FIR, Dhara Khatri stated that she married Dharmesh Khatri in 2006 according to the will of her family. She said their relationship was pleasant after the wedding and she had a 13-year-old son. She said she thought her husband was decent and loved her and their child, until the lockdown was ordered. “During the lockdown, he would go to corners of the house where he spoke to someone. Once I checked his phone and found his chat with another woman,” she said in the FIR. When she asked him about the woman, he first tried to hide the relationship but later told her that she was his second wife. Dhara protested and told her in-laws about the woman but they sided with Dharmesh and told her to keep quiet. As she kept raising the issue, her husband thrashed her. She said he even stopped giving her money for the treatment of their ailing son. As soon as the lockdown ended in June, he husband abandoned her. She finally approached police and filed a complaint against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/affair-discovered-during-lockdown-wife-files-complaint/articleshow/79158498.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Harak Singh Rawat given 3-month jail for violating poll code of conduct, gets bail||Dehradun: Uttarakhand cabinet minister Harak Singh Rawat was given a three-month jail sentence by a local court in Rudraprayag in a case relating to violation of the code of conduct during the 2012 state assembly elections. A penalty of Rs 1,000 was also imposed on the minister by the court of judicial magistrate. “The minister was convicted under section 143 (unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). He was also booked under sections 147 (rioting) and 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) but the court acquitted him of these charges,” said prosecution lawyer Mamta Manaduli. According to Manaduli, a case of violation of the code of conduct was registered against Harak Singh Rawat and his aides in 2012 when he was contesting from Rudraprayag assembly seat. Later in the day, Harak Singh Rawat was granted bail in the case to appeal before the appellate court, said a lawyer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harak-singh-rawat-given-3-month-jail-for-violating-poll-code-of-conduct-gets-bail/articleshow/79155877.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 11, 2020||Aurangabad||Survey of Aurangabad-Pune rail link via Ahmednagar soon||AURANGABAD: The long-pending demand of a rail track on the Aurangabad-Ahmednagar-Pune route has been finally addressed by the authorities and survey for the same has been ordered. It will be done after Diwali. Maharashtra Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (MRIDC) Limited, which is a joint venture of the Maharashtra government and the Railway ministry, has communicated the development to advocacy group Marathwada Railway Action Committee and Rajya Sabha member Bhagwat Karad, who has been following up on the demand.  MRIDC has also given a go-ahead to the viability assessment of Aurangabad/Daulatabad-Chalisgaon and Rotegaon-Kopargaon routes. “MRIDC’s board of directors has approved the survey and preparation of a detailed project report for these three projects. The route for the Aurangabad-Ahmednagar-Pune line will be decided during the survey. Once the survey of the three projects is completed, we will submit the DPR to the railway ministry and the state government for approval,” MRIDC public relations officer Vinit Toke said in a letter to the advocacy group and Karad. Anant Borkar, president of Marathwada Railway Action Committee, said the Aurangabad-Pune line can cover Shani Shingnapur and Sonai Mata temple in Ahmednagar. “Aurangabad lacks effective rail connectivity with Pune. The existing rail-link, via Manmad-Yeola-Duand, is inconvenient,” he said. Meanwhile, Karad said the line between Aurangabad and Pune will go well with the upcoming dry-port in Jalna. He said the Aurangabad-Ahmednagar-Pune route can fetch very high revenues for the railways. A senior official of South Central Railway (SCR) said both the state and the Centre may share an equal share in the cost for the new line. Railway activist Omprakash Varma said all three rail routes must become a reality soon. Barring Aurangabad-Pune, a survey of other two routes was done recently without the MRIDC’s involvement. While the Rotegaon-Kopargaon was called viable, an outcome for the Daulatabad-Chalisgaon is awaited, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/survey-of-aurangabad-pune-rail-link-via-ahmednagar-soon/articleshow/79155880.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Display rights of complainants in front of stations clearly: HC to DGP||MADURAI: Madras high court on Tuesday directed the director general of police (DGP) to issue a consolidated instruction or circular on the rights of complainants to all police stations. These rights should be displayed in a visible manner in front of all stations in Tamil and English. Justice S M Subramaniam made the observation while dismissing the second bail petition of suspended police inspector S Sridhar, who was arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam in Tuticorin district. Observing that the heinous crime of custodial deaths should be eradicated from society, the judge said that beyond the factual aspects, certain social impacts should also be considered in the interest of the public in such crimes against society. Grant of bail sends a wrong message to the society at large and courts are expected to be cautious. Pointing out that a large number of custodial deaths cases are reported in Tamil Nadu, the court observed that in case of allegations a thorough investigation is mandatory to initiate corrective measures and introduce reformations in the police department. A common man is not treated properly and many people are still afraid to enter police stations. Though several circulars were issued to the police, they are not followed. The judge directed the DGP to ensure that CCTV cameras installed at stations are in working condition and, if needed, repair is done within three days failing which necessary action should be taken against the concerned officials. Accused people should only be transported using department vehicles for remand purposes. Even if the police engage private vehicles, the cost should be borne by the police department and not the accused people. Earlier, during the course of hearing, assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri, appearing for CBI, submitted that though the agency had filed the final report, the investigation was still in progress with regard to involvement of others in the case. Submitting that the petitioner had not cooperated with the inquiry, she strongly objected to the grant of bail citing possibility of tampering with witnesses. The HC had on September 17 dismissed Sridhar’s bail plea observing that prima facie materials were available to prove that he had instigated his fellow policemen to assault the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/display-rights-of-complainants-in-front-of-stations-clearly-hc-to-dgp/articleshow/79160798.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Shrewd caste math helps saffron retain Kuldeep Singh Sengar turf||LUCKNOW: More than eight months after BJP MLA from Bangarmau, Kuldeep Singh Sengar, was disqualified as a lawmaker following his conviction in rape of a minor, BJP managed to retain the seat on Tuesday after a keenly-fought election. BJP’s shrewd caste math helped its candidate Srikant Katiyar to pip his rivals in a seat, which has a substantial Muslim population. And Congress’ Arti Bajpai was the surprise package after she climbed to the second slot. Positioned on the Unnao-Hardoi border, Bangarmau has around 80,000 Muslim voters, and was won by Sengar on a SP ticket in 2007. In 2012, SP denied him a ticket and fielded Badlu Khan, who bagged the seat. The situation changed dramatically in 2017 when Sengar switched over to BJP and riding the Modi wave managed to secure 44% votes. BJP sources said, the seat offered a tough battle, particularly after BSP chief Mayawati’s declaration of support to BJP in Vidhan Parishad elections led to the consolidation of Muslims behind Samajwadi Party. Surprisingly, none of the main political parties fielded a Muslim and this, experts said, split Muslim votes, much to the benefit of BJP. Bangarmau also has a significant population of Brahmins and Thakurs, which also played a crucial role in deciding the poll outcome. Not surprisingly, Congress decided to field Arti Bajpai, who’s a relative of Congress veteran and former Delhi CM Sheila Dikshit. She had contested on a Congress ticket in 2007, but lost. She contested as an Independent in 2012 after being denied a ticket by Congress. Though Arti lost this time too, she managed to secure second position and cornered 23% votes. While BJP placed its bet on Srikant Katiyar, a Kurmi, SP and BSP fielded Suresh Pal and Mahesh Pal, also OBCs. Katiyar, a district president of BJP in Unnao, was backed the party cadre, enabling him to corner a substantial number of OBC votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shrewd-caste-math-helps-saffron-retain-sengar-turf/articleshow/79160794.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: BJP becomes a formidable force in run-up to 2022 polls||LUCKNOW: With BJP in Uttar Pradesh winning six of seven seats where bypolls were held, the party fortified its position as a formidable force in the run-up to the 2022 assembly elections, snuffing out doomsday predictions of a crumbling voter base amid dissent in ranks and deteriorating law and order. Party sources said, BJP’s performance underlined the popularity of chief minister Yogi Adityanath as an able administrator and strong political leader, who can swing electoral outcomes with campaigning skills. “Opposition’s criticism has been nullified by the people’s verdict,” said UP BJP spokesperson, Hero Bajpayee, while pointing to a strident campaign to paint BJP as anti-Dalit after the Hathras incident in which a Dalit girl was allegedly gang raped and murdered. BJP sources said, overt attempts to label BJP as anti-Brahmin also boomeranged despite Opposition strategy to galvanize and consolidate upper caste voters. “Their nefarious designs failed,” said Bajpayee, while speaking to TOI, hours after election results positioned BJP as winning six of seven seats. BJP’s winning streak came despite a low turnout — an average 53.6% voting was recorded in seven seats, which was much lower than 2017 voting percentage of 64.07%. Political experts said, soon after by-elections were announced, BJP cadre moved into an election mode, strategically mobilising masses at booth and sector level. Party sources said, party leaders, especially UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh and BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal kickstarted their campaign led by CM Yogi Adityanath. BJP, party sources said, did not allow the Opposition to wean away voters, particularly Dalits even as Mayawati-led BSP threw its hat in the electoral ring. BJP, in fact, chalked out a calculated strategy. It invoked the sympathy factor by fielding Sangeeta Chauhan and Usha Sirohi, widows of BJP MLAs Chetan Chauhan and Virendra Sirohi. At the same time, experts said, it played up the caste factor in seats like Bangarmau and Deoria. In Bangarmau, the seat which fell vacant following disqualification of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Senger, BJP fielded a Kurmi, Srikant Katiyar. “This allowed the party to bag OBC votes, but also of upper caste and Dalits,” said a BJP leader. Likewise, in Deoria, BJP played the Brahmin card by fielding Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi, who was up against Brahmin candidates of other political parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-becomes-a-formidable-force-in-run-up-to-2022-polls/articleshow/79160803.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Trichy city cops rescue children selling pens||TRICHY: Trichy city police are probing whether anti-social elements are exploiting poverty-stricken children in the city to be employed as child labourers. This follows the rescue of six children involved in selling pens on the congested NSB Road on Saturday. Inspector of police R Sindhunathi and his team found three boys and three girls hawking pens for Rs 10 among people crowding NSB road and adjacent streets. When they inquired with them, they found that it was out of financial distress. The inspector said they were aged between eight and 14 years. While two of them claimed to be living with their family on the platforms of Thiruvermbur railway station, the four others hailed from Senthanneerpuram and were homeless. “They are given 30 pens for Rs 40 which they sell for Rs 10 each. Preliminary enquiry confirmed that their parents were either sick or jobless while some had a single parent. We suspect vested interests may be using them for monetary benefit” Sindhunathi told TOI. The police were also looking for such children near garments shops on Sasthri road. The children used to go to school but were forced to take up the job to earn meagre sums to run the family. The inspector said gangs chose children addicted to substance abuse for making them work. The rescued children were handed over to the child welfare committee which summoned their parents and advised them not to employ children as labourers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-cops-rescue-children-selling-pens/articleshow/79159999.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Actor Vijay’s fans to stay away from politics now||The Vijay Makkal Iyakkam held a meeting of its members in Madurai and took a pledge to stay away from any political party. The meeting was held in a cinema hall at Palanganatham in Madurai, where they took the pledge to stay away from any activity that could taint the image of the actor. They said that they planned to take the message to all the fans, and that the pledge will be taken by its members in all the districts. President of the Madurai North Vijay Makkal Iyakkam, Vijay Anban Kallanai, said that they had decided to put an end to rumours and show that all the fans were behind the actor. “His father S A Chandrasekhar is like our father, but we are under the direct supervision of ‘thalapathy’ and would only act as he says,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/actor-vijays-fans-to-stay-away-from-politics-now/articleshow/79160808.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Unplanned work causes traffic issues, Congress asks DC to act||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai urged the district administration to solve the problems people are facing due to the unscientific development works being taken up by the Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) and Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC). He told reporters on Tuesday that the BJP-led MCC council has been spending taxpayer’s money lavishly. “Either they lack practical experience, or they are spending only because there are enough funds. All roads are being dug without any planning, thereby causing inconvenience to the people. The whole city was inconvenienced after most of the major roads were either closed or restricted to one-way traffic. People may face more difficulties in the days to come, since many works have been taken up together,” Rai said. Senior Congress leader and former MLA J R Lobo said deputy commissioner K V Rajendra should immediately intervene and find a solution to the problem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/unplanned-work-causes-traffic-issues-cong-asks-dc-to-act/articleshow/79158549.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nashik||Special nakabandis in Nashik to spot suspicious motorists||Nashik: The Nashik Road police recently conducted a drill of a special nakabandi, comprising more than 15 police officers and personnel, to check for suspicious motorists on the road.Senior police officers are preparing for more surprise nakabandis planned by police commissioner Deepak Pandey.Suraj Bijali, a senior police inspector of the Nashik Road police station said, “The police stations will be given the location of the nakabandi and within 15 minutes, the nakabandi has to be set up. It will have more than 15 police officers and constables including those of the city traffic branch.” The aim is to check the vehicles of suspicious motorists. In the recent past, the police have found that criminals have been carrying weapons in their vehicles. So, to keep a check on that, special nakabandis will be set up. Three days ago, the Nashik Road police conducted nakabandi in front of their police station. Bijali said with so many personnel at one place, the nakabandi proved to be very effective.CP Deepak Pandey has appealed to people to cooperate with the police at the nakabandi points as the personnel will not take more than 30 to 40 seconds to check the vehicle and motorists will not be asked for any documents. In very rare cases, if police feel the need to check the documents, then the motorists will be asked for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/special-nakabandis-in-nashik-to-spot-suspicious-motorists/articleshow/79155942.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Use court order as vaccine for Kolkata lakes||KOLKATA: The Calcutta High Court order on Tuesday reiterating the ban on Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar that the National Green Tribunal had ruled in 2018 will act as a shield to safeguard the lake. In 2018 and again in 2019, thousands had swarmed the lake on Chhath Puja, trampled on the greenery, littered the grounds, played loud music and burst crackers with impunity. Though youths from the community had last year cleaned the litter the following morning, the ecological damage caused took months to heal. “We are delighted the high court has given its seal of approval to the NGT ruling on Rabindra Sarobar. This will strengthen the argument against the KMDA petition at the Supreme Court, seeking relief from the NGT ban order that will be heard on Monday. Unless the Supreme Court rules otherwise, it will be difficult for administration to behave like it has on the past two occasions,” said Sumita Banerjee who had first moved the HC in 2013, seeking protection for the Dhakuria lake. After the administration allowed Chhath at the lake in 2018, activists moved a contempt petition before the NGT in 2019. But even after the NGT issued the contempt order, the Chhath was again allowed last year after elaborate cop arrangements to protect the lake were withdrawn at the eleventh hour. “We were all witness to a charade being played out last year. To be honest, the CEO of KMDA did try its best to engage with community leaders and local councillors to convince them that there would be adequate arrangements elsewhere to perform the Chhath rituals. But to everyone’s disappointment, rowdy youths who had no connection with the puja were given a free run at the lake on Chhath morning. With the HC now throwing its weight behind the NGT order, it will be difficult for at least the police to act like it did last year,” said Mrityunjoy Chatterjee, a regular at the lake. Subhas Datta, who had taken the lake issue to the NGT in 2015 and will place his arguments against allowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar before the Supreme Court on Monday, said the administration needed to treat order related to the environment seriously as it was meant for the betterment of everyone. With HC also banning Chhath at Subhas Sarobar, locals there are also hopeful this waterbody in east Kolkata will escape the assault this year. Sources in KMDA said the agency had moved the Supreme Court to save itself from the ignominy of the NGT order violations. “If the Supreme Court issues an order in favour of the NGT ban, then other wings of the administration will be forced to implement it,” one of them said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/use-court-order-as-vaccine-for-city-lakes/articleshow/79158589.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 11, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Duo held trying to dispose of valuables stolen from cop’s house||MYSURU: Two robbers currently cooling their heels in jail attempted one theft too many when they stole from the house of a cop, which led to their eventual arrest. Lingaraju also known as Syed Shaheed, 38, and his 40-year-old brother-in-law Syed Nawab were arrested when they tried to sell valuables purloined from the house of a woman cop in Saraswathipuram. The duo was involved in a string of robberies wherein jewellery and other valuables were stolen by inserting sticks and poles through windows. At times, they managed to get their hands on the keys to the houses placed by the side of the window, as happened in the case of the cop. In July, Lingaraju and Nawab managed to get their hands on the key to the cop’s house and made away with nearly 2kg of gold. The duo has allegedly been involved in 28 thefts, and the luck finally petered out. Cops who nabbed the two of them said that they remained on the move, travelling across the state, hopping between districts. “They keep moving between Hubballi, Tumakuru, Bengaluru and Mysuru,” said a cop. Elaborating on the duo’s modus operandi, police said that the robberies were preceded by a detailed reconnaissance of the area they were targetting. The two thieves observed those houses where the windows remained open, and they were the ones that they robbed. “In July, they somehow got the key to sneak into the cop’s house, and in 20 minutes, they were out with all the gold jewels and cash that was kept in the locker,” police said. Interestingly enough, the duo did not rob the silver articles stored in the bureau and in the puja room at the cop’s home. Lingaraju has as many as 28 cases pending against him, while Nawab has 22. The duo’s arrest has also helped Mysuru police close the file on a two-year-old case wherein a journalist’s house in Bannimantap was robbed. Mysuru deputy commissioner of police (crime) Geetha Prasanna admitted to the duo being involved in scores of thefts across the state. “Lingaraju got together with Nawab after he was released from prison. Other members of their helped them dispose of the loot, and in taking care of legal issues that cropped. We are hunting for Nawab’s brother Kaleem, who is absconding. He reportedly has a share of the loot with him,” Geetha said. Police have recovered 1.4kg of gold, in addition to Rs 75 lakh in cash from the duo. Police sources said that, while Lingaraju married to Nawab’s sister Asma ten years ago, Nawab was also married. Both of them had children attending school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/duo-held-trying-to-dispose-of-valuables-stolen-from-cops-house/articleshow/79159571.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Rajaji’s Tiger Conservation Plan should mitigate human-wildlife conflict: CS||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash has directed forest officials to ensure that the ‘Tiger Conservation Plan’ (TCP) of Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) is made with a vision to control human-wildlife conflict in and around the reserve. The CS also advised the officials to carefully consider the need for road construction in the core zone. The CS asked the forest officials to use ropeways as much as possible. He added that the boundary wall and roads from Asharodi to Haridwar road should be made in a way that the park remains protected from poachers and anti-social elements. During the meeting which was attended by the senior officials of the forest department, the CS asked them to ensure that the road construction-related project be only submitted for the buffer zone. He also stressed upon the need to increase inspection of the reserve and the areas around it for safety of wild animals. Further, he asked the officials to develop The Beatles Ashram (84 kutia) in Rishikesh as an eco-tourism zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rajajis-tiger-conservation-plan-should-mitigate-human-wildlife-conflict-cs/articleshow/79155931.cms||Shivani Azad
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Bypoll win streak pointer to outcome of future polls: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Buoyed by results of Bihar assembly polls and UP byelections, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday said, victory of BJP and its allies again established the notion of ‘Modi hai toh mumkin hai’. Yogi categorically said, UP bypoll results were a pointer to the outcome of future elections. Speaking to reporters at BJP headquarters in Lucknow, Yogi said, poll results were a clear verdict of the people on policies pursued by the Modi government at the Centre. On BJP retaining six seats it won in 2017, he said people have reposed faith on the developmental agenda. “BJP win in UP bypolls was not only the victory of the people, but also of the BJP organisation and its functionaries,” he said. “Government’s service to the people has fructified in victories,” he said. Yogi said, party functionaries and public representatives performed their duties well in reaching out and serving people even during the pandemic. “This win is a result of a fabulous team work,” the UP CM said, crediting UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, UP BJP general secretary Sunil Bansal, deputy CMs Keshav Maurya and Dinesh Sharma and booth-level workers. Yogi underlined the fact that BJP managed to repeat history by registering a win on seats it won in 2017 assembly elections. He said, the winning margin of BJP candidates was proof of people’s confidence in PM Narendra Modi. “And it is getting stronger by the day,” he said. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said, the bypoll sweep has once again shown that people have faith on the Narendra Modi at the Centre and Yogi Adityanath in the state. He said, the opposition tried to destabilize the state through conspiracies and the results have shown that days of politics of caste and community appeasement were over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bypoll-win-streak-pointer-to-outcome-of-future-polls-yogi/articleshow/79160814.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Turkey biryani is flavour of Trichy foodies this Diwali||TRICHY: The word biryani is enough to make one’s mouth water and stimulate the appetite. And that is why it has become one of the most preferred foods to celebrate any occasion be it with friends or family. With only days left for Diwali, the classic dish has come to the forefront. Restaurants in Trichy city have started luring the locals with special offers to try turkey (vaankozhi) biriyani exclusively available only during Diwali festival. Not deterred by the pandemic, the reception for the signature dish of Diwali was such that turkey farms are struggling to address the demand for the meat for about a week now. Unlike rest of the state that relishes on chicken and mutton biriyani during the festivals, Trichy city has a long bond with turkey biriyani that serves as a peculiar dish exclusively offered during Diwali. Senior denizens here said that the turkey biriyani was first introduced by an eatery based at Palakkarai decades back. The attempt was subsequently patronized by other restaurants over a period of time to tap the demand. While Diwali falls on the ensuing Saturday, several eateries have already started selling turkey biriyani with offers. “We have been offering turkey biriyani for every Diwali for about 50 years now. People for a change prefer this delicacy to celebrate the festival in style. Moreover, the biriyani has a unique taste,” A Solai, proprietor, Aarumugam hotel in Palakkarai said. Unlike other biriyani varieties, hoteliers said that turkey biriyani preparation takes more time and effort. While restaurants go for seeraga samba rice to prepare usual biriyanis, basmati rice is the most preferred variety for preparing turkey biriyani, hotels added. The rush among hotels to cash in on the demand has spiked the demand for the meat. “We could not manage to meet the demand for turkey meat. Due to the lockdown, we had very little time to focus on the hatching process,” C Manimuthu, a turkey farm owner from Pudukkottai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/turkey-biryani-is-flavour-of-trichy-foodies-this-diwali/articleshow/79160003.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 11, 2020||Hubballi||Chitrdaurga: Man assaults lover, her son||CHITRDAURGA: Chitrahalli Gate police have intensified their search for a 36-year-old man, who is absconding after assaulting his lover and her 8-year-old son. The accused is Shivamurthy, a farm worker and resident of Ghatti Hosahalli in Holalkere taluk. Six months ago, Shivamurthy, a married man with two children, came in contact with Shruthi, 24, a farm worker and resident of Thalya village in Holalkere taluk. Shruthi lived with her husband Jayappa. The couple have two kids — a boy and a girl. An affair developed between Shivamurthy and Shruthi. Soon after that Shruthi left her home with her son to live with Shivamurthy. They began to live in a rented house at Obalapuram in Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. Apparently Shivamurthy was not happy with the boy staying with them and started pestering Shruthi to send him back. He also began to beat the boy. On November 3, he mercilessly assaulted the boy. He beat and kicked him and also burnt his left thigh with a hot iron rod. When Shruthi rushed to her son’s rescue, she was also beaten up. As the boy writhed in pain, neighbours rushed him to VIMS Hospital in Ballari. After initial treatment, Shruthi went back to her village with her injured son and lodged a complaint against Shivamurthy at Chitrahalli Gate police station on Tuesday, said CPI Ravishankar. The boy is now being treated at Chitradurga Government Hospital. “We have sent cops to Ballari and Anantapur to look out for the accused,” Chitradurga SP G Radhika said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-assaults-lover-her-son/articleshow/79158194.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Vadodara||Fight over food ends in murder||VADODARA: Fight over cooking food took a bloody turn in a village of Dabhoi taluka with a 42-year-old woman being mercilessly beaten to death by her husband. The accused, Mahesh Vasava, and his wife Shaku had a bitter argument at their home in Kadadhara village late on Sunday night after the former came home drunk. Seeing him in an inebriated condition, Shaku refused to cook food for him. The duel escalated and Mahesh started beating her. When their son-in-law Girish learnt about the assault, he came to take Shaku to his home. But she refused and promised Girish that she will visit next morning. After Girish left, Shaku decided to take rest as she was suffering from pain. But sometime later Mahesh dragged her from one room to another room and kept beating her till she died. The villagers learnt about the crime the next morning and informed Girish. Mahesh had fled from home by then. Shaku’s body was taken to a health centre for post-mortem and based on Girish’s complaint, an offence of murder was registered at Dabhoi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fight-over-food-ends-in-murder/articleshow/79156016.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Private buses see worst Diwali with just 30% occupancy||TRICHY: Despite having resumed services last month the private omnibus operators are bracing for the worst ever Diwali season. The bus operators lament that even the festival season hasn’t helped with improving the patronage for buses. Claiming that the omnibuses are fetching only 30% occupancy, the bus operators said that they were forced to reduce the number of fleets in service connecting Chennai with the rest of the state. The poor demand for travelling in omnibuses was attributed to the hesitation shown by people in returning to Chennai from their native places. Usually, the omnibus operators witness bulk ticket booking even days before Diwali, but this year there are no bulk bookings. The reason cited for the drop in bulk bookings is that people are not travelling as a family this festive season. Only the employed persons have returned to Chennai while leaving behind their family members back in their native places. “Forget Diwali, we are yet to reach even the usual passenger handling capacity of normal days. As the demand is poor despite the festival season, we are operating only 20% of our fleets,” R Balakrishnan, president of Trichy District Omnibus Operators Association said. With a significant proportion of frequent omnibus travellers between Trichy and Chennai being IT sector employees, most of them are involved in work from home setup and this has affected the patronage. Also with colleges shut, the demand from hostel students going home is nil. The private omnibus stand here on McDonalds road remains deserted with hardly 4-5 buses parked. With poor demand, it is said that the buses operated by SETC are found to be adequate enough. “During the Diwali season, we usually operate 4,000 omnibuses across the state. This year, we are planning to operate only 1,000 buses.,” A Anbazhagan, state general secretary, All Omnibus Owners Association added. The omnibus operators said that they are expecting a similar reception for the ensuing Pongal holidays too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pvt-buses-see-worst-diwali-with-just-30-occupancy/articleshow/79160002.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 11, 2020||Surat||Police clueless about four robbers||SURAT: Bharuch police suspects involvement of a multi-state gang in the sensational daylight armed robbery of gold jewellery worth Rs 3.39 crore and Rs 1.79 lakh in cash from the office of India Infoline Finance Limited (IIFL) at Ankleshwar in Bharuch on Monday. Ankleshwar city police on Tuesday sought details of gang members involved in the loot at the IIFL’s office at Chanod in Vapi town in January to establish connection between the two robberies. This is the third robbery at IIFL’s office in south Gujarat since 2017. In January, six armed robbers had targeted the IIFL office on the Vapi-Silvassa Road in Vapi and escaped with Rs 3 lakh cash and gold jewellery worth Rs 6.56 crore. Sources said that robbers involved in IIFL’s Vapi office were nabbed by the Mumbai police in July. Three combined gangs operate in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Karnataka and they target such finance companies dealing in gold loans. The police was yet to find the car in which the robbers had arrived at the IIFL’s Ankleshwar office and escaped with booty. On Monday, the masked robbers had entered the branch office of IIFL on the first floor of Ashish Shopping Centre at around 9am.. They spent about 30 minutes inside the office holding the staffers hostage on gunpoint and escaped with 6,680 grams of gold jewellery and cash. Footage of the CCTV installed in the shopping complex showed the four robbers escaping in a Swift car. FK Jogal, Ankleshwar city police inspector said, “We suspect the involvement of the same gang that was involved in the robbery at IIFL’s Vapi office in January. We are hoping to get some vital links between the Vapi and Ankleshwar robberies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/police-clueless-about-four-robbers/articleshow/79156423.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Congress totters, puts up fight on just 2 seats||LUCKNOW: Continuing its poor show in Uttar Pradesh, Congress failed leave its mark in the bypolls on seven assembly seats, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. The party had fielded candidates on all seven seats, however, the nomination papers of its candidate from Tundla seat were rejected on technical grounds. On remaining six seats, only candidates from Bangarmau and Ghatampur seats could give a fight finished second in their respective electoral battles. A third generation Congress member, Arti Bajpai is the daughter Gopinath Dixit, five-time MLA from Bangarmau. Congress candidate from Bulandshahr, Sushil Chaudhary, finished fourth. Candidate of a little known political party Aazad Samaj Party (Kanshiram) bagged more votes (6.7%) than Chaudhary (5.1%). Party’s candidate from Ghatampur, Kripa Shankar, managed to secure over 36,000 (23%) votes. In 2017, Congress’s Nandram Sonker had secured 21% votes. Candidate from Deoria, Mukund Bhaskar, finished fifth securing just 2% votes. In Malhani, Congress candidate Rajesh Mishra got 1.3% votes losing his deposit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cong-totters-puts-up-fight-on-just-2-seats/articleshow/79160822.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kol Bihari community welcomes HC order||Kolkata: The Bihari community in Kolkata welcomed the high court order on Tuesday, where the court banned processions accompanying Chhath devotees and put a limit on the number of people from a family visiting the waterside for rituals. “We must respect the HC decision as it has been charted for our safety only. We must understand that these are Covid times and we are thankful to the court that they have at least allowed us to hold the ritual in the midst of this pandemic. The Puja means a lot to us and since the court has allowed us to observe it, we should follow all the stipulations laid down by it,” said Vipul Singh, an advocate at Alipore police court. Vinod Singh, a dietician and an ardent Chhath devotee, also welcomed the order and said it was the best decision in light of the current Covid situation in the state and the country. “The Covid has put limitations on every festivity and family functions like marriage and other celebrations. If other festivities can happen by following HC order, so can ours,” said Singh, who himself handles a number of Covid patients on path of recovery. On Tuesday, the division bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Arijit Banerjee stressed that Chhath celebrations in Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar will be banned and that at select waterbodies earmarked for the festival by the civic authorities, only two persons will be allowed to perform the Puja. The order further said no procession, DJ music would be allowed and only small musical instruments can be used. Members of Bihari Samaj that had always stood its ground on holding the Puja at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar also hailed the order. “Banning procession will certainly keep the unruly elements out of the Puja who come to the festival only to play and dance to loud music and burst banned crackers. These are the persons who pollute the image of such a noble and eco-friendly Puja which actually cause very little pollution,” said Mani Prasad Singh, the president of Bihari Samaj. Singh, though, said the two-person limit is likely to cause inconvenience to devotees. “At least two members are required to hold offerings of each Chhath devotee. It’s almost impossible to hold the rituals with two members”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-bihari-community-welcomes-hc-order/articleshow/79158615.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||No clarity on upcoming Numaish||Hyderabad: Amid prevailing pandemic conditions, confusion prevails over the organizing of All India Industrial Exhibition (Numaish) 2021 in Hyderabad. In connection, Hyderabad district collector has sent a notice to the exhibition society and instructed to withdraw the notification issued October 10, for calling applications from the stall holders as the permission is yet to be granted by the Telangana government. The society had started issuing applications from October 10, for erecting the stalls for the exhibition. A city based high court lawyer Khaja Aijazuddin has petitioned various stakeholders seeking to not accord permission to exhibition society in view of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-clarity-on-upcoming-numaish/articleshow/79160022.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||Abandoned one and half years ago, baby girl reunites with her parents||BAREILLY: Destiny finally smiled at a one-and-a-half years old girl abandoned by her parents in May 2019 — believing hospital staff had changed their newborn boy with her — and reunited her with them on Tuesday. Based on a DNA test report that confirmed the couple to be her biological parents, the child welfare committee summoned the parents and warned them of booking them under section 75 of the Juvenile Justice Act if they refused to own their daughter. The girl was born premature — after six and a half months of pregnancy — to two marginal farmers in Raasdandiya village of Rampur district — at a private hospital in Milak town of the district on May 6. As the baby was critical, she was shifted to a higher medical facility in Bareilly. The girl was, however, “mistaken for a boy due to her abnormally enlarged clitoris" -- because of a medical condition (hyperthyroid clitoris) that she is cured of now, said doctors. The confused parents approached Premnagar police station alleging that their baby boy was exchanged with the girl by the hospital staff. Following a complaint, an FIR was registered against the hospital administration. Filing a closure report after the completion of his investigation, sub-inspector Vishnu Dutta, however, concluded that “the girl was not exchanged”. The couple turned down the police investigation report, prompting the CWC to order the DNA test of the girl in July last year. “It’s a perfect case of gender discrimination. The parents couldn’t develop emotion for their child as it’s not a boy,” said DN Sharma, a committee member, who has been pursuing the case since the beginning, and had even sought the support of Human Rights Commission after there was an inordinate delay in conducting the baby’s DNA test. “Even as the DNA test confirmed the couple to be their parents, they were not ready to take possession of their child. We, then, took the help of police and warned the couple of an FIR against them,” Sharma told TOI. “Every member of the CWC is happy after the parents accepted the girl. The hospital administration, too, forgave the parents for levelling serious charges after the couple apologised in writing. The parents, meanwhile, gave us a written assurance that they would take good care of the girl.” In their letter to the hospital administration, the couple — parents of four daughters now — apologised for defaming the hospital by levelling serious allegations and stated that they were ashamed for disowning their daughter. A sub-inspector with the forensic department in Lucknow had on October 19 submitted the DNA report to the CWC, which has been taking care of the baby since May 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/abandoned-one-and-half-years-ago-baby-girl-reunites-with-her-parents/articleshow/79155939.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Bishop Heber College offers diploma courses in aviation||TRICHY: Bishop Heber College (BHC) has started a department of aviation offering three diploma courses in airport ground handling, flight operations and cabin crew and hospitality management, which will be offered to students as an add on course. The programme in aviation (BBA) was formally inaugurated by CSI Trichy and Thanjavur diocese bishop D Chandrasekaran on Tuesday. Bharathidasan University has given its approval for the courses. The new BBA programme is part of the MoU signed with Madras Flying Club in February this year. As the club has shifted its operations to Trichy airport last year, 15 staff members from the club will run the programme at the college. “We chose Trichy as relocation as it falls in the central part of Tamil Nadu making it ideal for students across the state,” said Captain Jacob Selvaraj, honorary secretary, Madras Flying Club Aviation Academy. “Being a pilot is fascinating but opportunities are aplenty in the aviation industry right from airport ground handling, cabin crew and flight operation management. Not many institutions offer such courses that offer promising careers. This is a first step towards bridging the gap,” he said. Launching the curriculum, bishop D Chandrasekaran said details of the programmes will be sent to churches across state so that rural students can benefit from it.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/bishop-heber-college-offers-diploma-courses-in-aviation/articleshow/79160024.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Divided Oppn fails to stop BJP’s juggernaut||LUCKNOW: Bharatiya Janata Party's sweep in the state bypolls once again proves Opposition’s inability to stop the saffron poll juggernaut, and will dampen the latter’s hopes of witnessing an easy turnaround in 2022 assembly elections. They have tried different combinations, SP-Congress in 2017 and SP-BSP in 2019 Lok Sabha polls, but the saffron surge was unstoppable. This time, the three key players were in the fray separately and it made the BJP's job all the more easier. It could be gauged from the fact that barring Bulandshahr, the combined votes polled by the three main opposition parties was much more than the winning BJP candidate. The only hope for the Opposition that it might get poll dividends from the economic crisis and hardships due to Covid outbreak, lockdown and huge migrant influx coupled with anti-incumbency sentiments against the Yogi Adityanath government. Congress, SP and BSP vociferously alleged that the government was targeting Brahmins to woo support but seem to have failed. In a multi-cornered fight, with no pacts among Opposition parties, BJP bagged 36.73% votes, followed by SP at 23.61%, BSP at 18.97% and Congress just 7.53% of the total votes polled. BJP did not lose any of its six seats while Samajwadi Party also succeeded in holding its traditional fort in Jaunpur. The results are a setback to SP, which was hopeful of mopping up all anti-BJP votes after BSP’s flip flop statements on supporting BJP, but it did not happen. Instead, SP lost some ground as Congress pushed it to third position in Bangarmau and Ghatampur. BSP’s performance also lacks any luster but shows the party still retains its traditional vote bank and would try to take its social engineering formula further ahead. The bypoll results have finally given Congress something to cheer about as it turned out to be the runner-up in two of the six contested seats. Congress seems to have won support of Muslims by forcefully raising their issues like arrests of civil society activists. SP leadership will have to redraw its political strategy and look for support and votes beyond its Muslim-Yadav votebank if it has to bounce back to the centre stage of political landscape, say political analysts The bypoll results also expose the lack of proper planning as SP and BSP did not send their star campaigners for canvassing, leaving the election in the hands of local units. In contrast, CM Yogi Adityanath visited all the constituencies twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/divided-oppn-fails-to-stop-bjps-juggernaut/articleshow/79160830.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 11, 2020||Nashik||RTO holds special camps on holidays||Nashik: The Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) has started organising special camps on weekly holidays to facilitate applicants of learner’s licences in view of the rising number of applications the office has been receiving. While one special camp was held on Saturday (November 7), the next camp has been organised on November 22. Deputy RTO Vinay Ahire said people fill online applications to appear for the learner’s license test. The applicants upload the relevant documents and take online appointments to appear for the test. Appointment for the test can be taken within a month. It was brought to the RTO’s notice that many applicants were not getting the appointment as all were full for the month’s time. “So we decided to organise a special camp on weekly holidays. One camp took place on Saturday. The next camp has been planned on November 22, which would be helpful for the applicants. The process of conducting tests for the learner’s license and the issuance of it was completely stopped over April and May due to the outbreak Covid-19. If the process was not stopped, approximately 6,000 people would have taken the learner’s license over April and May. The aim to organise the special camps is to reduce the rush gradually. Vinay Ahire said the use of masks,and gloves has been made mandatory for all the applicants who come to the RTO to appear for the learner’s license test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rto-holds-special-camps-on-holidays/articleshow/79155962.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Government order issued for Diwali bonus for govt employees||Dehradun: A day after chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat announced Diwali bonus for government employees, the state government on Tuesday issued an order in this regard. On the day, finance secretary Amit Negi signed the order for Diwali bonus for non-gazetted employees and daily wage employees. The move is likely to cost Rs 125 crore to the state exchequer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/government-order-issued-for-diwali-bonus-for-govt-employees/articleshow/79155951.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 11, 2020||Mangaluru||Nitte researchers find mutation in SARS Cov-2 genome||MANGALURU: Researchers from Nitte (deemed to be university) have reported identification of a novel mutation in the genome of SARS CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The paper will be published in the prestigious Elsevier Journal ‘Virus Research’. According to researchers, this mutation affects the E-gene encoding the envelope protein, which is very important for the structural organisation of the virus. Normally, RT-PCR for Covid-19 diagnosis involves two steps, screening test involving detection of E-gene and if this is positive, confirmatory test involving detection of RdRp gene encoding enzyme involved in viral replication or N gene encoding a nucleocapsid protein. Researchers from Nitte University Centre for Science Education and Research (NUCSER), Dr B Krishna Kumar, Prithvisagar and Praveen Rai, under the mentorship of Indrani Karunasagar and Iddya Karunasagar, scanned the nucleaotide sequence of E-gene of over 2,000 viral genome sequences from India available at the database of Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID). Partial deletion in one of the ends of this gene, which is termed the ‘carboxy terminal,’ was found in 34 viral genomes. These were spread across different states like Karnataka, Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/nitte-researchers-find-mutation-in-sars-cov-2-genome/articleshow/79158595.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Despite ban, rampant use of plastic in festive season||DEHRADUN: The rampant use of single-use plastic has reached an alarming stage during the festival season. While the government agencies are chalking-out plans to put a stop on its usage, single-use plastic is being freely used by almost all shopkeepers. From vegetable and grocery shops to food joints, the rampant use of single-use plastic has put cold water on efforts made just a year ago to curb use of these products that are harmful for the environment. Interestingly, Dehradun Municipal Corporation has initiated a campaign for city residents in which the plastic waste is being collected from different parts of the city, and in exchange, people are being given face masks for protection against Covid-19. But nothing seems to be done to enforce the ban on single-use plastic in shops. Shopkeepers meanwhile feign helplessness. Arun Singh, a street vendor near Clock Tower, said, “Since people are conscious about hygiene due to Covid-19, they prefer plastic bags which are use-and-throw. We are ready to switch to other options provided we can afford it as customers do not want to pay extra for paper bags.” Anil Rawat, a resident, said, “The government should enforce the ban on plastic but also provide alternatives especially those that are cost-effective. Also, the alternatives of plastic have to be popularised among the people and they should be made readily available.” Representatives of RWAs who had also participated in the extensive campaign against the menace of single-use plastic in the past have once again expressed their concerns. “If we do not set an example against usage of single-use plastic, the people coming from outside will also not be conscious of bringing plastic bags and throwing it at tourist spots,” said Doon Residents Welfare Front president Mahesh Bhandari. To recall, the use of plastic was allowed for a limited time during the nationwide lockdown, but since then its usage has not been curbed and is going on unchecked. Uttarakhand Pollution Control Board’s member secretary SP Subudhi said, “ We have sent a proposal to the state government to not only check the use of plastic but also ensure protocols for its disposal. For this, waste segregation is essential.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/despite-ban-rampant-use-of-plastic-in-festive-season/articleshow/79155979.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Decision on reopening school soon: CM||MADURAI: The decision on school reopening would be taken soon based on the opinions of officials and ministers who were reviewing the feedback of the parents, said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The chief minister, who was in Kanyakumari district for a review meeting, told reporters that the high-level bridge constructed at Manakudi in the district would be named after Lourdammal Simon, the only female minister in the late chief minister Kamarajar’s cabinet. She was a native of Kanyakumari. He also announced a slew of projects, including a new office for the Thovalai panchayat union to be constructed at a cost of Rs 3.50 crore, and the Rs 3-crore road from Thovalai to Mathavalayam among others. On the issue of Indian fishermen’s boats being destroyed in Sri Lanka, he said that the fishermen from India had gone there and retrieved the boats that were in good condition. The boats destroyed were damaged beyond repair. On the horizontal reservation to government schools students, he said the Supreme Court had ruled that the state government could decide on the NEET reservation and we acted on that, he said. He said that the Forest Protection Act was under the consideration of the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cm-decision-on-reopening-school-soon/articleshow/79160846.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Cane farmers yet to be paid Rs 27 crore arrears from mill||THANJAVUR: Sugarcane farmers from district have appealed a sugar mill to disburse arrears to the tune of Rs 27 crore which have been pending since 2016. They have also decided to stage a massive protest in front of the collectorate demanding the government to settle their dues with immediate effect. Thousands of cane growers had taken up sugarcane cultivation in 14,000 acres in several areas including Kurunkulam, Orathanadu, Vallam, Thirukkattuppalli in the district. All of them are members of the Arignar Anna Sugar Mills in Kurunkulam in Thanjavur. “The mill authorities have not settled their dues for their canes during 2015-16. Each farmer has to be paid Rs 2,850 per tonne. However, the mill authorities have so far settled only Rs 2,000 only,” farmers alleged. Farmers in Thanjavur district usually take up sugarcane cultivation on thousands of acres. However, due to non-payment of arrears by the mills, members of the mill have gradually migrated to paddy from sugarcane crop. Despite repeated representations and number of protests, the mill authorities have been remaining mute. When farmers approached Madurai Bench of Madras Court in November 2017, judges ordered to disburse the arrears within 60 days. However, that has not happened, the farmers alleged. It may be recalled that farmers staged black flags protest symbolically observing Diwali day as a black day last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cane-farmers-yet-to-be-paid-rs-27cr-arrears-from-mill/articleshow/79160026.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Owners of halls conducting child marriage in Thanjavur to be jailed||THANJAVUR: With child marriages being organized even in wedding halls in Thanjavur district, district collector M Govinda Rao has warned that owners of such halls could face up to two years jail if they are caught. Officials have so far stopped 35 child marriages during the current year in the district, of which 12 were held in marriage halls. People generally organize child marriages at village temples to avoid the intervention of officials or police. However, in recent days, parents have been cleverly arranging such marriages in wedding halls to give it a legitimacy, district child protection unit (DCPU) Thanjavur officer N Natarajan said. “When a marriage is arranged in wedding halls, outsiders would not find fault with the event. So, many have started to adopt this technique. Despite warnings, hall owners continue to grant permission for the event”, he added. It was in this context that the district collector sent a strong message to marriage hall owners and warned them against entertaining child marriages. As per the child marriage prevention act 2006, no marriage hall owners should rent their facility to conduct child marriage, the collector said. “They should ask parents to produce proof for both the bride and groom’s age. If there are any discrepancies, they should inform by dialing toll-free numbers 04362-264505 or 04362-237014”, the collector added. Officials said DCPUs across the state have been taking every possible step to thwart child marriages by way of legal action. Since most of the marriages have occurred in rural pockets, they have been creating awareness in villages through street plays, folk songs and dances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/owners-of-halls-conducting-child-marriage-in-thanjavur-to-be-jailed/articleshow/79160030.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Southern districts report 202 cases, central region 247||MADURAI/TRICHY: The 10 southern districts of the state on Tuesday reported 202 fresh Covid-19 cases and one death, the lowest number of fresh cases since June 19. The death was recorded in Tirunelveli. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 247 cases as the number of active cases has been on the rise after a dip one week ago. As on Tuesday, the region has 1,851 active cases. The southern region has At 1,903 active cases, the highest since the beginning of this month. Madurai (43) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region followed by Kanyakumari (30). Ramanathapuram (3) recorded the lowest, followed by Tenkasi (8). The seven other districts recorded 16 to 24 cases each. Among the central districts, Tiruvarur district tally has climbed to 10,018 with the addition of 31 fresh cases on Tuesday. Tiruvarur became the fourth district to register more than 10,000 cases after Thanjavur, Trichy and Pudukottai. While Thanjavur crossed more than 15,000 cases, the low rate of infection kept the tally of Trichy increasing slowly from 12,000 to 13,000. Thanjavur recorded 67 cases, the highest on Tuesday taking the tally to 15,836. Nagappattinam came second with 43 cases pushing its tally to 7,068. Trichy registered 39 cases taking its tally to 12,884. Trichy has been recording fresh cases between 35 and 45 for the past few weeks. Perambalur district recorded five cases to push the tally to 2,210. Three deaths were reported in the region, two in Thanjavur and one in Karur. The casualties include a 46-year-old man from Thanjavur. He was down with diabetes, hypertension and chronic kidney disease.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-districts-report-202-cases-central-region-247/articleshow/79160834.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||In year of biodiversity, activists hope there’s no repeat of 2019 Chhath-rule violation at Rabindra Sarobar||KOLKATA: The Chhath ceremony at Rabindra Sarobar, despite the strict ban imposed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) left its telltale imprints at the biodiversity hotspot — oil from the lamps spilled into the water, a thin layer of oil and ghee was seen floating all across the water-surface, besides the flowers, plastic and thermocol strewn all over the lake compound, both in the garden and in water. This year, being celebrated as the year of biodiversity, green crusaders are keeping their fingers crossed. On the morning of November 3, 2019 the smoke of fireworks was still hanging low, thanks to thermal inversion. The oil created a layer on the water surface. This prevents oxygen in the air to dissolve with the water, increasing the biological oxygen demand (BOD) of the water, leaving a scope of high casualty of aquatic fish and insects,” said a scientist with the environment department. In fact, the test of water samples collected on November morning by Saviour and Friends of Environment (SAFE) revealed oil and grease content in lake water was 22.3 mg/ litre as against the permissible limit of 10 mg/ litre. Similarly, total suspended solid was found to be 310 mg/litre as against the permissible limit of 100 mg/litre. Dissolved oxygen was 2.7 mg/ litre as against the permissible limit of 5 mg/litre. “Apart from water, the air got badly polluted due to the bursting of firecrackers and lighting of fireworks. The PM2.5 count dramatically went up. In last Chhath, the PM2.5 count went above 300 microgram per cubic meter, almost five times the permissible limit,” said Sudipto Bhattacharya of SAFE, who carried out the tests. The decomposing of biodegradable materials like flowers was delayed due to the absence of adequate oxygen. The micro-organisms that fed on the milk poured by worshippers desperately needed oxygen to digest the food. The oil on the water surface seriously defeated the process, said Bhattacharya. He thinks that there will be no repeat of last year this year, which is being celebrated as the year of biodiversity. Loud music had an adverse impact. Many birds just disappeared. Black-crowned night heron disappeared after Chhath. So did eyebrowed thrush, white-tailed robin and dollarbird, which were sighted before the Chhath, but could no longer be visible after that. The count of orange-headed thrush has dropped to 10-12 from 50-60. Number of crows, on the other hand, has gone up many fold, said birders. The worshippers had played loud music, performed yajna and burst firecrackers on the green on Chhath Puja on November 2 and 3 in 2019, violating the NGT order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-year-of-biodiversity-activists-hope-theres-no-repeat-of-2019-chhath-rule-violation-at-lake/articleshow/79158623.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||SP wallows with 1 win, eclipsed by Congress in two seats||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party managed to retain the Malhani assembly seat and finished second in three other constituencies out of the remaining six. However, it is the performance of the Congress which finished second in two constituencies, which is sure to send the SP strategists to the drawing board ahead of the crucial 2022 assembly polls. The Samajwadi Party got a total of 23.61% of the votes polled, second to BJP with 36.7% of the votes polled. SP contested on six seats and spared Bulandshaher for its alliance partner the Rashtriya Lok Dal. The SP finished as runners up in Deoria, Tundla and Naugawan Sadat assembly constituency of Amroha. But the performance is far from what the party leadership must have hoped for, say political observers. SP leaders justify the party's performance claiming that it was an outcome of the candidate’s efforts alone as none of the senior leaders like party president Akhilesh Yadav and patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav campaigned for “unavoidable reasons”. The SP candidates reached out to the people all by themselves with former Badaun MP and Mulayam’s nephew Dharmendra Yadav addressing rallies in all the seven seats. "With the CM, party’s state president and a host of top leaders from the state unit addressing rallies, the BJP managed to retain the seats which it already had,” says SP MLC Udaiveer Singh. Had the elections been fair and the government not misused the state machinery, things would have been different,” he said, adding that the party is in possession of video footage to support its charge of unfair means adopted by the ruling BJP to win the polls. “Bypolls are like compartment exams and BJP has managed to retain the seats with the state machinery at their disposal. But the assembly elections will be the real Board examination and then we will see who sails through,” said SP spokesperson Abdul Hafiz Gandhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-wallows-with-1-win-eclipsed-by-cong-in-two-seats/articleshow/79160838.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Vivekananda Park pool work stopped||KOLKATA: Work on the construction of a temporary pool for Chhath Puja at Vivekananda Park without KMDA’s permission was stopped and the brickwork dismantled on Tuesday following protests by morning walkers and locals. KMDA has also alerted the police to keep a vigil on the ground. Morning walkers and others who regularly visit the park situated in south Kolkata’s Ward 86 opposite Rabindra Sarobar said they had first been alerted on Sunday when they saw a rectangular trench being dug and bricks being stacked for construction. On Tuesday, they discovered walls being built on two sides. On inquiry, they learnt that a local club was constructing a temporary pool for Chhath devotees to perform the rites. “When we came to know about the plan, we contacted the KMDA and asked if permission had been given. They were in the dark and had neither received any proposal nor issued any permission. The officials also said the park is not among the 44 sites where arrangements are being made for Chhath. Work was stopped on Tuesday after the protest and the illegal structure was dismantled,” said environment activist, Somendra Mohan Ghosh. “We had not awarded any work. We were informed on Sunday that some construction work was on by some group and they were told to stop it,” said a KMDA official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vivekananda-park-pool-work-stopped/articleshow/79158658.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad slams Pooja Bedi for Naga sadhus remark||PRAYAGRAJ: Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the top body of the country’s 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders, has condemned actress and columnist Pooja Bedi for defending fellow actor Milind Soman’s recent nude photo and comparing it with Naga sadhus. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said on Tuesday, “Pooja Bedi does not have any knowledge of Naga sanyasi tradition. Milind had posted his naked photo on social media recently on his birthday drawing criticism.” Bedi had defended Soman and compared his picture with those of Naga sadhus. She tweeted, “Absolutely nothing obscene about @milindrunning aesthetic pic. The obscenity lies in the minds of a viewer imagining more! His crime is being good looking, famous & setting benchmarks! If nudity is a crime all Naga babas should be arrested. Smearing ash can’t make it acceptable!” The tweet has angered Akhada Parishad. Giri said it’s wrong to “compare the nudity and vulgarity of a model film artist to the tradition of Naga ascetics.” Giri went on to advise Pooja, “She should educate herself by knowing more about Naga sanyasis. She should spend some time in Kumbh and see the hard penance of Naga Sanyasis.” He said Naga sanyasis follow severe austerity and sacrifice in life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/abap-slams-pooja-for-naga-sadhus-remark/articleshow/79160863.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Farmers trained in precision farming||TRICHY: With shortage of water due to insufficient rain and depletion of water table in Trichy district putting farmers in a spot of bother, the sugarcane research station in Sirugamani has suggested precision farming for them in cultivating vegetable crops. The station is encouraging farmers to install drip irrigation in villages in the most-affected Musiri block. Though food and fodder crops were sown with abundance of rain, a terminal deficit of water due to lack of rain affects both crops and livestock in later stages, scientists said. Under the Tamil Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernization Project, jointly implemented by Water Technology Centre, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and Sugarcane Research Station, special programmes are being organized to improve the farmers’ standard of living, professor and head (in-charge) of the Sugarcane research station, N Tamilselvan said. Drip irrigation was installed in many villages in the block and quality chilli seedlings were distributed to farmers as part of this. Field visits were made frequently to assess the crop status. In addition, a capacity-building programme was conducted with lectures on quality vegetable production by scientists, he added. Training was conducted for farmers in precision farming in vegetables at Neyveli village in Musiri block by delivering the technologies on minimal usage of water with maximum benefits in growing vegetables. Management of pests in chilli and brinjal, and fertigation advantages from the drip system were also explained to farmers, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-trained-in-precision-farming/articleshow/79160059.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||After lockdown relief, Ahmedabad turns Gardabad again||Ahmedabad: The air quality of Ahmedabad on Tuesday was better only to that of Delhi. The AQI of Ahmedabad was worse than cities like Mumbai and Pune. The city had shown a remarkable improvement in air quality during the lockdown and even in September this year. The pollution level is increasing since the onset of monsoon. The officials said that the areas which have heavy movement of vehicles are witnessing an increase in AQI level. The AQI at Raikhad was 306 in the evening and even at 10pm. “As this area has roads connecting ST Depot, Jamalpur and Lal Darwaza, it always witnesses heavy traffic movement,” said a traffic police officer. “One of the reasons for high AQI is increased operation of rickshaw, shuttle-rickshaw and AMTS buses,” said an official. “Services of state transport buses have also begun,” he added. The officials said that Pirana remains the most polluted area in the city because of its garbage dump and constant burning of waste. The AQI of Pirana on Monday and Tuesday was hovering around 350. Dr Tushar Patel, a city-based pulmonologist, said that the high AQI in city areas ahead of festivities is alarming. “Usually, we report spike in respiratory issues during Diwali period due to bursting of firecrackers. This year, the period is marked by double season – hot during the day and cold during the night, prompting viral growth. As the particles hang in the air, it poses great danger for the senior citizen,” he said, adding that it’s advisable for the Covid-19 recovered patients not to venture out when the air quality is poor. A senior officer said that with the level of pollution increasing people who go out for walk or exercise daily should either stay indoors or should do so before 7am when the traffic on the road in minimal to avoid exposure to high pollution level. The Safar app predicts that the AQI of Ahmedabad will be poor and will be above 200 even on Wednesday and the condition will be similar that of Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/after-lockdown-relief-city-turns-gardabad-again/articleshow/79158673.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Revenue authorities demolish illegal structures in Rangareddy||HYDERABAD: In a significant move post floods, Rangareddy revenue authorities have begun a demolition drive on Tuesday, clearing constructions in lakes and nalas. Out of identified 78 illegal structures in Rajendranagar division, authorities pulled down 55. According to Rangareddy district collector Amoy Kumar, illegal structures in full tank level (FTL) of lakes and on nalas were removed. Heavy rains in October caused flooding of several localities in and around the lakes in the city. Telangana high court took suomotu on reports on the flood situation and encroachments and issued notices to authorities. High court ordered fixing of FTL and removal of illegal structures. Following the HC directions, a joint team of revenue, GHMC, irrigation, police and Panchayat Raj departments begun the demolition drive. The district collector, Amoy Kumar, said that a special drive was launched on November 4 to remove the encroachments. “We have identified 78 encroachments within the nalas. Of them, 55 occupations have so far been cleared using earth movers. 28 illegal structures were demolished on Tuesday,” said Amoy Kumar. He said the special drive would continue to demolish the remaining illegal structures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revenue-authorities-demolish-illegal-structures-in-rangareddy/articleshow/79160082.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Trichy||Big theatres remain shut in Trichy city||TRICHY: Most of the big theatres in Trichy remained shut on Tuesday and are set to reopen with all necessary arrangements in place on Friday or Saturday as films are expected to be released for Diwali. Only three theatres — Sri Venkatesa at Thiruvanaikaval, Palace theatre and Murugan theatre — opened on Tuesday and they screened old films as usual. Sri Venkatesa was screening “Aayirathil Oruvan” while Palace theatre reopened with Urimai Kural, both starring M G Ramachandran. Rajnikanth-starrer Sivaji, released in 2007, was running in Murugan theatre. The floors in front of ticket counters were marked with paints while alternate seats inside the theatre were covered to prevent people sitting close. Automatic sanitiser machines were installed in a few theatres and wearing of face masks was made mandatory inside. While Bhelec theatre at Thiruverumbur is expected to reopen on Friday or Saturday depending on the release of new films, its lease proprietor S Mohan said at least 50% audiences will come to the theatre only when there is a new release. Old films have been screened several times already — and many of them even telecast on TV channels — that people may not spend money on them, he said. “We may have to cancel the show in case of less viewers, which will affect the reputation of the theatre. We were told that a couple of films are slated for release for Diwali,” he said. Joint secretary of Tamil Nadu Theatres Association S Srither said 22 out of 75 theatres reopened on Tuesday. Since Tuesday is considered inauspicious, many theatres did not reopen. They are expecting at least half the theatres to reopen on Wednesday. “Rest of the theatres are expected to reopen only on Saturday when three new films are expected to release. We cannot expect a new release on Thursday or Friday as films of big star value are not released this Diwali,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/big-theatres-remain-shut-in-trichy-city/articleshow/79160047.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cases of asthma, COPD rise after Diwali: Study||AHMEDABAD: Health experts are now worried about the rising number of respiratory diseases post-Diwali in the midst of a Covid pandemic. Doctors are already expecting a rise in asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) this year. The chronic effect of firecracker smoke only accentuates when it gets trapped owing to a winter phenomenon called thermal inversion — it involves a change in the normal tendency of the air to cool down as it rises in altitude. Just to measure the chronic effect of such a smoke trap on human health, a team of researchers from Government Physiotherapy College, Civil Hospital, Asarwa visited four residential areas of Ahmedabad last year — three days prior and three days after Diwali — and met 252 people to notice health impacts of the city’s foul air. These areas included Chandkheda, Ghatlodia, LD Engineering College and Naroda. The researchers, Bharat Dangi and Anjali Bhise, found that the number of cough cases three days prior to Diwali was just two, but three days after Diwali these cases rose to 123, which constituted 48% of the total cases. Similarly 11 participants reported problem of breathlessness three days prior to Diwali but there were 81 people who reported breathlessness after Diwali. The complaints of runny nose increased from 13 to 110, eye irritation complaints rose from 19 cases to 116. While 13 cases of itchy skin was recorded after Diwali among the participants. The study was published in February this year in the Indian Journal of Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy. The researchers pointed out that firecrackers have chemicals that are laced with compounds of sulphur, charcoal and potassium nitrate, which act as fuel. The oxidisers in fireworks are perchlorates, chlorates and nitrates. “Metals like aluminium, barium, carbon, calcium salts, chloride compounds, copper, iron, lithium, magnesium, sodium compounds, sulphur, antimony, titanium and zinc are added in fireworks to produce colours during burning,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cases-of-asthma-copd-rise-after-diwali-study/articleshow/79158650.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Metro second in ridership in India||HYDERABAD: With a ridership of over 1.30 lakh per day, Hyderabad Metro ranks second in the country, just behind Delhi Metro, in terms of passenger footfall post the pandemic induced lockdown. While the patronage in Metros across country has been picking up slowly, Hyderabad Metro showed a steady and quick transition by standing next only to Delhi Metro that led the chart with over 14.79 lakh passenger rides on Saturday. The officials attributed increase in footfall to safety norms and introduction of offers. “Hyderabad Metro is doing much better than all other metros except Delhi which has a massive and well-established Metro with 18 years of operations. Commuters are finding Hyderabad Metro safe and reliable for transportation and this apart, the discount offers were also aiding in increasing the ridership,” said Hyderabad Metro Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director NVS Reddy. Hyderabad Metro introduced Metro Suvarna offers from November 1 after which they observed an increase of ridership by over 30%.. According HMRL officials, the number of trips will be increased in the days to come depending on demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-metro-second-in-ridership/articleshow/79160105.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Fake IAS officer held trying to dupe health official||MADURAI: A fake IAS officer, who tried to dupe a health official, was arrested in Madurai district on Tuesday. The accused has been identified as N Senthil Kumar, 37, of Velalar Street in Sholavandan. He posed himself as a 2003 batch IAS officer, serving as secretary in the chief minister’s office. Based on a complaint filed by designated food safety officer Dr M Somasundaram, the Tallakulam police registered a case against Kumar under various sections of the IPC including 170 (falsely personating as a public servant) and 420 (cheating). Somasundaram told TOI that the accused had approached him three months ago over the phone and introduced himself as secretary in the CMO. Kumar called Somasundaram at regular intervals to ask him about the Covid-19 situation in the district. A few days ago, Somasundaram again got a call from Kumar, who told him that he had come to his native place in Madurai on some personal work and wanted to meet him. Somasundaram grew suspicious about Kumar ever since he first met the latter in person. He confirmed it when Kumar asked him to arrange accommodation and liquor. Somasundaram took his pictures and shared them with a couple of IAS officers to get his suspicion confirmed. He alerted the police and mobilized his subordinates to make sure Kumar did not escape. Police arrested the accused and got him remanded in judicial custody. During inquiry, Kumar told the police that he studied veterinary science. Police sources said that he was booked twice earlier for cheating by the Vilakkuthoon and the Thirumangalam police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fake-ias-officer-held-trying-to-dupe-health-official/articleshow/79160873.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Anamika rerun? STF finds 4 ‘Swatis’ using same docus to bag teacher’s job||LUCKNOW: Months after the Anamika Shukla scam rocked the state education department, UP STF has traced four women working as government teachers on the educational documents and identity of another teacher, Swati Tiwari. Two fake teachers were found to be working in Deoria while one each was found in Barabanki and Sitapur. The real Swati Tiwari is a government teacher in Gorakhpur. In June, TOI had reported that 25 women were working as full-time science teachers at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas using the identity and documents of a woman, Anamika Shukla. Later, the real Anamika was traced to Gonda and found to be unemployed. ASP, STF, Satyasen, told TOI that one Bajrang Bhushan informed them that a person was working as a teacher in Sitapur by using his educational documents. “After finding the details from education department, we nabbed the fake teacher, Hrishikesh Mani Tripathi,” the officer said. The ASP said that during interrogation, Tripathi revealed that his father was posted as a teacher in Deoria and gave him the educational documents of Bhushan. Tripathi said his wife, Snehlata, also used the documents of another teacher, Swati Tiwari, to bag a job at a government school. The officer said the STF traced the real Swati in Gorakhpur where she is a government teacher. Three other women – two in Deoria and one in Barabanki – were also found to be using Swati’s documents for job. The fake teacher from Barabanki has been arrested while those in Deoria suspended. Snehlata is on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/anamika-rerun-stf-finds-4-swatis-using-same-docus-to-bag-teachers-job/articleshow/79160868.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||After ex-banker’s arrest, university VC, 4 staff under ED lens||LUCKNOW: A day after the arrest of a former relationship manager at a bank for embezzlement of Rs 24crore from the accounts of a private agricultural university, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday said the vice-chancellor and four employees of the institute are also under scanner. ED officials said an accountant of the university, Rajesh, is an accused as his bank accounts were used to route the money. Other officials include the controller whose responsibility was to audit the records but no action was taken when funds were illegally transferred through different accounts in the name of bank officer Kamaal Ahsan and Rajesh during 2013-2016. “The V-C’s statement has been taken and he has not been given a clean chit yet,” an official said, adding that more employees are under ED lens. In connivance with Rajesh, Ahsan withdrew Rs 24 crore in multiple transactions from the accounts of the university by using only cheque numbers, without presenting physical instruments during his three-year stint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-ex-bankers-arrest-univ-vc-4-staff-under-ed-lens/articleshow/79160875.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Solar panel vendors stage protest, seek pending dues||Lucknow: UP Solar Energy Development Association (UPSEDA), a body of empanelled solar panel vendors, staged protest on Tuesday demanding their pending dues. The vendors claimed nearly 5,000 people associated with the trade are suffering due to subsidy disbursal delay. UPSEDA coordinator Anil Kumar Dubey said, “In 2017-18, around Rs 96 lakh subsidy was paid to consumers who had not uploaded documents on Solar photovoltaic installation website without verification. As a result, genuine consumers who bought solar systems from us never got subsidy.” “In 2018-19, Uttar Pradesh New & Renewable Energy Development Agency gave Rs 1.60 crore subsidy to 36 vendors, who were not even empanelled. Further, 33 consumers were given subsidy, even though their net meter connection was given after January 4, 2019,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/solar-panel-vendors-stage-protest-seek-pending-dues/articleshow/79160879.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||To protect owls from occultists, U’khand forest dept sounds red alert ahead of Diwali||DEHRADUN: Ahead of Diwali, the Uttarakhand forest authorities have sounded a red alert across the state to save owls from hunters. Owls are the most sought after for black magic and sorcery during the Diwali week. The Himalayan state has been identified as one of emerging hotspots of illegal owl trade, others being Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand, according to the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF). “According to an age-old superstition, sacrificing an owl on the Diwali night brings prosperity. Poachers propagate such superstition to make profit. We have sounded an alert, especially in the forest zones which have temples in their proximity,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand forest department. India is home to over 30 species of owl, of which, 13 have been found in illegal wildlife trade. After the sacrifice, the poachers extract the owl’s claws, bones and feathers and sell it further. Nocturnal by nature, owls are a crucial part of the ecosystem. They are also known as farmers’ best friends because they keep a check on the rodent population in farms. Owls are the top predators and play a significant role in balancing the food chain. Among the most sought after in the illegal wildlife trade are rock eagle-owl, dusky eagle- owl, brown fish-owl, collared scops-owl and mottled wood-owl. Local hunters, however, poach all kinds of owls in the festive season. According to experts, owls, classified under least concern species in the IUCN list, need urgent protection from anti-social elements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-protect-owls-from-occultists-ukhand-forest-dept-sounds-red-alert-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79156048.cms||Shivani Azad
November 11, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Coracle owner booked for couple’s death||MYSURU: Coracle owner Moogappa was on Tuesday booked for causing death by negligence in connection with the drowning of a couple during their pre-wedding shoot in T Narasipura. Chandrashekara aka Chandru and Shashikala drowned in Cauvery during a photo shoot on Monday. The couple were being photographed on the coracle. According to police both were standing on the round boat made of bamboo when Shashikala lost her balance and fell into the water. Chandrashekara tried to save her but he too drowned. Soon after the incident Moogappa swam to safety and fled. He has been accused of not taking precautions while taking the couple for the shoot which resulted in them drowning. Villagers of Kattepura and Hemmige take coracles to reach Mudukthore, a pilgrim centre on the banks of Cauvery from their villages to avoid a detour by road. The coracles are also used by fishermen in the region. Chandrashekara, a civil contractor, and Shashikala, his relative, were to get married on November 22. A pre-wedding shoot was planned at different places in Mysuru including in river Cauvery but their parents were not aware of it. The couple were accompanied by family members Abhishek, Suryakumar and Asha, all reportedly teenagers. Keerthi was the photographer. Police have only named Moogappa under the provision of IPC in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/coracle-owner-booked-for-couples-death/articleshow/79156046.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 11, 2020||Bhopal||Holi to Diwali: Eight months of uncertainty ends in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: The political drama that started in Madhya Pradesh on Holi ended four days before Diwali on Tuesday, making it amply clear that BJP will continue to remain in power in the state. The 15-month-old Kamal Nath government came on edge, a day before Holi on March 9 when ministers belonging to the Jyotiraditya Scindia camp had resigned from the cabinet. On March 11, a day after Holi, Scindia joined BJP in New Delhi. Soon after his entry into the saffron party, MLAs from his camp claimed from a Bengaluru resort that they were 22 in number and will follow their leader wherever he goes. Between March 11 and March 20, Congress made all attempts to save the government. Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh and five ministers were arrested in the Karnataka capital in an attempt to meet and bring back the MLAs to Bhopal. On March 19, the Supreme Court ordered the Nath government to face a floor test by March 20. Not left with a choice without having sufficient numbers in the 230- member MP assembly, he resigned as chief minister, saying betrayal by the “Maharaj” and “political greed” had defeated the hopes of MP. A day after Nath resigned as CM, the 22 Scindia loyalists whose rebellion toppled the government followed their ‘Maharaj’ to BJP in Delhi on March 21. On March 23, BJP returned to power in the state and Shivraj Singh Chouhan was sworn in for a fourth-term as chief minister. After joining BJP, 14 among the 25 Scindia supporters and former Congress MLAs were made ministers in two cabinet expansions held on April 21 and July 2 respectively. Bypolls for 25 seats were necessitated due to the resignation of the Congress MLAs. MLAs of three other seats passed away, taking the total seats to 28. On September 29, the Election Commission announced that bypolls in MP will be held on November 3 and votes will be counted on November 10. BJP needed just nine seats to get a simple majority, making it clear soon after counting started that it will remain in power in the state, bringing the political drama to an end after eight months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/holi-to-diwali-eight-months-of-uncertainty-in-mp-ends/articleshow/79158685.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Congress protest in Hubballi over rail track doubling||MARGAO: Congress workers from Goa led by president Girish Chodankar and leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Tuesday staged a protest demonstration in front of the South Western Railway (SWR) headquarters at Hubballi over track doubling work in Goa. In a memorandum addressed to the SWR general manager, the party demanded that the railway double tracking work in the state be stopped forthwith and the project scrapped. A press note issued by the Congress said that SWR additional general manager P K Mishra assured the delegation to take up with higher authorities the concerns raised by the Congress. “Congress is committed to protect the identity of Goa and environment; we will not allow the attempts of BJP government to convert Goa into a coal hub. Railway authorities must act wisely and stop the double tracking work immediately failing which they will have to face serious consequences,” Kamat was quoted as having said while addressing party workers in Hubballi, in the press note. Chodankar, in the press note, warned the government that the protests against the project will intensify if the work is not stopped. In the memorandum signed by Chodankar and Kamat and presented to the SWR, Congress said that the track doubling project “will destroy our villages displacing local communities and health of the people of Goa through coal pollution.” The memorandum further stated that the project will also affect Goa’s land resources, farm lands, marine life and heritage houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-protest-in-hubballi-over-rail-track-doubling/articleshow/79160107.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Mysuru||Somanatha Nagar residents develop park by pooling money||MYSURU: Residents of Somanatha Nagar in Mysuru have set an example worth emulating. Following the civic agency’s failure to take up the development of the park in the locality, the residents have started the work by pooling money. The talk on developing the park spanning 15,000 sqft began when two chain snatching incidents were reported in the neighbourhood — unidentified bike borne youths targeted women who were on regular morning walk near the park. As the park was covered with weeds, the residents including women and children, would walk and play on the road around the park. After these incidents, the residents came together and formed a WhatsApp group ‘Chandanavana Park’ where ideas were exchanged. The group has more than 50 members. As developing the park requires financial resources, the residents pooled money by each paying Rs 2,000 for the work. Resident V Mahadeva Swamy, who is a PWD engineer, told TOI that initially they started by clearing the weeds. “We started the initiative by clearing weeds which had grown from past several years in the park. We dedicated ourselves to removing the weeds for atleast two hours every day. Later, using the earth movers, a path was made,” he said. The residents also visited the nurseries managed by the forest department and brought 150 saplings of native species including mahogany, neem, honge, hatti, Muntingia, mango and jackfruit and planted them in the park. “It is a collective effort. Working together with our neighbours and family members to improve the park is more like a picnic. Each day a member is identified and tasked with arranging tea and snacks for the day,” he said. Ramesh told TOI that they have retained the mud pathway for walk. “We have decided to paint the existing metal fencing after the planting and other works are completed. We hope our work inspires others,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/somanatha-nagar-residents-develop-park-by-pooling-money/articleshow/79158494.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 11, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Protest against doubling of railway line||HUBBALLI: Members of Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) staged a dharna at the SWR’s headquarters in Hubballi, opposing the railway line doubling work between Londa and Vasco-da-Gama. They said the proposed line is passing through agriculture fields, residential areas, wildlife sanctuary, national park and the Western Ghats, which is rich with biodiversity. “It destroys villages, displaces communities and creates ecological imbalance. Scientist Dr K Kasturirangan had warned against it in 2017. Over 68 trees will be lost to the project,” they said. GPCC president Girish Chodankar, opposition leader in Goa assembly Digambar Kamat and others were present. They submitted a memorandum to PK Mishra, assistant general manager, SWR, demanding withdrawal of the proposed project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/protest-against-doubling-of-railway-line/articleshow/79158229.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Newly-married woman kidnapped, rescued||Hyderabad: Responding to a ‘Dial 100’ call from a newly-married man, Jagtial police quickly reacted and rescued his wife, abducted by her brother. On Monday night, V Rakesh of Porandla called police informing that his wife was forcibly taken away by her brother. Rakesh married her against the wishes of her family on November 7. On Monday night, the woman’s brother along with his friends forcibly took her from her house in Porandla. After the complaint from her husband, police rescued the woman and arrested the accused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/newly-married-woman-kidnapped-rescued/articleshow/79160141.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Bhopal||Uma Bharti wins battle of Sadhvis in Madhya Pradesh's Bada Malhara||BHOPAL: In the battle of Sadhvi v/s Sadhvi in Bada Malhara, voters reposed their faith in the old and trusted Sadhvi — Uma Bharti, who won the seat for Pradyumna Singh Lodhi of BJP, who is indisposed. Congress’ Sadhvi Ramsiya Bharti gave a tough fight but she was done by the BSP veteran Akhand Pratap Singh Yadav, who polled over 20,000 votes making it a triangular contest. Cong’s Bharti lost by 17,567 votes. It turned out to be a strange coincidence for BJP’s senior leader Uma Bharti, who tested positive for Covid-19 when the poll schedule was announced and she had to stay in Rishikesh. Malhara is the native constituency of Uma. She recovered in the nick of time and joined Lodhi’s campaign barely a week before polling. However, four days before polling, Lodhi too tested positive for Covid-19 and was rushed to a hospital in Bhopal. With Lodhi out indisposed, Uma took over the campaign in the last leg and sought support for him. Uma Bharti, conspicuously missing from the victory celebrations of the BJP in Bhopal, was however, not available for her comments. After losing the election, Ramsiya told TOI, “My katha (religious discourses) is a major factor for me polling these many votes. Villagers loved me and voted for me. I am thankful to all those who supported me.” When asked about Uma Bharti factor, she said, “It might have caused a 2% to 5 % swing in votes.” Pradyumna, who was present at the counting centre in Chhatarpur however, did not mention the name of Uma Bharti during his interviews to the local media. He attributed the victory to the chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, BJP workers and development. “Yeh Shivraj ki jeet hai, vikas ki jeet hai aur humare karyakarton kee jeet hai”, he said. Alok Chaturvedi , Congress MLA from Chhatarpur also criticized the administration for being biased. He also said that, “The BSP candidate Akhand Pratap Yadav was part of the BJP’s strategy. Votes of Ahirwar community in the region and those of Yadavs went to the BSP leading to the loss of the Congress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/uma-wins-battle-of-sadhvis-in-bada-malhara/articleshow/79158713.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Patna||Modi hits a six for Nitish in thriller||PATNA: It was widely touted as a close contest, but the NaMo magic crushed the Mahagathbandhan’s dream of capturing Bihar and put Nitish Kumar, the man who once called him ‘Bahari’ (an outsider), back in the saddle for the fourth consecutive term. This would be his 7th swearing-in as CM. The land of Sita remained loyal to the party of Rambhakts, setting aside crucial issues such as incumbency, under-development, corruption and lawlessness that weighed heavily against NDA, particularly Nitish, in the run-up to the election. “Aant bhala to sab bhala (all’s well that ends well),” was Nitish’s parting shot at the Purnia rally on the last day of his campaigning for the third phase of polls on November 5. In the end, his words came true. The NDA comprising BJP-JD(U)-HAM(S)-VIP crossed the 122-mark in the 243-member state assembly by winning or maintaining a substantial lead in 125 seats, as the Election Commission had not declared all the results till late Tuesday night. There was also a close fight between BJP and opposition RJD, but the Tejashwi-led party emerged as the single largest by winning or maintaining a lead on 75 seats, one more than BJP. JD(U) also retained the Valmiki Nagar Lok Sabha seat in the byelection. The past baggage of RJD bogged down Tejashwi despite his concerted efforts to the extent of removing even his parents from RJD posters. But Lalu Prasad's younger son has now established himself as a leader in his own right. The results raised a question mark on the future of LJP and its chief Chirag Paswan, who lost all but one of the 137 seats his party contested but damaged the NDA, particularly Nitish’s JD(U), in many constituencies. JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narayan Singh said people approved the development work done by the Nitish government. On Chirag, he said some people have misunderstanding (galatfahmi) about themselves and are seen nowhere in the final count. After losing the first phase to the Mahagathbandhan, the PM modified his campaign messaging for the rest two phases by invoking Chhatthi Maiya to raising Jai Shri Ram and Bharat Mata ki Jai slogans and reminding people of the ‘Jungle Raj’ during the regime of RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi, which their ‘Yuvraj’ Tejashwi would bring back if voted to power. Nitish’s appeal to vote for NDA as this could be his last election also made an emotional impact on people in general and women, in particular, to swing the election in favour of the ruling alliance, even in the Muslim-dominated Seemanchal and Kosi regions. It is believed that women, whose turnout was 5% more than men, proved the pollsters wrong by silently rewarding Nitish for the work done for them, be it the 50% reservation in panchayat and urban local bodies or 35% quota in state government jobs. The Centre’s freebies and sending money to them through direct benefit transfer (DBT) as well as free ration in the coronavirus period also impressed the womenfolk across all castes. However, JD(U) lost the ‘Bare Bhai’ tag to ally BJP, which emerged as the single largest party in the NDA as JD(U) could win only 43 seats, which was not even 50% of the 115 seats it contested. Though the BJP brass has declared Nitish as CM no matter what, it would be interesting to see whether the JD(U) chief springs any surprises given his track record of taking a moral stand like handing over the CM’s chair to Jitan Ram Manjhi after a crushing defeat in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. State BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal, however, ruled out any change in his party’s stand. The results showed polarization of votes against the aggressive support for Mahagathbandhan’s CM face in his rallies, which made the poor as well as the upper caste people apprehensive as Nitish had reminded the voters of the lawlessness by the same section of people before he established the rule of law in 2005.  The presence of Asaduddin Owaisi, in alliance with Pappu Yadav’s JAP(L), Upendra Kushwaha’s RLSP and Mayawati’s BSP, cut into the RJD and Congress votes and, in some way, helped NDA in the Seemanchal and Kosi areas, considered the strongholds of Muslims and Yadavs. It was reflected in the victory of All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) on five seats -- Amour, Kochadhaman, Jokihat, Baisi and Bahadurgunj. Owaisi thanked the people of Seemanchal for their support and vowed to fulfil their aspirations. This election revived the fortunes of the three Left parties, which won 16 of the 29 seats they contested. They benefited RJD and vice versa, particularly in the Magadh and Shahabad regions where the Mahagathbandhan performed well in the first phase of the three-phase polls.  But Congress proved to be the RJD's nemesis as Tejashwi succumbed to the pressure by giving the grand old party 70 seats to contest. Congress finished with 19 seats, way behind its 2015 performance when it had bagged 27 seats in alliance with RJD and JD(U).  Among the major losers were RJD veteran Abdul Bari Siddiqui (Keoti), Plurals Party chief Pushpam Priya Choudhary (Bisfi and Bankipur), Chandrika Rai (Parsa), Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav (Madhepura) and Nitish ministers Suresh Sharma, Jai Kumar Singh (Dinara), Shailesh Kumar and Krishna Nandan Verma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/modi-hits-a-six-for-nitish-in-thriller/articleshow/79160898.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Ban on firecrackers in 13 pollution-hit UP districts till November 30||LUCKNOW: Dealing with the double whammy of Covid-19 and high air pollution, 13 districts of Uttar Pradesh are set to celebrate a cracker-free Diwali. In pursuance of an order by National Green Tribunal (NGT), the state government has banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers in Lucknow, Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Varanasi, Meerut, Hapur, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Moradabad, Greater Noida, Baghpat and Bulandshahr till November 30 midnight. The order issued by chief secretary RK Tiwari said the ban has been implemented with immediate effect. In all other cities and towns where air quality has been moderate or better, only ‘green’ firecrackers will be allowed, and that too for only two hours during festivals. The NGT had ruled that bursting of crackers on Diwali and Gurupurab be permitted from 8pm-10 pm and 6am-8am on Chhath Puja. The order will be reviewed again in December, and if extended, may continue till New Year’s Day. The chief secretary has also directed officials to consider holding digital or laser firework shows in all districts while following all Covid-19 precautions. “People should be encouraged to desist from bursting crackers,” the order added. “There have been studies which link air pollution with rise in Covid-19 cases. In any case, the government is tackling pollution on a war footing and has also given directions to prevent burning of crop residue in fields, which is a major contributor of high particulate matter in the air,” a senior government official said. NGT had banned the use of firecrackers in Delhi and NCR effective Monday midnight. It had also asked the states to ban firecrackers in all such districts where the air quality index (AQI) was in ‘poor’, ‘very poor’ or ‘severe’ categories, according to 2019 November data. Accordingly, 13 districts were identified on the basis of high AQI. Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Hapur, Ghaziabaad, Noida, Greater Noida, Baghpat, Bulandshahr (all NCR districts) and Agra, Varanasi fall in ‘very poor’ category, and Kanpur, Lucknow and Moradabad have ‘severe’ AQI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ban-on-firecrackers-in-13-pollution-hit-up-dists-till-nov-30/articleshow/79160903.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: 12 students in class, no assemblies, says DoE in reopening guidelines||PANAJI: The directorate of education has issued guidelines for the reopening of schools for students in Class X and XII. As part of these rules, students will be asked to attend class in a staggered manner, not more than twelve persons will be seated in a classroom, and high-enrolment schools will have classes in shifts. When schools reopen from November 21, they could even use an odd-even formula, as well as larger spaces like computer rooms and labs, if available, for classes. Institutes have been told they have to provide thermal scanning and sanitisers for all students, parents, teachers and visitors at entry and exit points. The directorate has also suggested that classes could be conducted out in the open if such a space is available and the weather permits. At all times, students have to be six feet from one another, schools have been told. Also, while the DoE has banned morning assemblies and physical activities, yoga exercises can be conducted, it said. The guidelines also state that no outsider should be allowed in the school premises, and all frequently-touched surfaces have to be regularly sanitised. “The school should prepare the timetable in such a manner that there is no crowd in the school,” stated the circular, issued by director Santosh Amonkar, adding that schools with a high number of students could consider reducing the number of hours per shift in a way it’s able to manage with the same set of teachers. The circular also said that students are not to gather during the interval or otherwise in school verandahs, canteens or inside classrooms. A ban on spitting also should be imposed, it said, and toilets should be kept clean at all times. “Ensure and educate students not to exchange their face mask with others,” the guidelines read. They also barred students from exchanging drinking water, notebooks, textbooks, paper, pencils, pens, bags, etc. “If some students are not following instructions, parents may be taken into confidence, to assist the teachers.” Students should also be encouraged to get food from home, so that there is no sharing of food or utensils among students, schools have been told. The directorate has said that teams of teachers, students and other stakeholders should be formed, tasking them with different responsibilities like emergency response, hygiene check, etc. “The tender age of students may be kept in mind while giving these instructions,” states the circular. Everyone entering the school premises will have to download the Arogya Sethu app, including school staff, institutes have been told. “School managements will be responsible for adherence to all safety guidelines,” Amonkar said. Face masks remain compulsory for all. “Students and employees should be advised to dispose of used face masks in separate covered bins placed in classrooms, work stations and other common areas,” Amonkar said. “The same may remain stored in the bins for three days and disposed of as dry general solid waste.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-students-in-class-no-assemblies-says-doe-in-reopening-guidelines/articleshow/79160150.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM to contest every poll in India, eyes Bengal, UP next||HYDERABAD: All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM), the Hyderabad-based party which won five seats in Bihar assembly elections, will contest every poll in India henceforth, party president Asaduddin Owaisi said on Tuesday. “I will contest Bengal, UP and every election in India. Only death can stop me. Should I ask someone before contesting elections? I fight for the voiceless. I have the right to expand my party,” said Owaisi, signaling his plans to turn AMIM into a national party with a presence in every state. “Asaduddin Owaisi is twinkle twinkle little star, whatever I had to do, I did it,” said the Hyderabad MP. He said his next stop was West Bengal assembly polls in 2021, and he was laying all plans for victories there, he said. “We are coming to Bengal, we will go there at any cost. We will come to Murshidabad, Malda, Dinajpur, and all the areas. Has Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury taken the theka (responsibility) of Muslims there,” he asked? Congress Lok Sabha chief Chowdhury had called Owaisi a “vote cutter” in the past. Shortly after AIMIM won big in Bihar, Owaisi said in Hyderabad that it was a big day for his party. “I don’t have words to thank my party men. I thank Allah. We will try to become even a bigger political force in Bihar,” said Owaisi, thanking the leaders of Grand Democratic Secular Front (GDSF) and addressed BSP chief Mayawati as his sister. “When we started our journey in Bihar we promised that we will ensure justice for the people of Seemanchal. Since 60 years people of Seemanchal were deprived justice. It is not only the most backward in Bihar, it is also the most backward in India. Fight for Seemanchal will continue,” said Owaisi. When questioned whether AIMIM will join hands with RJD, he said the decision will be taken only after the final results of Bihar elections are declared. “Our fight is for development of Seemanchal, which is one of the most backward areas of India,” he said. He said, women played a major role in his victory. “I attended so many public meetings but never saw such a huge women participation,” he added. Referring to the Dubbak bypolls, he said AIMIM should not be blamed for the debacle of TRS. “TRS lost by hardly 1,079 votes, Did I contest? What do I have to do with the elections,” he said. In 2015, AIMIM contested six seats in Bihar and lost all of them, but in 2019 it won the Kishanganj by-election and as on date, AIMIM has a presence in Maharashtra too with one MP and two MLAs. The party tried its luck in 2015 in Maharashtra and could secure two assembly seats. In 2019, it won two MLA seats and one MP seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/owaisis-aimim-to-contest-every-poll-in-india-eyes-bengal-up-next/articleshow/79160153.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Man arrested for raping 15-year-old girl||MADURAI: A 35-year-old man was arrested in Madurai district for sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl. The accused has been identified as Palani alias Unni.Palani raped her when she visited his house to play with his children. The girl’s mother died a few years ago. Her father remarried and settled in Kerala. She was taken care of by her uncle. Recently, the girl developed health complications and was taken to a hospital for check-up. Doctors informed her uncle that she had a miscarriage. Following this, the girl was questioned by her uncle and relatives. The girl revealed that Palani had raped her multiple times and threatened her to not tell anyone. Based on a complaint filed by her uncle, the Thirumangalam all women police registered a case and arrested the accused on Monday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-arrested-for-raping-15-yr-old-girl/articleshow/79160908.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Soon, apply for new power connection online||PANAJI: For public convenience and to discourage corruption, power minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday said that the electricity department will start receiving applications for new domestic power connections online. The same will be done for marriage registration appointments, he said. Both the online systems will be launched on November 16. Cabral told reporters that there were allegations that when a file is submitted, the junior engineers do not conduct site inspections. The power minister said that consumers have to upload the relevant documents online after which engineers will accept the application and a message will be sent to the applicant. “Once the application is accepted, consumers will be given the option to select the time for the site inspection,” he said. A separate monitoring mechanism has been put in place so that applications do not remain pending, Cabral added. The electricity department has already started receiving online applications for connections in Panaji, Cabral said. The power minister said that there will be initial teething problems and that consumers can approach him in case of any issue. “Once the system is in place all other applications, like increase in load, correction in name, etc, will be done online,” Cabral said. On seeking an appointment for marriage registration online, Cabral said that the bride and groom have to upload a scanned copy of the required documents and after paying the fees can select the time and date for registration of marriage. “When the bride and groom go to a sub-registrar office they should carry with them the original certificate for verification,” he said. Cabral said that this will reduce the waiting time for couples wanting to register their marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-apply-for-new-power-connection-online/articleshow/79160176.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bhopal||Nota votes 10-time greater than winning margin in Bhander||Bhopal: The results in three constituencies, which reported major controversies and complaints of poll code violation — Bhander, Dabra and Sanwer — were also interesting. In Bhander, BJP’s Raksha Saroniya won the elections by a wafer-thin margin of only 161 votes. In fact, NOTA votes were also greater than the win margin (1,619 people voted for NOTA). During early hours of counting, Congress candidate Phool Singh Baraiya was winning by a huge margin but by afternoon Saroniya overtook her rival. In the run-up to the bypolls in Bhander, an FIR was registered against former CM Kamal Nath, Congress candidate Baraiya and other leaders for violating Covid-19 guidelines during a rally. The EC also changed both the collector and SP of the district. In Dabra, where Nath referred to BJP’s Imarti Devi ‘item’ during a rally and later it became a major political issue, the latter lost by 7,500 votes. In the run-up to the bypolls, the EC had also issued orders banning Imarti Devi from campaigning for one day as she too had made similar remarks against Nath’s kin. In the counting, till round 10 out of the total 22 rounds, Imarti Devi was leading. But things changed from the eleventh round and ultimately Imarti Devi lost. In Sanwer constituency, BJP’s Tulsi Silawat was leading by more than 46,000 votes, by the end of 24 out of 28 rounds of counting till 11pm. In the run-up to the bypolls, Sanwer also saw the EC issuing notices and then advisory to both BJP as well as Congress leaders for violating poll code through their speeches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nota-votes-10-time-greater-than-winning-margin-in-bhander/articleshow/79158758.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Six on way home for Diwali die in car accident on ORR||HYDERABAD: Six migrant workers travelling from Bengaluru to north India to celebrate Diwali with their families died and three others suffered injuries when their car turned turtle after hitting a DCM van on the Outer Ring Road near Patancheru in Sangareddy district in the early hours of Tuesday. The accident occurred at Pati village near Patancheru when a four-wheeler (DL5CE 2176) travelling from Shamshabad to Patancheru was overtaking a DCM van. “Nine passengers and a driver were travelling in a Xylo vehicle from Bengaluru towards Nagpur. We suspect that while trying to overtake the DCM van, the left side of Xylo came in contact with the right rear of the van. Due to the collision, Xylo rolled over twice and crashed on the road. Six persons sitting on the left side of the vehicle died on the spot,” deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sridhar Reddy said. Four bodies were found on the road while two more were retrieved from the mangled vehicle. The driver of Xylo vehicle fled from the scene and three other injured have been rushed to a nearby hospital. “The driver and three passengers sitting in the seats behind him escaped with injuries. The injured victims are out of danger,” the DSP said. Police said the deceased have been identified as Kamlesh Kumar, Hari Lohar, Pramod Kumar, Vinod Kumar of Ramgarh, Pavan Kumar of Gorakhpur and an unidentified man from Bengal. The injured were identified as Pramod Kumar, Anil Kumar and Anand Kumar of Gorakhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-on-way-home-for-diwali-die-in-car-accident-on-orr/articleshow/79160203.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Road accidents: Two drivers booked for culpable homicide||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad police have booked accused in two recent fatal road accident cases under Section 304-II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the IPC as they were driving under the influence of alcohol. Earlier, police used to book such offenders under Section 304-A (Causing death by negligence) of the IPC. Cyberabad police have started booking motorists who cause fatal accidents despite knowing that their negligent driving might cause harm to others under Section 304-II of the IPC. Mithi Modi, 20, a degree student from Vizag, who drove a car while he was under the influence of alcohol on Monday and rammed into a road-side tree near HCU, causing death of his friend, Priyanka, who was in the front passenger seat without wearing a seat belt, was booked under Section 304-II of the IPC and Section 185 of the MV Act after his blood alcohol count (BAC) came out as 44 mg/100 ml. Police also arrested B Praveen Kumar Reddy of Thatipamula village in Pebbair under Section 304-II of the IPC for causing a fatal accident at Shadnagar on November 4 while driving his car under the influence of alcohol. The accused rammed his car into an auto from the rear and the auto driver, K Ramulu, died in the accident. The BAC of the accused was 59 mg/100 ml. Both offenders were sent in judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/road-accidents-two-drivers-booked-for-culpable-homicide/articleshow/79160281.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||Two deaths, 118 positive in Chanda||Chandrapur: There were two deaths and 118 cases reported in Chandrapur on Tuesday. The caseload thus climbed to 17,142, while the toll rose to 256. The day also witnessed the discharge of 165 patients taking the total recoveries to 14,381. There are now 2505 active patients under treatment in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/two-deaths-118-positive-in-chanda/articleshow/79158774.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 11, 2020||Goa||Non-Goans owning properties should not trouble locals: Michael Lobo||CALANGUTE: Minister for waste management and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo has urged non-Goans who own properties or resorts in the state to refrain from troubling native Goans. Referring to the recent incident of vandalism at a prominent beachside restaurant at Calangute, allegedly by a non-Goan who owns a neighbouring property, Lobo said that this kind of criminal activity should not be allowed to go unpunished. “A lot of hotels have come up in Calangute which are owned by non-Goans and were built a long time ago. But they should not trouble the locals. We don’t want people who will trouble locals in the tourism industry. We don’t want that kind of tourism,” Lobo said on Tuesday while speaking to reporters at Parra. He said non-Goan owners of properties can build whatever is allowed as per law, “and they have to respect the rights of locals when it comes to issues like traditional pathways”. “This restaurant has been there since 1932 and the access to it was always by this traditional pathway. The non-Goan owner of the neighbouring property had no right to clear that pathway even though it partly falls in his property,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/non-goans-owning-properties-should-not-trouble-locals-lobo/articleshow/79160212.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Circles, squares and a management school||The Red Bricks, the nickname for the old campus building at IIM-A, is perhaps as integral part of the ‘IIM experience’ for the students as the celebrated case study method of learning and student interest groups. Former students fondly remember the first days at the LKP, gazing at the imposing structure and witnessing the interplay of light and shadows in its long corridors. Modernist American architect Louis Kahn came to Ahmedabad at the behest of B V Doshi to design the new management school modelled on Harvard Business School envisaged by Dr Vikram Sarabhai and other industrialists-philanthropists from Ahmedabad Kahn chose to work with the exposed brick design keeping in mind the local material and climate factors Doshi in an earlier interview mentioned that Kahn’s concepts went beyond the building itself and also focused on creating the spaces for interaction - its spacious passages and LKP itself Kahn could not see the finished project as he died in New York in 1974 Annually about 18,000 scholars, architects, experts, etc. visit the campus to understand the magic of nearly half a century old structure The ambitious restoration project for the LKP is initiated with Dr Vikram Sarabhai Library restoration completed and work on the two wings initiated by the institute. IIM-A community members said that the initiative is to keep the Kahn-Doshi-Raje legacy alive for the posterity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/circles-squares-and-a-management-school/articleshow/79158786.cms||Parth Shastri
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Mock drill on disaster management held in Dindigul||Madurai: A mock drill on disaster management was held in in the presence of the Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi in Dindigul on Tuesday. Members of the National Disaster Management Response Force (Arakkonam), district disaster management teams and district fire rescue personnel, conducted the drill at the Kottaimariamman temple tank in the district. The personnel demonstrated how people would be rescued from a capsized boat. The collector said that during the rainy season, people living in areas prone to floods should be ready to move to places of higher elevation and move their cattle to safer places. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mock-drill-on-disaster-management-held-in-dindigul/articleshow/79160919.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||BJP sweeps UP bypolls, retains all its six seats||LUCKNOW: In a virtual endorsement to Yogi Adityanath-led government's performance on Covid front, the voters in six out of seven constituencies voted BJP candidates back to the state assembly in the bypolls. Samajwadi Party retained the only other seat, Malhani in Jaunpur district. A divided opposition, no doubt, made the BJP's job easier, but Yogi led the campaign from the front, supported by a robust party machinery, while SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and BSP president Mayawati chose to campaign from the war room. Held under the shadow of pandemic, the battle saw BJP emerging victorious on Naugawan Sadat (Amroha), Bulandshahr, Tundla (Firozabad), Ghatampur (Kanpur Dehat), Bangarmau (Unnao) and Deoria Sadar. It won all these seats in the 2017 assembly elections. SP, on the other hand, struggled to retain its stronghold of Malhani. Its candidate Lucky Yadav, son of late SP stalwart Parsnath Yadav, could register a win by a margin of 4632 votes over Independent Dhananjay Singh. The party finished third behind Congress in Bangarmau and Ghatampur. Its ally RLD could poll just 7100 votes in Bulandshahr, where BSP finished second. The BJP managed to corner over 36.73% of the total votes polled as against 23.61% of SP and 18.97% of BSP. Congress had the consolation of finishing second in two constituencies as it could poll a meagre 7.53% votes. The seven seats had recorded an average voting percentage of 53.6% which was way lower than in 2017 assembly elections when 64.07% voting was recorded on the said seats. The Naugawan Sadat was won by BJP candidate Sangeeta Chauhan, the widow of late Chetan Chauhan, the cricket star-turned-politician, whose death due to Covid necessitated the bypoll. Chauhan defeated Javed Abbas by a margin of 15,077 votes. The seat, which had a substantial Muslim population, saw a three-corner contest with BSP candidate Mohammad Furkan cornering over 18% of the total votes polled. The seat saw a close contest between Abbas and Sangeeta, who, however, emerged as winner after a cliffhanger. Abbas had also contested in 2017 assembly elections but was defeated by Chetan Chauhan by a margin of more than 20,000 votes. In Bulandshahr also, the BJP had played the sympathy card by fielding Usha Sirohi, the widow of BJP veteran MLA Virendra Sirohi. Usha defeated her nearest rival Mohammad Yunus of BSP by a margin of 21,702 votes. In contrast to Naugawan Sadat, the BJP candidate here faced a direct contest with the BSP while the SP supported RLD candidate, Praveen Singh, found himself struggling with less than 4% votes and getting his deposits forfeited. In Tundla, the seat which got vacated following election of BJP MLA SP Singh Baghel to Lok Sabha in 2019, BJP candidate Prem Pal Dhangar defeated his nearest rival, SP candidate Maharaj Singh Dhangar by a margin of 17,683 votes. This seat also saw a triangular contest with BSP candidate Sanjeev Kumar Chak bagging nearly 23% of the total votes polled. The Bangarmau seat, which had fallen vacant following conviction of BJP MLA Kuldeep Singh Senger in a rape case, was won by BJP candidate Srikant Katiyar who defeated his nearest rival, Arti Bajpai of Congress, by a margin of 31,398 votes. The seat saw a multi-corner contest with SP candidate Suresh Pal and BSP candidate Mahesh Pal also cornering a chunk of votes, allowing Katiyar to have an easy sail with around 41% of total votes. In Ghatampur, BJP candidate Upendra Paswan defeated Kripa Shankar of Congress by a margin of 23,820 votes. This seat also saw a multi-corner contest with Indrajit Kori (SP) and Kuldeep Shankhwar (BSP) getting 14.44% and 23.23% votes. In Deoria, BJP candidate Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi defeated SP candidate Brahma Shankar Tripathi by a margin of 20,089 votes. The BSP candidate Abhay Mani Tripathi finished a distant third winning around 13% of the votes, while Congress candidate Mukund Bhaskar Tripathi could muster just over 2% votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-sweeps-up-bypolls-retains-all-its-six-seats/articleshow/79160912.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 11, 2020||Bhopal||People reject Congress poll plank of ‘save democracy’, ‘bikau vs tikau’||BHOPAL: State Congress led by senior leader Kamal Nath went to the bypolls with the major issue that BJP along with Jyotiraditya Scindia betrayed people’s 2018 mandate and brought down a democratically elected government in March this year. During campaign, Kamal Nath said this bypoll was an election to save the country’s democracy and Constitution. The former chief minister alleged that BJP with its money-power had bargained and purchased 26 Congress MLAs to form government. Even as counting started on Tuesday morning, Kamal Nath was certain of victory and Congress claimed the bypolls in Madhya Pradesh would send a message throughout the nation. “Today is an important day for Madhya Pradesh and myself,” Kamal Nath said on Tuesday morning. “This is judgement day between truth and falsehood. There has been a lot of attempts to bungle through money, liquor and all other methods. But Congress will make the government,” he claimed at the state Congress office. But results left the Congress stunned. The mandate largely rejected the party’s issue of ‘bikau’ (dishonest) versus ‘tikau’ (faithful) and of Scindia being a ‘traitor’. Congress won only nine of the 28 assembly seats that went for bypoll including Vipin Wankhede in Agar, Pragilal Jatav in Karera, Ajab Singh Kushwaha in Sumawali, Ramchandra Dangi in Biaorra, Suresh Raje in Dabra, Ravindra Singh Tomar in Dimni, Mewaram Jatav in Gohad, Rakesh Mawai in Morena and Satish Sikharwar from Gwalior (East). Three of the winner candidates have joined from other parties – Ajab Singh from BJP, Suresh Raje and Pragilal Jatav from BSP. Later in the evening Kamal Nath tweeted, “We respect the mandate. We made all efforts to reach out views to the people. I thank all voters of the by-elections. I hope that the BJP government will keep in mind the welfare of farmers, provide employment to the youth, maintain respect and security to women, take forward our work for new construction of the state and will lead the state on the path of development and progress.” The former chief minister also said, “We accept the mandate and will fulfil responsibility of the opposition, always stand and struggle for the interest of the state and people. We will review these results.” The party had projected its performance under 15-months of Kamal Nath government in contrast to the 15-years of BJP rule under Shivraj Singh Chouhan. However, from the first round of counting, BJP surged ahead and Jyotiraditya Scindia’s closest loyalists won with huge margins. Former ministers Tulsiram Silawat won from Sanver assembly seat, Govind Singh Rajput won Surkhi, Pradyumna Singh Tomar defeated Congress Sunil Sharma, in Bamori seat Mahendra Singh Sisodia defeated Congress candidate KL Agarwal by 52,584 votes and in Sanchi constituency Prabhuram Choudhary won by a margin of 63,135 votes. Hardeep Singh Dang was the first former Congress MLA who had disappeared and sent back a resignation letter on March 5. Technically, he was the first to quit Congress alleging apathy, negligence and denial of a ministerial berth. Dang who won the Suwasra seat as Congress candidate in 2018 by a slim margin of just 350 votes, won the same seat on Tuesday on BJP ticket by a huge margin of 29,440 votes. Asked about the difference in margin of victory, Dang said, “In the Congress party, it is the candidate that contests the election. But in the BJP, it is the organisation that fights the polls.” Kamal Nath had always claimed that Congress would have to fight the polls against the BJP’s organisation which is far stronger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/people-reject-cong-poll-plank-of-save-democracy-bikau-vs-tikau/articleshow/79158770.cms||Suchandana Gupta
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Multi-layered security blanket for Deepotsav||AYODHYA: A multi-layered security blanket has been thrown around Ayodhya for the three-day Deepotsav from Friday. The temple town will be sealed and traffic diverted from Wednesday. Entry of outsiders have been banned and paramilitary forces and special police commandos deployed in the town, said Ayodhya DIG, Deepak Kumar. To a query about any specific intelligence input of a terror attack, the DIG told TOI, “We are ready for any exigency. Drone cameras are keeping round-the-clock vigil, besides mammoth security deployment on the ground. We have secured entry points to the town and even narrow lanes and routes leading to Saryu river have been barricaded. Twenty-four points from national highway to roads leading to Ayodhya and Faizabad have been barricaded.” At the Deepotsav venue, nobody will be allowed entry without security passes and security drills are being conducted every day to bolster the security apparatus, he said. Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will be present at the main event. Massive search operations began on Tuesday evening with brisk checking of vehicles and vigil on suspicious movements at hotels, dharamshalas or restaurants. DIG Deepak Kumar appealed to the people to strictly following Covid protocols and remain indoors and participate in Deepotsav virtually. Those who need to come out due to an emergency, must carry identification documents, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/multi-layered-security-blanket-for-deepotsav/articleshow/79160960.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Shabri story to light up Ayodhya on Diwali||LUCKNOW: Diwali celebrations in Ayodhya this year will highlight “women power”, a theme on which the UP government has based its ongoing Mission Shakti programme. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has said that the cultural programmes at the Deepotsav this year should be dedicated to matri shakti. Among the programmes shortlisted are Ramlila by women artists from Chhattisgarh, the enactment of the story of Shabri in Kamban Rishi’s Ramayana by Lucknow’s Aishbagh Ramlila Samiti. Poet Kavita Tiwari will also recite her poetry. A government spokesperson said that Ram’s mother Kaushalya was born in the southern Kaushal, which is part of present day Chhattisgarh. To mark her importance, Satya Sai Ramlila Mandli from Balaud district have been invited to perform. The speciality of this troupe is that it only has women artists. On November 13, they will perform an interaction between Ram and Kaushalya. The CM said that the troupe will also inspire women in UP to take up such performances. The spokesperson also said that in Kamban Rishi’s version of the Ramayana, the story of Shabri has been written in great detail. The performance by Lucknow’s Aishbagh Ramlila Samiti on Shabri will be a major attraction in this year’s celebration. “This Ramayana is popular in south India and Ramlila performances in north India do not play up her role so this will provide new information to the audience,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shabri-story-to-light-up-ayodhya-on-diwali/articleshow/79160931.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bhopal||‘Kingmaker’ BSP fails to win even a single seat, eats into Cong votes||Bhopal: The voting percentage of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) continues to decline in Madhya Pradesh though votes polled to its candidates in two constituencies cost Congress dearly in the bypolls. The party’s voters seem to be disillusioned with its leadership both in the state as well as the centre. BSP’s attempt to play the kingmaker’s role in the state also did not yield results as it failed to win even a single seat in the bypolls. Incidentally, BSP contested in all the 28 assembly seats that went for the bypolls. In Bada Malhera, BSP candidate Akhand Pratap Yadav, who polled 20,502 or 13.2 % of the total votes played spoilsport for Congress as Ramsiya lost by a margin of 17,567 votes and BJP candidate Pradyuman Singh Lodhi emerged victorious. In Bhander constituency, the Congress candidate lost by a thin margin of 161 votes as the BSP candidate polled over 7,000 votes. At one stage, it appeared BSP would win Morena assembly seat where its candidate Ramprakash Rajoriya was ahead of both BJP and Congress candidates. But he lost by a narrow margin to Congress’ Rakesh Mavai, who polled 38,561 (32.73%) votes against Rajoriya’s 38,169(32.4%) votes. BJP candidate Raghuraj Kansana was third with 36,541 votes. Barring the above three seats, in most of the assemblies, BSP was not able to garner even a double-digit vote percentage The BSP cadre in the state disintegrated after “intense infighting” within the party which has seen as many as four state presidents in the past five years. From 8.97% in 2008, the polling percentage of the party has gone down to 5% in the 2018 assembly polls. “Our leader Mayawati has failed to inspire the party cadre. She has also failed to protect their interests. The party MLAs continue to hobnob with BJP but no action was initiated. Our workers are completely disenchanted”, said a senior party leader. Senior party leaders attribute the “downfall” to the “dirty politics” when “a committed party president Narmada Prasad Ahirwar, a contemporary of BSP founder Kanshi Ram, was removed after some false allegations of sexual harassment in 2016. The present party chief Ramakant Pippal was not available for his comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/kingmaker-bsp-fails-to-win-even-a-single-seat-eats-into-cong-votes/articleshow/79158836.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
November 11, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Money power won, democracy lost, says Digvijaya Singh||BHOPAL: Former chief minister and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh on Tuesday alleged that money-politics and not the democracy has won the by-elections. He again raised the issue of EVMs and said that anything that has a chip is not tamper-proof. “I had said that the by-election has been between ‘loktantra’ (democracy) and ‘note-tantra’ (money), between people and administration. Democracy lost, money won. But people are with us even now,” Digvijaya Singh said. “What is the reason that today no developed nation votes through EVMs? Today the Presidential elections in US has not concluded yet. Because in some states, there has been fake counting. Whatever has a chip is not tamper proof and this I have been saying from the beginning. They do this in a selective manner,” he said. Digvijaya Singh further argued, “How did we win Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan in 2018 if EVMs can be tampered? Let me tell you, we got less than expected seats. Seats like Mandhata and Haatpipaliya, we could not lose by any distant chance and there we are losing by thousands of votes. A review will be done. State Congress president Kamal Nath has called a meeting of MLAs, bypoll candidates and district presidents on Wednesday evening.” From the day of its implementation, BJP has denied that the 15-month Kamal Nath government waived loans of farmers in the state through the Jai Kisan Rinn Maafi Yojana. Even as BJP leaders called it a hoax, Kamal Patel who minister for agriculture in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government gave a statement in the floor of the House that 27 lakh farmers have benefitted from the Congress government’s scheme which spent more than Rs 11,000 crore. Despite such huge relief to farmers, the Congress lost the bypoll. Former AICC president Rahul Gandhi while campaigning for the 2018 assembly elections had announced that farm loans upto Rs 2 lakh would be waived if the Congress came to power. He had also said that the loans would be waived in ten days or the chief mi nister will be changed on the 11th day. BJP made this ten-day deadline a major issue in the bypoll. Not only did the party claim no farm loan was waived, but also quoted the deadline of ten days. Former chief minister Kamal Nath’s farm loan waiver addressed to settle the NPA bank accounts of farmers. The government paid banks and gave farmers certificates of the loan waiver. BJP also gave a sop which was probably less in value than the Congress government but it ensured that farmers received the money at hand. On August 10, Prime Minister Narendra Modi electronically transferred Rs 17,100 crore to the bank accounts of 8.5 crore farmers under the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, a large number of beneficiaries were from Madhya Pradesh. Every farmer registered under the scheme received Rs 6,000 in three instalments. On September 22, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan announced that added to the Rs 6,000 Kisan Samman Nidhi from the Centre, his government will directly cash transfer Rs 4,000 in the accounts of 1,75,000 farmers in two instalments under the Mukhya Mantri Kisan Kalyan Yojana. Launching the scheme, chief minister Chouhan had said, “We thought of increasing the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi further by another Rs 4,000 so farmers can get Rs 10,000 annually.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/money-power-won-democracy-lost-digvijaya/articleshow/79158801.cms||Suchandana Gupta
November 11, 2020||Indore||BJP finds its winning streak in Malwa-Nimar||INDORE: The icing on the cake for BJP in the MP bypolls has come in Malwa-Nimar region where it won six seats. This marks the return of BJP in its stronghold of Malwa-Nimar which it lost in 2018 assembly elections. BJP managed to maintain a steady lead right from round one in all constituencies except for Agar, which saw a close tussle which the Congress won comfortably. At Agar seat that recorded the highest voter turnout of 83.77% in Madhya Pradesh by-polls 2020, Congress candidate Vipin Wankhede had a lead of 180 votes in the first round but he was trailing by 96 votes in the second round. Wankhde again took a lead in the third round, which he managed to hold on till the fifth round. But BJP’s Manoj Utwal received around 4,500 votes in the sixth round and took a lead of 181 votes. In the seesaw battle, Wankhede again took a lead of 181 votes in the 7th round, which he increased by 448 votes till the 16th round before taking a leap and increasing it to 1,170 votes by 17th round. After completing counting of all 24 rounds, Congress managed to win the seat by 2,006 votes. Similarly, Congress candidate Rajvir Singh Baghel had a taken a lead of 1,147 votes in the first round of counting for Hatpipliya by-poll, which was reduced to 651 in the second round. In the 3rd round, BJP’s Manoj Choudhari went ahead with a lead of 1,732 votes, which only increased to 12,170 votes by the 11th round. It was round number 12, 13 and 14 that helped Congress to narrow the margin 10,423, before losing by 13,904 votes in the 21st round of counting. There were many eyes on the by-polls of Badnawar constituency as the cabinet minister and Minister and BJP candidate Rajvardhan Singh Dattigaon was in the fray for 6th time in a row. He however won the contest very comfortably as he took a lead of 1,685 votes in the first round and increased it to 32,133 votes by the end of 25th round. Another minister from Malwa-Nimar region Hardeep Singh Dang, who contested from Suwasra constituency won by 29,151 votes defeating Rakesh Patidar of Congress. In 2018 assembly election, he had managed to win by a slender margin of only 350 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/bjp-finds-its-winning-streak-in-malwa-nimar/articleshow/79158859.cms||Sagar Choukse
November 11, 2020||Goa||Court rejects bail of woman in Goa's Pernem drug bust case||PANAJI: A court in Mapusa has rejected the bail application of a 42-year-old woman from Pernem who was allegedly illegally cultivating cannabis plants at her home and was found in possession of other drugs worth Rs1 crore. The police said that they found all residents of the house cultivating and taking care of the illegally-grown cannabis plants weighing 2.290kgs and were also in illegal possession of dried leafy substance suspected to be ganja weighing 1.3kgs, a black sticky substance suspected to be charas weighing 2.5kgs. The court was told that the applicant purchased seven vehicles from the proceeds of the narcotic trade. The police also said that in the ration card, the bail applicant is covered under the PHH (priority household) scheme but the residence is a four-storied building, and therefore the financial angle has to be investigated.  The court stated that it is clear that the alleged narcotic drugs were found in the house occupied by the woman who has been arrested. “The rigors of section 37 of the NDPS Act are attracted in the present case as the drugs found in the house of the applicant are of commercial quantity,” the court stated. The advocate for the applicant stated that she is residing in her in-law’s house along with her husband and two children and that her husband has been sick for the past 15 years. During the raid, the applicants’ husband complained of chest pain and informed the raiding party that he is suffering from brain stroke and heart disease. Both she and her husband were allowed to go for a medical checkup and were not arrested immediately. The husband was discharged the same day and was found bedridden the next day, but he was arrested by the police. The court stated that it is clear that the alleged narcotic drugs were found in the house occupied by the woman who has been arrested and other residents. “The rigors of section 37 of the NDPS Act are attracted in the present case as the drugs found in the house of the applicant are of commercial quantity,” the court stated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-rejects-bail-of-woman-in-pernem-drug-bust-case/articleshow/79160241.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Patna||Asaduddin Owaisi's party arrives in Seemanchal, dents Mahagathbandhan||PATNA: In its third attempt, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM has succeeded in making its presence felt in the Seemanchal region in the assembly polls, the results of which were announced on Tuesday. The rise of Owaisi's party appears to have caused substantial damage to the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, which has failed to perform on expected lines in the Seemanchal region. Though the counting of votes is still in progress, AIMIM has emerged as a force to reckon with in the Muslim-dominated constituencies of Seemanchal region, which comprises four districts —Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia. Kishanganj has around 70% Muslim population followed by Katihar (43%), Araria (42%) and Purnia (38%). The initial counting trends showed Owaisi's AIMIM leading by a good margin in Kochadhaman, Bahadurganj, Amour and constituencies over its nearest rivals. The party was trailing in second and third places in Kishanganj and Baisi seats. In 2019 bypoll, AIMIM had won the Kishanganj seat by defeating its nearest rival BJP. Kishanganj was considered to be a tradition seat of Congress. The AIMIM has its influence in Kochadhaman, Kishanganj, Amour, Bahadurganj, Baisi, Thakurganj and Jokihat seats in Seemanchal. It's because of this factor that Owaisi mainly targeted the RJD-Congress combination during most of his election rallies. He had blamed the RJD-Congress combination for neglecting the region for long. Owaisi also raised issues such as NRC-CAA in his campaign rallies. Unsurprisingly, its political rivals accuse AIMIM of being the BJP’s ‘B’ team and also as ‘vote katwa’ (vote cutter). Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra admitted that the AIMIM dented the Mahagathbandhan in Seemanchal region causing losses to the alliance. “Owaisi by and large helped the NDA in that particular region, considered to be a bastion of the Mahagathbandhan,” he said. Similar views were echoed by Chitranjan Gagan of the RJD. Out of the 24 seats in Seemanchal, AIMIM and its allies—BSP and RLSP—are contesting 20 seats. Of them, AIMIM is in the fray in 14 constituencies. “The initial results have shown that the party, which opened its account in 2019 bypoll, is spreading its wings in the Muslim-dominated region in the State,” said Arshad Nizam, a political activist and retired teacher of Purnia. In the 2015 elections, the Congress had emerged as the largest party in Seemanchal with nine seats in its kitty. The RJD had won three seats, while JD(U) and the BJP had bagged six seats each. The AIMIM had not won any of the six seats it had contested then. In the 2020 elections, the AIMIM has contested 20 of the seats in alliance with the RLSP and BSP. While BJP is contesting 12 seats, the JD(U) 11 and HAM(S) one. On the Mahagathbandhan side, while RJD and Congress are contesting 11 seats each, CPI-ML (Liberation) and CPI(M) are in the fray in one seat each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/owaisis-party-arrives-in-seemanchal-dents-mgb/articleshow/79160987.cms||Ramashankar
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vocal for Local: Desi Diwali products hit the China Wall||AHMEDABAD: As lanterns, fairy lights, colourful lampshades adorn the stores on Gandhi Road ahead of Diwali, the road is jam-packed with last-minute shoppers willing to pick their favourite festive decorations. This is just a typical sight in one of the city’s busiest market around this time of the year and despite the pandemic, the spirit and demand for the plethora of festive decorations remains unbeatable. Even as PM Narendra Modi reiterated the mantra of ‘Vocal for Local’ in his recent address, it’s hard to find any takers for India-made Diwali decorations. Shopkeepers along Gandhi Road who sell Diwali decorations do struggle to procure products, amid the anti-China rhetoric, but the demand has remained as it is. “Procuring items is a task for us because of the restrictions on imports and even the anti-China sentiment. However, people who come to our shops during Diwali seek decorations that are innovative and new and therefore ask for Chinese options as they have more variety and are cost-effective too,” said Jitendra Patel, a shop-owner on Gandhi Road. Consumers are also keen on buying Chinese products but some are only restraining themselves in the wake of the pandemic. “Last week, when I went to a temple and passed by Gandhi Road, I was tempted to buy lights and decorations from the stores. But I was just determined not to visit any store in the wake of the pandemic and just pray at the temple and head straight home,” said Dharati Gandhi, a resident of Vejalpur. Even though shops have put alternatives of India-manufactured products on offer, there are few takers. “We have Indian products as well as Chinese products on offer and there are very few people who explicitly ask for Indian products. The prices are more and therefore, people prefer Chinese alternatives,” said Dhiraj Patel, a store-owner at Gandhi Road. Same is the case with electronic items as well. Nikunj Patel, who owns a shop at the popular Murtimand Complex, where several shops of mobile and accessories are located, said, “Chinese mobile and accessories cost less. Thus, there are more takers for these products.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vocal-for-local-desi-diwali-products-hit-the-china-wall/articleshow/79158867.cms||Yogesh Chawda
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Public opinion divided in Lucknow over ban on crackers||LUCKNOW: The state government's order in compliance with the National Green Tribunal's direction to ban sale and use of firecrackers has left people divided with some in favour and many in opposition. But an overwhelming number felt that the ban should have been partial so that people could have fun without contributing to pollution. Besides, a comprehensive strategy is required to combat air pollution round the year and not just on Diwali night, they said. People with respiratory issues and elderly described the decision as the need of the hour. Omkar Shukla (65) of Balaganj, who has asthma and had to rush to the hospital last Diwali, said, "Diwali night is a nightmare for people like me who cannot even step out of their house.” Ramesh Kapoor (45), a resident of Indiranagar, said, "The decision will also benefit animals who suffered the most. Besides, it will reduce possibilities of Covid-19 spread due to pollution.” However, the younger lot is unhappy because they will miss the fun of bursting crackers they enjoy most in Diwali. Ronak Mishra (15) from Raja bazar, was disappointed. “I cannot imagine Diwali without crackers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/public-opinion-divided-in-city-over-ban-on-crackers/articleshow/79160966.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
November 11, 2020||---||Asaduddin Owaisi's party arrives in Seemanchal, dents Mahagathbandhan||PATNA: In its third attempt, the Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM has succeeded in making its presence felt in the Seemanchal region in the assembly polls, the results of which were announced on Tuesday. The rise of Owaisi's party appears to have caused substantial damage to the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, which has failed to perform on expected lines in the Seemanchal region. Though the counting of votes is still in progress, AIMIM has emerged as a force to reckon with in the Muslim-dominated constituencies of Seemanchal region, which comprises four districts —Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia. Kishanganj has around 70% Muslim population followed by Katihar (43%), Araria (42%) and Purnia (38%). The initial counting trends showed Owaisi's AIMIM leading by a good margin in Kochadhaman, Bahadurganj, Amour and constituencies over its nearest rivals. The party was trailing in second and third places in Kishanganj and Baisi seats. In 2019 bypoll, AIMIM had won the Kishanganj seat by defeating its nearest rival BJP. Kishanganj was considered to be a tradition seat of Congress. The AIMIM has its influence in Kochadhaman, Kishanganj, Amour, Bahadurganj, Baisi, Thakurganj and Jokihat seats in Seemanchal. It's because of this factor that Owaisi mainly targeted the RJD-Congress combination during most of his election rallies. He had blamed the RJD-Congress combination for neglecting the region for long. Owaisi also raised issues such as NRC-CAA in his campaign rallies. Unsurprisingly, its political rivals accuse AIMIM of being the BJP’s ‘B’ team and also as ‘vote katwa’ (vote cutter). Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra admitted that the AIMIM dented the Mahagathbandhan in Seemanchal region causing losses to the alliance. “Owaisi by and large helped the NDA in that particular region, considered to be a bastion of the Mahagathbandhan,” he said. Similar views were echoed by Chitranjan Gagan of the RJD. Out of the 24 seats in Seemanchal, AIMIM and its allies—BSP and RLSP—are contesting 20 seats. Of them, AIMIM is in the fray in 14 constituencies. “The initial results have shown that the party, which opened its account in 2019 bypoll, is spreading its wings in the Muslim-dominated region in the State,” said Arshad Nizam, a political activist and retired teacher of Purnia. In the 2015 elections, the Congress had emerged as the largest party in Seemanchal with nine seats in its kitty. The RJD had won three seats, while JD(U) and the BJP had bagged six seats each. The AIMIM had not won any of the six seats it had contested then. In the 2020 elections, the AIMIM has contested 20 of the seats in alliance with the RLSP and BSP. While BJP is contesting 12 seats, the JD(U) 11 and HAM(S) one. On the Mahagathbandhan side, while RJD and Congress are contesting 11 seats each, CPI-ML (Liberation) and CPI(M) are in the fray in one seat each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/owaisis-party-arrives-in-seemanchal-dents-mgb/articleshow/79162456.cms||Ramashankar
November 11, 2020||Goa||Muzzling protests won’t dampen spirit: AAP to Goa govt||PANAJI: AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal condemned the Goa government for “muzzling people’s protest”. In a tweet, Kejriwal told the Goa government that muzzling protests is not a solution to the problems that the people of Goa are currently facing. “Goans camping day n nite to #savemollem and stop #coalprojects. FIRs done against many Goans incl AAP volunteers. Muzzling protests and lodging FIR will not dampen spirit of Goans to save Goa from being a coal hub. Govts shud not implement projects against the wishes of people,” he tweeted on Monday. He urged the Goa chief minister to pay heed to the voice of Goans and said that Aam Aadmi Party stands with the people in their fight to preserve their land. Kejriwal also objected to FIRs against activists including AAP volunteers and hailed the efforts of Goans to protect their environment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-muzzling-protests-wont-dampen-spirit/articleshow/79160288.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Couple arrested for fraud||Hyderabad: A couple has been arrested for allegedly duping 85 persons for Rs 3 crore through chit fund fraud at CCC Naspur in Ramagundam commissionerate limits. According to police, M Sudhakar, 50, a Singareni Collieries employee from CCC Naspur, and his wife carried out the fraud. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/couple-arrested-for-fraud/articleshow/79160289.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Government ban silences crackers in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: It will be Diwali sans crackers this year for Lucknowites. Within a few hours after the state government announced a ban on firecrackers, Lucknow police commissionerate cancelled the licenses of 34 dealers on Tuesday evening and gave them 24-hour window to voluntarily wind up, failing which action will be taken. Police commissioner Sujeet Pandey told TOI that the state government’s order based on National Green Tribunal guidelines will be followed in letter and spirit. After adoption of the commissionerate system, the powers to regulate firecracker sales came under the jurisdiction of the police. Earlier, they were with the district administration. Regarding implementation of the ban, Pandey said the ban will remain in place till November 30 Teams have been formed to start conducting inspections from Wednesday to ensure that the orders are being followed. All the sttaion house officers of police stations in the city have been asked to ensure that no kiosk, stalls or firecrackers are spotted at public places or bazaars. Help of local intelligence units will also be taken, they added. “We will try to dissuade shopkeepers from keeping any type of crackers. However, if persuasion will not work, strict action as defined in the law will be taken,” said a senior officer. “Those found to be hoarding crackers may also be booked under the Explosives Act,” he added. Diwali night usually witnesses nonstop bursting of crackers that leads to severe air and noise pollution. The air quality remains bad for several days thereafter, leading to innumerable problems for the people as well animals, flora and fauna. With the ban in place, people will have ‘cracker less Diwali’ and will have to find alternate ways for celebrations. Officers said that there is no restriction on celebrating the festival of lights by decorating houses with lights and lamps. Besides, they added, resident welfare associations and clubs may hold events like cultural evenings or laser or light and sound shows for celebrations while strictly following Covid-19 safety protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-ban-silences-crackers-in-city/articleshow/79160963.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Trains disrupted as float with crane hits Pamban bridge||RAMANATHAPURAM: A float with crane used in the construction work of the new railway bridge at Pamban, hit the existing century-old structure due to rough seas on Monday night. Though no damage was caused to the bridge, the incident resulted in the disruption of the train services between Rameswaram and Chennai. On Monday, the train to Chennai started at the Rameswaram railway station at 8.25pm and reached near the Pamban bridge, but could not proceed further as the float had hit one of the pillars. After nearly one-and-a-half-hours, the float was moved away from the bridge by nearly 50 workers. Since the bridge had to be inspected for safety, the train service was suspended and it was sent back to Rameswaram at around 12.20am on Tuesday. Similarly, the train service from Chennai to Rameswaram was stopped at Mandapam without heading to Pamban on Tuesday morning. The 60 passengers who were to reach Rameswaram were taken to the destination by road. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/trains-disrupted-as-float-with-crane-hits-pamban-bridge/articleshow/79160964.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||38-yr-old gets life||Hyderabad: A 38-year-old labourer who raped and impregnated his 16-year-old daughter in 2017 was sentenced to life imprisonment until death by a local court on Tuesday.  Court also imposed Rs 10,000 fine on the convict. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/38-yr-old-gets-life/articleshow/79160319.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Right strategy to curb air pollution in UP: Experts||LUCKNOW: Welcoming the state government’s decision to ban firecrackers, experts called for a total ban in the entire state. One night of fun leaves air polluted for several days, causing inconvenience to many, they said and hoped that it would be the first step to finalise a strategy to check air pollution all the year round. Director, IITR, Lucknow, Alok Dhawan said: “Diwali is a festival of lights and should not be misunderstood as a day of cracker bursting. The transient period from summer to winters is a time when pollutants tend to stick around for longer duration and with Covid-19 around, our lungs are much more compromised than before.” Environmentalist Venkatesh Dutta said, “Firecrackers impact not just humans, but flora and fauna too. The ban should not be seen as against any religion. Initially there was opposition to idol immersions in artificial ponds, but mass awareness made people willingly do it. Same can be done to convince people opposing the cracker ban,” he said. Pulmonologist at KGMU Dr Santosh Kumar said crackers have aluminium powder, sulphur and barium nitrate and upon burning release sulphur dioxide, carbon dioxide, manganese, carbon monoxide and cadmium along with particulate matter which damage the respiratory track and is hazardous for people Medical officer, Balrampur Hospital, Dr Anand Gupta said that the ban will not only check pollution, but also check loss of life and limb due to fire injuries caused by crackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/experts-right-strategy-to-curb-air-pollution/articleshow/79160991.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: 76 new cases in Wardha||WARDHA: Nearly 76 patients were detected positive for coronavirus and 30 were discharged after recovery on Tuesday, the count of total ceases reached 6800 and recoveries 6145. Almost 859 test reports were received and 76 (53 men and 23 women) tested positive. The active positive patients under treatment are 439. The death toll of the district remains at 216 after no death was reported on Tuesday. The cases were detected from Wardha (47), Deoli (12), Selu and Arvi (5 each), Hinganghat (4), Karanja (2) and Samudrapur (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/76-new-cases-in-wardha/articleshow/79158901.cms||Balwant Dhage
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Dragon lights turned off, desi lanterns to illuminate Diwali||LUCKNOW: With Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging people to go ‘local for Diwali’ to give a boost to the economy, an increasing number of Lucknowites are going desi by boycotting made in China items this festive season. Though they are priced higher than their Chinese counterparts, shoppers are still going for made in India lamps, decorative LED lights and chandeliers this time. A quick TOI survey found that shopping hubs like the fancy light market of Naka Hindola and Yahiyaganj were bustling with pre-Diwali shoppers. Most shopkeepers have not imported Chinese goods this year and are selling the last year’s stock. The fresh goods on the shelves are all made in India. However, since the production and supply of Indian lights has not been as per the expectations due to Covid restrictions, traders are finding it difficult to meet the demand. Shopkeepers say though Indian lights and lanterns do not match quality, quantity and pricing of those imported from China, people still want to buy them. “Customers are going for Indian products. If few shops are selling chinese lanterns, then it's the old stock. No new stock have been imported. It is important to buy local. I have not put out any Chinese lanterns for sale," said Satpal Singh Meet, a shopkeeper in Naka Hindola. “If the government imposes a complete ban on Chinese goods, we will able to buy more Indian products next Diwali,” said Ketan Sharma, a customer in Krishnanagar. “There is considerable drop in demand for Chinese products this year. Customers now want Indian products. Even we want to sell them, but we don't have an adequate stock as supply was low. At present, 30% of the stock is of Indian products. Rest is Chinese made leftover from last year’s unsold stock,” said Pawan Manocha, president, Lucknow Vyapar Mandal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dragon-lights-turned-off-desi-lanterns-to-illuminate-diwali/articleshow/79160995.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Vocal for local sentiment sweeps markets as public rejects idols from Chinese land||LUCKNOW: With only three days left for the auspicious festival of Diwali, markets are abuzz with activities and customers. Shopping for Ganesh-Lakshmi idols and decorative items, all customers have one question in mind for shopkeepers: “Is this made in China?”. With everyone demanding India-made idols, traders and artisans have completely done away with Chinese items. The soaring demand has generated tremendous enthusiasm among potters and sculptors from Kolkata, Jaipur and other cities. “Till last year, we were selling China-made idols since people always chose them due to their design, finish and price. However, this year, it’s the opposite. Even before stalls were put up, we received a few calls to inquire about India-made idols,” said Sonu Kumar, who puts up his shop in Alambagh every Diwali. The idols on display are brought from Kolkata and range from Rs 150 to Rs 300, he added. “There was a time when only Chinese products were available in the market. Now, the anti-China sentiment has swept people’s minds. Idols made by local artisans with Indian material attract public. This will boost local businesses,” said Arup Yadav, a shopkeeper in Krishnanagar. Shopkeepers and store owners in markets of Alambagh, Krishnanagar, Aashiana, Bhootnath, Sadar Bazaar, and others have also stopped importing Chinese idols but brought them from Ahmedabad, Jaipur and Kolkata this time. Made using clay, water and natural colours, sets of idols range from Rs 150 to as high as Rs 10,000. “The products are not so fancy and a bit costly compared to the ones imported from China. However, the idea of going ‘vocal for local’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ is instilled so deeply in the hearts of people that we only want locally made products,” said Vasudha Krishna, a customer. Another customer, Neeta Minotra, said, “What is the point of buying imported products when you have artisans who prepare much better idols and share the same sentiments like ours.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vocal-for-local-sentiment-sweeps-markets-as-public-rejects-idols-from-chinese-land/articleshow/79161005.cms||Aditi Singh
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19: One death in Yavatmal||YAVATMAL: One death, a 45-year-old man from Wani, was recorded on Tuesday. A total of 602 test reports were received of which 49 are positive patients and the remaining 553 negative.  Active positive patients pegged at 282 who are currently undergoing treatment. 10,589 were positive so far of which 9658 recovered and discharged from the hospital, including the 76 patients discharged on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-death-in-yavatmal/articleshow/79158911.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||GPCC president offers to resign after debacle||GANDHINAGAR: State BJP president C R Paatil and CM Vijay Rupani had all the reasons to kickstart early festive celebrations. The duo managed to reverse the trend of voters rejecting turncoats at the hustings and cement their own position in the organisation and government. On the other hand, the state Congress leadership is bearing the brunt of not putting up a spirited fight against the BJP to retain the eight assembly seats which the Congress had won in the 2017 assembly election. State Congress chief Amit Chavda offered to resign, owning up responsibility for the party’s dismal show in the assembly by-polls. Meanwhile, buoyed by the election results, Rupani sought to put to rest all speculations of a looming cabinet reshuffle or expansion, saying that no such thing is being planned as of now. The CM, however hinted at possible appointments in boards and corporations soon. With all its candidates facing defeat in the assembly by-polls, the Congress finds itself in an unenviable position. It’s MLAs in the assembly have fallen from an impressive 77 in 2017 to 65 now. The BJP, which finished in double digit numbers (99) in the 2017 assembly election, now has strength of 111 MLAs in the assembly. After the poor show by the Congress in the assembly byelection, losing all eight seats which it won in 2017, party workers are putting the blame of the defeat on state party chief Chavda, leader of opposition (LOP) Paresh Dhanani and AICC Gujarat in-charge Rajiv Satav. Party foot soldiers say the leadership showed very little intent in putting up a fight on the eight seats, which are considered to be party bastions. A veteran Congress leader said, “We chose weak candidates. There was lack of planning and execution. If the national leadership does not take a call on changing the state leadership, the Congress may not be able to repeat its 2017 assembly election performance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gpcc-president-offers-to-resign-after-debacle/articleshow/79158932.cms||Kapil Dave
November 11, 2020||Goa||Centre assured solution to Mollem issues: Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said that Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari and Union railway minister Piyush Goyal have assured him of a solution to the contentious double tracking and national highway expansion projects proposed through the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, Mollem. “Both the ministers are positive about coming up with a solution,” Sawant said after meeting the two central leaders in New Delhi on Tuesday. During his two-day visit to the capital, Sawant raised issues that were seeing a groundswell against the BJP government in the state and sought assurance of a resolution from the Union ministers. Though the chief minister had said that his main objective was to find a solution towards the resumption of mining in Goa, he spent more time meeting central ministers to diffuse the tension over the three linear projects. Speaking to TOI Sawant said that his two-day trip to Delhi was “successful.” He met Gadkari along with BJP Goa president Sadanand Shet Tanavade. “The progress of the various national highway projects in Goa was discussed and people’s apprehensions regarding the highway expansion in the Anmod Ghat were also conveyed. We also sought his intervention for early completion of the Sada-Varanapuri highway works,” Sawant said. Sawant said that he discussed the issue of double tracking with Goyal and that the Union minister assured him of coming up with a solution. “People have expressed their apprehension on increase of coal handling at Mormugao Port Trust and in future we will stop coal handling in Goa,” Sawant said. In the last ten days or so, the agitators have adopted an aggressive approach with a large number of people coming out on the streets to oppose the three projects passing through Mollem — double tracking of railway line, power transmission line and expansion of national highway — pushing the government on the backfoot. Recently, BJP MLAs from South Goa and also the BJP core committee asked the chief minister to go slow on these three projects. Sawant had assured the worried MLAs that he would meet central ministers and get an assurance that there will be no increase in coal handling capacity at MPT. Till then, he had asserted that the projects were in the interest of the state and that those in London and other parts of Europe were opposing the projects and not locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-assured-solution-to-mollem-issues-sawant/articleshow/79160334.cms||Murari Shetye
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Screen well those coming to Kanyakumari from Tvm: CM||MADURAI: Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami has instructed officials in Kanyakumari to ensure that the people coming from Kerala, which was seeing a spike in cases, are screened properly before entering Tamil Nadu. He said that the state government has managed to bring the spread of Covid-19 under control through various measures. “As Kanyakumari is in close proximity with Kerala, where there was a spike in cases, and people from Tamil Nadu travel to Kanyakumari regularly, the officials should screen them properly and exercise necessary precautions to ensure that new cases do not spread in Kanyakumari from Thiruvananthapuram,” he said. “As many people travelled from Kanyakumari to many parts of the state, it could result in the disease spreading to other parts if precautions are not taken,” he said. Edappadi arrived in Tuticorin from Chennai by air and then proceeded to Kanyakumari where he conducted a review meeting on measures taken to control spread of Covid-19. Speaking at the review meeting, he said that the first step taken to tackle the disease and sustain livelihoods of farming activities. “The state has recorded good agricultural production due to these measures. Industries were allowed to open gradually and now they were functioning with 100% strength,” he said. He said that 3,166 fever camps had been held in the district at the rate of 35 per day and 43,410 screened through them. There are 94 containment zones in Kanyakumari now. The Chief Minister said that the comprehensive water scheme was being completed in the district and the UGD scheme at an outlay of Rs 76 crore would be brought into implementation soon. The Eraniel comprehensive water scheme, which would benefit 319 villages, at a cost of Rs 174 crore was nearing completion, he added. The Chief Minister laid the foundation stone for 36 schemes at an outlay Rs 60.4 crore. He also inaugurated 21 works that had been completed at a cost of Rs 153 crore. 6,550 women have benefited from the Amma two wheeler scheme in the district during the three years, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/screen-well-those-coming-to-kanyakumari-from-tvm-cm/articleshow/79160996.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||GVMC mulling measures to solve Bheemili’s water woes||Visakhapatnam: With infiltration wells of Gosthani reservoir drying up every summer leading to water scarcity in Madhurawada and Bheemili, it is expected that water supply from nearby reservoirs won’t be able to meet the demand of the area once Visakhapatnam turns the executive capital and key offices come up. Consequently, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) is planning to take advantage of Sambhuvanipalem reservoir and Gambheeram Gedda reservoir to address water supply issues in the area. As per preliminary proposals, GVMC may divert water from Kanithi Balancing Reservoir, which draws water through Yeleru canal, to Sambhuvanipalem reservoir either directly or through the Mudasarlova reservoir. From there, the water will go to the Gambheeram Gedda reservoir. A pipeline network will be developed for the purpose. This project is expected to serve its purpose in a wholesome manner as a detailed project report (DPR) is in the works to draw water round-the-clock from Polavaram project to Vizag through a direct pipeline. The Sambhuvanipalem reservoir, nestled among the hills near Madhurawada, was primarily developed for purposes of irrigation nearly 40 years ago. But currently, the reservoir has no ayacut as the land surrounding the reservoir has turned into a real estate nerve centre. It was learnt that the Sambhuvanipalem reservoir is likely to be bigger than Mudasarlova reservoir — from which nearly one million gallons of drinking water is drawn every day. The irrigation department seems to have responded positively to the potential handover of the reservoir to GVMC. But the reservoir may need extensive reclamation work as there has been no maintenance over the years and seepage issues may have developed. The Gambheeram Gedda reservoir too is in a worn out condition. According to a GVMC source, laying a pipeline from the Kanitihi reservoir to Sambhuvanipalem reservoir and from there to Gambheeram, including development of reservoirs and water treatment plant, may cost around Rs 300 crore. “There is some government land near the Sambhuvanipalem reservoir to construct the treatment plant. Around 15MGD of additional water can be supplied through this project. These two reservoirs would also help store around 15-30 days of water. GVMC is expected to soon appoint a consultant to prepare a DPR for the project,” the GVMC source informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gvmc-mulling-measures-to-solve-bheemilis-water-woes/articleshow/79158083.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 11, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers held under SC/ST Act move high court for bail||Vijayawada: Farmers from the capital region, who were arrested under SC/ST Act, have moved the high court for bail. Mangalagiri rural police arrested seven farmers from capital region on the charge of oral abuse by naming caste. The farmers were part of a protest on October 23. The arrest of farmers under SC/ST Act triggered tensions as five of the seven arrested farmers were also Dalits.Even the NHRC directed the chief secretary and DGP to take necessary action over the incident following a complaint from Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee over the arrest of farmers and handcuffing them. All seven farmers moved bail petitions before Guntur special court but their pleas were rejected. They have now moved the high court challenging the orders of the lower court. Justice K Lalitha heard the matter on Tuesday and posted it for further hearing to Wednesday to allow police to submit the details. On the other hand, those who had lodged the complaint have informed police in writing that they wanted to withdraw the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-held-under-sc/st-act-move-high-court-for-bail/articleshow/79158059.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||ED opposes YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s plea||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday informed the CBI court that a plea for simultaneous trial in the quid pro quo cases filed against AP chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy and others has been dismissed and such a plea cannot be raised in the same trial court again. ED’s special public prosecutor T V Subba Rao informed the court while opposing joint trial in the case. The case made out against the accused in Jagathi Publications investments case was an independent offence and hence its trial need not wait for the CBI case, he said. An issue that was dismissed in January, 2020, cannot be argued again in the same court, he said. The ED counsel also highlighted the amendment to the ED Act in August 2019. The hearing would continue on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-opposes-jagans-plea/articleshow/79160352.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||KGMU docs separate conjoined twins||LUCKNOW: Doctors at King George’s Medical University on Monday successfully separated conjoined twins after a nine-hour surgery late into the night. It was for the first time that such a surgery has been done in the university. The twins were born to a Kushinagar couple in November 2019. The babies had two livers but they were joined. Similarly, the epicardium (outermost layer of the heart), chest and a part of the food pipe were also joined together. After failing to get treatment in Kushinagar, the couple brought them to KGMU with the help of an NGO a few months ago. The conjoined twins were first examined by the department of paediatric surgery which suggested that the separation surgery should be done after they are at least a year old. Doctors said the babies had two sets of organs that were joined, hence the decision was taken to separate them. Head of the department Prof SN Kureel planned a surgery to separate the twins with the help of various super-speciality departments. While Prof Kureel and Dr JD Rawat of paediatrics surgery coordinated the surgery, head of gastro surgery department Prof Abhijit Chandra and his colleague Dr Vivek Gupta worked on separation of liver and food pipe and Dr Ambrish Kumar performed the separation of heart and chest. The team of anaesthesia department comprising head Prof GP Singh, Dr Vinita Singh and Dr Satish Verma assisted doctors in all the surgeries. The babies are responding well after surgery but are under observation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kgmu-docs-separate-conjoined-twins/articleshow/79161014.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Dist panel takes note of encroachments||Visakhapatnam: A district review committee (DRC) meeting was held here on Tuesday and chaired by district in-charge minister and agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu. Twelve agenda items were taken up for discussion at the meeting. The DRC ordered officials to carry out inquiries into illegal constructions in the district and take stringent action against encroachers and land grabbers. The DRC also ordered officials of the mining department to change their mode of functioning and assume more responsibility. The agriculture minister warned officials of the department of strict action if illegal mining was reported in the district. The minister said that the government would not spare anyone over the quality in Nadu-Nedu works in the education department. A crucial meeting on the efficient utilisation of water resources in the district would soon be conducted, the minister said. The agriculture minister, Rajya Sabha member V Vijayasai Reddy and tourism minister M Srinivasa Rao said basic amenities and facilities are needed for Vizag city, which is set to become the executive capital of the state. The ministers asked officials to focus on clearing encroachments in geddas and preventing submergence of neighbourhoods in the city. The DRC also thanked chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy for allotting two medical colleges to the district and distributing 75,000 acres to tribals. Anakapalli MP BV Satyavathi, MLAs, MLCs and district officials participated in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dist-panel-takes-note-of-encroachments/articleshow/79158127.cms||Siva G
November 11, 2020||Chennai||BJP yatra political not religious: Tamil Nadu to HC||CHENNAI: The state government on Tuesday accused the Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP of taking law into its own hands and trying to take out ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ despite denial of permission. “They are continuing with the procession despite denial of permission in complete violation of law and Covid-19 protocols,” advocate-general Vijay Narayan told the Madras high court. The yatra has nothing to do with temples. It is not a temple visit as claimed by the party. It was completely a political visit, the AG said. Opposing the submissions, advocate V Ragavachari, representing the BJP, contended that the state is taking a double stand by permitting other political parties, including the opposition party, to organise such events while denying permission for BJP. “What about Thevar Jayanthi? Were all Covid-19 protocols followed during the event?”, he asked. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha, however, expressed their dismay and said: “you (BJP) should have kept quiet during the past three days when you have approached the court for relief. But you have chosen to proceed with the rally. What are you trying to portray to this court? Not only cadres, all your leaders also participated in the rally.” Noting that the BJP is technically asking for equality in illegality, the judges said the state should act balanced manner while in permitting such events. The court also told BJP not to forget the danger of Covid-19 and said it was concerned about the safety of the public. As the advocate-general informed the court that the BJP’s fresh representation had also been rejected, the court granted liberty to BJP to challenge the rejection order and adjourned the hearing to December 2. Earlier, Vijay Narayan, submitting a status report filed by the state director-general of police, said: “On November 6, BJP state president L Murugan commenced the yatra without permission accompanied by 250 persons in 100 vehicles. We can produce videos which show none of the participants was wearing masks. Even the state president was not wearing the mask properly.” The BJP president is carrying a Vel during the procession which is a weapon under the Arms Act and possessing the same is prohibited,” advocate-general Vijay Narayan said. He also informed the court that though gathering of up to 100 persons is permitted from November 16, processions are still prohibited as the lockdown has been extended till November 30. Accusing the state government of not acting in a balanced manner in permitting such gatherings,||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-hc-bjp-yatra-political-not-religious/articleshow/79156219.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Vijayawada||RTC workers call for action against illegal private buses||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Employees Union has alleged that private travel operators are mopping up Rs 4 crore on a daily basis by running unauthorised buses without valid permits. The employees union has requested the government take action against these private operators in the interest of APSRTC which has suffered a loss in revenue following the recent agreement on resumption of interstate bus services with Telangana. The employees union has written a letter to chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, transport minister Perni Venkatramaiah and higher officials in the department to look into illegal operations of private operators who ply buses as stage carriers by selling tickets online with contract carrier permits. The employees union said that the APSRTC has had to reduce 371 buses to Telangana despite the efforts of the government. It also said that they had earlier appraised the government on problems that may arise out of state bifurcation and with the new interstate agreement, their fears have come true as Telangana did not agree to proposals sent by the government. It is now imperative to check illegal operations of private travel operators, the employees union said, adding that as many as 750 private buses are running on various routes, leading to a revenue loss for the government and the APSRTC. By running RTC buses on routes where private players operate, the lost revenue can be recovered, the union said, and people will get better services on long-distance routes to destinations such as Chennai, Bengaluru and Odisha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/rtc-workers-call-for-action-against-illegal-pvt-buses/articleshow/79158033.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Kids at risk as pandemic upsets routine immunisation||VISAKHAPATNAM: While the world waits for a vaccine for Covid-19, routine immunisation has dropped significantly in the state. On the occasion of World Immunisation Day on November 10, doctors said the pandemic and the lockdown have hit immunisation programmes for children, door-to-door campaigns and vaccination booths. Many parents, fearing exposure to Covid-19 and faced with the non-availability of transport during the lockdown, did not take their children to health centres for vaccination. This will raise the risk of children to vaccine-preventable diseases and routine immunisation needs to be taken up at the earliest, said doctors. Dr Maruthi Prasad Upputuri, consultant paediatrician at Kims Icon Hospital said, “Covid-19 is disrupting life-saving regular immunisation services, putting lakhs of children at risk of diseases like polio, diphtheria, measles and others as per the WHO and Unicef. Vaccination services were provided at the Primary Health Centres (PHCs), district hospitals, medical college hospitals in the early months of lockdown but there was an around 50-60 % drop in availing immunisation services. A situation like this has a direct impact on lowering the immunisation coverage as people from far-flung areas find it difficult to visit the required health facilities. This may significantly decrease the immunity level of the population against vaccine-preventable diseases. There is a serious risk of an outbreak of diseases like measles and diphtheria after the pandemic.” “In order to prevent these outbreaks, immunisation programmes should continue without interruptions. Parents need to be assured that the risk of Covid-19 transmission during vaccination is almost negligible but missing the vaccine can definitely increase the child’s risk of being infected with vaccine-preventable diseases,” added Dr Prasad. Visakhapatnam district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr S Tirupathi Rao, however, said almost 98% of all children have been immunised against antigens despite a drop in vaccination programmes. “In the initial months, vaccination was hampered due to the lockdown and transport unavailability. Especially, we had problems with zero dose vaccination for Hepatitis B a few months ago. But now, normalcy is returning,” the DMHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kids-at-risk-as-pandemic-upsets-routine-immunisation/articleshow/79158167.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 11, 2020||Surat||Serious snag hits Ro-Pax vessel two days after launch||SURAT: Kumar Doshi, a Bhavnagar businessman, wanted to reach Surat as early as possible due to a medical emergency in Surat. So, he preferred to go via the newly launched Ghogha-Hazira Ro-Pax service as he would reach within four hours. On Tuesday, he reached at 10:30 am to catch the 12 O’ clock scheduled ferry service from Ghogha to Hazira. Billed as a game changer in reducing the distance from 12 hours to just four hours via this service, two days after it’s inauguration, the ferry service ran into delays, testing the patience of passengers at Ghogha who had to wait for nearly four hours only to know that the trip had been cancelled. “The ship arrived at 2 pm and passengers started boarding it. Even after two hours the ship did not start and I was anxious as I had an emergency. I had to leave for Surat by road. This was a horrible experience,” said Doshi. The vessel had arrived at the port at around 2 pm. Passengers were seen arguing with the employees at the ticket counter. “We have to travel up to Pune. There is no sight of the ship. We can’t keep waiting endlessly. Can we cancel the ticket?,” a woman was seen inquiring at the ticket window. Travellers complained that though they had purchased online tickets and arrived on time, there was no update via announcement about the delay. “We reached the Gogha Ro-Pax terminal at around 11 am to board the ferry at 12pm. Despite our repeated enquiries, the officers were not responding to our queries about the long delay in departure. There was no water for the passengers sitting in the terminal building for hours. This was a nightmarish experience,” said Beena Rao, a social activist from Surat. Officials of Indigo Seaways Private Limited that manages and operates Ro-Pax ferry service said there was a leakage from the CNG tank of a car brought from Hazira to Gogha. Since there was a serious threat to the vessel and passengers on-board, the first priority was to remove the car safely to the ground. It took about an hour for the ground staff to remove the car from the vessel. “There was a dual problem encountered when the vessel reached Gogha. First was the CNG leakage in the car and the second was the breakdown of the diesel generator (DG) set of the vessel. There was heavy sludge in the generator set, which required three to four hours of cleaning. Without a generator we could not operate the vessel and the radar. The work is still going on to fix the breakdown of the generator set at the vessel,” said Chetan Contractor, chairman and managing director of Indigo Seaways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/serious-snag-hits-ro-pax-vessel-two-days-after-launch/articleshow/79156441.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||40 test Covid positive in Amravati||AMRAVATI: Though the district recorded a spike of 40 cases, there wasn’t a single death on Tuesday. The new cases took the caseload to 16730 while 69 recoveries took the count to 15894 for a recovery rate of 95%. With the toll staying still at 369, there remained 467 active cases, including 250 in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/40-test-positive-in-amtavati/articleshow/79158914.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Patna||Congress’ ‘rudderless & weak’ leadership sinks MGB boat||PATNA: A rudderless and weak Congress leadership not only led to its poor performance in the assembly election but also sank the Mahagathbandhan’s boat midway. The grand old party had hard-bargained 70 seats from its ally RJD during the seat-sharing talks. But Congress could manage to win just 19 seats out of the 70 it contested in alliance with RJD and the three Left parties. Its current tally is eight less than the seats it won in the 2015 election. Congress had won 27 seats out of 41 it had contested in 2015 in alliance with JD(U) and RJD. Congress’s 10 sitting MLAs have lost their seats. Its senior leaders like Bihar Pradesh Mahila Congress president Amita Bhushan and state working president Ashok Kumar could not save their seats. Party’s senior leader Shatrughan Sinha’s son Luv Sinha (Bankipur) and socialist leader Sharad Yadav’s daughter Subhashini Yadav (Bihariganj) also lost the election. Subhanand Mukesh, son of nine-term Congress MLA Sadanand Singh, also lost the election from his father’s traditional Kahalgaon seat. Similarly, former minister Awadesh Kumar Singh’s son Shashi Shekhar Singh had to bite the dust in Wazirganj, his father’s traditional seat in Gaya district. Insiders said weak leadership, wrong selection of some candidates and lack of coordination among different wings of the party are some of the reasons behind the poor performance of the party. “Had the Congress preferred to make the party’s full-time workers as its candidates, instead of fielding sons and daughters of senior leaders, and adopted an aggressive campaigning against BJP, the grand old party could have won more seats,” many Congress workers said. “After the Congress's poor performance in the 2019 Lok Sabha election, a section of party leaders wrote a letter to the AICC president demanding the removal of the present set-up in the state Congress. But the party didn’t take any action,” Congress spokesperson and former MLA Harkhu Jha told TOI on Tuesday. Jha said had the party made a timely change in the set-up of the state Congress, the election results would have been better. “When the Congress got 70 seats after the seat-sharing among the allies of the Mahagathbandhan, the party fixed a target of winning 40 seats. As per our internal assessment, the party was hoping to win at least 28 seats,” a senior Congress leader revealed to TOI. Had the Congress won even 28 seats, the Mahagathbandhan’s total tally would have crossed the magic figure of 123 and its CM face Tejashwi Prasad Yadav would have been invited to take oath as the CM. But it could not happen mainly because of the poor performance of Congress, even Congress leaders admit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congs-rudderless-weak-leadership-sinks-mgb-boat/articleshow/79160346.cms||Madan Kumar
November 11, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Ex-minister, associates’ properties on auction||Visakhapatnam: Properties of former TDP minister and Visakha North MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao and his associates have been put on auction by the Indian Bank for not defaulting on loans of over Rs 248 crore. The auction is scheduled to take place on November 25. The bank has issued an e-auction notice for sale of immovable properties under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest Act, 2002 read with Proviso to Rule 8(6) of the Security Interest (Enforcement) Rules, 2002. The notice issued by the chief manager of Indian Bank’s SAM Branch in Hyderabad. Among those whose properties are on auction along with the former minister are his business partners from Pratyusha Companies — Pratyusha Resources and Infra Private Limited owner P Raja Rao, PV Prabhakara Rao, PV Bhasakra Rao, KB Subramanyam, Narni Amulya — along with Pratyusha Estates Private Limited and Pratyusha Global Trade Private Limited companies. Among the properties on auction are a flat in Triveni Towers in Balayya Sastry layout under the minister’s name, flats in the same building of few others, KB Subrahmanyam’s 503.56 sq yard property in Rushikonda village, properties in Sambamurthy Nagar in Kakinada in the name of Pratyusha companies, a 6000 sq ft property in Tamil Nadu’s Kancheepuram and 4.61 acres of land in Vemulavalasa under PV Bhaskara Rao’s name and more flats in Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ex-minister-associates-properties-on-auction/articleshow/79158201.cms||Siva G
November 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Record-seeking Tornadoes’ member rides through 127m fire tunnel, injured||BENGALURU: Captain Shivam Singh from the Tornadoes team of the Army Supply Corps attempted to ride through a 130-metre fire tunnel at ASC Grounds on Tuesday, in a bid to break the record for the longest such ride. However, he could only make it up to 127 metres before he caught fire. Although he couldn’t ride across the last 3 metres, ASC maintains Captain Singh now holds the world record for the longest ride through a tunnel of fire, considering that the previous record created by two men from African nations was for 120.4 metres in 2014. While Captain Singh suffered minor burns on his arms, the bike he was riding was completely gutted in the mishap. He was taken to a nearby hospital after the fire was put out with a water hose and fire extinguisher. In addition to Capt Singh’s feat, new records attempted and achieved by the Tornadoes included the fastest human pyramid on five motorcycles, highest moving pyramid with 39 men on seven motorcycles with a height of 209 inches, longest backward motorcycle ride of 204.4 km and longest leg ride of 305.4km (wherein the handle of the bikes are controlled by feet). The Tornadoes team was set up in 1982 with its debut performance at the Delhi Asian Games. It has since performed more than a thousand shows both in India and foreign countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/record-seeking-tornadoes-member-rides-through-127m-fire-tunnel-injured/articleshow/79158068.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Graduate who got LSD couriered to pal’s aunt held||BENGALURU: A 27-year-old BTech graduate from Coimbatore has been arrested for allegedly booking narcotics through the darknet in the name of a private hospital lab technician and later supplying them to local peddlers. The accused is Arun Kumar, a resident of Coimbatore. A Central Crime Branch (CCB) team headed by inspector Virupaksha Swamy R arrested him from the premises of a private hospital in Ramamurthynagar on November 5. Kumar had come to the hospital to collect the courier from the Netherlands. Police claimed the Anti Narcotics Wing of CCB had received credible information about Arun — a private firm employee who had turned into a drug peddler — and arrested him when he came to collect the parcel. Investigators said Arun placed an order on the darknet for LSD and provided the address of his friend Sundar’s aunt Sangeetha, working as a lab technician in the private hospital, for delivery. Arun confessed to his crime and told police he gave Sangeetha’s hospital address to avoid suspicion among enforcement agencies, including police. Police said when Arun approached Sangeetha to seek her permission to provide her address for the parcel, she initially refused. But she relented after her nephew Sundar and her friend Madan convinced her. Investigators are probing whether the trio — Sangeetha, Sundar and Madan — were aware of the drug trade or not. While they claim they didn’t know what the parcel contained, police don’t believe it. Police have seized the parcel containing LSD from Kumar, who reportedly told them he sold the drug to college students and other addicts in Bengaluru and Tamil Nadu. CCB has registered a case of drug-peddling against Kumar at jurisdictional Ramamurthynagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-who-got-lsd-couriered-to-friends-aunt-in-bluru-held/articleshow/79158088.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 11, 2020||Vadodara||Robber strike as kids watch helplessly||VADODARA: Unidentified robbers struck at a house in the Madhuram Park area of Dahod town and took away cash and jewellery worth Rs 6.22lakh on Monday night. The incident took place when Rakeshkumar Singh who stays in the house with his family had gone to the market along with his wife. Their 12-year-old daughter and a son younger to her were alone at their residence. Unidentified men came to the house under the pretext of drinking water. Sources said that they forced their way through the door and threatened the children. The accused found out where valuables had been kept in the house and escaped with cash and jewellery that are believed to be worth lakhs. Police officials rushed to the house and a forensic team as well as a sniffer dog were pressed into action. Policemen also started looking for CCTV footage to get more details about the accused. The robbed booty includes jewellery worth Rs 5.72lakh and cash amounting to Rs 50,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/robber-strike-as-kids-watch-helplessly/articleshow/79156043.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: Power bills will only be marginally higher||PANAJI: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday said that as per the revision in the fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) charges, there will be an increase of only 0.8 paisa on the first 100 units of power consumed, 24 paise would be the increase on consumption of 200 units and 51 paise for consumption of 300 units. The state government on Friday notified the FPPCA charges on power bills that will be reflected in the December bills for consumers. The joint electricity regulatory commission (JERC) for Goa and union territories had reviewed the existing FPPCA in May 2020. The computation of FPPCA has been calculated and notified for the second quarter of the financial year 2020-21 from July to September to be levied for energy consumption from October to December. Sources said the charges have been increased and the bills will be marginally higher. Reacting to the criticism from the opposition over the revised FPPCA charges, Cabral said they don’t understand the issue and “simply make allegations”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-bills-will-only-be-marginally-higher/articleshow/79160344.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP Covid tally crosses 5 lakh, 94% recoveries||LUCKNOW: The Covid tally of UP crossed five lakh mark on Tuesday with 2,155 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. Almost an equal number of people were cured taking the number of recoveries to 4,71,204. Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Kumar said barring several districts in west UP, the situation is under control in terms of cases and deaths.  “Of the total cases so far, over 4.71 lakh have recovered which is around 94% of caseload,” he said. Kumar said even though numbers are under control they should not be mistaken for any sense of security against the virus. “The risk of contracting the infection and suffering due to complications caused by it is very much the same and carelessness can cause morbidity and mortality. Therefore protocol should not be ignored,” he said. Meanwhile, 30 persons, including five in Lucknow, died of Covid in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 7,261. Meerut saw 197 new cases, while Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad recorded 119 and 108 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-covid-tally-crosses-5-lakh-94-recoveries/articleshow/79161018.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Green ones in dists sans AQI watch||LUCKNOW: Districts where Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board does not have facility to monitor air quality are likely to be allowed to use green crackers presuming that the air quality is moderate. Following NGT order the state government on Tuesday issued an order, stating that 13 places in Uttar Pradesh whose air quality is monitored by Central Pollution Control Board as well as UPPCB have severe, very poor and poor air quality index. Thus, to curb air pollution at all these places, there would be a complete ban on bursting of fire-crackers. Talking to TOI, Ashish Tiwari, member secretary, UPPCB, said, “Barring the 13 which have been categorised under severe, very poor and poor, the other district, cities or towns have been deemed green with less air pollution for certain period of time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/green-ones-in-dists-sans-aqi-watch/articleshow/79161020.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Most theatres in Madurai put off opening to ‘auspicious’ Wednesday||MADURAI: Most theatres in Madurai city remained closed though the Tamil Nadu government allowed cinemas to open from Tuesday. The theatre owners instead have decided to open them on Wednesday, as it is considered to be an auspicious day. Some theatre owners are yet to decide on the movies to be shown since there have been no new release so far. The few theatres that opened on Tuesday received poor response. Ambiga Theatre in Anna Nagar opened and sold only 20 tickets for the morning show. However, the audience were allowed inside only at noon due to some technical issues. All safety measures as mandated by the state government were taken care of by theatre employees. People were checked for temperature and given hand sanitisers before entering the building. In Kallanai theatre at Vandiyur, the morning show was screened for just two people - an elderly woman and her grandchild. The theatre, which is known for old movies attracts elderly people from nearby localities. The theatre reopened to M G Ramachandran’s 1975 flick Ninaithathai Mudippavan on Tuesday. Its owner M Balajikaran said that he did not want to disappoint them and hence decided to run the show. S Vijayan, an avid moviegoer, said he had been waiting for a long time to visit the theatres. Although he watched many movies on mobile phone through OTT, Vijayan said, “I am quite excited. I have booked a ticket for the latest Fast and Furious movie. Although I have watched it before, I wanted to watch it again in theatre.” Theatres in Madurai are planning to release new movies for Diwali. Meanwhile, they have decided to play other recent movies. N Balraj, one of the managers of Priya Complex, said they were planning to start operations on Wednesday, since Tuesday is not an auspicious day. “We are planning to play actor Vijay's 2017 flick Bhairava on Wednesday. We have made sure the systems are working fine beforehand. We are looking forward to Vijay's fans tomorrow (Wednesday),” he said. Rm M Annamalai, past president of Tamil Nadu theatre owners association said of the 26 theatres in the city, only five operated on Tuesday. Theatres are in the process of selecting old movies, since there are no new releases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/most-theatres-in-madurai-put-off-opening-to-auspicious-wednesday/articleshow/79161019.cms||V Devanathan
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||51 more cold storages for potatoes in UP soon||LUCKNOW: In a boost to potato growers in the state, the government is looking to set up at least one cold storage in 51 potato blocks which do not have the facility till now. There are already over 1,900 cold storages in UP. However, the horticulture department has identified 58 blocks in 14 divisions where potato is a major crop, but which do not have cold storage facilities. Out of these, seven units are either complete or are in the process of being constructed. A senior official said that the horticulture department intends signing MoUs for the construction of the remaining 51 cold storages within the next two months so that the facilities can be readied within a year. “We have asked districts where these blocks are located, to carry out consultations and send proposals for constructing cold storages through the district horticulture officer to the state industrial mission directorate,” said an official. Each cold storage unit will be eligible for a subsidy of Rs 1.15 crore, divided between the state and the Centre. “UP produces 30% of India’s total potato supply and cold storages will play an important role in increasing their shelf life, value addition, and price stabilization. Potato is a perishable item and currently, the state is facing a shortage which has led to a rise in prices. In years when we have a good produce, we will be able to ensure that the crop doesn’t spoil. Also, farmers will no longer be forced to sell off their produce at low prices to get rid of their crop as they would then have the facility to store it,” said Manoj Singh, additional chief secretary (horticulture). The divisions where the cold storages are proposed to be set up include Meerut, Agra, Bareilly, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Jhansi, Varanasi, Mirzapur, Azamgarh, Basti, Lucknow, Faizabad and Moradabad. Out of these, Kanpur and Lucknow with 11 blocks each will be getting most cold storage facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/51-more-cold-storages-for-potatoes-in-up-soon/articleshow/79161057.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||‘Covid -ve report must for Magh Mela devotees’||LUCKNOW: All the devotees wishing to attend the upcoming Magh Mela in Prayagraj next year will have to compulsorily present a Covid negative report through the RT-PCR test method for gaining entry in the Mela campus. Reviewing the Mela preparations on Tuesday, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said all kalpvasis should undergo the test at least three days before they are scheduled to attend the mela and will have to produce a negative report for entry in Magh Mela campus. He said those staying at mela campus will be tested at least twice through rapid antigen test and urged those having any comorbidities to decide whether they should attend the fair in light of Covid-19 pandemic. The CM said snans will be held on Paush Purnima, Makar Sankranti, Mauni Amavasya, Basant Panchmi, Magh Purnima and Mahashivrati during Magh Mela. He went through the preparations for these days, including arrangements for physical distancing, crowd management, basic amenities, sanitation, tents etc. If pandals need to be set up during the mela, their number should be limited, he said. During the review, a presentation was made before the CM detailing the works to be done by the Prayagraj Mela Authority, PWD, irrigation department, UPPCL, Ganga Pollution Control Unit and Jal Nigam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-ve-report-must-for-magh-mela-devotees/articleshow/79161047.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bengaluru||A Uniform Code||BENGALURU: Last week marked an important anniversary in the history of Karnataka State Police: 47 years ago, in November 1973, this was the week when the constabulary got a complete makeover of their uniform. Off went the short trousers, turbans, patties and heavy boots and snake buckle belt that were remnants of a British legacy. In its place was adopted the more sober, comfortable uniform of khaki trousers, hat, socks and shoes, and belt with the Karnataka Police inscription. The uniform of the women constables changed too from the blue art silk sari to terrycot khaki saris and white overcoats. The change was momentous because the British-era uniform had managed to survive even after the re-organisation of the state police in November 1, 1956 that resulted in the formation of the Mysuru State Police. “It took 16 years for the state government to approve a proposal made by the state police to amend their uniform to a more user-friendly attire,” says Bengaluru historian and author Suresh Moona. The government order changing the shorts to trousers along with other alterations came on March 24, 1973 and was implemented in November the same year. STYLE CHANGES In the early 1900s, KR Sreenivasa Iyengar who held the post of Inspector General of Police (IGP) in Mysore State from April 1917 to June 1918 brought in some police reforms which included approving the setting up of a special police training school and proposing the Superintendent of Police (SP) to be a separate rank in the force. One of the only two pass outs of the prestigious Mysore Police Service (the erstwhile princely state’s equivalent to the IPS) of 1892, Iyengar strongly recommended uniform reforms but they remained unimplemented. In the 1985 book Karnataka Police History, BN Garudachar who was the 35th Director General of Police of the Karnataka State noted how constables found it cumbersome to work wearing the shorts, heavy boots and turbans. According to senior historian and Kannada author Vemagal Somashekar, the uniform of the white kurta for traffic constables came into effect from 1972. “When the police uniform changed from shorts to trousers and kurtas to shirts in 1973, the traffic force retained their white colour and switched to shirts for male constables”. GOING BLUE Somashekar also talks about how a trip by former CM R Gundu Rao to England in the early 80s played catalyst to a short-lived police uniform reform. “In 1982, the Karnataka police donned dark blue trousers and light blue shirt on orders of the chief minister. He in fact even got the hat changed to the English-constabulary style. This new uniform however only stayed for four years with the cops switching back to khaki from July 18, 1986,” he notes citing the city history book, Bengaluru Darshana. From Peta to Slouch Hat to Peak cap During the Mysore Police period, constables and officers below the rank of inspectors wore the peta — a thick, khaki cloth that would be folded into a near-rectangular shape before the wearer donned it. Badges and (at times) medals would be pinned on to these petas. After the formation of Karnataka state, however, slouch hats were introduced. Senior police officials such as the Superintendent of Police or officers of the rank of Inspector General started wearing these slouch hats while constabulary level officials continued with the petas. It was during the early 1960s that the peta vanished with the government ruling slouch hats and peak caps as the official head gear of the police force. The big slouch hat was worn by constabulary level officials while peak caps were meant for officials above the rank of Assistant Sub-Inspectors. It is interesting to note that the peak caps are different for Indian Police Service (IPS) officers. While the front portion of the peak caps are covered with black fabric for non-IPS officers, a khaki cloth material covers the same portion for IPS officers with the steel-designed emblem ‘IPS’ fitted in front of the peak cap. Again, the designs vary between the officers in the rank of Superintendent, Inspector General, Deputy Inspector General, Additional Director General and Director General. The illegal police sports cap: These days, police officials of the constabulary level, especially those serving as drivers, gunmen, or office assistants can be seen wearing a sports cap with the word ‘Police’ stitched in the front. “This is illegal. Such caps are not officially recognised and users of such head gear buy them from private outlets. Surprisingly, no IPS officer seems to object to these,” a senior police official said. — With inputs from Rajiv Kalkod Photos Courtesy: Karnataka State Police||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/a-uniform-code/articleshow/79149588.cms||Petlee Peter
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid: CP releases video on FB||Ludhiana: Concerned over the increasing cases of Covid-19, Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, along with doctors of DMC Hospital, have shared a 10-step formula with city residents through a Facebook video on how to defeat Covid-19. According to experts, the second wave of Covid-19 is going to be worse in winter. The formula includes wearing mask properly, washing hands frequently, avoiding going out unless urgent, avoid social gathering, good diet, including fruits and green leafy vegetables, sleeping for eight hours, etc. On Tuesday, Agarwal and Dr Rajesh Mahajan of DMCH released a video. Dr Mahajan said the second wave of Covid-19 is going to be worse, so everyone has to be cautious. Meanwhile, an awareness drive was organised at Sarabha Nagar market on Tuesday evening. People were motivated to wear masks properly. Also, masks were distributed by the administration. Nodal officer for Covid-19, ADCP, special branch, Rupinder Kaur Sra said according to experts, the peak of the second wave was expected by mid-December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-cp-releases-video-on-fb/articleshow/79157373.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Sidelined dalit village chief back in control as officials intervene||SIVAGANGA: Following the intervention of the Sivaganga district administration, the scheduled caste woman panchayat president, who had alleged being sidelined on caste lines, was given control of the cheque book and the keys of the motor room, which were hitherto in control of the vice-president. The district administration on Tuesday conducted a meeting to investigate and to solve the issues raised by Rajeshwari Pandi, panchayat president of Kalpirivu village near Manamadurai. Rajeshwari had lodged a complaint with the block development officer Alagumeena on Monday, alleging that she was being sidelined by village vice-president Nagarajan, who belongs to the pillaimar caste. She had stated that decisions are being taken without consulting her. Based on instruction from the district collector T Jeyakanthan, Sivaganga revenue divisional officer Muthukazhuvan conducted the meeting in which officials from the panchayat raj, police and revenue departments took part. Following the meeting, the cheque book and keys were handed over to Rajeswari. Panchayat secretary Kannan and Nagarajan were asked to discuss things and take decisions for the overall good of the village. It was also decided that an official from the block development office should be present during the gram sabha meetings. Further, it was proposed to construct a drainage in Therku street to drain the stagnating water and to lay paver blocks in low lying roads. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sidelined-dalit-village-chief-back-in-control-as-officials-intervene/articleshow/79161066.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Supreme Court refuses to vacate stay on ICU bed quota||NEW DELHI: Supreme Court on Tuesday refused to entertain Delhi government's plea for vacation of Delhi High Court’s stay on reserving 80% of ICU beds for Covid-19 patients in 33 hospitals, but advanced hearing of its appeal before HC to November 12 from November 27. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and B R Gavai asked: “How is the special leave petition maintainable when the Delhi government counsel had requested for adjournment of the hearing on its petition in the HC and consented to November 27 as the next date for hearing?” Appearing for Delhi government, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain said Covid-19 cases in Delhi were steadily increasing and Diwali festivities could see a huge rise in numbers. "Many patients are coming from outside for treatment in Delhi and Delhi's middle class is preferring treatment in private hospitals. That is the reason why Delhi government decided to reserve 80% of ICU beds in 33 hospitals for Delhi residents so as to meet the exigencies.” But the SC bench as well as Association of Health Care Providers, through senior advocate Maninder Singh, said the HC single judge bench had stayed Delhi government’s decision to reserve 80% of beds because the judge found that it would be inhuman to deny a serious non-Covid-19 patient ICU facilities even when a large number of Covid-reserved ICU beds were lying vacant. When Jain argued that Delhi could require 6,000 ICU beds against availability of 3,000-odd beds, the bench drew his attention to the HC single judge bench’s order, which said, “It is not apparent today as to what decision making process and what data was considered by the Delhi government before passing the impugned order. It is also not apparent as to what is the number of beds available for Covid-19 patients lying vacant. In fact, the chart which has been shared with the court by the ASG itself shows that there are a large number of beds in the ICU facility which are still lying vacant. Such facility cannot be allowed to remain vacant even if there is one patient who requires treatment and could have been admitted to such facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-refuses-to-vacate-stay-on-icu-bed-quota/articleshow/79159000.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 11, 2020||Meerut||BJP retains all 3 western UP seats in bypoll held under the shadow of Hathras protests||TUNDLA/AMROHA/ BULANDSHAHR: The ruling BJP was apparently successful in retaining the Dalit vote bank and with it the three assembly seats of western Uttar Pradesh in the face of month-long angry protests against the alleged gang-rape and murder of a girl from the Valmiki community in the region. The opposition parties had built their election campaign around the September 14 incident, hoping to consolidate the Dalit vote bank against BJP. At Tundla (SC) seat, just 60km from Hathras, BJP’s Prempal Singh Dhangar defeated SP candidate Maharaj Singh Dhangar. BSP was a distant third at the assembly seat dominated by the people of Dalit community. There are around 3.6lakh registered voters in the constituency with Jatav, Baghel and Dhangar (all Dalits) being the dominant castes with an estimated strength of over 1.2lakh. According to the election commission data, the BJP candidate won the election by a margin of 17,683 votes. BJP’s Prempal got 72,844 (40.24%) votes as compared to SP’s Maharaj who secured 55,209 (30.49%) votes. BSP candidate got 40,967 (22.62%) votes. “This is a victory of BJP workers who worked day and night to retain this seat. I will try my best to fulfill the expectations of the people of my constituency. Making suitable arrangements for the supply of drinking water to each household will be my top priority. I will ensure the roads in my constituency are pothole free and people get benefit of the government schemes in a hassle-free manner,” said BJP’s Prempal while flashing the victory sign. This was his first election. The Tundla seat fell vacant and elections were called after incumbent MLA SP Singh Baghel was elected to Lok Sabha from Agra seat. At Amroha’s Naugawan Sadat seat, Sangeeta Chauhan-- the wife of former UP cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan-- secured a comfortable victory over SP’s Javed Abdi. According to sources, a large chunk of 20% Dalit vote went to BJP’s kitty. And the Muslim votes got divided between the candidates of SP and BSP. “BSP chose a Sunni candidate in the Shia-dominated seat. SP’s Abdi is a Shia cleric. It led to a clear spilt in Muslim votes,” a political observer said. BSP’s Furqan got 38,192 votes (18.4%) while SP candidate Abdi was polled 71, 615 votes (34.2%). The winner, BJP’s Sangeeta, secured 86,692 votes (41.4%). Congress candidate Dr Kamlesh Singh had to settle with 4,500 votes (2%). The bypoll on Naugawan Sadat seat was called after the death of former test cricketer Chetan Chauhan. “My husband now is not in this world but he is with me. People of this constituency paid a true tribute to him. That is why our party won the seat again. I will not let the people down, and will fulfill the remaining promises of my husband. My priority will be to complete all public welfare projects which are still in the pipeline,” Sangeeta, a former banker, said soon after her victory. At Bulandshahr Sadar seat, BJP candidate Usha Sirohi won comfortably by over 21,000 votes. The runner up, BSP’s Mohammad Yunus, was polled 66,943 votes (33%). Bhim Army chief’s newly-floated Azad Samaj Party was at the third spot with over 13,000 votes (6%). And BJP’s Usha Sirohi got 88,645 votes (43%). And Congress’ Sushil Chaudhary was polled 10,319 votes (5.1%). RLD candidate Praveen Kumar Singh, also backed by the SP due to an alliance, got only 7,312 votes. After a rally by Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar got a good response, most political analysts believed that his party will be able to get a good chunk of Dalit votes. The turnout at the rally didn’t turn into votes. The seat has over 52,000 Dalit Jatav voters. And Muslims, who constitute the largest chunk, are over 1.2lakh. Political analyst said that the Muslim votes were split on this seat also between BSP’s Mohammad Yunus and Azad Samaj Party’s Haji Yamin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bjp-retains-all-3-western-up-seats-in-bypoll-held-under-the-shadow-of-hathras-protests/articleshow/79156281.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Minister praises officials & bankers for success of PM’s Swanidhi scheme||LUCKNOW: Praising the effort put in by officials and bankers in making the Prime Minister Swanidhi Scheme a success, UP urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon felicitated several of them on Tuesday and gave them letters of appreciation. Appreciating the work done by them for implementation of the scheme, for which UP was recognised as having benefitted the highest number of beneficiaries across the country, the minister said: “PM Modi started this programme to make street vendors self-reliant and under the leadership of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, UP has shown the best performance in its implementation. We achieved it because of team work for which I thank all those associated with this programme.” Tandon added that the urban development department was also participating in the ongoing Mission Shakti programme and said that 41% applicants under the Swanidhi scheme were women. The urban development department said that three UP cities —- Varanasi, Lucknow and Agra — had made it to the top three of the Swanidhi Scheme implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/min-praises-officials-bankers-for-success-of-pms-swanidhi-scheme/articleshow/79161063.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Dealing with crime against women my priority: ADCP||The commissionerate of police, Ludhiana, has got its first female cop on the post of additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP), crime, Rupinder Kaur Bhatti. The crime graph has been going upward with some major robberies, firing cases, snatchings, crime against women and children and cyber frauds being reported. During a conversation with the TOI correspondent Payal Dhawan, Bhatti shared her priority of dealing with crime against women and children, besides tackling cyber frauds. Q: Since you are the first female ADCP, crime, what will be your take on crime against women? A: I will have the same approach for all victims, including men, women and children. But I have some plans in my mind to deal with crime against women and children, especially girls. It has been observed that the majority of the rapes and sexual assault with minor girls are taking place in the labour quarters, where both parents go out on work and children remain at home alone. These kids are vulnerable to such crimes. So, I have a few plans like creche for such children but before finalising it, I will do a detailed study and check the feasibility. For crime against women, I have already spoken to a few NGOs who are willing to deal with the complaints of domestic helps in their localities. Women working as domestic helps are usually unaware about their rights. So, we are working on this plan to provide every possible help to them. Besides, I am already studying other cases of crime against women in the city. Q: What is your priority for Ludhiana as ADCP, crime? Dealing with crime against women/children, curbing cyber frauds and supply of illegal weapons and stern action against traders issuing SIM cards with fake IF proofs are my priorities. There have been several cases of cyber frauds in Ludhiana, which I managed to solve when I was appointed as ACP, cyber crime, in Ludhiana in 2017. We had also busted a gang of cyber fraudsters, who were running a call centre from Delhi to dupe people of money. During the pandemic, people have become more dependent on online shopping, therefore, cyber fraudsters have become more active. Awareness is the main solution to this problem. By the end of November, a special cyber security campaign is going to be launched under which various activities will be organised. Further, there is a lot of nuisance created by the telecom traders, who issue SIM cards on fake IDs. Majority of the criminals, be it cyber fraudsters, drug smugglers, robbers etc, use numbers issued on fake ID proofs. So, soon you will see stern action against them. Besides, I have got some major inputs in the trade of illegal weapons in the city. I have the charge of SP, counter intelligence, also and recently we arrested a gang which had executed a dacoity in Ludhiana. Illegal weapons were seized from them and some more inputs were collected. How did the scenario of crime in the city have changed after the pandemic and what is the city police doing for it? Crime and policing have changed after the pandemic. We have to be cautious while catching an accused as several cops were detected with Covid-19 symptoms while doing duty and some also lost their lives. But duty comes foremost, so we take care of all the precautions while working. If we talk about crime, then more cases of thefts and snatchings are being reported after the pandemic and there are two major reasons for it. One of course is the financial crises and another is that a lot of habitual offenders have come out on bail during lockdown. They are again indulging in crimes, so we have started tracing them. They will be made to mark their attendance at the respective police stations and some of habitual offenders would be arrested again. How can residents play a role in fighting crime? Being aware and vigilant is what every resident needs to be. Cases of burglaries by domestic helps, online frauds, etc. are such crimes which can be prevented by people by becoming alert and watchful. Similarly, keeping a watch on the activities in the neighbourhood is also important. I would request people to call the police if they saw anything suspicious around them or they could write to us on the official Facebook page of Ludhiana police and on email tsoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dealing-with-crime-against-women-my-priority-adcp/articleshow/79157393.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Meerut||UP bypoll: 2 women MLAs to carry forward legacy of their husbands||Tundla/Amroha: The wives of two former BJP MLAs whose untimely deaths necessitated by-elections have retained the seats after comfortable victories and are all set to play new innings. While one of them is a retired banker, the other is a housewife.At Amroha’s Naugawan Sadat seat, the wife of former cricketer-turned-politician Chetan Chauhan won by over 20,000 votes. Sangeeta Chauhan, 61, has an impressive resume. Before entering politics, she was a high court lawyer, a banker and political affairs manager to husband Chetan Chauhan. The party named her as candidate after the death of her husband.Sangeeta told TOI recently, “I have been a high court lawyer, followed by 29 years in the banking sector. In between, my husband always involved me in the party’s organizational work during campaigns and other duties. So, I come with a vast experience that I think will help me in my new role as a lawmaker.” Sangeeta was general manager in the Central Bank of India.And, after her victory, she said, “My husband is not in this world, but he is with me. People of this constituency paid a true tribute to him. That is why our party won the seat again. I will not let the people down, and will fulfill the remaining promises of my husband. My priority will be to complete all public welfare projects which are still in the pipeline.”On Bulandshahr Sadar seat, BJP candidate Usha Sirohi, the wife of former MLA Virendra Singh Sirohi, also clinched an easy victory. She is a housewife. Her husband, sitting MLA Virendra, died in March this year in Delhi after suffering from liver ailment.After much brainstorming, BJP decided to field Usha. Party insiders claimed the choice was a tough one as both the sons of the former MLA were among the contenders who wanted to carry forward their father’s political legacy. Usha was also confident of carrying forward the work left by her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-bypoll-2-women-mlas-to-carry-forward-legacy-of-their-husbands/articleshow/79156291.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 11, 2020||Meerut||Meerut DM orders 10-day door-to-door survey of suspected Covid-19 patients in industrial areas||MEERUT: ln view of the spurt in Covid-19 cases in parts of the NCR, Meerut district magistrate has instructed the health department to conduct a 10-day door-to-door survey of suspected patients in industrial areas of the district. Industries will also be covered under the survey. If anybody working at a factory is found to be positive, it will be closed for 24 hours and sanitisation will be conducted. “The survey will be conducted from November 17 to November 27 in the industrial areas to ensure that no suspected Covid-19 patient gets missed from checking," said DM K Balaji. A camp should also be set up in the area where people can voluntarily get their tests done, he added. The survey will vcover both urban and rural areas Dr Ashok Taliyan, Meerut divisional surveillance officer, said, “If a person working at a factory or establishment is found Covid positive, the factory will be closed for 24 hours and sanitisation will be conducted there.” Meanwhile, the contacts of the positive patient will also be tested to prevent the virus from spreading.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-dm-orders-10-day-door-to-door-survey-of-suspected-covid-19-patients-in-industrial-areas/articleshow/79156287.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 11, 2020||Meerut||POCSO court gives 10-year RI in 2014 case of raping minor||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A 25-year-old man has been awarded 10-year rigorous imprisonment and his accomplice three years, for keeping in confinement and raping a 16-year-old girl in 2014. The court has also slapped a fine of Rs 15,000 and Rs 5,000 respectively on the two convicts. According to police sources, a Shamli-based woman had helped her minor daughter board a bus en route to Panipat on July 4, 2014. During the journey, the girl’s female friend called her and asked to get off the bus in Kirana, where Himachal Singh and his friend Aditya Singh were waiting for her. They took her to Ashok Vihar in Delhi instead and confined her in a house for five days, where Himachal repeatedly raped her. His friend Aditya assisted him in the crime. Later, a case under sections 376N (rape), 363 (kidnapping) and sections of the POCSO Act, was filed by the girl’s parents in Shamli. Police arrested both accused and sent them to jail. After some months, Aditya was released on bail, though Himachal remained incarcerated, said government lawyer Dinesh Sharma, the special public prosecutor, in the POCSO court. According to Sharma, “On Monday, special additional sessions judge POCSO Act (first), Arti Fauzdar, announced the verdict in the case, which I fought with the survivor’s advocate Ashok Kumar Joshi. We provided six witnesses and enough evidence before court to win the case.” Only last month, the POCSO court of special additional sessions judge Sanjeev Kumar Tiwari at Muzaffarnagar had awarded 15 years imprisonment to a man for raping a nine-year-old girl in 2016. The court had also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on him, which will be handed over to the survivor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/pocso-court-gives-10-year-ri-in-2014-case-of-raping-minor/articleshow/79156289.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Tough road ahead for BSP||LUCKNOW: With her party’s vote share shrinking in the seven UP assembly constituencies for which results were declared on Tuesday, Mayawati appears to have a tough road ahead to the 2022 state elections. The party’s vote share fell from 20.42% for these seven seats in 2017 to 18.82% this time. In the previous election, it had stood second in three constituencies and third in fourth. This time, it came second in one constituency, third in four and fourth in two. This was the second time after long that the BSP has contested in bypolls after last year's byelections. As the party denied that this was a loss for them, saying that they had not held any of the seven seats and usually the party in government is likely to do well in bypolls, sources said that the shrinking vote percentage did not bode well for BSP, which is already plagued by rebellion by one-third of its MLAs in UP. “Initially, Behenji (Mayawati) tried wooing Brahmins by promising statues of Lord Parshuram and a holiday on his birth anniversary. What was clear to many was that she was going very soft on BJP, hardly taking a strong stand against the government in the Centre or UP, despite several opportunities,” said a senior party member who added that the last straw was her statement ahead of the elections, that to ensure SP’s failure, she would even support BJP. This, he said, sent the wrong message to Muslims because of which she was forced to issue another statement that she would not contest elections with BJP because they were ideologically opposed. “But by then the damage had been done,” he said. What also hurt the party just before the elections was a rebellion by MLAs, seven of whom are under suspension for anti-party activities. The members refused to support the party’s candidate, its national co-convenor Ramji Gautam, for the Rajya Sabha polls, amid allegations that they had met Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav. Mayawati, too, accused SP of trying to break her party which is why she said that she would join hands with BJP against SP. “These were assembly bypolls. If seven out of 19 MLAs are under suspension, one can imagine who must have campaigned and what message this must have sent to our cadre. A large section of dalits and OBCs have been voting for BJP of late and BSP should be trying to consolidate this segment,” said another member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tough-road-ahead-for-bsp/articleshow/79161081.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 11, 2020||Meerut||Villagers block road after 'police van ' mows two on a bike||Meerut: Two teenagers on a motorcycle were mowed down by an unidentified vehicle in UP's Saharanpur district on Tuesday morning. Later, hundreds of villagers gathered at the spot and blocked the road, alleging that the duo was run over by a police van which fled from the spot. They demanded immediate action against the accused policemen and compensation for the family of the victims -- Anuj (19) and Vishu (15) of Subhri village under Nagal police station.Sandeep Kumar, a resident, alleged, "At around 10 am, the two boys were on way to Nagal when they were hit by a police van which fled from the spot. They hail from a poor family. We want action against the accused and compensation for the families of the deceased."A police force had to be rushed to the spot to manage the crowd. Ashok Meena, Saharanpur superintendent of police (rural areas), said, "The family is claiming they saw a blue vehicle but they are still not clear if it was a police van or not. We have not yet received any complaint from the family. Appropriate action will be taken once we get the complaint." During the protest, miscreants in the crowd pelted stones and attacked the PRV stationed at the spot. "Videography of the incident was done and we are trying to trace the suspects from the crowd who acted violently. Action will be taken against them," said the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/villagers-block-road-after-police-van-mows-two-on-a-bike/articleshow/79156295.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Meerut||Man unearths urn full of silver coins, locals loot most of it||AMROHA: One stroke of his plough brought fore the fruit of his labour much before the crop was even sown. Nazim struck gold, or rather silver to be precise, while working at his farm in Gangdev village in Amroha on Tuesday when he unearthed an urn full of silver coins. However, his happiness was short-lived as local residents looted most of the coins much before the police could reach the spot and neither Nazim nor owner of the land got to keep even a single coin. According to police sources, the coins belong to the late 19th century. Around 2kg of silver jewellery was also found. The farmland belongs to Shaukat Ali who had hired a tractor for getting his field ploughed. Nazim was ploughing the field when the tractor hit the urn. Much before Nazim could understand the value of what he had unearthed, farmers and other local residents working in the nearby areas rushed to the field and looted the jewellery and the coins. Amroha superintendent of police Vipin Tada confirmed the news saying police had got a tip-off about the incident. After getting the tip-off, the police rushed to the scene and recovered a few silver coins and jewellery from the spot. A probe is on. The recovered coins and jewellery were presented before the district magistrate. The coins will be deposited in the state treasury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-unearths-urn-full-of-silver-coins-locals-loot-most-of-it/articleshow/79156286.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 11, 2020||Madurai||2 sons kill woman, 75, who wanted to share property among daughters too||MADURAI: A 75-year-old woman was murdered in the district allegedly by her sons and grandsons as she wanted to give her daughters equal shares of her property. The deceased has been identified as M Pappa of Sokkanathanpatti near Kappalur. According to police, she had four sons and three daughters, of which two sons are no more. Two of her three daughters are widows and had been staying with her. Pappa owned 2.75 acres of agricultural land. Pappa’s sons Kannan and Ponram insisted what she share her property only with them. They said they would give some money to their sisters as a settlement. However, Pappa was keen on distributing the land equally to five of them. The sons were not ready for the partition. Police said Kannan and Ponram and their sons K Sivan, P Ragu and P Ganesan approached Pappa on Monday evening. As she refused to yield to their demands, they allegedly attacked her with a weapon and killed her. Their father Muthukaruppan was also injured, as he tried to stop them. After they left the place, their sisters alerted Thirumangalam town police who arrived and registered a case. A police officer said, “Though the law ensures equal rights to sons and daughters in the ancestral property, the villagers are not following it. Only those women, who ask for equal share, get it. But it happens very rarely. Moreover, the dowry given to the girls during their marriage is also counted during partition,” the officer said. Usually, people invite relatives and community leaders for negotiation, but in this case the family members decided to keep the issue within the family, police said. The siblings spoke to their mother several times in the last week. Although Pappa had kept equal shares for her sons and daughters, the sons got a feeling that they and their sons would not get it. When they asked her for the documents, she told them that she had kept it with another person because of safety reasons, the officer said. “The sons approached her with the intention of murdering her. After the crime, they all went into hiding,” the officer added. Police sources said that Kannan, Ragu and Ganesan have been arrested and a hunt is on for Ponram and Sivan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-sons-kill-woman-75-who-wanted-to-share-property-among-daughters-too/articleshow/79161082.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Councillors at loggerheads at MC general house meeting||Ludhiana: After a long gap of almost eight months, the MC general house meeting took place on Tuesday. Though it remained peaceful, on a few issues some councillors came at loggerheads with each other. Also heated arguments were exchanged among Congress councillors Mamta Ashu, Amrit Varsha Rampal and Narinder Sharma over the issue of exchanging land kept for developing public park with some other land. The BJP, SAD and even LIP councillors also raised voice against this agenda in the house. In the agenda one resolution was kept about a park under possession of Sukhdarsharan Kumar in Gurdev Nagar town planning scheme 2. Kumar has asked the MC to give this park to him and he was ready to give another land of same area to it. A committee was formed to take decision over this matter. Mamta was made the chairman of this committee. In the meeting Amrit Varsha raised objection to the committee by saying that area councillor was not part of it. This enraged Mamta and she said it was not right to raise a finger at the committee. The councillors from other parties also raised a hue and cry over this resolution and sat on a protest. Mayor Balkar Sandhu had to intervene and he announced to involve the area councillor in the committee.  Recruit JE/SDOs in operation cell Almost all councillors were united on the issue of recruitment of JEs and SDOs in the operation and maintenance cell. They claimed that the MC had removed the JE and SDO who were hired through outsourcing and now the situation was such that there was not even a single JE in some areas. An agenda was kept in house meeting to recruit JE/ SDOs on contractual basis. The councillors claimed that JE/SDO who were working earlier should be given chance again on the basis of their performance and they should be given salary which they were drawing earlier. Take action against illegal colonies In the meeting, Akali Dal councillor Jaspal Singh Giaspura raised the issue of illegal colonies being developed in the past six months. He said he had taken up the matter with building inspector Gurvinder Pal Singh Lucky in zone C, who said he had no information about it. Even ATP Satish Kumar refused to take action against the building inspector by saying that he was powerful. Giaspura said there are many colonies which were developed recently and they all connected their sewerage to the MC lines , took water connections and also dug up roads for the purpose. Most of the councillors supported Giaspura but Congress councillor Pal Singh Grewal held SAD MLA Sharanjit Singh Dhillon responsible for connecting the sewerage connections of such colonies on Rahon road. The Commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal sought report about building inspector in two days and also asked the officials to start taking action against illegal colonies. Official of operation and maintenance cell Ravinder Garg said they had already issued demand notices above Rs 40 crores to Glada over sewerage connections of approved colonies. Also illegal water supply and sewer connections in colonies will be snapped, he said. Social distancing ignored Councillors forgot to maintain social distancing while showing resentment against agenda as they gathered near the stage. Also most of them were without masks despite the fact that Mayor had requested themm about the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/councillors-at-loggerheads-at-mc-general-house-meeting/articleshow/79157406.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government order on mandatory nod for expenses extended||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 pandemic has made a big dent on Delhi government’s revenue. After facing a crunch for the past seven months, the government has decided to extend till December 31 an order issued in September that mandates every department to seek a nod from the Delhi cabinet for any expenditure above Rs 1 crore. “Considering the current position of resources and for better cash management”, the first order, issued by the finance (budget) department on September 8, also stated that for expenditure having financial implications up to Rs 1 crore, departments would take necessary relaxation from the finance department before incurring expenditure. The latest order, issued by the department on Expenditure Management and Rationalisation of Expenditure — Covid-19 Outbreaks, has extended the order till December 31 after further examining the matter “in the light of the outbreak of Covid-19 and its impact on the economic conditions”. The order has been issued with the approval of deputy chief minister and finance minister Manish Sisodia. The order, however, excluded certain expenditures from the necessary approvals such as expenditure related to salaries and allowances, medical reimbursement, pension of senior citizens and widows etc. Also, all proposals relating to the release of grants-in-aid, including those grants-in-aid proposals where authorisation was earlier delegated to the departments, will continue to be sent to the finance department for concurrence, the order pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-order-on-mandatory-nod-for-expenses-extended/articleshow/79159024.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 11, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi swings votes for NDA in Bihar with 67% strike rate||LUCKNOW: The NDA’s performance in Bihar polls has once again trained the political spotlight on BJP’s saffron mascot and UP Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath whose campaigning skills worked remarkably in favour of the BJP-JD(U) combine. Results show that out of the 18 seats where Yogi campaigned in three phases, the NDA candidates won or leading on 12, which is a strike rate of approximately 67%. Yogi campaigned in Bakhtiyarpur, Bisfi, Katihar, Kewati, Sitamarhi, Raxaul, Valmikinagar, Jhanjharpur, Lalganj, Daraundha, Jamui, Karakat, Garia Kothi, Siwan, Arwal, Paliganj, Terari and Ramgarh. Out of them, but for Daraundha, Karakat, Arwal, Paliganj, Tarari and Ramgarh, the NDA candidates were set to win the rest. Results showed that of the six seats which BJP and its allies could not win, four were going to CPI (ML) (Liberation) which was part of the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan, while RJD was poised to win Bakhtiyarpur and Ramgarh. In Ramgarh, though, there was still a nail-biting contest going on, with the BJP candidate a close third. BJP sources said that the results on the seats where Yogi campaigned has once established his status of a star campaigner who has the ability to swing votes. “He is not only an able administrator but has also been one of the fiercest leaders who had the ability to sway voters irrespective of the caste lines,” said UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh. BJP sources said the Yogi is expected to be roped in by the party in the forthcoming assembly elections in West Bengal before the high stake UP assembly elections. Political observers pointed out how Yogi was able to connect with the people of Bihar by calling the poll bound state as `Sita ka Maika’ (Sita’s hometown) and how the BJP kept its poll promise of initiating construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. All through his campaign in Bihar, Yogi sharpened his attack on grand alliance CM’s face Tejashwi Yadav accusing him of making a hollow poll promise of providing 10 lakh government jobs if voted to power. Yogi, political analysts said, managed to remind the voters of the 15-year rule of the RJD while accusing of not being able to provide jobs to the youth. “He was successful in reminding people about the 15-year misrule of RJD between 1990 and 2005 which was also embroiled in the fodder scam,” a senior BJP leader said. Yogi had also invoked the citizenship act at the peak of his campaign in what was seen as a move aimed to swing the electoral mood in favour of the BJP led NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-swings-votes-for-nda-in-bihar-with-67-strike-rate/articleshow/79161083.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS) kickstarts from today||Ludhiana: The Punjab Achievement Survey (PAS) for students studying in government schools will kickstart from Wednesday, where the students will be assessed on their academic performance. The exams for students studying from Classes I to XII will be held and these will continue till November 20. PAS is first of its kind survey, where the state education department will prepare students for the National Achievement Survey to be conducted in November 2021 on the directions of the MHRD ministry. The abilities will be assessed on the basis of MCQs as per the prescribed syllabus of selective subjects of different classes. In the three revision tests the district showed major improvements. All three revision tests were held in October. In the first revision test over 58% students participated, while in second 65-70% participated and in the third over 85% students participated. Stating the reason of low participation Sanjeev Taneja, district mentor, mathematics, said, “There have been several reasons, including lack of resources, as most the students in government schools belong to the economically weaker families and do not have smartphones. Students who will be participating in PAS will get internal assessment through this survey and their CCE assessment is based on it.” Jasvir Singh, a science teacher of GSSS, Uksi, and also a district mentor of science, said, “Test links have been circulated through Whatsapp group on Tuesday and they have to answer 20 MCQs, each of two marks for every subject. Students can submit these till night.” Swaranjeet Kaur, DEO, Secondary, said, “We will ensure that students participate in these practice tests. We have held many online meetings with school principals and we have motivated them to ensure 100% participation and asked teachers to contact students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-achievement-survey-pas-kickstarts-from-today/articleshow/79157418.cms||Mehak Jain
November 11, 2020||Delhi||In Delhi, Chhath Puja only from home this year||NEW DELHI: This year, Chhath Puja celebrations will not be possible at public places due to the pandemic. The four-day Puja, which is celebrated by lakhs of people from Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh, will begin on November 18. Last year, Delhi government had made arrangements for Chhath Puja at an unprecedented number of 1,108 ghats and was preparing to make similar arrangements this year too, albeit on a comparatively smaller scale along with measures to check the spread of Covid-19. The flood and irrigation department had started preparations for creating artificial waterbodies in different areas, but the government’s proposal was finally not approved. Revenue minister Kailash Gahlot said that an order by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), which is headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, had prohibited the organisation of Chhath Puja by Delhi government. “DDMA has not given permission because the Centre has not yet allowed swimming pools to open. As waterbodies are created for Chhath Puja, the LG has returned the file to us,” he told TOI. “According to the DDMA order, Chhath Puja cannot be organised in public places, but devotees can perform it privately,” added the minister. From the banks of the Yamuna to lakes and artificially created ponds at India Gate, every year devotees gather near waterbodies to offer prayers to the sun god. From just 72 in 2015, the number of ghats jumped to 1,108 last year as Delhi government ensured that devotees didn’t have to go far from their homes to offer prayers. Every year, Delhi government provides tents, medical facilities, lights, furniture, water, mobile toilets and public address systems to the puja committees. Boats and divers are also deployed at ghats near the river to ensure there are no mishaps. The river banks are barricaded to stop people from venturing deep into the water. Last year, signboards were put up by Delhi government at the Chhath ghats to stop the use of plastic and firecrackers. An advisory had been issued to all puja committees to ensure that plastic and firecrackers were not used at the ghats, parks and waterbodies in residential colonies across the city. The same was planned to be displayed on flex banners with Covid-19 advisory this year. Watch Chhath Puja 2020: DDMA bars public celebration in Delhi due to Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chhath-puja-only-from-home-this-yr/articleshow/79159061.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||11-year-old killed by leopard in Kheri village||BAREILLY: An 11-year-old boy was killed by an adult leopard at Banshibeli village, near Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR) in Lakhimpur Kheri district, on Tuesday morning when he had gone to collect fodder from the field. This is the third such killing of a child at the village since September 13. Another child was injured but rescued. The news of the boy's death came as a blow to the forest department officials who have been trying to trap the big cat for the past two months. After hearing the news, Sanjay Pathak, field director, DTR, along with range officer Anil Shah rushed to the spot. Pugmarks on the spot confirmed that the boy was killed by an adult leopard. According to foresters, at around 11 am Ankit Kumar Gautam was collecting fodder near a cane field when a leopard lurking in the field pounced on him. It dragged him inside the cane field. The boy's partially eaten body was found an hour later by the villagers. After previous attacks, the forest department had placed two cages in the area to trap the animal. However, on October 29, a sub-adult leopard was trapped instead of the one that killed the children. Experts from Wildlife Trust of India (WTI) and the forest department have installed 15 camera traps in the area to monitor the adult leopard. Anil Patel, divisional forest officer, said, “All the three children, aged between 11 and 13 years, were possibly killed by the same leopard. This animal has been spotted on numerous occasions near the cage but it never enters inside it to kill the bait. This suggests that the big cat was caged before. Now, tranquilizing it seems to be the only way out to stop the killings. We are planning to prepare a temporary ‘machaan’ for further operations. We will seek permission of the principal chief conservator of forest for tranquilizing this leopard.” Timeline: · A 13-year-old boy, Sikandar Lal, was injured by a leopard at Pathakpurva village, near Bahraich range, on October 10 · A 13-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard ar Banshibeli village near the Dudhwa forest range in Dhaurahra area of Lakhimpur Kheri district in September · A 12-year-old boy of Chamaranpurva village was killed on September 13||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/11-year-old-killed-by-leopard-in-kheri-village/articleshow/79156322.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Citizens threaten to act as cops ignore harassment by goons||NAGPUR: Angry residents of Bajeriya, left desperate by relentless harassment of an externed goon and his gang, have asked Ganeshpeth police to act against the goons or they would take law in their own hands. The letter signed by the residents, a copy of which is with TOI, was submitted to Ganeshpeth police. The failure of the Ganeshpeth police to rein in the goons in central Nagpur, especially Bajeriya, has now pushed the citizens including traders, to organize against the anti-social elements as they have lost faith in the police’s ability to tackle their problem. The gang is also also targeting women and young girls who are now finding it difficult to move in the locality. With cops remaining mute spectactors, citizens are threatening to deal with anti-social elements themselves. A group of 70-80 people had marched to the home of the goon Shakeel Ansari a couple of days ago to pin him down but found him absent. Ansari, despite being an externee, has been staying at Bajeriya and targeting residents and traders with his accomplices. It is learnt the traders have been told to shut shop by 9 pm unless they cough up ‘hafta’ for him. Ansari and his aides were booked last year for damaging several vehicles, tea kiosks and shops during a rampage. After getting bail in the matter, they have resumed their criminal activities at Bajeriya. “Police always favour the goons. Though he is creating nuisance every day, the Ganeshpeth police turn a blind eye to the problem,” said a local resident on condition of anonymity. Apart from Ansari and his gang’s nuisance, Bajeriya, Cotton Market and Bhaldarpura have become a hotspot for illegal activities like selling of narcotics, gambling dens and bootlegging apart from mushrooming bookies. Gambling den is operated by one Sandeep near Gandhi chowk. It is learnt illegal liquor is being sold by one Raja at Bajeriya and Sarwar near Cotton Market. Local residents said Saddam, Sunny and Raja also sell MD powder which is a narcotic. One Vicky operates gambling den near Ganjipeth police post. “Pappu, Saddam, Sandeep and Chhotu Saazi are operating cricket betting dens without any fear as they are close to cops too,” said another resident. Zonal DCP Lohit Matani said he was looking into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citizens-threaten-to-act-as-cops-ignore-harassment-by-goons/articleshow/79159063.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Police start anti-cracker campaign at high-rises in West Bengal||KOLKATA: Housing complexes have reportedly always been a point of worry for police when it comes to bursting of firecrackers during Kali Puja and Diwali. So this time, after the high court banned crackers in Bengal for the remaining of November to keep the pollution level under check, cops started off their anti-fireworks campaign with gated communities, where they made announcements on the dos and don’ts, plastered posters and notices and held meetings with the representatives of housing societies across Kolkata, Salt Lake, New Town, Lake Town, Sonarpur and Narendrapur. “We have witnessed largescale violations at high-rises and tall buildings in previous years. This year, we have started a special campaign under which we have been meeting representatives of residents’ welfare associations and spreading awareness on the gravity of the situation. We have been pasting the high court order and other guidelines and asking the residents to strictly follow the restrictions,” said Mukesh Kumar, commissioner of Bidhannagar City Police. While in the previous years, the pre-Diwali meetings between cops and residents’ associations were more about requesting them to adhere to legal and green crackers, this year, the cops said the instructions were clear: legal action would be taken in case of any reported violation and that might lead to one-night’s detention at the local police station. The offender might even be punished with a month’s imprisonment and fine. Kolkata Police has taken the campaign a step further and roped in doctors during their campaigns. At the meetings, the doctors explain how the toxic fume from firecrackers can worsen the condition of a Covid patient or even a person who have recovered. “We arranged for doctors to explain how bursting of crackers can complicate the health of Covid patients as well as survivors. Fireworks produce gaseous substances, such as sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide, which affect the respiratory system as well as the protective mucosal layer of lungs, magnifying the risk of attack by different viruses, including Sars-CoV-2,” said a senior police officer from south division. “We have told members of gated communities that since it was a high court order, we would file cases and draw up prosecutions against any violator. But we also reminded them that being responsible citizens, they should behave accordingly. We also instructed them to cooperate with our beat officers and those who will be on evening and night rounds on the festive days,” said an officer at Lalbazar. High-rises in Narendrapur and Sonarpur, which are outside the Kolkata Police’s jurisdiction and are also close to Champahati, a cracker manufacturing hub in South 24 Parganas, will be on police radar. “While our primary job is to ensure firecrackers from these manufacturing hubs do not go out of the district for sales in Kolkata and other parts of Bengal, we have also formed a separate team of officers who are making rounds of high-rise complexes, asking them not to buy crackers or burst them even from their balconies this year,” said Kamanasish Sen, superintendent of Baruipur police district. Resident welfare associations, on their parts, have vowed to follow the restrictions. “We have had our first round of inspections and awareness campaigns. Our area is notorious for violation of the rule for banned crackers. But this year, we have strictly told the residents not to burst crackers. Also, we have told cops that our gates would be open for them for any inspection on festive days,” said Santanu Ghosh of Lake District Complex in Phoolbagan. Last year, cops had been posted at several housing societies on Park Street, Shakespeare Sarani, at Bhowanipore, Lake Town and New Town to ensure that no cracker was burst after the HC-directed deadline. Similar steps were likely to be taken, cops said. For netizens, both Kolkata and Bidhannagar police have designed a host of posters, encouraging a peaceful Diwali, reminding people of the HC order, keeping in mind well-being of Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-start-anti-cracker-campaign-at-high-rises/articleshow/79159124.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 11, 2020||Delhi||BJP MLA seeks norms for Chhath Puja in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Leader of opposition in Delhi assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri on Tuesday asked Delhi government to immediately issue guidelines for Chhath Puja celebrations during the Covid pandemic. Thousands of people in the capital, mainly those from Bihar and eastern Uttar Pradesh, perform the rituals at waterbodies and offer prayers to the sun god. The four-day puja will begin from November 18. In a letter written to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, Bidhuri has stated that lakhs of people in the capital celebrate the festival every year at hundreds of Chhath ghats, which are prepared by various social organisations with support from the government. “It is surprising that this year so far, the government has neither called a meeting of the organisations involved nor cleanliness has been done at the ghats,” Bidhuri added. “Less than 10 days are left for preparations,” Bidhuri said, demanding that the festival should be organised with all precautionary measures and the government should issue guidelines for it. The BJP MLA from Badarpur suggested that volunteers should be deployed at the ghats for cleanliness and during the puja, they should be tasked to distribute masks and implement social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-mla-seeks-norms-for-puja-in-capital/articleshow/79159103.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||‘Damini squads’ pressed into action in festive season to protect women||NAGPUR: City police chief Amitesh Kumar has deployed special squads of women cops known as ‘Damini pathak’ at crowded locations and markets to keep gropers and eve teasers away from shoppers during the festive season. In the past, women have been subjected to harassment at busy public places. Shoppers were targeted by petty thieves, nuisance-makers and pickpockets too. Brawls and chaos were common at places where shoppers throng. City police are attempting to put a security arrangement in place at public places to ensure safe and convenient shopping for women. CP Kumar said personnel would keep a watchful eye on market zones to ensure they remain de-congested and nuisance-free. Women’s security is on Kumar’s priority list. Apart from ‘Damini pathak’, which is attached to the crime branch, it’s learnt that police stations, too, have been instructed to form ‘anti-eve teasing’ squads and station them at places where women could be targeted. Kumar said women personnel would be also deployed in civil clothes apart from the ones in uniform. “Women personnel in civil attire would be patrolling in markets to ensure that shoppers are not targeted by mischief mongers,” he said. Hotspots, where women have been targeted by street robbers in the last one year, are also on the top cop’s radar. Such spots would be covered by patrolling in the coming days. Zonal DCP Vinita S said citizens can approach the police to lodge any complaint. Manpower has been increased at Gokulpeth police chowki where cops would be present to monitor the location thronged by a large number of shoppers during Diwali. “Police have also deployed anti-chain snatching squads to keep a check on robbers targeting women,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/damini-squads-pressed-into-action-in-festive-season-to-protect-women/articleshow/79159078.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 11, 2020||Patna||HAM(S), VIP & AIMIM gain||PATNA: Among half a dozen smaller parties, only Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) led by former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) led by Mukesh Sahani stand any chance of finding a place in the council of ministers in the NDA government led by CM Nitish Kumar. The HAM(S) and VIP have won four seats each. While the Election Commission had announced the Bihar assembly polls results of only 149 constituencies till late Tuesday night, the assumption was that the NDA would finally be able to form the government having got the magic number of 123 seats in the 243-member House on the basis of the broad trends. Even though HAM(S) and VIP are in the NDA with JD(U) and BJP, they were the late entrants into this formation. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) that contested 80 seats but one might also like to join the NDA government, as it has been mollycoddling with BJP in UP. Otherwise, HAM(S) and VIP were earlier in the RJD-led grand alliance and then walked out of it, because RJD did not seem to accommodate their demand as to the number of seats they wanted to contest. Similar was the stance later adopted by the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Upendra Kushwaha, who demanded 36 seats to contest. HAM(S) had been demanding 20 seats from RJD and the VIP 36 seats. Eventually, the VIP compromised with BJP on only 11 seats, while HAM(S) partnered with Nitish and got seven seats to contest. RLSP has come a cropper as it could not win even a single seat out of 104 it contested as part of the six-party grand secular democratic front (GDSF). From the GDSF, only the AIMIM led by Asaduddin Owaisi has won four seats and was leading on one — all in the Seemanchal area comprising Purnia, Katihar, Kishanganj and Araria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-vip-aimim-gain/articleshow/79160515.cms||Abhay Singh
November 11, 2020||Mysuru||Positivity rate in South Karnataka slides||MYSURU: Not two months ago, districts in South Karnataka were battling what seemed like an unending upward surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, but steps and stringent measures taken by the authorities, coupled with the cooperation of the public, has resulted in positivity rate – number of people testing positive for novel coronavirus against those tested – witnessing a marked slide. Data from the state’s Covid-19 War Room indicates that the positivity rate between November 2 and November 9, was highest in Vijayapura district, at 4%, while Bidar had the lowest, at 0.5%. In South Karnataka, Chamarajanagar had the least positivity rate, at 1.6% for the same period. The overall positivity rate for Karnataka stands at 2.7%. The data further indicates that the number of active cases in all districts of South Karnataka has fallen drastically. In fact, as on November 9, the number of active cases in Kodagu district is just 159 – only Haveri has fewer active cases – while Chamarajanagar is not far behind with 160. The fall in the number of active cases has meant that the health department is no longer struggling to find beds. Chamarajanagar deputy commissioner MR Ravi, however, said that there was no question of the district administration lowering its guard in view of the reduced caseload. “The people will continue to wear masks, and maintain safe distance among themselves. The aim now is to ensure there is no transmission of the novel coronavirus during the winter,” Ravi said. Head of the Karnataka Covid-19 War Room Munish Moudgil said that the districts with lower positivity rates were conducting the prescribed number of tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/positivity-rate-in-south-karnataka-slides/articleshow/79157478.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Schools, colleges can function safely, say doctors||MADURAI: Doctors and public health experts have said that barring students and faculty members with other ailments and co-morbid conditions, schools for Classes IX to XII and colleges could be made safe to attend with Covid-19 safety precautions. They felt that physical classes will help improve the mental well-being of students. “Data of students’ health would be already available with schools. Children with various pre-existing conditions like cardiac ailments, Type-I diabetes, asthma etc., could be identified and exempted. Other than for these high risk groups, schools can be allowed to function with precautions,” said Dr K Kolandasamy, former director of public health. A major challenge for schools and colleges would be enforcing wearing of masks and social distancing. “It is a must for the government to first check if all schools/colleges have the infrastructure to allow social distancing and if rooms have ventilation. Children are generally used to touching each other and may be prone to removing masks when speaking. Educating and practising the proper methods to wear masks is a must,” said Dr B Kannan, paediatrician, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre. Affordability of quality masks in the long run for all students also remains a concern. Doctors warned that masks of poor quality or those worn for a long period repeatedly without being properly sanitised can carry and spread infection as well. Dr Sudharsan Balasubramanian, assistant professor of Community Medicine at a medical college hospital, recommended shift based scheduling so that students can finish their classes at a stretch, especially for college students. “While theory can be taught through online classes, inevitably most college students have practical classes which would require them to go to college. In such case, it may be a good idea to have a batch of students finish their practical sessions at a stretch and then have the next batch.,” he said. The doctor also said that quarantine of 15 days can be recommended for hostel students and mixing of hostel students and day scholars could be avoided. Students can also be provided with Vitamin C and Zinc tablets to build immunity, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-colleges-can-function-safely-say-doctors/articleshow/79161116.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 11, 2020||Patna||Bihar polls: Jubilant BJP and JD(U) workers celebrate ‘victory’||PATNA: As soon as the poll trends shifted in the NDA’s favour on Tuesday, BJP and JD (U) workers reached their respective party offices and celebrated the victory by beating drums and blowing conches. While both the party headquarters wore a deserted look in the morning, the atmosphere changed in the evening, elevating the mood of the party workers. Sharing ‘laddos’ with party functionaries, BJP media incharge (legal cell) Praveen Sinha beamed with confidence, but waited for “the right time to celebrate”. “Few workers may be upset with the exit polls, but we were sure we would win,” he told TOI. The party’s state spokesperson, Arvind Kumar, who was standing next to Praveen, said nothing could stop the NDA from forming the government. Even women could be heard raising slogans and seen dancing at the BJP office. “Kyun pade ho chakkar me, koi nahi hai takkar me,” they shouted while hugging each other. A member of the Patna Mahanagar (women cell), Dimple Sinha, claimed that she and others had worked hard and expected the results in their favour. BJP Adhivakta Manch member, Bhubneshwar Pandey, said he would burst crackers when the final results would be announced. JD (U) workers were equally jubilant as they thronged the party office in the evening. The party’s minority cell vice-president, Najmul Hoda, said, “People have shown their faith in chief minister Nitish Kumar. They have also proved that they are silent voters.” JD (U) workers Naresh Kumar Mandal, Anil Kumar and Imteyaz Alam, who reached the party office in the evening, said, “Most of us have come here after completing our work. We believe in behaving decently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jubilant-bjp-and-jdu-workers-celebrate-victory/articleshow/79160570.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||More than 1,000 patients recovering daily in November||NAGPUR: With 989 patients recovered in a day on Tuesday, total 10798 patients of Covid-19 have recovered in the first 10 days of November. This means more than 1000 patients on an average are recovering daily in November. Against this, only 8398 new cases have been reported in the first ten days of the month which suggests less than 1000 patients on an average daily. This development confirmed that new Covid-19 cases have gone down significantly and recoveries are improved which is a good sign for Vidarbha. In November, 166 deaths were reported in the first ten days. On Tuesday, 11 deaths were reported. Highest 4 of them were from Nagpur district. Only 2 of them were from Nagpur city while 1 each were from Nagpur district and other states. Chandrapur reported 2 deaths while Yavatmal, Akola, Bhandara, Gondia and Gadchiroli reported 1 death each. Total death toll of the region reached 5673 which means case fatality rate of Vidarbha is 2.73%. This rate is higher than state and national average. After lowest new cases since July 28 reported on Monday, Vidarbha region reported 776 new cases on Tuesday. Cases came from Nagpur (238), Chandrapur (118), Bhandara (84), Wardha (76), Gondia (66), Gadchiroli (51), Yavatmal (49), Amravati (40), Buldhana (35), Washim (14) and Akola (5). On the other hand, 989 patients recovered in a day. They are from Nagpur (282), Chandrapur (165), Gadchiroli (136), Buldhana (98), Bhandara (86), Yavatmal (76), Amravati (69), Gondia (38), Wardha (30), Akola (7) and Washim (2). Now, out of total 207319 cases, 1,91,681 have recovered with a recovery rate of more than 92.4%. Gadchiroli: A 30-year-old businessman from Aheri died while undergoing treatment in Gadchiroli. The district reported a death after two days on Tuesday. This took the total Covid-19 death toll of Gadchiroli to 66. With 51 new patients detected in a day and 136 from the existing patients recovering; Gadchiroli now has 6637 total cases, 5870 recoveries and 701 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported the death of a Covid-19 positive patient on Tuesday. Now, Bhandara district has 231 Covid-19 deaths. Against 84 new patients detected in a day, 86 patients recovered from Bhandara on November 10. Presently, the district has 9218 cases, including 8219 recoveries and 768 patients under treatment. Gondia: The district witnessed 66 new positive cases of Covid-19, including a big chunk of 48 cases from Gondia tehsil alone. A 67-year-old patient from Deori breathed his last at GMC Gondia while 38 patients recovered from the disease on Tuesday. The district now has 10445 total cases, 9702 of them recovered and 604 patients still under treatment. Akola: The district reported just 5 new cases in a day. This took the total number of Covid-19 cases in Akola to 8585. Seven patients recovered in a day which means 8080 of the total cases have recovered. A death was reported on Tuesday taking the toll of Akola to 283. Now, 222 patients are under treatment in the district. Washim: While 14 new patients were reported in Washim on Tuesday, two existing patients recovered. No death was reported. The district now has 5805 cases, 5491 recoveries and 144 deaths, including a suicide. Now, 170 patients are under treatment in Washim which is the lowest in the region. Buldhana: The district received more than 450 reports of Covid-19 tests out of which 35 tested positive on Tuesday. This took the total caseload of Buldhana to 9975. Total 98 patients recovered in a day taking their number to 9502. No death was reported in Buldhana on Tuesday so, the death toll remained 131. The district now has 342 patients under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-than-1000-patients-recovering-daily-in-november/articleshow/79159101.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 11, 2020||---||Bihar polls: Jubilant BJP and JD(U) workers celebrate ‘victory’||PATNA: As soon as the poll trends shifted in the NDA’s favour on Tuesday, BJP and JD (U) workers reached their respective party offices and celebrated the victory by beating drums and blowing conches. While both the party headquarters wore a deserted look in the morning, the atmosphere changed in the evening, elevating the mood of the party workers. Sharing ‘laddos’ with party functionaries, BJP media incharge (legal cell) Praveen Sinha beamed with confidence, but waited for “the right time to celebrate”. “Few workers may be upset with the exit polls, but we were sure we would win,” he told TOI. The party’s state spokesperson, Arvind Kumar, who was standing next to Praveen, said nothing could stop the NDA from forming the government. Even women could be heard raising slogans and seen dancing at the BJP office. “Kyun pade ho chakkar me, koi nahi hai takkar me,” they shouted while hugging each other. A member of the Patna Mahanagar (women cell), Dimple Sinha, claimed that she and others had worked hard and expected the results in their favour. BJP Adhivakta Manch member, Bhubneshwar Pandey, said he would burst crackers when the final results would be announced. JD (U) workers were equally jubilant as they thronged the party office in the evening. The party’s minority cell vice-president, Najmul Hoda, said, “People have shown their faith in chief minister Nitish Kumar. They have also proved that they are silent voters.” JD (U) workers Naresh Kumar Mandal, Anil Kumar and Imteyaz Alam, who reached the party office in the evening, said, “Most of us have come here after completing our work. We believe in behaving decently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/jubilant-bjp-and-jdu-workers-celebrate-victory/articleshow/79162623.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 11, 2020||Varanasi||BJP wins Deoria seat with good margin of 20,000 votes||GORAKHPUR: BJP won the Deoria Sadar seat with a good margin as its candidate Dr Satyaprakash Mani Tripathi defeated Samajwadi Party’s Brahma Shankar Tripathi by 20,089 votes, reports Arjumand Bano. In the electoral fight that had five Tripathis in fray, BJP’s Satya Prakash Mani polled 68,732 votes for the pole position, leaving SP candidate Brahma Shankar at second spot with 48,643 votes, while BSP’s Abhay Nath claimed the third spot with 22,069 votes. Congress candidate Mukund Bhaskar Mani Tripathi stood fifth with just 3,692 votes, lagging behind even independent candidate Ajay Pratap Singh aka Pintu Singh, son of late BJP MLA Janmejay Singh, who polled 19,299 votes. Another Tripathi, Umesh Mani fielded by Manuvadi Party polled just 894 votes. Deoria Sadar seat had fallen vacant after the demise of BJP MLA Janmejay Singh in August. Singh had won the seat twice — in 2012 and 2017 elections. All the four major parties, BJP, SP, BSP and Congress gave tickets to Brahmin candidates. The sweeping victory has reaffirmed BJP’s strong hold in Deoria and dispelled all rumours of Brahmin resentment against the party. It also shows that Congress has failed to regain its lost ground. “The results show the Brahmin community still prefers BJP over other parties. BJP candidate Satya Prakash Mani Tripathi has a good image and is known as a gentleman. CM Yogi Adityanath’s impact further boosted the party and resulted in its victory. It is also a sign that the Modi wave is still working and the traditional voters of BJP haven’t changed,” said local educationist Kaushal Kishore Tripathi. “Congress gave ticket to a controversial candidate whom a woman party worker accused of being a rape accused,” he added. BJP government’s decision of giving free ration twice a month to the poor during lockdown and direct transfer of Rs 2,000 in account of farmers brought even the poor and scheduled caste community in its favour, said social worker Ravi Jaiswal. “I work in rural areas and even farmers of SC community say they are happy with the government for direct cash transfer and free ration,” he added. SP candidate Brahma Shankar Tripathi is a former minister and is a big local name but less enthusiasm was noticed in party workers which suggested they were not happy with candidate selection, Jaiswal said. BSP’s Abhaynath Tripathi is a relative of Brahma Shankar and did well to come third, said a local. In the 2017 assembly election Janmejay Singh had defeated SP candidate J P Jaiswal by 46,236 votes. Polling was held on November 3 and 51.05% of total 3,36,565 voters had cast votes for 14 candidates in the fray.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/bjp-wins-deoria-seat-with-good-margin-of-20k-votes/articleshow/79161115.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Once a TRS man, Madhavaneni Raghunandan Rao slams brakes on car||HYDERABAD: On Tuesday, Madhavaneni Raghunandan Rao hit the TRS out of the park and emerged as man of the match. Much in spotlight after his meticulous win in Dubbak, those close to Raghunandan Rao say he gave BJP the much-needed impetus thanks to his connect with the masses in the constituency. A strong supporter of Telangana state ideology, 52-year-old Raghunandan Rao was able to strike a chord with the electorate and successful in convincing people that whatever the state government was spending on people, the BJP-led government at the Centre has a share. Ironically, just before the election, he was suspended from the party for a brief period. He took no time to return to the party fold, campaigned vigorously in Dubbak and won the high-voltage election. Not to forget, he had failed twice earlier in 2014 and 2018 polls from the segment and emerged victorious in his fourth attempt. He began his political career with the TRS in 2001 and served as TRS Medak district president. Known to be close to TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao, Raghunandan was suspended from the TRS in 2013 on the charges that he was moving closely with TDP. Subsequently, he joined the BJP and contested the assembly elections from Dubbak in 2014 in alliance with TDP. As an official spokesperson of BJP in Telangana, he is often seen on TV channels and social media taking part in debates on behalf of the party. Raghunandan has a strong social media team working for him and used it as an effective tool in the campaign against the TRS. Born in Siddipet, he completed BSc at Siddipet Degree College and studied law from Osmania University. He practised as a lawyer in high court and was well known for handling Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s bail petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/once-a-trs-man-raghunandan-slams-brakes-on-car/articleshow/79159134.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 11, 2020||Delhi||‘Information on private school fee hike approvals in Delhi to be uploaded on DoE site’||NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party government informed Delhi High Court on Tuesday that all previous orders granting sanction to fee hike proposals of private schools would be uploaded soon on its directorate of education (DoE) website and updated from time to time. Delhi government also submitted that to promote transparency for parents, it would upload on the DoE website fee statements and related annexures filed by recognised unaided private schools as also the related inspection reports and orders after they are finalised. However, file notings, documents and other orders passed by the DoE in connection with the final sanction can’t be provided as they enjoy exemption under the RTI Act, it said. The submissions were made in an affidavit filed by the DoE in response to a PIL seeking directions to it to upload on its website any approvals granted to private unaided schools to hike their fees. The high court is hearing the plea filed by NGO, Justice for All, that has contended that as parents have no idea if fee hike has been approved by the DoE, certain schools have allegedly taken advantage of the situation to charge increased fees from them. Appearing for the NGO, advocate Khagesh B Jha submitted that “proposals for hike by private unaided schools, which exist on concessional government land, are sent online to the DoE and once it passes an order, it should be available on its site for informing the parents.” “In the absence of availability of information, parents did not know whether the fee hike proposal is accepted or not and few schools started playing fraud with parents and started collecting increased fees without prior sanction or after rejection of prior sanction proposal,” the petition argued. It contended that there was no information in the public domain to show what was the last approved fee of any specific school and what was the tuition fee bifurcation for a particular academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/info-on-pvt-school-fee-hike-approvals-to-be-uploaded-on-doe-site/articleshow/79159189.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Varanasi||Samajwadi Party retains Malhani after a scare||VARANASI: Samajwadi Party scraped through to victory in Malhani bypoll with party candidate Lucky Yadav retaining his father late Parasnath Yadav’s seat after a scare from Independent candidate and muscleman politician Dhananjay Singh who took an early lead and retained it till the 12th round of counting, reports Rajeev Dikshit. After the end of counting, district election officer D K Singh said SP’s Lucky Yadav had defeated independent candidate Dhananjay Singh by a margin of 4,632 votes. Yadav secured 73,468 votes to emerge victorious in a close contest against Dhananjay who bagged 68,836 votes. The counting of votes started at Navin Mandi campus amid tight security arrangements and a thrilling contest started between Dhananjay and Yadav. Dhananjay maintained lead over Yadav till 12th round of counting. However, once Yadav took lead in 13th round and increased his margin by 3,000 votes in 14th round, he maintained it till the end despite a close contest and a seesaw of electoral fate. There were 16 candidates in the fray but the vote tally of 11 candidates could not even reach four digits, while 982 voters preferred NOTA. Riding on the sympathy wave following the death of his father, Lucky at last retained the seat and ensured Samajwadi Party’s hold in the constituency. He also shattered the dream of Dhananjay to return to state assembly after a gap of 11 years. Dhananjay, who had won 2002 and 2007 assembly elections from Rari seat ensured victory of his father from this seat in 2009 when he won parliamentary election from Jaunpur on BSP ticket, but could not succeed in breaking the monopoly of SP in this Yadav-dominated constituency. BJP’s Manoj Singh got 28,803 voted to claim the tird spot, BSP’s Jai Prakash Dubey 25,164 polled votes for fourth and Congress candidate Rakesh Mishra manage only 2,868 votes for a distant fifth spot. Malhani assembly seat had come to existence in 2012 when SP’s Parasnath Yadav, who was cabinet minister thrice and had also won two parliamentary elections, was shifted by SP from his citadels Barsathi and Madiyahu, contested polls from here and emerged victorious by defeating Dhananjay’s wife Jagriti Singh. In 2017, Parasnath won again by defeating Dhananjay, who had contested as NISHAD Party candidate. When Parasnath died due to illness in June, SP fielded his son Lucky in the byelection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/samajwadi-party-retains-malhani-after-a-scare/articleshow/79161137.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Bengaluru||44% of rural Karnataka exposed to Covid-19||BENGALURU: A serological survey conducted by a Mumbai based private institute says Covid-19 prevalence in rural Karnataka was 44.1 % of the population as against 53.8% in urban areas in August. Researchers said the findings provide proof that the pandemic has affected rural areas almost as severely as urban areas, despite attention initially being concentrated in urban areas. The survey was conducted by IDFC Institute between June 15 and August 29 in 20 districts, including Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada. The study was based on tests conducted on 1,400 people in the age group 12 to 80 years. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner, said that since the households were preselected for the survey, the sampling method may not be right and extrapolation may not be accurate. Nearly half of rural Karnataka was exposed to virus, finds study. Covid-19 prevalence in rural Karnataka was 44.1 % of the population as against 53.8% in urban areas in August, a serosurvey conducted by IDFC Institute, Mumbai, shows. The survey was conducted between June 15 and August 29 in 20 districts including Bengaluru Urban, Mysuru, Kalaburagi and Dakshina Kannada. The report titled, ‘Prevalence of Covid-19 in Rural Versus Urban Areas in a Low-Income Country: Findings from a State-Wide Study in Karnataka’ is based on tests conducted on 1,400 people in the age group 12 to 80 years. Researchers claim the findings provide evidence that the pandemic has affected rural areas almost as severely as urban areas, despite attention initially being concentrated in urban areas. “Our data shows evidence of high levels of active infections and transmission, especially in urban areas of Mysuru and coastal districts during our study period – where 9.7% to 10.5% individuals tested positive for current infection,” said Anup Malani, Lee and Brena Freeman Professor of Law, University of Chicago Law School, one of the researchers. Of 1,341 RT-PCR tests, 75 (5.8%) tested positive, reflecting an ongoing infection. The researchers also conducted 1,197 antibody tests of which 488 (40.8%) tested positive. The study recommends that the government unveil safety measures and introduce strategies to prevent the spread in rural areas. “Given agricultural activity, an essential activity, was and should be exempt from a lockdown, it will be critical to encourage mask-wearing and provide adequate medical facilities in rural areas during the rabi season,” Malani said. He added: “Because we estimate 44.1% of rural areas is already immune, broad suppression efforts will impact livelihoods for nearly half the rural population without commensurate benefits of protection against Covid. Therefore, we suggest states consider strategies that are more targeted, focus on areas where there is growing infection and limit opportunities for transmission there rather than general statewide suppression measures.” Prof Manoj Mohanan, associate professor at Sanford School of Public Policy, Duke University, said what makes this study remarkable is that the researchers partnered with the largest panel data survey in India conducted by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy, which has been following these households for over five years. The study, funded by ACT Grants (India) and carried out by IDFC Institute, was led by Mohanan and Malani and included Anu Acharya from IDFC Institute and Kaushik Krishnan from Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner, said the survey was supported by the state government with no financial implications. “The survey drew samples from people who reside in houses selected by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s consumer pyramids household survey (CPHS). Since the households were preselected, the sampling method may not be right and extrapolation may not be accurate. The technical advisory committee is examining the data,” Pandey said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/nearly-half-of-rural-ktaka-was-exposed-to-virus-finds-study/articleshow/79157566.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Why old right in land Act still in force: HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Tuesday questioned the state government as to why it is still using its Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act even after repealing it and replacing it with a new Act. “This will defeat the very purpose of your new Act,” the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said while hearing an urgent plea moved by Shinde Devidas of Nirmal district who brought to the notice of the court the issuance of GO 112 on October 12, 2020 inviting applications from the people to register their unregistered sale deeds (known as Sada Bainaamaas recorded before June 2014) . The GO was issued under the old Act and is still in force, Chinnolla Naresh Reddy, the counsel for the petitioner said. The state issued another GO extending the date to apply till November 10, the counsel said. “Both these GOs were referring to the repealed Act,” he said, adding that the state has no power to do so because the new Act came into force on October 29, 2020. Advocate General B S Prasad said that the old Act can be made use of under the General Clauses Act for some time. The bench told him that such an opportunity too will end from October 29. “But after that, you have no legal basis to invite applications for registering Saadaa Bainaamas under old Act. In fact, that can be seen as a fraudulent activity,” the bench warned. The bench directed the state to furnish to it the number of applications it received for registering Saadaa Bainaamas up to October 29 and after that as well. “Tell us in how many cases you have initiated action before October 29. Also tell us what would happen to the applications that were yet to be acted upon,” the bench said. Upon ascertaining from the state counsel, the bench said that there is no saving clause in the new Act to take care of the current situation. “The receiving of applications, the resultant enquiry, etc will all become illegal because there is no law covering them,.. No rules, or procedure was prescribed to cover the area,” the bench said. The Advocate General sought a day’s time to respond. The case was posted to Wednesday for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-old-right-in-land-act-still-in-force-hc/articleshow/79159139.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Madurai||Second round of selection to fill RTE seats to be held tomorrow||MADURAI/TRICHY: The second round of random selection for the 25% seats reserved under the Right to Education Act (RTE) is set to be held on Thursday. As many as 1,900 seats in 321 private schools in Madurai district are awaited to be filled for which 712 applications have been received. In Trichy district, a total 810 RTE applications have been received to fill 2,539 vacant seats in 292 schools. Online applications were open for the second round this year between October 12 and November 7. According to Madurai district education officials, 77 matriculation and 224 nursery and primary schools have vacancies. As many as 1,460 seats are yet to be in filled in nursery and primary schools, while 440 seats are vacant in matriculation schools. Officials said that students who did not get a seat in the first round could also be allotted seats in the second round. In October, about 70% of the the total 5,760 RTE seats in 443 private schools in Madurai, were filled in the first round. A total of 969 applications were rejected for not following norms. In Trichy, a majority of seats are expected to remain vacant at the end of the admission process due to less patronage from the parents for RTE seats this year. A total 1,668 seats were filled in the first phase out of 4,207 seats in 313 schools in the district. Random admission process is scheduled in those schools which have received more applications than the vacant RTE seats. Respective schools will call parents to the school to take part in the admission process. Admission will be made on the spot if the number of applications received by the school are less than the vacant RTE seats. In case of more number of applications than the available seats, schools will have to adopt a random admission process by following the lot system. Trichy district chief education officer in-charge M Ramakrishnan has directed all schools to ensure social distancing. Under RTE, 25% of seats in private schools are reserved for students from underprivileged families earning income less than Rs 2 lakh per annum. As per the guidelines, students are eligible to apply to private schools within around 1km radius of the home address. Parents can select up to five schools based on their choice of preference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/second-round-of-selection-to-fill-rte-seats-to-be-held-tomorrow/articleshow/79161139.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Covid curbs in Kumartuli||Kolkata: Police have decided to enforce the same regulations at Kumartuli for Kali idols that were implemented before Durga Puja. The restrictions, including use of mask, distancing, curb on the number of puja committee people, rules for loading idols on trucks, along with specific traffic rules will come into force from 4pm on Wednesday. The north police division will videograph the area from October 15, when the rush at Kumartuli will begin. Police said so far barely 100 of the 4,000 idols had been taken away and the number will jump five to 10 times in the next 48 hours. “ Certain restrictions cannot be compromised with in the Covid year,” said an officer. The traffic department said to ensure undisrupted loading and physical distancing, all vehicles headed for Kumartuli will be diverted through J M Avenue, B K Pal Avenue, Aurobindo Sarani and leave via Madan Mohan Tala, Shyambazar Street, Raja Nabakrishna Street and Rabindra Sarani. The vehicles will be allowed to park only along the western side of Rabindra Sarani from its crossing with Sovabazar Street to Bagbazar Street in specific time slots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-curbs-in-kumartuli/articleshow/79159223.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana, West Bengal, Odisha to be game changer states: BJP||HYDERABAD: BJP state affairs in-charge PK Krishna Das on Tuesday said Telangana along with West Bengal and Odisha will be ‘game changer’ states for the party at the national level and added the party national leadership will play a bigger role in these states. Speaking to TOI, he expressed satification over the party performance in Dubbak and said there was nothing “unusal” in this. “We were hoping that we will win the seat or reduce the margin of TRS completely,” he added. Saying that the Dubbak by-election win was setting the road map for the BJP rise in the state, he said: “We have established that we are the No. 1 opposition in the state. By the next assembly election, we will be in a position to win the election. The scenario in West Bengal, Odisha and Telangana is bright for us.” According to him, the national leadership was always keen on Telangana and would now pay more attention. “Home minister Amit Shah visited the state, inspired the rank and file and we had won four MP seats from Telangana. Party national president JP Nadda will visit the state in January and take stock of the situation and meet the leaders,” he said. He said the party will now aim to win a majority of the wards in GHMC elections. In the next coming few days, party state-level leaders will chalk out a plan for the GHMC elections. Stating that several leaders from other parties are now keen to join the BJP, he said: “There is a rush to join our party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-t-west-bengal-odisha-to-be-game-changer-states/articleshow/79159197.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: TRS vote share shrinks, BJP wins with 0.65% difference||HYDERABAD: It couldn’t have come at a worst time. The TRS lost 16.5% of its vote in the by-polls when compared to 2018 elections in Dubbak when late TRS leader Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy won with a thumping majority. He got 54.36% vote share then. The vote percentage difference between TRS and BJP is just 0.65% indicating a close fight. BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao bagged 38.4% votes (in 2018, he had 13.75% vote share only) and runners-up Solipeta Sujatha of TRS got 37.8% vote share. Congress nominee Cheruku Srinivas Reddy got 13.4% vote. While TRS vote percentage shrunk significantly, Congress lost 3% vote. In 2018, the difference between the winner and the runner-up was 38.2% of total valid votes. The TRS then had won with 62,500 vote majority. In 2014, Ramalinga Reddy had 53.37% vote share and his nearest rival, Congress candidate Cheruku Mutyam Reddy got 28.75% vote share, while Raghunandan Rao had a poor 9.82% vote share. “Since 2014 and 2018, Raghunandan Rao’s vote share has significantly gone up. Whereas, the ruling TRS which had enjoyed over 50% vote share in the previous two elections has its vote share dipped to 37%,” an analyst pointed out. Sujatha, despite enjoying sympathy owing to her husband’s untimely death while serving his term, came across as a sober candidate when compared to Raghunandan Rao who is a good orator. “He also knows the constituency well as he had contested twice earlier and got defeated. The BJP also enjoys good support among young voters which proved crucial in Raghunandan’s victory,” an analyst said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-vote-share-shrinks-bjp-wins-with-0-65-difference/articleshow/79159163.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: No vigilance probe in treasury fraud case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State government is learnt to have decided not to go for a vigilance probe in the treasury fraud case in which a former official of sub-treasury, Vanchiyoor, is the main accused. Even though the police had recommended for a vigilance inquiry in the matter to unearth the conspiracy, if any, and to identify if there are any more culprits involved, the finance department is learnt to have taken a stand against the move. It is learnt that the finance department has taken a stand that since the police is probing the matter, there is no need for an inquiry by the vigilance department. In addition to the police investigation, the finance department also has launched a departmental inquiry into the matter. In the wake of these two probes, a third investigation by the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau is not required, the finance department is learnt to have recommended the chief minister. It is learnt that the chief minister has also agreed to the view of the finance minister. “But it does not mean that vigilance probe is totally ruled out. It can be ordered after completing the ongoing probe,” sources in the office of the finance minister said. The police had registered a case that M R Bijulal, an employee with the treasury, had swindled Rs 2.73 crore from the treasury. In the probe, it was found that Rs 73 lakh has been lost from the treasury, while the remaining amount was recovered from the treasury savings bank account of Bijulal and his wife Simi D Ambi. Also, the probe had also found that there has been a serious lapse on the part of the treasury officials in initiating action against Bijulal despite knowing that fingers were pointing towards him for such a fraud three months ago. The investigating team has also reached an opinion that a detailed probe against other officials in the treasury should also be initiated under the provisions of prevention of corruption act, which is done by the vigilance. At the same time, after failing to submit the chargesheet within the stipulated 90 days, accused Bijulal was granted bail by the court last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-vigilance-probe-in-treasury-fraud-case/articleshow/79157580.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Varanasi||Sarnath light & sound show becomes a reality after 18 years||VARANASI: Finally, the light and sound show based on the life of Gautam Buddha at Sarnath became a reality after 18 years. The light and sound show was screened on the legendary Dhamkha Stupa of Sarnath on late Monday evening for some selected viewers after after Prime Minister Narendra Modi inaugurated it remotely on Monday morning. It was an enthralling moment for the viewers as the lights hit the Mauryan era Dhamekha stupa screening Lord Buddha’s life since childhood. As narration of Buddha’s tale started in the voice of Bollywood icon Amitabh Bachchan, a loud applause by audience broke the serenity of Sarnath where Buddha had preached his first sermons. The half an hour show not only showed the Buddha’s tale but also a glimpse of culture and art of the city. After viewing the inaugural show, UP minister of state (independent charge) for tourism and religious affairs Neelkanth Tiwari said that this gift of the PM to one of the prime Buddhist sites will not only fulfil its objective of adding attraction for the tourists from Buddhist countries but also domestic visitors. The light and sound show will be screened every evening, he said mentioning that the state government is ensuring development of tourist facilities with an investment of Rs 140 crore at Sarnath to pull more tourists and increase employment for locals. UP minister Ravindra Jaiswal, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma and tourism department officials and others were present at the inaugural show. This Rs 7.88 crore project took 18 years to become a reality following its inauguration by the PM virtually along with 15 other projects on Monday. As per the records of tourism department, in 2002-03, the Union ministry of tourism had sanctioned Rs 3.52 crore for the show at the Buddha Theme Park of Sarnath, where Lord Buddha had preached his first sermon. Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) was assigned the project and in 2003-04, the fund for the show was sanctioned. However, the project continued to linger. In 2013, the ministry withdrew the funds from ITDC and returned it to the state government. After which it was decided to shift the show to Dhamekha Stupa, built in 249 BCE by Mauryan dynasty and later replaced in 500 CE, by taking ASI’s consent. On the call of the ASI, Indian Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) experts conducted a study to know the effects of sound and light show on the monuments, including Dhamekha Stupa. On getting a positive report, ASI gave its nod to tourism department after which it roped in Rajkiya Nirman Nigam to execute the project by revising it as Rs 7.88 crore in 2016-17. It was given a target to complete the project by February 2018. The audience gallery for the light and sound show has been developed in a park between stupa and ruins of Mauryan era with make shift sitting arrangement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/sarnath-light-sound-show-becomes-a-reality-after-18-yrs/articleshow/79161153.cms||---
November 11, 2020||India||Respect territorial integrity, PM tells SCO as Xi listens||NEW DELHI: With Chinese President Xi Jinping watching, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday called for SCO member-states to respect each other’s sovereignty and territorial integrity while taking measures to improve and deepen connectivity. While he didn’t name Pakistan, or mention the Kashmir issue, Modi also slammed Islamabad for violating the SCO charter by raising bilateral issues on the Eurasian group platform. Modi’s comments came as he, along with Xi, was part of a virtual interaction at a time when Indian troops are in a tense face-off with Chinese soldiers along the LAC in Ladakh. The tensions erupted in May. Modi said India believed in peace, security and prosperity and had repeatedly voiced its concerns against terrorism, smuggling of illegal arms and money-laundering. “We remain strongly committed to working as per the SCO charter and laid-down principles as decided by the group. It’s unfortunate though that attempts are being made repeatedly and unnecessarily to raise bilateral issues at SCO in violation of its charter and also the Shanghai spirit,” said Modi. Prime Minister Narendra Modi made the remarks while addressing the 20th SCO heads of state summit that was chaired virtually by Russian President Vladimir Putin. Modi said such actions are also against the consensus and spirit of cooperation which defined SCO. NSA Ajit Doval had recently walked out of a virtual SCO meeting after the Pakistani representative used as a background image the controversial new political map of his country which shows the Indian UTs of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh in it. Even in the Tuesday summit, while not directly mentioning the Kashmir issue, Khan said “unilateral and illegal” measures to change the status of disputed territories “in violation of UNSC resolutions” adversely affected the regional environment. Modi also highlighted the imperative of a reformed multilateralism to meet the expectations of a world suffering from social and financial after-effects of the pandemic. “India, as a non-permanent member of the UNSC beginning from January 1, 2021, will focus on the theme of ‘reformed multilateralism’ to bring about desirable changes in global governance,” said the government in a statement. He mentioned that India’s brave soldiers participated in about 50 UN peacekeeping missions and the country’s pharma industry was supplying essential medicines to over 150 countries during the pandemic. “The PM underlined India’s strong cultural and historical connect with the SCO region and reiterated India’s firm commitment towards strengthening connectivity in the region with initiatives like International North-South Transport Corridor, Chabahar Port and Ashgabat Agreement,” added the statement. Modi also expressed India’s readiness to host the next regular meeting of the SCO council of heads of government on November 30, 2020 in a virtual format. India has also proposed to set up a special working group on innovation and startups and a sub-group on traditional medicine within SCO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/respect-territorial-integrity-pm-tells-sco-as-xi-listens/articleshow/79161773.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj excluded from cracker ban list||PRAYAGRAJ: Traders of the Sangam City who are in the cracker selling business breathed a sigh of relief after the name of Prayagraj was not put on the list of 13 UP cities where the state government has decided to impose a blanket ban on sale of crackers this time. These traders were already suffering heavy loss this year as the sale has come down by around 50% because of corona crisis and they feared further loss if the ban was extended to Sangam City as well. On Tuesday, in pursuance of a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order, UP government has forbidden the bursting of crackers in Lucknow, Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Varanasi, Meerut, Hapur, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Moradabad, Greater Noida, Baghpat and Bulandshahr. In the order issued by chief secretary RK Tiwari, sale and bursting of fire crackers in these districts has been prohibited effective immediately and the ban will continue till midnight of November 30-December 1. In all other cities and towns where air quality has been moderate or better, only ‘green’ fire crackers will be allowed for only two hours during festivals. The NGT has ruled that bursting of crackers on Diwali and Gurupurab will be permitted from 8 pm to 10 pm and 6 am to 8 am on Chhat. “We have decided that following the instructions of the NGT, only sale of low decibel ‘green crackers’ is permitted at Prayagraj and for timing of bursting crackers, the decibel limit etc a detailed guideline would be issued soon”, said ADM City, AK Kanojia. These guidelines would be according to state’s decision and the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court, he added. However, omitting the name of Prayagraj from the list issued by state government has a reason to smile to local traders. “We were already in heavy losses as the demand for crackers have come down to around 50% and if the city was named in the list of banning crackers, it would have been impossible for us to clear the leftover stock too”, said Mohamad Quadir, a wholesaler of cracker in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/prayagraj-excluded-from-cracker-ban-list/articleshow/79161167.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Agra||Aligarh Muslim University VC enrols for UP’s only Covid vaccine trial at JNMC||AGRA: Encouraging people from different walks of life and age groups to come forward for the Phase III clinical trial of a Covid-19 vaccine — Covaxin — developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, Aligarh Muslim University vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor on Tuesday enrolled himself as the first volunteer to undergo the vaccination. AMU’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College is the only institute approved by the ICMR in UP for the Covid-19 vaccine trial. The VC said that he chose to participate in the process to motivate and inspire people to come forward “as 1,000 volunteers are needed for the trial” —aimed at evaluating the safety and efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccine. Seeking active participation of people of all age groups (above 18) and socio-economic strata in the clinical trial, Prof Mansoor said, “By volunteering for a trial or study, one gets a chance to participate in a ground-breaking research and contributes to developing better cures and treatment options for the mankind.” Talking to mediapersons, the VC told the prospective volunteers that “there is no need to be scared, as the trials for Phases I and II have been successful”. JNMC principal Prof Shahid Ali Siddiqui said an ethical committee comprising doctors, social workers and lawyers had already been st up to manage the clinical trial; besides, the required number of staff were also recruited. Siddiqui added that the registration of volunteers was started on Tuesday. “Earlier clinical trials were aimed at checking the production of antibodies against the novel coronavirus, while the third phase would evaluate whether the vaccine could prevent people from getting sick,” said principal investigator Prof Mohammad Shameem, adding that the volunteers would receive travel expenses and other benefits as per the ICMR guidelines. Besides, volunteers will be given detailed information on the vaccine. JNMC has also been conducting convalescent plasma therapy for the treatment of Covid-19 patients since August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-vc-enrols-for-ups-only-covid-vaccine-trial-at-jnmc/articleshow/79156453.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Govt announces magisterial probe||KOZHIKODE: Government has announced a magisterial probe into the encounter killing of Maoist leader Velmurugan at Padinjarathara in Wayanad on November 3. The order issued by additional chief secretary (home) T K Jose said Wayanad district collector Adeela Abdulla will conduct the inquiry as per the Section 176 of the CrPC. She has been asked to submit the report within three months. Police had stated that they resorted to firing in self-defence when a group Maoists opened fire at them. District police chief G Poonguzhali had said that it was the Maoists who fired at the police team which was on a routine combing mission. Meanwhile, relatives of Velmurugan filed a petition in the Wayanad district court seeking a judicial probe into the incident. A Murugan, Velmurugan’s brother, moved the court that what happened in Padinjarathara was a fake encounter. Political parties, including the CPI and the Congress, and human rights organisations have alleged that Velmurugan was killed in a fake encounter. Maoist attacked the 18-member Thunderbolt team, but nobody was injured. Only one weapon was recovered from the encounter spot. The bloodstains at the spot were collected by a forensic team, Poonguzhali had said. She said that there were five or six Maoists in the group and they were on the move when the encounter happened||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/govt-announces-magisterial-probe/articleshow/79157659.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Harish’s welfare agenda cuts no ice||Hyderabad: Finance minister T Harish Rao wanted Dubbak to elect TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha by over one lakh vote majority. Her late husband Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy won the seat by 62,500 vote majority. Instead, Tuesday’s result came as a major disappointment for Harish Rao, who camped in the constituency nearly one month before the election notification was issued. He not only led the TRS campaign but also addressed more than 500 meetings, appealing to the electorate to vote for the party for implementing various welfare schemes. However, his welfare agenda did not cut much ice with the voters, who preferred BJP’s Raghunandan Rao. Soon after the results were out, Harish Rao said he takes the moral responsibility for the defeat of the party and vowed to continue the good work for developing the constituency. Sources in the party said though Harish Rao covered almost all the villages in the constituency, anti-incumbency factor and BJP’s campaign on how Dubbak was neglected by the TRS worked against Sujatha. “Because of the efforts of Harish, the party at least could secure 62,000 votes. The BJP’s victory margin was little over 1,000 votes. Otherwise, the gap could have been more,” a local TRS leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/harishs-welfare-agenda-cuts-no-ice/articleshow/79159214.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Patna||798 new Covid cases take tally to 2,24,275||PATNA: Altogether 798 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the tally to 2,24,275. Besides, five deaths were reported, after which the toll reached 1,156. However, with 2,16,601 recoveries, there are 6,516 active cases in the state now. According to the data shared by the health department, one death each was reported from Patna, Aurangabad, Bhagalpur, Gopalganj and East Champaran. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) reported two deaths, both of people from Patna district. The first was a 48-year-old resident of Jalpura and another a 58-year-old man of Lodipur. They had died on Monday, but their deaths were reported on Tuesday. The hospital’s nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, told TOI that 20 patients from localities like Sultanganj, A G Colony, Magistrate Colony and Gandhi Nagar were admitted to the AIIMS-P and 14 discharged on Tuesday. While three patients were discharged from the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, one was admitted there. However, no death was reported. Of the 798 new cases, 304 were from Patna, taking the tally to 38,418. However, with 36,310 recoveries and 284 deaths, there are 1,824 active cases in the state capital. Covid-19 cases were also reported from other districts like Muzaffarpur (58), Gaya (39), Begusarai (26), Purnea (26) and Saran (21). Meanwhile, the state’s recovery rate has reached 96.58%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/798-new-covid-cases-take-tally-to-224275/articleshow/79160613.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP netas, workers hit the ground early||SIDDIPET: How did the BJP pull it off? In fact, for local BJP cadres, the win did not come as a surprise. Karideva Mahipal Reddy, former sarpanch of Bejjanki in Siddipet district, says the party cadres would have been surprised had Raghunandan Rao not won the race. Soon after the election date was announced, party workers formed into groups and went around villages. They not only concentrated on door-to-door canvassing but also focused on telling the residents that what the central government had done for the people and how the TRS was deceiving them. While Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy, state BJP president and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind and other leaders campaigned in Dubbak, focus of the BJP workers at the ground level was to tell people that Dubbak was not developed as much as it should have been. “We told people that Siddipet, Gajwel and Sircilla had seen development because they were represented by finance minister T Harish Rao, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao respectively. Dubbak is located close to all these constituencies and yet it has been neglected by the ruling TRS,” a BJP worker said. This same question was posed to every voter in Dubbak. “We just made them aware of how they were being neglected all these year,” A Raju, a BJP worker, said. BJP workers from Medak also campaigned as two of its mandals fall under Dubbak constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-netas-workers-hit-the-ground-early/articleshow/79159239.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Total cases near five-lakh mark||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: Covid-19 was reported among 6,010 people in the state on Tuesday. The total cases in the state are now nearing the five-lakh figure, with 4,95,712 cases reported till date. Meanwhile, active cases are coming down and it has become 78,694. The total cured cases till date are 4,15,158. In the last 24 hours, 54,751 samples were tested in the state and the test positivity rate has come down to 10.98%. The total samples tested till date have become 51,85,673. As many as 28 more deaths were reported due to Covid-19 and the total death toll in the state has become 1,743. Among the new cases, 5,910 are infected through local spread of which the source of 653 is unknown and 69 are healthcare workers. Of the diagnosed cases, 100 people have come from outside the state. A total of 6,698 people who were under treatment have been recovered in the day. Kozhikode reported the highest number of new cases (807) followed by Thrissur (711), Malappuram (685), Alappuzha (641), Ernakulam (583), Thiruvananthapuram (567), Kollam (431), Kottayam (426), Palakkad (342), Kannur (301), Pathanamthitta (234), Wayanad (112), Idukki (89) and Kasaragod (81). Those who got infected through local spread are 759 in Kozhikode, 685 in Thrissur, 645 in Malappuram, 628 in Alappuzha, 375 in Ernakulam, 436 in Thiruvananthapuram, 425 in Kollam, 420 in Kottayam, 182 in Palakkad, 220 in Kannur, 180 in Pathanamthitta, 104 in Wayanad, 57 in Idukki and 72 in Kasaragod. The healthcare workers who got infected are 12 each in Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, 9 in Malappuram, 8 each in Ernakulam, Thrissur and Kannur, 2 each in Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Idukki, Palakkad, Wayanad and Kasaragod. Those recovered are Thiruvananthapuram - 580, Kollam - 485, Pathanamthitta - 175, Alappuzha - 559, Kottayam - 361, Idukki - 105, Ernakulam - 1,078, Thrissur - 1,088, Palakkad - 413, Malappuram - 545, Kozhikode - 798, Wayanad - 135, Kannur - 177 and Kasaragod - 199. There are currently 3,16,359 people under observation across the state, of which 2,97,041 are under isolation at their homes or institutional-quarantine centres and 19,318 in hospitals. A total of 2,039 people were admitted to hospitals on the day. As many as 11 more places were declared as new hotspots while seven areas were excluded. There are 616 hotspots in the state now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/total-cases-nearing-5-lakh-tpr-comes-down-to-10-98/articleshow/79157655.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Cracker industry stakeholders urge SC for relaxation in other cities||Kolkata: A platform representing various stakeholders in Bengtal’s fireworks industry will urge the Supreme Court to uphold the National Green Tribunal order issued a couple of days ago, allowing a two-hour window to celebrate Kali Puja, Diwali, Chhath and Jagadharti Puja with green crackers in places other than Kolkata and Howrah, where the air quality index is poor. “We are absolutely in sync with the NGT order that bans firecrackers in Delhi NCR and other cities with high pollution level but allows use of firecrackers for two hours in other places. In Bengal, only two places — Kolkata and Howrah — will have the restrictions. All other places, including Bidhannagar, Uluberia, Kharagpur, Midnapore, Durgapur, Asansol and Sliguri should be outside the ban purview,” said Sara Bangla Atoshbaji Unnayan Samity president Babla Roy. The association has moved the Supreme Court against the Calcutta High Court order that announced a blanket ban on use of firecrackers across Bengal for the whole of November. Though a bulk of the Rs 4,800-crore revenue from this festive period will be lost due to the embargo in Kolkata, fireworks manufacturers and retailers hope to make up part of the loss from sales in other towns and cities in the state. The statewide ban order by HC followed a petition by a forum of doctors, who argued that a spike in particulate matter in the air from the bursting of crackers, which leads to a sharp deterioration in air quality, could prove fatal for not just patients with respiratory issues but also Covid patients and even those who have recovered, by triggering respiratory distress. Every year, air quality turns toxic during Kali Puja-Diwali celebrations and shoots up to the hazardous levels, causing distress to patients with COPD, asthama and other respiratory ailments. Data recorded in air quality monitoring stations show how the particulate count shoots up when the crackers are burst and stays high for the rest of winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cracker-industry-stakeholders-urge-sc-for-relaxation-in-other-cities/articleshow/79159309.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 11, 2020||Allahabad||Anti-CAA protests: HC stays arrest of 2 accused||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has stayed the arrest of two accused who had allegedly taken part in the agitation against the CAA, NRC and NPR and were accused of committing an offence of sedition and making imputations and assertions prejudicial to national integration. Disposing of the writ petition filed by one Ahmad Ali and Shubaibur of Prayagraj, a division bench comprising Justice Bachchoo Lal and Justice Subhash Chandra Sharma directed that both the petitioners shall not be arrested in the aforementioned case till the submission of police report provided that they co-operated with the investigation. This writ petition was filed by the petitioners for quashing of the FIR dated March 6, 2020 registered under Sections 124-A (sedition) and 153-B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) at Kareili police station of Prayagraj district. The allegations levelled in the FIR were that the petitioners had participated in a protest against CAA, NRC and NPR. The submission of counsel for the petitioners was that the petitioners are not named in the FIR. The name of the second petitioner, Shubaibur, came into light in the second statement of the informant Santosh Kumar Dubey, SHO Kareily police station. Thereafter, the arrested co-accused Fazal Khan disclosed the name of the petitioners. Hence, there is no cogent evidence on record to connect the petitioners with the alleged offence. “Neither the petitioners have committed the alleged offence nor were they involved in the alleged incident. Only for the purpose of harassment the petitioners have been falsely implicated in the present case. No offence is made out against petitioners, therefore, impugned FIR is liable to be quashed,” the counsel for the petitioner further argued. However, the state counsel opposed the request for quashing of the FIR and argued that from the allegations made in the FIR, prima facie, a cognizable offence is made out against petitioners, therefore, the impugned FIR is not liable to be quashed. However, the court refused to quash the FIR, saying, “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the court did not find any ground to quash the first information report”. The court passed this order on October 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/anti-caa-protests-hc-stays-arrest-of-2-accused/articleshow/79161177.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Mom of Walayar girls marches to A K Balan’s house||PALAKKAD: The mother of the deceased Walayar Dalit girls have started her ‘Neethi Yathra’ (march for justice) from her house at Walayar on Tuesday on foot to the residence of A K Balan, minister for welfare of scheduled caste and scheduled tribes in Palakkad town demanding investigation by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged rape and murder of her minor daughters. The minister had questioned the agitation by the mother who sat on a week-long Sathyagraha demanding reinvestigation of the case. The Neethi Yathra will reach the minister’s house on Thursday and a memorandum will be given to him seeking CBI inquiry into the case. The case pertains to the alleged rape and subsequent deaths of two minor Dalit girls at Walayar. The 13-year-old elder girl was found hanging on January 13, 2014, and the nine-year-old younger one was found hanging on March 4, 2014. The trial court had acquitted Valiya Madhu, Cheriya Madhu, Shibu, and Pradeep, the accused in the case. Third accused Pradeep committed suicide recently. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mom-of-walayar-girls-marches-to-mins-house/articleshow/79157711.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Agra||BJP retains all 3 western UP seats in bypoll held under the shadow of Hathras protests||Tundla/Amroha/ Bulandshahr: The ruling BJP in Uttar Pradesh was apparently successful in retaining the Dalit vote bank and with it the three assembly seats of western Uttar Pradesh in the face of month-long angry protests against the alleged gang-rape and murder of a girl from the Valmiki community in the region. The opposition parties had built their election campaign around the September 14 incident, hoping to consolidate the Dalit vote bank against BJP. At Tundla (SC) seat, just 60km from Hathras, BJP’s Prempal Singh Dhangar defeated SP candidate Maharaj Singh Dhangar. BSP was a distant third at the assembly seat dominated by the people of Dalit community. There are around 3.6lakh registered voters in the constituency with Jatav, Baghel and Dhangar (all Dalits) being the dominant castes with an estimated strength of over 1.2lakh. According to the election commission data, the BJP candidate won the election by a margin of 17,683 votes. BJP’s Prempal got 72,844 (40.24%) votes as compared to SP’s Maharaj who secured 55,209 (30.49%) votes. BSP candidate got 40,967 (22.62%) votes. “This is a victory of BJP workers who worked day and night to retain this seat. I will try my best to fulfill the expectations of the people of my constituency. Making suitable arrangements for the supply of drinking water to each household will be my top priority. I will ensure the roads in my constituency are pothole free and people get benefit of the government schemes in a hassle-free manner,” said BJP’s Prempal while flashing the victory sign. This was his first election. The Tundla seat fell vacant and elections were called after incumbent MLA SP Singh Baghel was elected to Lok Sabha from Agra seat. At Amroha’s Naugawan Sadat seat, Sangeeta Chauhan-- the wife of former UP cabinet minister Chetan Chauhan-- secured a comfortable victory over SP’s Javed Abdi. According to sources, a large chunk of 20% Dalit vote went to BJP’s kitty. And the Muslim votes got divided between the candidates of SP and BSP. “BSP chose a Sunni candidate in the Shia-dominated seat. SP’s Abdi is a Shia cleric. It led to a clear spilt in Muslim votes,” a political observer said. BSP’s Furqan got 38,192 votes (18.4%) while SP candidate Abdi was polled 71, 615 votes (34.2%). The winner, BJP’s Sangeeta, secured 86,692 votes (41.4%). Congress candidate Dr Kamlesh Singh had to settle with 4,500 votes (2%). The bypoll on Naugawan Sadat seat was called after the death of former test cricketer Chetan Chauhan. “My husband now is not in this world but he is with me. People of this constituency paid a true tribute to him. That is why our party won the seat again. I will not let the people down, and will fulfill the remaining promises of my husband. My priority will be to complete all public welfare projects which are still in the pipeline,” Sangeeta, a former banker, said soon after her victory. At Bulandshahr Sadar seat, BJP candidate Usha Sirohi won comfortably by over 21,000 votes. The runner up, BSP’s Mohammad Yunus, was polled 66,943 votes (33%). Bhim Army chief’s newly-floated Azad Samaj Party was at the third spot with over 13,000 votes (6%). And BJP’s Usha Sirohi got 88,645 votes (43%). And Congress’ Sushil Chaudhary was polled 10,319 votes (5.1%). RLD candidate Praveen Kumar Singh, also backed by the SP due to an alliance, got only 7,312 votes. After a rally by Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar got a good response, most political analysts believed that his party will be able to get a good chunk of Dalit votes. The turnout at the rally didn’t turn into votes. The seat has over 52,000 Dalit Jatav voters. And Muslims, who constitute the largest chunk, are over 1.2lakh. Political analyst said that the Muslim votes were split on this seat also between BSP’s Mohammad Yunus and Azad Samaj Party’s Haji Yamin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bjp-retains-all-3-western-up-seats-in-bypoll-held-under-the-shadow-of-hathras-protests/articleshow/79156484.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 11, 2020||Pune||RTO sees steady demand for special numbers||PUNE: The desire to stand out from the pack — or traffic, in this case — seems to be undiminished even in the face of a pandemic, with the Pune regional transport office reporting a steady demand for special registration numbers. The regional transport office (RTO) has raked in nearly Rs5.70 crore from the auction of these “VIP” numbers between April and October this year, which was nearly 78% of the Rs7.24 crore earned during the corresponding period last year. While they never expected the figures to match pre-Covid levels, an RTO official said they were nevertheless encouraged by the earnings during this period.  “With a couple of months left this year — and five months to go in the fiscal — we are looking at an impressive revenue if things stay the same or even improve,” the official said. Interestingly enough, RTO officials said that there was an 85% drop in the number of special registration numbers purchased from April to October this year — just 3,500 number plates as against 24,000 number plates last year. “The revenue of Rs5.7 crore makes it clear that while fewer numbers were purchased, the bids at the auctions were high,” the official said. During the period under consideration, the regional transport office (RTO) came out with five series of special numbers for two-wheelers and two series for four-wheelers.  In 2019, the regional transport office brought out six series in both categories. Each series comprises 9,900 numbers. Once all numbers are assigned, a new series is floated. “The ongoing festive season has been really good in terms of people buying attractive numbers. A new series was floated on Monday,” another official said. Hadapsar resident Prasad Baghe said he will be seeking a special registration number for his two-wheeler, which he would get next week. “I will visit the regional transport office a couple of days later for a special number — I always have been interested in numbers like ‘2222’ or ‘5555’ and will buy/bid for something similar. It will be my Diwali gift to myself,” Prasad, who owns a mobile phone shop, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rto-sees-steady-demand-for-special-numbers/articleshow/79159272.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||Not Covid-19, it could be melioidosis||Nagpur: If someone is experiencing constant high grade fever, joint pain, headache, rapid breathing and dull chest pain, most of us will immediately conclude that the person is infected with Covid-19. In case the fever is not receding with general medicines, even experts may call it a case of Covid-19. But, melioidosis too has these symptoms, and it is increasing in prevalence in Vidarbha’s rural parts. “There is a significant increase in number of cases of melioidosis, an emerging infection in India,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. “We typically see more patients from Brahmapuri, Chandrapur, Digras, Darwha, Akola, Murtizapur and other areas of rural Vidarbha. In last 3 to 4 months, we have treated at least 10-12 patients of melioidosis, which is really high as compared to earlier figures,” he said. Earlier, hardly 3 to 5 patients used to come to his hospital in a year. Number of patients increase usually in October-November. The bacterium responsible for melioidosis survives in stagnant, murky water and soil. It also has the ability to become airborne. It is commonly found in animals. Humans can become very ill with this. For example, a person may cut his hand while doing some landscaping, farming or construction work, and the bacteria then enters the body through that small entryway. “With winter setting in, it becomes an air-borne infection carried by dust. As dust rises at the beginning of winter, the number of patients increase along with it,” said Dr Shinde. Dr Rajkumar Chauhan, civil surgeon of Akola, said diabetes and alcoholism are the commonest triggering factors for this disease. “It’s not rare these days, but often remains unreported. Very few doctors in rural areas too know the details about melioidosis. As the symptoms are quite similar to Covid-19, we need to take special care,” he said. Patients generally experience fever for longer duration, up to 3 months, in melioidosis. First, most patients rely on local medication. With no improvement, some of them report to cities like Nagpur. They present with conditions involving joints or focal abscess. Diagnosis of melioidosis is made by culturing the organism from appropriate clinical specimens. The redeeming factor about melioidosis is that most patients get cured with medication. “Normal antibiotics don’t affect melioidosis. So, specialists prescribe specialized medicines. More than 80% patients recover post medication. But we need to identify it early. It could be fatal if ignored,” said Dr Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/not-covid-19-it-could-be-melioidosis/articleshow/79157669.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 11, 2020||Bareilly||Family members praise Rampur authorities for renaming gates after war heroes||RAMPUR: Family members of late Major Abdul Rafey Khan and late Colonel Sahabzada Muhammad Yunus Ali Khan hailed Rampur administration's decision to rename the huge gates constructed during the SP regime near Gandhi Samadhi -- Bab-e-Hayat and Bab-e-Nijat -- after the war veterans respectively. Speaking with TOI over the phone from Mumbai, Nawabzadi Saman Ali Khan, said, "On behalf of my family and my husband, Sahabzada Irfan Khan, I thank Rampur DM AK Singh for taking this initiative to acknowledge and honour the memory of my father-in-law, late Col Sahabzada Muhammad Yunus Khan. We hope this will inspire and encourage the younger generations of Rampur to serve the nation." New Delhi-based daughters of late Major Abdul Rafay Khan, Shamama Ahmed and Seema Jaffar Ghayas, said, "Happy to know that his great sacrifice for the country is being recognised."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/family-members-praise-rampur-authorities-for-renaming-gates-after-war-heroes/articleshow/79156488.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala not to relax seven-day quarantine norm for international travellers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala will not lift the seven-day mandatory quarantine for those coming from abroad. Even though the Centre has issued new guidelines that international travellers will not be required to undergo institutional or home quarantine if they can submit a negative RT-PCR report of the test conducted within 72 hours of their journey, the state has decided against providing this relaxation. Instead, the state government will write to the Centre stating that lifting the mandatory quarantine for the international travellers will be riskier for a state like Kerala and will have adverse effect. Though local spread has overtaken the spreading from the international travellers in the state, the government is of the view that it would be beneficial for continuing with the mandatory quarantine guidelines for international travellers. In the past few days, only less than 2% of the total new cases are contributed by person who had travelled from outside the state. Kerala is also insisting seven-day quarantine for persons travelling from other states though unlock guidelines have suggested to do away with the practice. The persons can end quarantine only after testing negative on the seventh day. Or else, international and domestic travellers need to complete 14-day quarantine. The state is of the view that 40% of the households in the state have a family member abroad and the senior citizens are left here. Hence, it will have an adverse impact if we the mandatory quarantine is lifted. “If the person is in a window period, he or she will always be RT-PCR negative. They travel with that and reaches any airport in the country and then travels to Kerala. They are having a second exposure. In many of their households only senior citizens are there, which will have an adverse impact,” said Rajan N Khobragade, principal secretary (health). “How can we say that no passenger will be a carrier? If people are coming from Europe or USA, they have more probability of having the virus, especially there are reports that the caseload is increasing there. If their exposure is three days ago, their RT-PCR will be negative. But they have the probability for spreading. Hence, it is always advisable to have seven-day quarantine for the benefit of others at their home and for themselves too,” he said. The principal secretary said that the expert committee, the crisis management group and the state medical board will discuss the issue. The state will also write to the Centre to detail the scientific rationale behind the new guidelines. As per the new guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare for international arrivals, travellers will not be required to undergo institutional or home quarantine if they can submit a negative RT-PCR test report that was conducted within 72 hours of their journey. The circular says, “They should also give an undertaking on the portal or otherwise to the ministry of civil aviation, government of India, through airlines concerned before they are allowed to undertake the journey that they would abide by the decision of the appropriate government authority to undergo facility/home quarantine/self-monitoring of their health for 14 days, or as warranted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-not-to-relax-7-day-quarantine-norm-for-international-travellers/articleshow/79157691.cms||Rajiv G
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Angry youth turn tide against TRS in Dubbak||SIDDIPET: It was the angry voice of youth which was heard in Dubbak. The voices were against the ruling TRS. This was reflected in the voting as Raghunandan Rao, who had lost his deposit earlier in Dubbak election twice, emerged victorious. “Jobs were promised but we are still unemployed. Unemployment dole was promised, we did not get it. We all participated in the struggle for a separate Telangana state but after it became a reality, we have been neglected,” said Prabhakar Reddy, who worked for the victory of the BJP candidate. Another youth Rakesh said he was disappointed as the TRS government had neglected the youth. “We wanted a change. This change would mean that we will be able to fight in the next assembly elections in 2023. A BJP candidate will be the chief minister,” Rakesh said. The youth was hoping to get appointed as a teacher but only a limited number of vacancies were filled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/angry-youth-turntide-against-trs/articleshow/79159269.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 11, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: Pune metropolitan region’s active tally shrinks 69% to 10,000 in just a month||PUNE: The active Covid-19 tally in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) has dropped 69%, from 32,771 to 10,298, over one month since October 9, following the decline in new cases and higher recoveries. Data released by the district health office has stated that the highest fall had been recorded in the rural and cantonment areas (see box). In the Pune municipal limits, which have accounted for highest number of active patients in the region, the tally dropped below 5,000 on Monday. When it comes to the neighbouring Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas, the active count has dropped by to 1,447. Health department officials said a significant drop was seen in the rural areas in PMR in October. “Besides, there has been a major drop in the infection hotspots in the region. In the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, new cases are coming up in a sporadic manner. No major outbreak has been reported in the last one-month period,” a health official said. As per the data released on November 9, about 92% of total 4,958 active patients in the PMC limits were in home quarantine and the remaining 8% were undergoing treatment in various hospitals. In the rural areas, 86% of total active cases were being treated at various hospitals, while in the PCMC limits, 48% were in home isolation and 52% patients in hospitals. A PMC health official said a drop in active patients have led to better availability of all type of beds in the hospitals designated for Covid-19 patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmrs-active-tally-shrinks-69-to-10k-in-just-a-month/articleshow/79159304.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak outcome likely toset tone for GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Tuesday’s result is likely to have a bearing on the forthcoming GHMC elections and MLC polls to the graduates constituencies. Elections to 150 wards in Greater Hyderabad and Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar and Warangal-Khammam and Nalgonda graduates constituencies are set to be held in the next two months. While the TRS is hopeful that there would be no impact of Dubbak outcome on GHMC and MLC polls, the BJP believes the ruling party will face the wrath of the people in the ensuing elections. BJP state vice president NVSS Prabhakar said the Dubbak victory would definitely boost the morale of BJP workers in the city and help the party’s march towards victory podium in the GHMC elections. Of the 150 wards, 45 are in the Old City and adjoining areas where the AIMIM is strong and the assembly constituencies are represented by the Majlis MLAs, the rest are in Secunderabad and surrounding areas. BJP is strong in some packets in Secunderabad parliament and about half a dozen constituencies in Rangareddy and Medchal. The disadvantage for the saffron party, however, is that it has only one legislator (Goshamahal) from 24 assembly constituencies in Greater Hyderabad. “The elections are fought on issues, development and infrastructure facilities where TRS has fared well in the last six years,” a city TRS MLA said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-outcome-likely-toset-tone-for-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79159320.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 11, 2020||Pune||450 test positive, 13 more succumb to coronavirus in Pune metropolitan region||PUNE: As many as 720 patients recovered in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Tuesday as compared to the addition of 450 new cases. Besides, 13 more patients succumbed to coronavirus-related complications in the region in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 8,106. The total recoveries in PMR reached 3.11 lakh on Tuesday, while its caseload increased above 3.28 lakh, including 1.63 lakh cases from the Pune municipal limits, 88,986 from the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits and 76,352 from the rural and cantonment areas. Both the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits as well as the rural areas reported addition of less than 200 cases on Tuesday. While the PMC limits added 185 new patients, the PCMC areas added 108, followed by the rural areas (157). Among the deceased, four patients succumbed to coronavirus each in the PMC and PCMC limits, while five died due to the complications in the rural areas. For the last three days, the region has reported less than 20 deaths. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 4,516 patients have succumbed to the infection so far from the PMC limits, followed by the rural areas (2,039) and the PCMC limits (1,551). The report stated that 6,234 samples were tested in the region on Tuesday, pushing the total above 14.95 lakh. Among the total tests, 7.58 lakh have been conducted in the PMC limits, followed by the PCMC limits (4.22 lakh) and the rural as well as cantonment areas (2.98 lakh). According to a PMC report, the tally of critical patients in the municipal limits dropped to 378 on Tuesday, including 239 on ventilator support. A total of 1,020 patients were on oxygen support. As many as 139 patients were admitted in the intensive care unit (ICU)s at various hospitals. Health officials have urged people to exercise caution and avoid crowded places in view of the Covid-19 situation. “People stepping out to shop should ensure that they wear masks and also ensure social distancing. People should also maintain proper hygiene,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/450-test-positive-13-more-succumb-to-coronavirus/articleshow/79159316.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak bypoll result: T20 drama all the way but no super over||SIDDIPET: It was like watching an IPL T20 cricket match with the match poised to go either way towards the end. Right from the word go, as results of the Dubbak assembly by-election rounds started pouring in after counting started at 8 am at Indur Engineering College at Siddipet, it generated a huge interest. All the action was happening at two places in Siddipet. The BJP office and the residence of finance minister and Siddipet legislator T Harish Rao. At the BJP office, it was a packed house as the entire office was filled with supporters who clapped every time Raghunandan Rao got a lead. When the TRS seemed to steal a march occasionally, the mood was low but optimism was high that Rao would bounce back in the next round. There was a TV set in the open space in front of Harish Rao’s house where hundreds of TRS supporters were glued to it. “There was no iota of doubt that our candidate would not win. Solipeta Ramalinga Reddy did a lot for a constituency and therefore his widow’s win was a foregone conclusion,” a supporter said. “This is tense but we will sail through,” a TRS supporter said. Despite the excitement, TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha falling behind Raghunandan left the TRS cadres crestfallen. In the first five rounds when the BJP candidate was leading, it was dismissed as votes having come from BJP stronghold areas of Dubbak town and mandal. The only saving grace in Dubbak mandal was that Sujatha, who hails from Chittapur village, polled more votes than the BJP candidate. In the sixth and seven round, the TRS seemed to be on the way to recovery. But after that, the BJP still nosed ahead. Subsequently, the TRS appeared as if it was well on its way to victory but the BJP came right into the game in the 22nd and 23rd rounds and winning the election. In the final tally, the BJP got 62,772 votes, the TRS candidate got 61,302 votes and Congress candidate got 21,819 votes from the total of 1,62,516 votes.  The rest of the votes were divided among 21 other candidates who were either independents or belonged to other parties. NOTA option got 552 votes. Among the independents, Bandaru Nagaraju polled 3,489 votes — the highest among the independents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t20-drama-all-the-way-but-no-super-over/articleshow/79159307.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
November 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: 26-year-old Nepali arrested on CME campus||PUNE: The Bhosari police on Monday arrested a 26-year-old Nepali woman from male officers’ quarters on the College of Military Engineering (CME) campus in Dapodi, where she was allegedly staying illegally since March 23. The woman was traced to the CME campus after a Pune man accused her of accepting Rs85 lakh from him after promising to help him secure a parking contract in Dubai in 2019. Police said the woman then fled to Nepal and then arrived in thiPune in Janus year. The man, who had been tracking the woman, approached the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner with a complaint application and a letter from the Indian consulate in Dubai last week and told police he had last traced her to Bhosari. The police tracked her down to the CME campus and apprehended her on Monday. An officer from CME, on the condition of anonymity, said the woman was trespassing on the campus and that they were investigating how she entered the premises. Another CME officer said, “We came to know about the woman’s entry into the campus only after the police approached us. As of now, we don’t have any knowledge about her connection with any Army personnel.” The woman has been charged under IPC Section 452 (house trespass) and relevant sections of the Mumbai Police Act. On Tuesday, a local court remanded her in police custody for two days. “Since March 23, the woman was staying at an honorary captain’s bungalow and never came out of the facility. Senior CME officers too were surprised when they learnt about her presence,” a police officer part of the investigation said. The officer said, “After the Dubai episode, she came to Pune and was staying at a hostel in Koregaon Park, where she met the CME honorary captain on one occasion. The two kept in touch over the phone and in March, when the lockdown was announced, the woman had no place to stay. She contacted the CME officer. As one cannot easily enter the CME premises without prior permission, the woman entered illegally on the night of March 23 and has been staying in the G-157/7 quarters since then.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/26-year-old-nepali-arrested-on-cme-campus/articleshow/79159313.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 11, 2020||Vadodara||Truck crushes man to death||VADODARA: Traffic police’s complacence to keep a check on heavy vehicles during prohibited hours once again claimed the life of a Barodian on Tuesday morning. Urshil Desai, a 28-year-old man living on Sama-Savli Road, was run over by a concrete mixing truck on the Mangal Pandey Road at around 8.30 am. Desai, who worked in an engineering consultancy company on Alembic Road, was on his way to work. According to police, the concrete mixer was coming out of the Agora Mall site while Desai was riding his bike towards VUDA circle. Neither of them noticed each other’s vehicles due to which the accident took place, cops said. Desai had worn a helmet but that, too, broke due to the impact of the accident. Desai succumbed on the spot due to the grievous injuries. His body was taken to SSG Hospital for post-mortem. Incidentally, a few days ago locals had installed plastic speed breakers before the road openings outside the mall’s construction site, but the civic body officials removed them on Monday. Based on Desai’s father Rakesh’s complaint, an offence was registered against the truck driver at Sama Police Station. “The driver escaped after the accident and we are trying to get his details and whereabouts,” said a police official. Heavy vehicles are banned during the day between 7 am and 1 pm and in the evening between 5 pm and 9 pm from plying on city roads. However, the rules are flouted across the city on daily basis. In the past, traffic police have launched several drives to penalize the heavy vehicles. But once the drive ends the heavy vehicles are once again seen on the roads during the prohibited hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/truck-crushes-man-to-death/articleshow/79156072.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||Order for reopening of schools issued, no mention of funds||Nagpur: On Tuesday, the state government officially issued the notification allowing schools to reopen from November 23 onwards. The decision, announced a few days ago by CM Uddhav Thackeray, is applicable only to Std IX-XII and attendance is not mandatory. But there is a complete ban on organizing any event on the campus. This includes cultural, sports or the annual functions in schools. Only parents-teachers association meets can happen, but that too online. The notification, however, is silent on who will fund Covid-19 sanitization costs in aided and government schools. Ravindra Fadnavis, executive member of an association which represents trusts that run schools, said they expect the government to acknowledge their concerns. “We wrote to CM Uddhav Thackeray citing our financial inability to reopen schools. As per the information received, the letter has been forwarded to the school education department. Unfortunately, no reply has come,” said Fadnavis. TOI had reported on Tuesday about the association’s demand for Rs1 lakh per 500 students. These aided schools remain firm in their stand of not reopening till the funds are provided. The notification on school reopening mentions safety guidelines to be followed along with a reminder that attendance cannot be forced. The notification reiterated that students can attend school only after written consent from parents. The SOPs for school reopening had been issued some time back, and the same will remain in effect. In the previous SOP list, schools had been asked to ensure sanitization of the premises on a daily basis. Also, parents have been urged to not send their children to school if they have fever. Schools have been requested to form groups with parents and teachers to monitor safety, cleanliness, etc on the campus. Apart from regular schools, ashramshalas, too, have been given the green nod to start their residential campuses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/order-for-reopening-of-schools-issued-no-mention-of-funds/articleshow/79157698.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 11, 2020||Pune||Motorcyclist run over by heavy vehicle||Pune: A 24-year-old motorcyclist died after a speeding truck suddenly swerved to its right side and grazed his bike at Manjri Budruk around 9.55am on Monday. The victim, Anil Ramprasad Rajbhar (24), ran two scrap shops at Manjri Budruk and Gopalpatti. Assistant inspector Manoj Patil from the Hadapsar police said on Tuesday, “Rajbhar was on way to Manjri Budruk from Gopalpatti for visiting one of his shops. He lost control over his speeding bike after crossing a speed breaker. At the same time, the truck came on the right side without giving signal and grazed his bike.” He said, “Rajbhar fell off his bike and his head came under the rear wheel of the truck. He died on the spot. The truck driver abandoned the vehicle and fled. We have seized the vehicle.” Patil said, “Rajbhar succumbed to multiple head injuries. We detained the driver for questioning on Tuesday. Eyewitness Suraj Dodmishe (28) from Gadital registered an FIR against the driver for causing the victim’s death due to negligence under the relevant sections of the IPC and the Motor Vehicles Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorcyclist-run-over-by-heavy-vehicle/articleshow/79159308.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Duo gag & rob IT professional of cash, valuables in daylight||PUNE: A 35-year-old marketing manager with a Bengaluru-based IT company was gagged, abducted and robbed of cash and valuables collectively worth Rs1.9 lakh by two men in Kondhwa on Tuesday morning. Police said the duo forced the woman to transfer Rs40,000 using a payment app and later withdrew Rs10,000 from an ATM on NIBM Road using her debit card after compelling her to reveal the PIN. They also snatched her three gold rings worth Rs30,000 and a diamond studded ring worth Rs50,000 using a ring cutter, besides a gold chain worth Rs60,000. Times ViewThe daylight abduction of a woman reflects the criminals’ lack of fear for law, besides the deteriorating law and order situation in the city. Police should immediately step up vigil in the city and take strict action against such fearless criminals. It is high time policing became visible, instilling a sense of confidence among citizens, especially women.“For more than an hour, the suspects kept moving around Salunke Vihar, Pisoli, Undri, NIBM Road and adjoining areas in her car with the woman gagged and her hands tied,” senior inspector Sardar Patil of the Kondhwa police said. Patil said, “The victim came to Pune a few days ago for celebrating Diwali with her family in their house at Salunke Vihar. She wanted to learn car driving. Rajesh Singh, one of the two suspects, is known to her and her father (a retired army sepoy) through a common friend. Singh was teaching her driving for the past few days.” Around 8.30am on Tuesday, Singh came to the woman’s house with a friend. She was alone then because her parents had left for Hyderabad last week for some urgent work and her brother was at his workplace. “The unsuspecting woman joined Singh and his friend for a driving session, following which the incident occurred,” Patil said. Inspector (crime) Mahadeo Kumbhar said, “We are checking CCTV footage for establishing the routes the suspects took before and after the crime, besides investigations. We have written to the bank and the UPI application authorities to share details of the transactions. The woman suffered minor abrasions on her hands. She has given the description of the suspects, in the age group of 30-35 years. Sporting black shirts, they were conversing in Hindi.” The woman, an electronics engineer with an MBA degree, told TOI, “I tried resisting the duo when they gagged me and tied my hands. My nail marks have come on Singh’s hand. I tried to raise an alarm when they stopped my Fiat car near NIBM, but there were no passers-by around.” She said, “Singh threatened me with dire consequences and asked me to give my debit card. After I told him that the card was at my home, he took the keys of my house, went there and returned with my purse. Later, they withdrew the cash from the ATM and abandoned me in my car near my house. I freed myself and drove home. I then called my parents in Hyderabad, and my brother here, to inform them about the incident.” The woman lodged an FIR under sections 363 (abduction), 394 (robbery), 452 (house trespass) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code on Tuesday evening,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-gag-rob-it-professional-of-cash-valuables-in-daylight/articleshow/79159293.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 11, 2020||Agra||4 days on, Agra continues to gasp for air||AGRA: Air quality in Agra remained hazardous on Tuesday as the Air Quality Index (AQI) stood in the “severe” category for the fourth consecutive day. Though AQI stood at 415, which was 59 notches less than the previous day, the polluted air brought no respite to those with existing breathing problems and related ailments. The index, monitored by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) across the country, showed that out of total 13 cities in UP, Agra had the lowest AQI among the seven cities in the “severe” category. It AQI was a few notches below Noida (455), Baghpat (447), Ghaziabad (444), Greater Noida (436), Kanpur (422) and Bulandshahr (417). An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 “severe". The major pollutant in the air was recorded particulate matter — PM 2.5 which is the minutest and finest particle that is able to travel deep into the respiratory tract. The 24-hour permissible level is 60 micrograms per cubic meter. With the increase in pollution levels, doctors in the city advised people, especially the elderly, to avoid morning walks, when air quality is at its worst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/4-days-on-agra-continues-to-gasp-for-air/articleshow/79156501.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Surat||Visiting doctor attacked in fight over pending fees||SURAT: Nine persons, including a doctor, were booked for allegedly attacking a chest physician following dispute over fees for examining Covid-19 patients in the last few months at Ratnadeep Hospital in New City Light area. Police on Monday booked Ravindrasinh Raj, Pankajsinh Raj, Jaysinh Raj, Rajnikantsinh Raj, three watchmen and two bouncers for allegedly attacking Dr Deep Modh (34). Police said Dr Modh was attacked on Monday night at the hospital when he demanded Rs 2.13 lakh pending fees as a visiting doctor from the administration. The hospital was designated for Covid treatment by the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC). Modh alleged that the administrators refused to pay and asked to come for discussion at night. Modh, who runs a hospital in Maroli and is associated with various hospitals in the city, went at night. Police said that Modh was given a cheque of some amount which led to an argument between the accused and the victim. They allegedly thrashed Modh and tore off his clothes. “We have recovered the CCTV footage from the hospital. All assailants are on the run,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/visiting-doctor-attacked-in-fight-over-pending-fees/articleshow/79156473.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Tipu Sultan was respectful of Hindu religion, says Congress||HUBBALLI: Tipu had handed over his two children to Britishers as hostages in the interest of his state and the nation as well and was treating all religious persons equally, said Altaf Hallur, president, Hubballi-Dharwad City District Congress Committee. Speaking at the 270th birth anniversary of Tipu Sultan, Hallur said Tipu was a pioneer in adopting advanced technology in administration, particularly in the defence sector. “His life is the best lesson to teach to the next generation,” he added. Former KPCC secretary Mohan Asundi expressed regret over the state government’s move of not celebrating Tipu’s birth anniversary. Another leader Basavaraj Malakari noted that Tipu had great respect for Hindu religion and temples. “However, BJP, a communal party, is trying to present Tipu as anti-Hindu. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa utilised Tipu to woo Muslims when he floated Karnataka Janata Party but is now terming Tipu as anti-Hindu,” he added. Office bearers Dasharath Wali, Altafnawaz Kittur, Navid Mulla, Rafiq Dargad and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tipu-sultan-was-respectful-of-hindu-religion-says-cong/articleshow/79157351.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Heavy betting amid tense finish||Hyderabad: Ever since the voting for the Dubbak election was over on November 3, heavy betting was going on locally as well as in Hyderabad. Bets were placed on whether BJP will win handsomely or what will be the majority for the ruling TRS. Interestingly, bets were placed on Congress securing its deposit. The betting was especially taking place in private resorts on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Many supporters of candidates gathered to watch the election results live on Tuesday even as heavy betting was going on. “The betting amounts ranged from Rs 10,000 to Rs 1 lakh,” a TRS leader said. In the rural areas of Dubbak also, hectic betting took place with village-level leaders placing their bets. Betting was about round-wise majority and region-wise counting. There was huge betting on majority in Dubbak mandal, which is the biggest mandal in the constituency. In one village, leaders offered expensive mobile phones and vehicles and some promised liquor parties in the event of losing the bets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/heavy-betting-amid-tense-finish/articleshow/79159327.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 11, 2020||Goa||Shocked, dismayed over CM’s approach to Mollem issues: Alina||Vasco: Hitting out at chief minister Pramod Sawant over the three linear projects proposed through the Bhagwan Mahavir wildlife sanctuary in Mollem, BJP’s Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said he has “shown least concern towards the misery and destruction the people of South Goa will face should the SWR track be doubled”. Stating that the three are major projects that “have the capacity to break Goa and destroy the lives of the people forever”, the former minister for environment in the Manohar Parrikar government said, “Has the chief minister, who is head of the state, at least once visited the tracks to study and be aware of the proximity of the present track to the houses of the people, and what would their fate be should the track be doubled?” Saldanha said that members of the villagers action committee against doubling (VACAD) had met Sawant 3-4 times in his office to impress upon him the destruction and misery the doubling of the South Western Railway (SWR) track will bring about on Goa and the people of Goa. “But he is oblivious and talks about decreasing the quantum of coal to be transported,” he said. The widow of Matanhy Saldanha — the activist-turned-politician who helped BJP win seats in South Goa and come to power on its own with 21 seats in 2012 — expressed “shock and dismay over the chief minister’s approach towards the issue”. Highlighting the sacrifices made by the landowners in the past, the Cortalim MLA said that people living along the present SWR track “are the same people whose ancestors gave land for the first track around 100 years ago”. Ridiculing the government for ignoring the sentiments of these people, Saldanha said that till date, “the government never bothered to ensure that SWR puts in place facilities to make the lives of these people easier”. “Instead, the government is now out to further prejudice them by laying the second SWR track, which will land within the compound of many of these houses,” she stated in a press note. The two-time MLA also urged Sawant “to save Goa from destruction by paying heed to the voice of the people, that time and again have appealed that better sense prevail as Goa is too small to contain these mega projects”. Stating that development has to improve the standard of life of people, she said that in the name of development, the government should not be responsible for the destruction of the state’s environment, its heritage and the lives of the people of South Goa. Saldanha has been consistent in raising issues that people living along the tracks are facing over the years, and had also urged Parrikar not to go ahead with the double-tracking. In 2013, Parrikar had refused permission to SWR to double-track the Goa sector when the proposal was moved by railway authorities to add another track from Hospet to Vasco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shocked-dismayed-over-cms-approach-to-mollem-issues-alina/articleshow/79160650.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Allahabad||Pooja Bedi slammed for dragging Nagas in Milind row||Prayagraj: Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the top body of the country's 13 recognised Hindu monastic orders, has condemned actress and columnist Pooja Bedi for defending fellow actor Milind Soman’s recent nude photo and comparing it with Naga sadhus. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri said on Tuesday, “Pooja Bedi does not have any knowledge of Naga sanyasi tradition. Milind had posted his naked photo on social media recently on his birthday drawing criticism.” Goa Police had registered a case against Soman for allegedly promoting obscenity with his nude posted on his 55th birthday. Bedi had defended Soman and compared his picture with those of Naga sadhus. She tweeted, “Absolutely nothing obscene about @milindrunning aesthetic pic. The obscenity lies in the minds of a viewer imagining more! His crime is being good looking, famous & setting benchmarks! If nudity is a crime all Naga babas should be arrested. Smearing ash can’t make it acceptable!” The tweet has angered Akhada Parishad. Giri said it’s wrong to “compare the nudity and vulgarity of a model film artist to the tradition of Naga ascetics.” Giri went on to advise Pooja, “She should educate herself by knowing more about Naga sanyasis. She should spend some time in Kumbh and see the hard penance of Naga Sanyasis.” He said Naga sanyasis are found both in Vaishnav and Digambhar Jain traditions and follow severe austerity and sacrifice in life as per the convention that has been alive for centuries. Giri invited Bedi to Mahakumbh in Haridwar next year to know about Naga ascetics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pooja-bedi-slammed-for-dragging-nagas-in-milind-row/articleshow/79161181.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala needs to sustain high testing rate: Health experts||KOCHI: Initially Kerala was reluctant to increase its testing. But now within a short span it has tested 14% of its total population with 1.4 lakh tests per million population, more than that of the neighbouring Karnataka, and almost twice of Maharashtra, which has done 76,159 only tests per million population. Tamil Nadu that only does RT-PCR tests has done 1.34 tests per million population. In September, Kerala conducted 12,40,573 tests and in October it was increased to 17,19,273. In India, about 20% of the Covid tests are re-tests, with Kerala being no exception. With the state now witnessing a downward movement, both in terms of positivity and mortality, health experts said that it is essential that Kerala doesn’t reduce its testing, as the testing performance in November and December will determine the severity of Covid impact in the coming months. The state had ramped up its testing based on rapid antigen tests (RAT) that is easier and cheaper. Now, almost 75% of the tests done are RAT. The main reason for this is not just the cost involved but also the time taken to get the results RAT results are declared in less than 24 hours while in contrast RT-PCR test results take 48 to 72 hours. But the problem with antigen test is that nearly 40% of the test reports are false negative. “One major area of concern is the Effective Test Positivity Rate of Kerala - ETPR (net number of tests after reducing 20% towards retests from the total tests carried out) has increased to 11.9% against national ETPR of 8.5%. This clearly indicates that the testing needs to improve both qualitatively and quantitatively. In order to improve the quality of testing, many states seem to be giving more weightage on RT-PCR testing than RAT which has false negative report as high as 40%. Kerala needs to revisit its testing strategy in order to further improve its Covid performance,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convener, Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative involving Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Proxima, a management consulting firm. Project Jeevan Raksha has recommended that to deal with the problem of false negatives, the state governments relying on antigen tests should test representative samples of at least 20% of “asymptomatic negative” reported Covid suspects in each district using RT-PCR. In the scenario of over 25% results turning out to be false negative, antigen tests should be scrapped. At present, only symptomatic persons who test negative in antigen test are retested using RT-PCR. While antigen test costs Rs 625 in the private sector, RT-PCR test costs Rs 2,100. However, not everyone agrees that moving ahead in the infection, testing more would be the key to control the spread of infection and stop a second wave. “Human behaviour remains the key. People need to be cautious and continue taking all necessary precautions,” said former state epidemiologist Dr A Sukumaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-needs-to-sustain-high-testing-rate-health-experts/articleshow/79157724.cms||Preetu Nair
November 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Organizers speak out against civic body’s diktat regarding Diwali Pahat||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) order to ban Diwali Pahats this year has led to confusion among organizers, who termed the move uncoordinated. The Diwali Pahat — a cultural programme held in the morning — is a staple of the festive celebration in Maharashtra. Cultural observers said that Pune alone hosts nearly 300 such events every year. The PMC said it is concerned about a second wave of Covid-19 due to such gatherings. “Looking at the current situation, avoiding programmes that are optional would be advisable. So the decision of not allowing cultural programmes during the festive period has been taken. Even the state government has expressed that there are chances of a second wave of Covid-19 after Diwali. In such a scenario, bringing crowds under one roof would be harmful,” said municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar told TOI. Organizers of Diwali Pahat claimed that the order seems to lack coordination since the state government has given auditoriums the go-ahead to open with restrictions. “CM Uddhav Thackeray allowed all theatres and auditoriums to open on November 5, and a few days later, the state health minister Rajesh Tope asked people not to observe Diwali Pahats, given the public health situation. If the government did not want performances to happen, why did it allow auditoriums to open? The decision does not seem to be coordinated between the PMC and the state government,” said Sunil Mahajan of Samvad Pune, which has been organizing the programme for 25 years. (With inputs from Prasad Kulkarni)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/organizers-speak-out-against-civic-bodys-diktat-regarding-diwali-pahat/articleshow/79159331.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 11, 2020||Pune||Woman held for stealing gold jewellery||PUNE: A 49-year-old woman was arrested for stealing gold ornaments from jewellery shops located in Pimpri Chinchwad. The police have detected six cases and recovered 120gm of gold ornaments worth Rs6 lakh from the suspect Vidya Thorat of Nalasopara in Palghar. A police team, led by senior inspector of Sangvi police station Ranganath Unde, has made the arrest. Sub-inspector Yashwant Salunke of the Sangvi police station said that, on November 1, a jeweller had lodged an FIR stating that an unidentified woman had stolen nose rings worth Rs2.15 lakh from his shop on October 31. The woman had visited the shop under the pretext of purchasing nose rings. “While checking the CCTV footage, we found that the woman had boarded a white car,” Salunke said. He added that the police traced the car and brought the driver to the police station for questioning. The driver told the police that the woman was from Mumbai and her name was Vidya Thorat. “The driver also told us that the woman would be hiring his car to reach Sangvi again to meet her relatives on November 6,” Salunke said. The police laid a trap and took the woman into custody. “When we questioned the accused, the woman admitted to her involvement in six cases. We have recovered 120gm gold ornaments worth Rs6 lakh from the accused,” Salunke said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-held-for-stealing-gold-jewellery/articleshow/79159329.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||Biker killed after being hit by bus||PUNE: A 43-year-old motorcyclist, Shrikant Nivrutti Pawar of Ambegaon Budruk, died after a speeding bus hit him near Navale bridge on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass in the early hours of Monday. Police said Pawar was not wearing a helmet at the time of the accident. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Tuesday arrested the bus driver, Amaresh Manohar Gunjantte (30) from Karnataka, on the charge of rash and negligent driving after police constable Ajit Kokare lodged an FIR. The police said Pawar worked with a private company. He left his home early on Monday and was driving towards Navale bridge when the bus dashed his motorcycle from the rear between 5.30am and 6.30am. Pawar fell on the road and suffered serious internal injuries. He was taken to a private hospital at Dhankawadi, where he was declared dead. The police said the bus was heading towards Mumbai from Belgaum. Its driver did not run away from the spot after the accident. The statement of the victim’s family members was being registered by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-killed-after-being-hit-by-bus/articleshow/79159321.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||Truck driver dies in crash, helper hurt||Pune: A truck driver (40) was killed after his heavy vehicle crashed into another, parked along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass at Sutarwadi in the early hours of Monday. The Hinjewadi police identified the driver as Arul Kadarvel of Tamil Nadu. The truck’s cleaner, Jayraman Govindan (39), escaped with minor injuries. Other trucker Badshah Shaikhsaida (38) of Andhra Pradesh was arrested for causing Kadarvel’s death due to negligence. Assistant inspector Uddhav Khade of the Hinjewadi police said Shaikhsaida was transporting chilli to Vashi Market in New Mumbai. While passing through the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, he realized that the brakes of his vehicle were not working properly. “He parked the truck along the bypass near Sutarwadi in the early hours of Monday,” Khade said. He said Kadarvel, also heading to Mumbai in the truck, could not spot the parked truck due to darkness and crashed into it around 3.30am. Kadarvel was killed on the spot. The probe revealed that Shaikhsaida had parked the truck without switching on the hazard lights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-driver-dies-in-crash-helper-hurt/articleshow/79159322.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Cash, mobile snatched in Salt Lake||Kolkata: Two young siblings were stalked and robbed of a purse, containing Rs 1,500 and mobile, at FE Block in Salt Lake near their home around 9.30pm on Monday, the first time they had stepped out after an 18-day home quarantine on their mother testing positive for Covid 19. “Me and my sister were followed by a man... . The man had asked us if we could tell him the time... Then on our way home, I saw someone trying to snatch my purse. I looked behind and saw the same man. In a second, he grabbed my purse with my phone in it and started running...” wrote one of the girls, who was out with her 18-year-old sister, on Facebook. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cash-mobile-snatched-in-salt-lake/articleshow/79159328.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Goa||Won’t allow MPT to handle coal as per Sagarmala: Goa minister||PANAJI: Notwithstanding chief minister Pramod Sawant’s failure to extract any specific assurance from the Centre during his Delhi visit with regards to the reduction or capping of coal imports at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT), environment minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday sought to accentuate his bold posturing over the issue, declaring that MPT would not be allowed to import coal as projected in the master plan report for Goa under the Centre’s Sagarmala programme. “I will not allow MPT to get 54 million metric tonnes coal in Goa per annum, as projected in the Sagarmala plan,” he said. “The chief minister will get a letter from the Union government (to the effect), that coal will not be handled at MPT as projected in Sagarmala.” Cabral’s latest remark assumes significance in view of his statement last week that the coal handling capacity of MPT would not be enhanced further from the existing 10-12 million metric tonnes. “There would be no increase in coal in the state of Goa…but the existing coal, may be 10-12 million metric tonnes annually, might continue for some time. Our government will see that no more than the existing capacity granted will come to MPT,” Cabral had said on November 3. Sawant, who met Union shipping and ports minister Mansukh Mandaviya on Monday, had said that the latter would visit Goa within a month to take stock of the situation. “I conveyed the sentiments of the people of Goa regarding coal handling. He has promised to look into the matter,” Sawant had tweeted after his meeting with Mandaviya. Under the master plan projections (as reported earlier by TOI), the Mormugao port will be upgraded to have a capacity of 51 MMTPA (million metric tonne per annum) by 2035, to cater to existing and proposed steel plants in and around Karnataka’s hinterland. The Sagarmala project envisages various infrastructure projects to evacuate this 51 MMTPA coal/coke from MPT and enable a quick turnaround for ships. Hence, the master plan has proposed the double-tracking of the Hospet-Vasco rail line and four-laning of NH-4 from Panaji to Belagavi (the missing link of NH-17B connecting Verna and Ponda connects Mormugao port to NH4). In addition, several jetties are proposed along Goa’s rivers (national waterways), essentially for coal transportation. Refuting accusations by anti-coal protestors and environment activists that the state government was “destroying” Mollem, Cabral sought to shift the blame on the Congress government. “If mining was in operation, then not even one tonne of coal would have come to the state. Congress is responsible for this. Neither is our chief minister responsible for getting coal, nor am I,” Cabral said. Reacting to public criticism over the three Centre-funded infrastructure projects cutting through Mollem forest on the grounds that they would adversely impact the biodiversity hotspot, Cabral said that environment impact assessment (EIA) reports of the three projects at Mollem — 400 KV power transmission lines, expansion of of national highway, and double tracking of railway line to Vasco — were available on the environment department’s website. Responding to complaints that the website was not working, Cabral said that environment website had been “moved to a higher platform”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wont-allow-mpt-to-handle-coal-as-per-sagarmala-cabral/articleshow/79160651.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||Private labs to store swab samples for 30 days, govt units to keep them for a year||PUNE: All private laboratories testing for Covid have now been asked to preserve positive swab samples for a maximum of 30 days. Government-run units will have to store them for a year, an advisory from the Indian Council of Medical Research has said. The ICMR had earlier asked labs to put all samples in long-term deep-freeze. But many of them ran out of storage space because of high testing rates. The research agency then revised guidelines asking government labs to preserve at least 10 positive samples a month for at least a year. The government’s bio-repositories will also play a role in the safekeeping of samples. Experts said Covid samples need to be preserved for research purposes as the virus is new. But labs have been facing immense storage challenges. “The samples should be stored for a long period as they are needed for research. But lack of space and increased testing made us revise storage rules,” a senior ICMR scientist said. State officials said all samples were now being sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for storage. Scientists from ICMR added that research will involve genetic analysis of the virus from different swabs. “There have also been reports of suspected reinfections and scientists are investigating possible causes, patterns and timelines of such cases. So samples have to be kept for investigation as we still don’t know much about this virus,” a senior ICMR official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-labs-to-store-swab-samples-for-30-days-govt-units-to-keep-them-for-a-year/articleshow/79159326.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||2 held for stealing car, 2 motorcycles||COIMBATORE: The rural police on Tuesday arrested two men and seized a stolen car and two motorcycles from them. The arrested were identified as K Thangamani, 27, and his friend R Mani, 29, both from Salem district. Police said M Sounderrajan, 63, of Co-operative Colony at Kavundampalayam, and his family members had locked the house and went to Chennai to attend a function on October 21. When they returned home on October 24, they found their car parked in front of the house missing. Burglars had entered Sounderrajan’s house by breaking open the front door. They had flicked a mobile phone and car key from the house. Using the key, they had stolen the car. Sounderrajan lodged a complaint with the Thudiaylur police who registered a case. Investigation zeroed in on Thangamani and Mani and they were arrested on Tuesday. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the thieves had sold the car for Rs 3 lakh to a person in Salem. Police seized the stolen car. Two motorcycles were also seized from them. The duo had stolen motorcycles at Kavundampalayam in May and sold them. Police said the duo often visited Coimbatore and were roaming in various places to identify cars and motorcycles parked in front of houses. Thangamani was facing 16 cases of car and motorcycle theft in Coimbatore and Erode districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-held-for-stealing-car-2-motorcycles/articleshow/79159332.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: MLA K M Shaji questioned by ED in bribery case||KOZHIKODE: MLA K M Shaji, who is an accused in a case related to accepting bribery, appeared for interrogation before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday. Shaji was asked to be present at the sub-regional office of the ED in Kozhikode with details of his financial transactions for the past ten years. His wife Asha and IUML leader T T Ismail were summoned at the ED office on Monday. The case has its origin in the complaint raised by an IUML worker in Azhikode in Kannur, which is Shaji’s constituency. He alleged in the party committee that Shaji had taken Rs 25 lakh as bribe for sanctioning more Plus One seats at Azhikode Higher Secondary School. The allegation was later taken up by the CPM and the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau registered a case based on a complaint by a local CPM leader. The case was later handed over to the ED, which probed all the details related to Shaji’s sources of income. Kozhikode corporation had measured Shaji’s house in Kozhikode on the directions from the ED. It was found that the house is bigger than what was sanctioned by the corporation. Shaji was asked to demolish the house but was ready to pay the fine to regularize the construction. His application to regularize the construction was rejected by the corporation as it saw some mistakes in the application. Shaji was asked to submit a fresh application rectifying the anomalies. The ED had collected all information related to Shaji’s income before quizzing the MLA. Shaji appeared before the ED in the morning and his interrogation was continuing even at the time of going to press.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/mla-shaji-questioned-by-ed-in-bribery-case/articleshow/79157760.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Teen from city falls to death in Toronto||Hyderabad: In a tragic incident, a 19-year-old student from the city passed away in Toronto, Canada after falling from a high-rise building. Panyam Akhil, a resident of Vanasthalipuram, allegedly fell while talking on his mobile phone from the 27th floor of his apartment complex on November 8. In a poignant tweet for help, Akhil’s uncle Babji tweeted to minister K T Rama Rao asking for help. “My brother’s son Panyam Akhil met with an accidental fall in Toronto, Canada. We are clueless how to go about bringing the body to Hyderabad. Request help in bringing the body to Hyderabad. Kindly help us in this moment of grief, sir,” babji (@kingsriman) wrote. KTR (@KTRS) responded by saying: “Sorry for your loss brother, Will do our best. @KTRoffice please assist. The Indian Consulate General inToronto (@IndiainToronto) said it was in touch with all those concerned and efforts were on for expeditious return of mortal remains. A fundraising page on Gofundme described Akhil as a “a wonderful brother, son, and friend who touched the lives of those around him.” Akhil was an aspiring chef and was working on a culinary degree in Toronto. While asking for contributions, a note on the page said: “As you can imagine, the family is going through a lot of pain right now, and the last thing we want them to worry about is finances. Memorial expenses are only the beginning of Akhil’s family worries. While we may not relieve Akhil’s family of their emotional burdens, we can come together and do what we can to help them through these tough times.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/teen-from-city-falls-to-death-in-toronto/articleshow/79159364.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Demand for change in Cong leadership||Hyderabad: Congress’ disastrous performance in the Dubbak bypoll, where it finished third, has revived the demand for the change of leadership in the state set-up. Senior leaders said it is high time that AICC leadership undertook an overhaul of the Telangana Congress as the present incumbent and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy had offered to step down over a year ago itself. A majority of the leaders in the party are now exerting pressure on AICC in-charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore to start the process of appointing a new TPCC president. The Reddy lobby, which is strong in the Congress, is in favour of either Bhuvanagiri MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy or Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy being given the party leadership. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/demand-for-change-in-cong-leadership/articleshow/79159340.cms||Roushan Ali
November 11, 2020||Delhi||Crowd control in focus at Delhi markets ahead of Diwali||NEW DELHI: District administration, police and civic bodies have joined hands for crowd management at prominent markets during the festive season in the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital. The move comes a day after portions of Sarojini Nagar market had to be shut down when the crowd swelled beyond manageable limits and the situation became chaotic. On Tuesday, all entrances of Sarojini Nagar market were regulated by police and civil defence volunteers and pedestrians were only allowed to enter through metal detectors in proper queues. Ashok Randhawa, president of Mini Market Traders’ Association, Sarojini Nagar, said, “We met the additional DCP and New Delhi Municipal Council officials on Tuesday morning and discussed several issues. We again pointed out that hundreds of mobile vendors and hawkers were encroaching upon pavements and causing chaos. They sit next to each other without following social distancing norms and start arguing if shopkeepers object to it. Later, most of the vendors and hawkers were removed by police and the corporation. We expect the situation to remain like this in the future.” During the meeting, the shopkeepers assured that they would follow the guidelines issued by District Disaster Management Authority. VK Gautam, NDMC director, enforcement (south), said at least three teams were deployed at the market from 9am to 10pm to control the situation and take action against violators. The New Delhi district magistrate also took a round of the market. “We are making efforts to avoid crowding in the market. Three vehicles were used to make announcements continuously to maintain distance. The rehri-patri market has been shifted behind the market. We challaned at least 70 people for violating norms and didn’t allow even a single mobile vendor inside the market. The drive will continue till Diwali. We expect visitors and shopkeepers to cooperate with us,” said Gautam. At Kamla Nagar, too, traders met the local police on Tuesday morning and the district magistrate visited the area in the evening to assess the situation on the ground. Traders, however, complained that police were not taking strict action against temporary encroachments, which is why some stretches, including Kohlapur Road, remained crowded. Nitin Gupta, president of Kamla Nagar Traders’ Association, said, “We highlighted five issues, such as displaying Diwali items on tables in front of shops and the presence of hundreds of street vendors, which was leading to chaos. Police then took rounds of the market, made announcements and removed some encroachers. However, after the senior officials left, the situation was back to normal. There is a need for strict action against violators.” A police team from north district carried out a drive in Chandni Chowk against illegal hawkers. Sanjay Bhargava, president of Chandni Chowk Vyapar Mandal, said, “Senior officials came and made announcements for following Covid-19 norms. But we want them to remove the rickshaws, which are a nuisance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crowd-control-in-focus-at-mkts-ahead-of-diwali/articleshow/79159357.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 11, 2020||Pune||Sales decline after PMC bans bursting of firecrackers in public places||Pune: After a brief spike in firecracker sales over the last two days, the traders and wholesalers across the city recorded a dip in the revenue on Tuesday, barely hours after the civic administration prohibited citizens from bursting firecrackers in public places. The firecracker traders said the announcement made by CM Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday, confirming that the state will not impose a blanket ban on firecrackers this Diwali, had provided an impetus to the sales. “People are not buying firecrackers now as they are unsure whether their housing societies will also impose a ban. The sales, which was expected to reach about 60 to 70% of what was last year, will now only reach about 50%,” Amarjeet Singh, a firecracker wholesaler and retailer, said. Owner of the Bansiwala Phataka Mart, Santosh Bora, said the ban should have been declared earlier instead of a last-minute order. — Rujuta Parekh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sales-decline-after-pmc-bans-bursting-of-firecrackers-in-public-places/articleshow/79159351.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 11, 2020||Pune||Socially distant parties at housing societies this festival in Pune||By: Anjali JhangianPUNE: Members of housing societies in the city are getting ready to host the annual Diwali parties, but with changes to adjust to the new normal. The parties, which were earlier open to residents’ guests too, would now only involve residents. Moreover, the buffet has been replaced by individual meal boxes and the mandatory mask rule remains firmly in place. “We had low key celebrations for Ganeshotsav and Navratri but, come Diwali, we will host an informal get-together for residents of our single-building society with all safety and social distancing norms in place. We will have it in the open space. Every year, we have a grand celebration where residents can purchase passes to invite guests too but this year the party is only open to residents,” said the managing committee member of a housing society in NIBM area. The chairman of another society in Kondhwa said, “We are replacing our annual Diwali dinner with a humble celebration. Each family will get their box of snacks and sweets. We have also collected extra money from our residents to give to security guards, gardeners and cleaning staff. We gave them cash envelopes as it would be useful during this time. We have also planned a game night but participants are encouraged to wear masks and seating will be appropriately distanced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/socially-distant-parties-at-hsg-societies-this-festival/articleshow/79159339.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kanpur||Cattle smuggler injured in encounter, arms seized||KANPUR: An alleged cattle smuggler, Faisal, was injured in an encounter with Unnao police under the Ajgain police station on the intervening night of Monday and Tuesday. According to police officials, following inputs that Faisal and his aides were slaughtering bovine, police conducted raid at Salman Ka Hata in Firozabad village. Faisal, a resident of Maulviganj, Lucknow on coming across police team opened fire and tried to escape with his aides. In retaliatory firing Faisal was injured and arrested. His other associates, however, managed to escape. The police thereafter recovered carcasses of animals from a car, and 11 cattle from one Salman’s house following inputs provided by Faisal. “A country-made gun, besides a country-made pistol along with 12 live cartridges, besides 11 knives, a weighing machine, a car and a bike were also recovered from their hideouts. Faisal, who sustained injuries in his leg, has been admitted to the community health centre. A case under relevant sections of IPC was registered against the accused and investigations are underway. We are conducting raids to nab Faisal’s aides,” said SWAT in-charge Feroz Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cattle-smuggler-injured-in-encounter-arms-seized/articleshow/79161193.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Counting of votes for bypolls today||VADODARA: Masks, face shields, gloves, thermal guns and pulse oximeters will accompany EVMs as counting of votes eight Assembly constituencies in Gujarat will be carried out on Tuesday. The popularity of former Congress MLAs who joined the BJP will be decided on Tuesday as the counting will begin at 8am at eight centres set up in these constituencies. A total of 60.75 per cent voter turnout was recorded in the bypolls held in Abdasa (Kutch), Limbdi (Surendranagar), Morbi (Morbi district), Dhari (Amreli), Gadhada (Botad), Karjan (Vadodara), Dang (Dang district) and Kaprada (Valsad) Assembly seats on November 3. As many as 81 candidates contested the bypolls across the eight seats. The Karjan assembly in Vadodara had witnessed 70 % voting. Chief electoral officer S Murali Krishna has already reviewed the counting arrangements for the counting giving instructions for strict security and adherence of Covid-19 guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI). On Monday, Vadodara district collector and election officer Shalini Agarwal along with Jata Shankar Choudhary who has been appointed as observer by the ECI reviewed the preparations at M S University’s Polytechnic College campus where counting will be carried out. EVMs have been set up at the strong room at the college amidst presence of paramilitary forces and police. Sanitisation of the counting centre was done on Monday. Agarwal informed that the counting will be carried out in three blocks. While counting of EVM votes will be done in two blocks, postal ballots will be counted in third block. To maintain social distance, the EVM votes will be counted on seven tables in one block, four tables in another block while the postal ballots will be counted on two tables. Two health teams will remain stationed at the entrance gate of the counting centre to screen all those who enter the centre using thermal guns and pulse oximeters. No mobile or electronic gadget will be allowed inside the counting centre. Elaborate arrangements have been made so that election results are regularly updated and announced. The returning officer will keep updating round-wise results on website and make public announcement. A LED screen will also be kept to declare the results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/counting-of-votes-for-bypolls-today/articleshow/79135436.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||No cough syrups for common cold in kids: Doctors||Nagpur: Paediatricians as well as parents are worried about children getting infected with the novel coronavirus every time they catch the seasonal flu with cough, cold, sneezing and even sudden fever. With many kids suffering from common cold due to sudden drop in temperature, even physicians are anxious as any such symptom is being perceived as Covid-19 infection. Senior paediatricians feel both doctors and parents must not start cough syrups in panic as it may lead to side effects. The US FDA has already banned cough syrups, while in India the court has imposed restrictions on their prescription. Yet, many doctors continue to prescribe cough syrups, sometimes on parents’ insistence. Paediatricians feel they usually lead to substance abuse as well. “As this is the first time flu, which usually spreads at the onset of winter, is taking place in Covid background, parents and physicians are getting anxious. I feel the first couple of days of falling ill, the child shouldn’t be given any cough syrups. They have known side effects. Parents should maintain temperature chart, encourage fluid intake and give paracetamol for fever beside regularly consulting their doctor,” Dr Satish Deopujari said. Paediatrician Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala said seasonal flu is here and it is same as seen every year during these months. “There were hardly any kids with similar complaints two months back, now wheezing component is much more dominating,” he said. Paediatric intensivist Dr Vivek Charde said the entire paediatric population is affected by the seasonal flu. “Right from 10-day-old to 15-year-old. Children below five years of age are more affected. Respiratory infection cases have gone up significantly in last 10 days,” he said. Regarding possible reasons beside these illnesses, Dr Charde said, “An important point to note is people have forgotten distancing and use of masks. You can clearly see on the streets and markets that there is huge rush and nobody seems to bother about distancing norms. Also, use of mask is inappropriate. Cold weather and festive gatherings too are responsible for increasing respiratory problems.” Dr Charde warned that if distancing norms are not followed “then second wave of Covid is likely to happen by next month”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-cough-syrups-for-common-cold-in-kids-doctors/articleshow/79157751.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Dy mayors likely to win unopposed in city corps||Jaipur: After witnessing straight results in the mayor elections on Tuesday, both Congress and BJP are not likely to field candidates for deputy mayors’ posts in corporations where they are short of majority. The elections for the deputy mayor posts in Greater Municipal Corporation (GMC) and Heritage Municipal Corporation (HMC) will be held on Wednesday. As both parties have sensed that possibilities of cross-voting looks minimal, candidates who will be pitched are expected to win. In HMC, the BJP is unlikely to field its candidate, while the ruling Congress will give the post to a minority candidate. A Congress leader said, “The deputy mayor post will be given to the minority community as they played an important role in forming the board. Party is considering the names for the post.” In GMC, the BJP candidate is one step short of the deputy mayor’s post. The Congress is unlikely to field a deputy mayor candidate for GMC where it does not enjoy a majority. The names of candidates were not announced till late on Tuesday as parties are likely to declare it before filing the nominations papers. Both the parties continue to lock their councillors fearing poaching. On Tuesday, councillors reached in a bus to cast their votes. They were taken back to the respective hotels by both parties after voting. An election commission official informed, “The nomination paper will be filed between 10 am and 11 am. The examination of papers will start from 11.30. A candidate can withdraw the nomination form till 2 pm. Voting will be held between 2.30 pm and 5 pm and the results will be declared after counting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dy-mayors-likely-to-win-unopposed-in-city-corps/articleshow/79159370.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP will captureGolconda Fort: Sanjay||Hyderabad: Jubilant after the Dubbak victory, Telangana BJP chief and Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay Kumar said they will continue the winning streak till the assembly elections in 2023. He said that the Dubbak result would be repeated in the forthcoming GHMC elections. “We will capture the Golkonda fort soon. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi will face very tough challenges in the coming days. People will teach a lesson to the arrogant Telangana Rashtra Samithi,” he said. Interacting with reporters soon after the poll outcome, Sanjay said the win is dedicated to BJP activist Srinivas (24), who set himself on fire in protest against the BJP chief’s arrest during the poll campaign. Srinivas had succumbed to his burns on Thursday. Lambasting the TRS, he said: “The ruling party is not opening its eyes even now. It tried to stop our victory rally on Tuesday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-will-capturegolconda-fort-sanjay/articleshow/79159334.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Thrissur: Toll plaza closed after 20 staff tested positive for Covid-19||THRISUUR: District medical officer (DMO) Dr K J Reena on Tuesday ordered the closure of the toll plaza at Paliakkara on the National Highway stretch between Mannuthy and Angamaly following reports that 20 staff there have tested positive for Covid-19. She said the plaza has to be closed down for sanitisation and it will remain closed till the process is completed. She said that out of the total 155 staff at the toll plaza, 115 have been tested. Dr Sheela Vasu, the medical officer of Nenmanikkara panchayat, where the toll plaza is located, said six staff had tested positive on Monday, and subsequent antigen tests held under the supervision of the DMO on Tuesday found 12 more staff positive. Two staff had tested positive earlier on October 2, Dr Sheela said. The toll plaza has now been designated as a Covid cluster. The Congress district president, Joseph Tajet, who is also the chairman of the anti-toll committee of the party, had demanded closure of the toll plaza on Monday itself following reports that six staff had tested positive for Covid- 19. He had warned that operating the toll plaza could be hazardous as so many people come into contact with the toll plaza. Sheela Manoharan, the president of Nenmanikkara panchayat, said she had also sent a report to the district collector S Shanawas recommending closure of the toll plaza after the detection of several Covid-positive cases. The Youth Congress activists had taken out a march to the toll plaza on Tuesday demanding its closure. They also opened the stoppers at the plaza and allowed the vehicles to pass freely without paying toll, as part of the protests. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/toll-plaza-closed-after-20-staff-tested-positive/articleshow/79157789.cms||T Ramavarman
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Rare snake spotted near Thadagam||COIMBATORE: The forest department has come across a relatively rare species of snake -boiga forsteni also known as the forsten’s cat snake - near Thadagam. It was found behind the camera trap that was installed to track wild elephant movement. Officials, who initially thought it to be a viper, removed it from the trap and released it into the forest. The forest department later warned people to open closed spaces or boxes only with caution this season, as snakes seek closed, warmer, drier spaces during monsoon. The snake was spotted on Monday, when forest guard Suryaprakash, along with anti-poaching watchers, opened the camera trap that was placed near Thadagam to remove the chip to process the images. It was their weekly routine. “The snake was found on the trap’s enclosure. It was around 4ft long,” he said. Later, experts examined the pictures of the snake and identified it to be Boiga Forsteni, named after Dutch naturalist Eltio Alegondas Forsten. M Senthilkumar, assistant conservator of forests, said, “It is a mildly venomous, rear fanged snake that doesn’t cause human death. It is not a common snake, but not rare in Western Ghats.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rare-snake-spotted-near-thadagam/articleshow/79159341.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Welder kills co-worker, imprisoned||Coimbatore: A 45-year-old man has been arrested for strangling his 38-year-old co-worker to death at Angalammanpuram near Gudalur at Periyanaickenpalyaam after the latter often forced him to sleep on streets as he failed to pay him for alcohol. An investigation officer said C Thirupathi, of Angalammanpuram, was found dead at his house by his elder brother C Ganeshan, who went to check on him on Saturday. He alerted the Periyanaickenpalayam police, who sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital for postmortem. Ganeshan lodged a complaint with police, who registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. However, the autopsy report revealed Thirupathi was strangulated. Police subsequently altered the case to 302 of the Indian Penal Code. During inquiry it was revealed that Thirupathi, a welder with Bagavathi Engineering workshop at Thoppampatti Pirivu, used to consume alcohol with his co-worker K Thirumurugan, of Maniyarpuram in Pattukottai, at his house. “Thirumurugan, who was staying in a rental room in Thudiyalur area, had moved to Thirupathi’s house a few months ago. Since Thirumurugan never used to pay for liquor, Thirupathi used to send him out of the house at midnight, forcing him to sleep on the street. In a fit of rage, Thirumurugan murdered Thirupathi and went into hiding.” the officer said. Police arrested Thirumurugan on Monday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/welder-kills-co-worker-imprisoned/articleshow/79159378.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||10-Moulika-UNLISTED Traffic diversions||TRAFFIC CURBS TODAY For: Construction of Elevated Corridor (Steel Bridge) Place: Govt. Printing Press, Chanchalguda to Yadagiri theatre From: November 11, 2020 to February 11, 2021 Traffic Diversions: -Those going to Nalgonda X Roads to IS Sadan or vice versa must take alternate routes -Heavy vehicles should take diversion at Nalgonda X Roads towards Dilsukhnagar, LB Nagar, Sagar Ring Road, DMRL while proceeding from Nalgonda X Roads towards DMRL -Those coming from Nalgonda X Roads and going towards IS Sadan must take alternate routes via Malakpet Fire Station, Akberbagh Road -Those travelling from DMRL X Roads to Nalgonda X Roads must take alternate routes via IS Sadan, Champapet Road, Singareni Colony, Shankeshwar Bazar towards Gaddiannaram road or Saidabad Colony, Akbarbagh and Malakpet Fire Station||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/10-moulika-unlisted-traffic-diversions/articleshow/79159377.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||Doctors asks admin to ban crackers and citizens to exercise restraint||Nagpur: Doctors have called for a complete ban on crackers, and also appealed to citizens not to take up the annual painting and dusting of homes ahead of Diwali. They warn this could have adverse impact on the health of currently infected as well as recovered Covid-19 patients. Doctors said each year they issue common guidelines to all their patients, to avoid burning crackers as far as possible and not dust or paint their homes. But this time, they said, it can’t be left to an individual’s preference as the entire society is reeling under Covid threat. “This Diwali is not a routine festival. Covid pandemic has left many survivors with lung fibrosis. They already have issues with oxygen saturation level maintenance. Hence, it is prudent to restrain ourselves from bursting firecrackers for their health and also for others who may get Covid infection in future,” OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar said. Pulmonogist Dr Ashok Arbat said the local administration must impose a complete ban on bursting of crackers if it really wants to ensure the pandemic remains under control. “This move too is sought for Covid treatment. If people don’t use mask, maintain distance and hand hygiene, Covid will spread. Similarly, air pollution will spur Covid,” he said. GMCH professor of pulmonary medicine and department head Dr Sushant Meshram called for extensive campaigns before imposing stringent action. “Like use of face mask, administration must create awareness about ill effects of air pollution from crackers. At the same time, citizens can exercise restrain in the wake of Covid-19. Yet, if people don’t listen then stringent action is needed,” Dr Meshram said. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande feels alternatives must be found to celebrate. “It is high time we changed the way we celebrate. The air quality is worsening and crackers would further make it bad. Instead, distribution of sweets can be taken up, lighting natural diyas rather than electric ones etc,” he said. Dr Arbat and Dr Marar also touched upon the social and spiritual aspects of the festival. “Let us light diyas and brighten our souls. This pandemic has also led to ‘diwala’ of many. Splurging money on firecrackers may cause further anguish to people in financial crisis. Let us share their sorrow and pray to almighty by simply lighting diyas for removal of this Covid scourge from the face of earth,” Dr Marar said. Dr Arbat said places of worships are closed to prevent Covid-19. “Likewise, crackers are not necessary. We are telling our patients not to burn crackers but if others do, it will complicate health of many. The city has lots of recovered Covid patients as well as vulnerable individuals in every other home,” he said. IGGMCH professor and head of pulmonology medicine Dr Radha Munje said crackers are not only harmful for Covid patient but also common man. “Top authorities too have appealed and asked us to request everyone to not burn crackers. People must understand that everyone is going to suffer due to air pollution in Covid times,” she said. Dr Gawande said not just air pollution, noise pollution causes hearing loss and heart attack while physical contact leads to burns. “Smoke from crackers is risk factor for asthmatics too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/doctors-asks-admin-to-ban-crackers-and-citizens-to-exercise-restraint/articleshow/79157836.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 11, 2020||Pune||Pune municipal corporation plans flying squads to check rush of shoppers||PUNE: The civic administration is planning to deploy flying squads, besides taking other measures, to avoid overcrowding during Diwali. Officials stated members of the flying squads would visit various places and make sure that the norms set for controlling the spread were being followed. They would take action not only against the buyers but also the shopkeepers violating the protocols. The administration was also focusing on creating awareness through various mediums, including social media, to prevent gathering. An official said the civic administration was focusing on “nuisance detection” and penalizing people littering public places. The civic body’s health department, along with its ward offices, are taking action against the offenders. “Members of the flying squads will also see if norms such as the ban on fire crackers at municipal places and the social distancing guidelines are followed,” a senior Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said on Tuesday. “The PMC has taken initiatives to avoid crowding at marketplaces and other areas during the festive season. We have appealed to people to not gather in large numbers in a bid to check further spread of the Covid-19,” municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar told TOI. “The PMC has planned a meeting on Wednesday to finalize the preparations ahead of Diwali. Various options, such as formation of special teams for crowd control, may be explored in it. Details about civic manpower and its management for the festive season will be finalized at the meeting,” he said. Collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI that people should follow social distancing norms, or else crowding might trigger a spike in Covid-19 cases like it had happened after Ganeshotsav. “The administration is keeping a strict watch on the situation and taking action against people violating the health protocols,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-plans-flying-squads-to-check-rush-of-shoppers/articleshow/79159379.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress strategy to field Cheruku boomerangs||HYDERABAD: Congress not only lacked the killer instinct to win but its strategy to field Cheruku Srinivas Reddy, who was in the TRS, at the last minute as its candidate boomeranged on it with the party finishing a poor third, barely managing not to lose its deposit in Dubbak by-poll. The Congress blamed it on the propaganda by the BJP and the RSS that Srinivas Reddy would go back to the ruling TRS and expressed doubts over the agenda of the TRS to project finance minister T Harish Rao in a poor light.  AICC secretary in-charge of Telangana and MP Manickam Tagore tweeted: “Dubbak elections: we thank the Congress team of brave soldiers and leaders who worked hard to convince the people of Dubbak about our agenda for them. We fought the battle bravely.” “Congress is losing its traditional vote bank too. People were angry over TRS for its failure to deliver its promises of three-acre land to Dalits, 2-bhk units, Dharani, LRS and unemployment. They voted for BJP as the saffron party successfully took the propaganda to the voters that Srinivas Reddy is an agent of Harish Rao,” alleged former AICC secretary V Hanumanth Rao.  “Caught between the weak TRS candidate and propaganda that Srinivas Reddy would go back to the TRS, Dubbak people voted for the BJP,” he said and raised doubts over tampering of EVMs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-strategy-tofield-cherukuboomerangs/articleshow/79159394.cms||Roushan Ali
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Cong’s Munesh, elected mayor of Heritage, bags 56 votes out of 100||Jaipur: Munesh Gurjar of the Congress was elected mayor of Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage, on Tuesday. She defeated BJP’s Kusum Yadav by 44 votes. JMC-Heritage has 47 Congress councillors, 42 BJP councillors and 11 independents. In the mayoral polls, at least nine independents voted for Gurjar. After taking oath, Gurjar said her main focus would be sewerage lines, CCTV cameras, street lights and restoring the heritage structures of the city. “We will work for the upliftment of people and to improve the sanitation condition of the city. For the last two years, Congress has done a lot of civil work in the state and these elections are a result of party’s hardwork,” Gurjar said. Since the civic poll results were announced, the Congress and the BJP kept their councillors in hotels to prevent any horse-trading. On Tuesday, Congress councillors reached the Heritage headquarters around 10 am in two buses. They cast their votes in the presence of MLA Rafiq Khan, Ameen Kagzi and other Congress workers. Councillors were not left alone even for a while by the Congress. Three councillors were allowed to get out of the bus at a time to go inside and vote. The fear of cross-voting was so much in the party that when one councillor went to the toilet, a Congress worker accompanied him there. Congress councillor Sunita Mahawar was the last to cast her votes. She didn’t come in the party bus and cast her vote separately around 1.30 pm. Sources claimed she was angry with the party for not putting her as a mayoral candidate, but after being persuaded by the party workers, she reluctantly came to vote. Votes were cast peacefully except when BJP MLA Vasudev Devnani and other workers had a verbal spat with police officers against unnecessary entry of Congress councillor Manoj Mudgal. BJP claimed that Mudgal was trying to influence the councillors of the other party. He was later prohibited from going inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congs-munesh-elected-mayor-of-heritage-bags-56-votes-out-of-100/articleshow/79159384.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||It’s a vote for Raghunandan, says Cong||Hyderabad: Congress gave credit to M Raghunandan Rao, who had fought for Telangana statehood, for his victory in the Dubbak bypoll and said it was not a vote for the BJP. People voted for Raghunandan out of sympathy as he lost all previous elections, the Congress said. This result should act as an eye opener for KCR to come out of the comforts of Pragathi Bhavan and his farm house and seriously deliver governance by going to the people, said AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan, MLC T Jeevan Reddy and former MP Ponnam Prabhakar. “The Mallanna Sagar project-affected people took their revenge against TRS. So is the case with farmers who were ordered what to cultivate. The people punished the ruling party for developing Gajwel and Siddipet at the cost of Dubbak constituency,” Sravan said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/its-a-vote-for-raghunandan-says-cong/articleshow/79159376.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kanpur||Ghatampur: BJP wins, says people reposed faith in Modi & Yogi||KANPUR: BJP retained the Ghatampur (Reserved) assembly seat as party candidate Upendra Paswan defeated the Congress’s Dr Kripa Shankar Sankhwar by a margin of 23,820 votes. Paswan got 60,405 votes, while Sankhwar could muster only 36,585. Late Kamal Rani Varun had won the seat by 45,178 votes in the 2017 assembly elections by defeating then BSP candidate Saroj Kureel. Paswan, who established lead over BSP’s Kuldeep Sankhwar till the 32 round, maintained it through the next six more rounds with Congress candidate Dr Kripa Shankar. The bypolls were necessitated after the death of state minister Kamal Rani Varun (62). She had been undergoing treatment at SGPGI, Lucknow. Varun had tested positive for Covid-19 in July. She died on August 2 due to complications brought on by the disease. BSP’s Kuldeep Sankhwar got 33,955 votes, Indrajeet Kori of SP got 22,735 votes, Vipin Kumar Bhartiya of Arjak Adhikar Dal 1,202 votes and Ashok Paswan of Sabhi Jan Party 1,039 votes. As many as 1,555 voters voted for NOTA. Upendra Paswan said that the results showed that the people had rejected the Congress, BSP and SP and reposed faith in the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ghatampur-bjp-wins-says-people-reposed-faith-in-modi-yogi/articleshow/79161198.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ED again questions Swapna in prison||KOCHI: The officials of Directorate of Enforcement (ED), probing the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) case registered in connection with the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel, questioned Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the case, again at the prison in Thiruvananthapuram. The ED team from Kochi reached the Attakulangara women’s prison around 10am and interrogation began at 10:30am. Suresh is currently detained there under the COFEPOSA Act imposed on her by the customs department. ED, on Monday, received the court’s permission to question Suresh after they submitted that they wanted to quiz her again on the basis of the evidences gathered from M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to the chief minister. ED’s interrogation will continue on Wednesday too. Sources said that the interrogation focused on the financial deals done through diplomatic channel under the cover of the UAE consulate. ED is also checking whether Sivasankar had called a senior customs officer for the clearance of the consignment of smuggled gold that reached Thiruvananthapuram international airport in the diplomatic baggage in April 2019. ED has earlier questioned Suresh and Sandeep Nair, another accused in the case, in the prison last week. ED wanted to corroborate the statements given by Sivasankar, who is in ED’s extended custody. Sivasankar during the custody interrogation had revealed that Suresh intervened in many projects of the government and had intervened for resumptiom of the Smart City Project which had come to a halt. The interrogation also intends to get clues and leads concerning the generation of proceeds of gold smuggling and its subsequent utilization and concealment. ED has collected clear evidence about Sivasankar’s interest in the financial dealings of Suresh and helped her in opening a bank account and locker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-again-questions-swapna-in-prison/articleshow/79157880.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||8 workers die,7 injured in Jodhpur factory wall collapse||JODHPUR: Eight workers died and seven others were injured when the wall of a factory under construction collapsed at Basni Industrial Area of the city on Tuesday evening. While the bodies of six labourers were found buried, two of them died in the hospital. One person has been discharged. It is suspected that a few more workers may still be buried under the debris. The injured have been admitted to MDM Hospital and AIIMS. An ex gratia of Rs 2 lakh each for the kin of the deceased has been sanctioned and the divisional commissioner of Jodhpur has been asked to conduct a probe into the matter. ADCP (West) Umesh Ojha said some labourers were working at the under-construction factory in Phase II of Basni Industrial Area near Basni police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/8-workers-die7-injured-injodhpur-factorywall-collapse/articleshow/79160670.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kochi||Alappuzha: Lawyers tread the green path to success||ALAPPUZHA: When the lockdown rendered a group of young lawyers of Alappuzha district court jobless, they embraced farming. Now, after seven months, they are reaping the benefit of their hard work. The nine-member group, launched the ‘Lawyers’ Farm’ after much discussion and decided to undertake paddy farming. They cultivated paddy in three acres and have gained a healthy profit out of it. Though the venture turned out to be a success, they said they did not know anything about farming and had just experimented on it out of necessity. “Initially many had warned us against venturing into paddy farming without any prior experience. We have proved them wrong with our unity, hard work and passion. Anybody can become a farmer irrespective of their profession if they are ready to work hard. The harvesting of our paddy was completed on Sunday,” said Manoj George, the leader of the group. It was George’s enthusiasm that encouraged the others in the group Abhilash C Soman, Manu V M, Nidheesh Pulimoottil, Aneesh Gopinathan, Harris T R, Shivasankar, Arun Krishnan and Rakesh Kammath to try their hand at farming. “When the lockdown was declared, we became jobless and nine of us, all advocates, in our social media group discussed the possibility of finding an alternative job. It was George, who hails from Edathua in Kuttanad, suggested the idea of farming. Though we did not know the basics of farming, he told us that we would do it at any cost. Thus, we got into the shoes of the farmers and launched the ‘Lawyers’ Farm’,” said Nidheesh. Arun Krishnan said that it was difficult to find a land suitable for farming. “ Though we first searched for land in Kuttanad, we couldn’t find one. Later, we got a barren land (karapadam -upland rice field) at Thaduthuveli under the Krishi Bhavan of Muhamma grama panchayat. We took three acres that had been lying barren for the past 20 years on lease for Rs 25,000. We started the land preparation works by April-end. The agriculture department gave us 200kg Uma seeds free of cost and the sowing was done on June 24. We reached the site every morning during the lockdown and worked till evening. All of us brought ‘pothichoru’ and had it together like traditional farmers,” said Krishnan. George said they were also aided by the Subhiksha Keralam programme of the state government. “Even when the courts were reopened, we did not depend on any others for the field works. We did all the work by ourselves by reaching the field in the afternoon from the court. I have a goat farm and we mainly applied goat dung as manure. It gave us good yield. We could harvest 46.75 quintal of paddy and the profit was around Rs 80,000,” added George. The success of their initial experiment has encouraged them to continue farming and now they are planning to start sesame and organic vegetable farming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/young-lawyers-tread-the-green-path-to-success/articleshow/79157877.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chennai||Racing to rule the roost||Just how fast is a pigeon? If you pit one against Usain Bolt, they would be done with 100 metres in 2.03 seconds, seven seconds ahead of him. And that’s without breaking a sweat. Read the entire story on TOI+They fly faster than Usain Bolt and its time to race||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/racing-to-rule-the-roost/articleshow/79161471.cms||Kamini Mathai
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||District second in Covid deaths since October||COIMBATORE: Though the district’s overall death rate at 1.3% stands 23rd in the state, it has been reporting the second highest number of deaths due to Covid-19 since October on par with Chengalpet. Data shows that Coimbatore recorded 19 deaths due to the virus so far in November and 121 deaths in October. This is three to four times higher than the number of deaths recorded by all the other major districts including Madurai, Trichy and Salem and comes second only to Chennai. The health department attributes the development to delayed spike and fall in Coimbatore and says deaths would reach Trichy and Madurai figures by January. Data shows that Coimbatore has recorded 140 deaths since October 1, which may be a fraction of Chennai’s count which stood at 516 deaths. While it is marginally higher than Chengalpet which stands at 139 deaths, it is 40% higher than Salem which has recorded 101 deaths, four times Madurai’s 35 deaths and seven times higher than Trichy which recorded only 20 deaths during the period. The district’s health department officials attribute it to the district seeing a late spike in cases compared to other major districts. “Our curve hit the peak nearly two months after Madurai and Chennai, and a month after Trichy,” a senior government official said. Health officers say one of the reasons behind the numbers is the district’s high population. “Our population is higher than most of the other districts, so our cases and deaths will also be proportionally higher. So, if you take that denominator into account, the numbers are not that high,” said a senior government official. “Our death rate has come down from 2.3% to 1.3% in two and half months and our death rate in November has been less than 1% and in October it was 1.08%,” deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. “While Madurai’s case and death spike happened two months earlier than Coimbatore, Trichy’s spike also took place a month earlier. So, we can’t look at casualty for only the past month but must be compared overall for us to get a clear picture. Overall our death rate is lower than Salem and Madurai,” Dr Ramesh Kumar said. City health officer Dr S Raja said the fall in deaths in the district is evident because the number of deaths was purely due to covid-19, and without other comorbidities, and deaths that occur within 24 hours to 48 hours have come to almost nil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-second-in-covid-deaths-since-oct/articleshow/79159439.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||DMK MLA inspects model road work||COIMBATORE: Singanallur MLA N Karthik inspected the ongoing model road project work at Race Course here on Tuesday. The DMK leader questioned the need to reconstruct the road that was already in good shape under the smart city mission when there were several roads, which need to be repaired in the city. The project was launched by the municipal administration minister, S P Velumani, in June at a cost of Rs 40 crore. Pointing out that many of the parks in the city were filled with thick vegetation, he said they wouldn’t be of any use to the public if the city corporation didn’t renovate them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmk-mla-inspects-model-road-work/articleshow/79159418.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kanpur||Five Covid-19 deaths reported in a day||KANPUR: For the first time in the ongoing month, five Covid-19 patients died in a single day on Tuesday. In first nine days of November, five Covid-19 patients had succumbed. The deceased were residents of Naubasta, Gangapur, Babupurwa, Krishna Nagar and Maswanpur. Of the five deceased, two were women. Of the total, three deaths took place in LLR hospital, while all the deceased, according to the health department, were suffering from some ailment. On November 2, 3, 5 and 7, no patient had lost battle to the coronavirus. So far since March this year, a total of 745 Covid patients have lost their lives to the deadly virus. The deceased were those who were also suffering from some or the other ailment such as diabetes, heart disease and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI), to name a few. District health department informed TOI that 72 more people were tested positive for Covid on Tuesday. In comparison to the fresh coronavirus cases, only eight people who had recovered from Covid-19 were discharged from hospitals. Another lot of 44 people completed home isolation. The active cases, thereafter, stood at 788. So far, a total of 28,584 persons have been tested positive for Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/five-covid-19-deaths-reported-in-a-day/articleshow/79161205.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Gujjars in Dausa not to take part in stir led by Col Bainsla||Jaipur: In a major setback to Col Kirori Singh Bainsla, the Gujjars in Dausa on Tuesday decided not to take part take in the agitation led by him. Dausa was the epicentre of the Gujjar agitation in the past. Gujjar leader Himmat Singh said the community leaders decided not to take part in the agitation during a meeting on Tuesday. Bainsla had met the community leaders in Dausa on Saturday and sought their support for the agitation. However, the community leaders not happy with the senior Bainsla anointing his son Vijay to succeed him had sought time to think over the demand and they have now turned down his request. Col Bainsla had launched a ‘rail roko’ agitation at Pilukapura disrupting rail services for the last 10 days. The Jaipur-Agra road also been blocked as part of the agitation disrupting road transport on the national highway. The government after talks with community leaders had agreed on 14 points but that had not satisfied Bainsla. The state government had sent youth and sports minister Ashok Chandana to Hindon after Gujjar patriarch Col Bainsla agreed for talks on Monday. According to sources, the Gujjar leader had almost made up his mind to withdraw the stir after the minister apprised him of the steps taken by the government. But his son Vijay Bainsla almost overruled his father and demanded chief minister to invite them for talks. Meanwhile, resentment among people is increasing against Gujjars and the government. People have been put under tremendous inconvenience for the last 13 days in Bharatpur division. Five districts under the division had to live with no internet services since October 29 as district administration cut off te services. While people are struggling to cope with the Covid pandemic, their life and livelihoods are threatened by an agitation by a handful of people disrupting rail and road traffic even as the government stands as a mute spectator to avoid a confrontation. The shop owners are also worried as they would miss some business during this Diwali and people in rural areas were not able to reach markets. Ramal Lal, a shop owner in Hindon, said the agitation had spoiled the festive mood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gujjars-in-dausa-not-to-take-part-in-stir-led-by-col-bainsla/articleshow/79159425.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi government sets up 6 teams to keep watch on spurious khoya||NEW DELHI: To ensure quality of sweets during Diwali, Delhi government has launched a special drive to prevent sale of spurious ingredients. The government is keeping strict vigilance on the sale of khoya or mawa (whole dried milk), widely used in making most Indian sweets. Six enforcement teams have been deployed to conduct raids to prevent the sale of spurious khoya. “The government is serious about the health of Delhiites. We are keeping a vigil on the sale of khoya/mawa as these are used to prepare sweets, which are in high demand during Diwali,” health minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. Till date, five raids have been conducted by teams of food safety officers at the khoya mandi auction site at Mori Gate, from where khoya is distributed all over Delhi. The officials have lifted 25 formal samples from various sellers and 188 surveillance samples for the on-the-spot testing in a mobile food testing van, a statement said, adding that about 3,200kg spurious or suspected khoya was seized and destroyed. The premises of various food businesses selling sweets are also being strictly monitored and inspected to ensure hygienic processing, said the statement. Around 1.3 lakh food business operators have been sent emails with awareness materials on Covid-appropriate behaviour and food handling during festive seasons and check on common adulterants in sweets. Ten webinars were also organised and queries were answered online, the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/govt-sets-up-6-teams-to-keep-watch-on-spurious-khoya/articleshow/79159461.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Five Sikh parties join hands to contest SGPC polls jointly||JALANDHAR: Five Sikh parties and groups have joined hands to contest Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) elections, countering Shiromani Akali Dal (Badal), which has hegemonic control over the Sikh body. Rajya Sabha member and SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, SAD (1920) president Ravi Inder Singh, SAD (Taksali) president Ranjit Singh Brahmpura, Sant Samaj patron Baba Sarabjot Singh Bedi and former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh, who now heads Panthic Akali Lehar, held a meeting here on Tuesday, where they agreed to forge an alliance to contest the elections. Though a few rounds of meetings were held among these leaders in the last few days, the final details were sorted out during a meeting here on Tuesday. Dhindsa later said they they are open to welcome more groups so that SAD (Badal) could be dislodged in SGPC. “We have decided to join hands and give a call to other Panthic groups so that Badals can be defeated in the SGPC elections. Our aim is to end its political hegemony on the SGPC, which should remain in the hands of those Sikhs who wish to serve on the religious and social fronts. Our idea is to unite all forces against Badals. We shall be fielding candidates who would not be looking for political careers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-sikh-parties-join-hands-to-contest-sgpc-polls-jointly/articleshow/79159430.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||Refusal to wear masks & crowding will invite second Covid wave: Maharashtra minister||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope, while expressing concern over widespread violations of physical distancing norms, said on Tuesday that crowding and refusal to wear masks were “invitations to a second wave” in Maharashtra. The state on Tuesday slid into second place — after Delhi — in number of active cases. But Tope said there will be no more relief if rules are broken. He then directed local administrations to adopt stringent measures and fine anyone found violating norms. “Masking is the most important. This rule has to be followed,” he said. Over the last 10 days, the state has recorded fewer than 6,000 cases. In September, it had recorded 22,000 cases. “This dip will be affected if people skip masks and physical distancing. I have seen photos of people throwing caution to the wind. I will show them to the chief minister,” Tope said. Head of the state’s Covid task force, Dr Sanjay Oak, said there’s now much concern among the group’s members. He said, “People seem to be under the impression that Covid-19 is over. We’re seeing clear violations of physical distancing rules. We will be affected in a big way this time around if cases rise. The control on new infections we achieved will vanish.” Dr Oak added that the task force is also keen on keeping schools shut. “There are too many things happening — there’s Diwali and then the winter. Re-opening schools is just not advisable. Online learning should be on as much as possible for the next two months,” he said. He added the concerns have been relayed to the state government officials. On the chief minister’s announcement on opening up of religious sites, Dr Oak said the task force has laid out certain guidelines. “They should be allowing people in batches. Officials at the sites should also ensure physical distancing is being maintained,” he said. Tope and members of the task force added that people should avoid use of firecrackers this year. “While there are restrictions, bursting of crackers will adversely impact those who are recovering from Covid and people who have health problems such as asthma,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/refusal-to-wear-masks-crowding-will-invite-second-covid-wave-tope/articleshow/79159404.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fringes are still battling high test positivity & fatality rate||PUNE: Public health experts have now urged the regional administration to enforce stringent Covid control measures this Diwali across Pune rural, which currently has a positivity rate of 22% and a death rate of 2.6%. The positivity rate is the percentage of people emerging positive among those being tested. According to the WHO, a region can only relax restrictions if the positivity rate has been less than 5% for two weeks. The death rate in Pune rural, which had reached an alarming 9% during the early days of the pandemic, has been fluctuating between 2% to 3% for a while now. Activist Abhijit More said officials should increase daily testing and improve care to reduce positivity rate and deaths. “Also, Pune rural has several tourist destinations. An increase in movement can boost spread,” More said. Ayush Prasad, CEO of the Pune Zilla Parishad said, “We are aware of risks during the festivals. We are also monitoring returning migrants.” On the positivity rate, Prasad said testing had dropped because of the fall in new cases. He added that Covid’s doubling rate in Pune rural has increased to 52 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fringes-are-still-battling-high-test-positivity-fatality-rate/articleshow/79159423.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: Booths to be ready||Hyderabad: The State Election Commission (SEC) on Tuesday directed GHMC officials to complete identification and preparation of draft list of polling booths on November 12 and publish a draft list of polling stations on November 13. A meeting with representatives of political parties would be held on November 16. After seeking objections and suggestions up to 5 pm on November 17, the officials would dispose of claims, objections and suggestions on November 18. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-elections-booths-to-be-ready/articleshow/79159478.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Congress MLA, chief principal secretary flag mushrooming of illegal colonies||JALANDHAR: Suresh Kumar, chief principal secretary (CPS) to the Punjab chief minister, and Congress MLA Pargat Singh flagged the issue of mushrooming of illegal colonies. Notably, it was a rare occasion when Suresh inaugurated important development projects worth Rs 161 crore in Jalandhar Cantonment constituency on Tuesday. Addressing the gathering, Jalandhar Cantonment legislator and hockey Olympian Pargat, who managed to get Suresh to inaugurate the projects, said when some developers carve out illegal colonies, public representatives have to cut a sorry figure before the people. “Some persons eat into the government revenue, which would have been generated with development of legal colonies, in connivance with some officials. But due to these elements, politicians and other officials face the flak. Officials should ensure legal colonisation at any cost,” he said. He also pointed out that unplanned and illegal colonies also have long-term consequences on urban planning. Citing an example, he said on the rear side of Lovely Professional University (LPU), some colonisers might have obtained clearance for just 10 acres, but they developed colonies over 200 acres. “Officials responsible for checking this mushrooming of colonies take money and politicians cut a sorry figure in public perception,” he said. He also thanked Suresh for helping him in getting clearance for the development projects worth Rs 161 crore. In his address, Suresh said he was aware of a report that 34-35 illegal colonies mushroomed in the area under Jalandhar Development Authority. He said the Municipal Corporation and JDA should act tough against such colonisers. He asked the officials to shut the businesses of those who were indulging in such blatant illegal acts. He said buyers in such colonies also suffer and feel deceived.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-mla-cps-flag-mushrooming-of-illegal-colonies/articleshow/79159469.cms||IP Singh
November 11, 2020||Hubballi||One confirmed dead after car plunges into canal in Yadgir||YADGIR: Tragedy befell a family when the car in which they were travelling plunged into the Narayanapura Left Bank Canal in Gulabala village of Hunasagi taluk in Yadgir on Tuesday. Of the five people who were travelling in the vehicle, one person has been confirmed dead, while a search is under way for two more people. The car slid and subsequently fell in the canal when the driver lost control at the wheel. While police, along with rescue personnel, found the body of 34-year-old Pawan Biradar, a search is still under way for 61-year-old Sharanagouda Biradar and Janaki Biradar, 55. Pawan’s wife, 28-year-old Prema was able to overcome the shock of the car’s dive into the canal, and swim ashore with her 3-year-old child in tow. The family had been to Vijayapura to see a property, and was returning home when tragedy struck. Hunasagi police have registered an FIR in connection with the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/one-confirmed-dead-after-car-plunges-into-canal-in-yadgir/articleshow/79157327.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents set for virtual Kali Puja||Hyderabad: The Bengali community settled in the city are set to host a low-key Kali Puja this year owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The puja, which usually commences at around 11pm and goes on beyond midnight, will be held with limited number of devotees in small auditoriums or temples across the city. Hyderabad Kalibari located in Sainikpuri, which usually hosts close to 1,500 devotees every year, has restricted the entry of people for the puja this year. “We are issuing coupon of Rs 500 for those who want to be a part of the midnight puja. Only up to 100 people at a time will be allowed inside the Kali temple. All the safety measures such as using mask and maintaining social distance will be observed,” said Aparna Dasgupta, a volunteer, adding that people wanting to visit the temple for darshan will be allowed from 6pm to 10pm in limited numbers. Bhog will also be packed for those purchasing the coupon for the midnight puja. The oldest Kali puja celebration organised by Uttarayan – a Bengali socio-cultural organisation in Ameerpet– will be held virtual this year due to the pandemic. “The puja will be live streamed on various social media platforms of Uttarayan as we are not allowing devotees this year. For the first time in last 40 years, the puja will not be held at Ameerpet as the venue has been shifted to an Ashram in Brahmanwadi where all Covid-19 safety guidelines will be observed,” said Chanchal Sarbajna, general secretary of Uttarayan. The committee is also conducting a virtual drawing competition for children as well as adults.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-set-for-virtual-kali-puja/articleshow/79159460.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Forest fire reaches Almora's hotel management institute||Nainital: Even though the summer months of 2020 saw minimal number of forest fires in Uttarakhand, the onset of winters has led to a spurt in forest and wildfire incidents, especially in the hills of Kumaon. On Monday night, a wildfire reached Almora’s hotel management institute and damaged one of its hostel rooms. The locals told TOI that the fire reached the hostel of the institute and the room’s furniture was damaged. However, the fire brigade reached the spot and doused the flames. “The fire had started in the evening and by night it reached the institute’s hostel. We sent one of our vehicles but it was not enough to control the fire. Therefore, we had to send another vehicle and finally the fire was controlled. No one was hurt in the incident,” said a fire department official from Almora. The forest department officials meanwhile blamed the absence of rains in September and October, and the lack of moisture and ample amount of dry grass acted as fuel for the fires. “The state’s hilly areas have not received any rains in the last one and half months. As a result, there is a lack of moisture on the ground and the dry leaves are acting as fuel for any spark, and therefore, we are witnessing these isolated incidents of fire in several districts,” said Man Singh, chief conservator of forests and nodal officer forest fires.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/forest-fire-reaches-almoras-hotel-management-institute/articleshow/79156560.cms||Prashant Jha
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Ex-jathedar questions SGPC over articles of Sikh Reference Library||Amritsar: Former Akal Takht jathedar Bhai Ranjit Singh has raised questions on successive Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) managements for allegedly hiding facts on articles of the Sikh Reference Library (SRL), which were taken by the Army after Operation Bluestar in 1984. Ranjit, president of Panthic Akali Lehar (PAL), maintains that the Army had returned the articles. However, he alleged that SGPC was not even in possession of the registers in which their return was entered, let alone the articles. “At least seven employees of the SGPC, including those at the level of additional secretary had signed papers while receiving the articles of SRL,” claimed Ranjit Singh, adding that there was documentary proof of the SRL articles being handed over by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI ) to SGPC between 1989 and 1990. The issue of the SRL articles being taken away by the Army came to light after a former Punjab Police inspector, Ranjit Singh Nanda, who was attached with CBI to examine the material of SRL claimed that the Army had taken away literature and other belongings of SRL. Nanda was part of a five-member team that inspected and scrutinised material of SRL. He also alleged that the books and manuscripts etc were stacked in over 150 gunny bags and sent to the Youth Hostel in Army vehicles. Demanding an inquiry into alleged receipt of articles of SRL by SGPC by an independent agency, Ranjit Singh said articles of SRL were a rich repository of the Sikh Panth and included handwritten hukamnama (edict) manuscripts. “Some of the SGPC officials claim to have received the articles from CBI but those items are neither in possession of SGPC nor are the registers on which these articles were documented,” he alleged. Quoting his sources, he claimed that historical as well as non-historical articles of SRL had been returned to SGPC but no one knew the whereabouts of these items.  “Nobody knows about the fate of the missing 328 Saroops of Sri Guru Granth Sahib. Similarly, no one knows about the fate of the historical articles of SRL,” he said, adding that Panthic Akali Lehar would initiate a struggle to trace the articles. SGPC spokesman Kulwinder Singh Ramdas refused to comment saying that the matter is pending in court. However, he said it didn’t behove of a person who had served as jathedar of Akal Takht to stoop so low for political reasons. Besides, he said, Ranjit didn’t have accurate information and was largely relying on hearsay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-jathedar-questions-sgpc-over-articles-of-sikh-reference-library/articleshow/79159459.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Many boycott Chinese products this Diwali||HYDERABAD: Amid the ongoing stand-off between India and China on the border, demand for Chinese products have lost their sheen this Diwali with many slaying the dragon and preferring to buy Indian products. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s pitch ‘vocal for local’ to purchase only Indian-made goods during this festival shopping reflects in the city markets as well. Many shopkeepers in General Bazaar, Abids, Ameerpet have either stopped selling Chinese products or have got more number of consumers seeking Indian products this year. Usually, electrical shops make a kill every year by selling Chinese lights. However, this year, many have not been able to sell their stock that was brought much before the lockdown. “This year, we haven’t even made 40 per cent of our usual business. We got most of our stock from Delhi and Mumbai this year and did not sell the Chinese stock as there was no market for it,” said Sunitha Shabad, owner of an electrical shop in Ameerpet. China-made lanterns, gadgets, decorative articles, electrical goods, watches, stationary, consumer durables etc. are sold in huge quantities during Diwali. This year, even the small-scale traders have abandoned them under the anti-China sentiment. “The Chinese products are cheap, attractive and non-guaranteed. Until last year, nobody asked us from where we procured the stock for LED lights and decorative items. But this time, many consumers questioned us if the products are made in China,” said Vinod Shyamlal, a shopkeeper at Abids. In the backdrop of ‘ban Chinese products’ rhetoric, schools too encouraged students to make their own creative decoration items for Diwali. “Coining the phrase, vocal for local, the PM asserted that it is the need of the hour for the nation to come together to encourage local businesses and products. Following this, we encouraged our students to create their own creative decorative master pieces,” said P Supriya, English facilitator, Meridian School, Uppal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-boycott-chinese-products-this-diwali/articleshow/79159455.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: K T Jaleel defends his PhD thesis||THIRUVANATHAPURAM: Higher education minister K T Jaleel defended his PhD thesis by saying that his work was published by DC Books and Chintha Publications and that he had even received an award for the thesis on Malabar Rebellion. Reacting to the reports on the complaint submitted to the governor questioning the academic merit of his thesis, Jaleel wrote on his Facebook page that the book ‘Revisiting Malabar Rebellion 1921’ – based on his PhD thesis – had nine reprints. Two of them were by DC Books while Chintha publications published translated version seven more times. “I haven’t kept my work in the attic. It’s available in the public domain. Anybody who is interested to evaluate its value may buy the book and read,” he said. According to Jaleel, the complaint that the researcher approached the topic with a biased mind and hadn’t bothered to point out the most unfortunate fallout of Mappila Rebellion exposed the real intention behind such a complaint. “Through extensive quotations, I tried to expose the hollowness of Congress-Sanghi arguments that Malabar rebellion was a communal riot and its leaders Variankunnath and Ali Musliar were bigots,” Jaleel added. “It is possible to find drawbacks in a books if it’s read with the utmost critical mindset and a communal heart. It’s for the academicians and readers to tell whether my thesis has originality. If the petitioners want to paint the valiant freedom struggle in Malabar as a communal riot, I would be there to prove it wrong with valid proof,” he said. Based on a complaint filed by Save University Campaign Committee, challenging the authenticity and academic quality of Jaleel’s PhD thesis, governor Arif Mohammed Khan — who is also the chancellor of the university — referred the matter to Kerala University vice-chancellor VP Mahadevan Pillai for further action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/jaleel-defends-his-phd-thesis/articleshow/79157943.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Dust makes shopping a hazardous exercise in twin cities||HUBBALLI: Commercial boroughs in the twin cities are turning into cauldrons of dust pollution. The increased concentration of germs in the air in pockets such as Koppikar Road, Dajibanpeth, Janata Bazaar, Maratha Galli, et al, has people anxious about their becoming susceptible to allergies such as asthma and skin diseases. Most of the roads in the commercial pockets of the twin cities are under repair, owing to which a significant portion of the thoroughfares are exposed, and increased movement of vehicles means that clouds of dust remain hovering in the air for considerably long periods. The apathy of the authorities concerned to fix the roads in these pockets ahead of the festive season means that many residents, thronging markets in Hubballi-Dharwad, are being exposed to the dust-filled air. Shri Nagar resident Shruti D said that travelling between Durgadbail and Koppikar Road was a forgettable experience, largely owing to the cloud of dust that one passed through. “On the other hand, the roads are so congested that autos find it hard to negotiate the traffic, while walking means inviting health problems,” she said. Dharwad district environmental officer Shobha Pol attributed the pothole-riddled roads in the twin cities for the spike in air pollution. “If the condition of the roads improves, then the pollution level will decrease,” Shobha said. Activist Samad Gulbarga opined that the civic agencies had commenced work on the roads at the wrong time. “During festive seasons, it is to be expected that people turn up in large numbers at markets. Repairing roads at such a time is ill-advised. But if the authorities are really keen on fixing the roads soon, the work needs to be done during the night, when the roads are swept. That way, there will also be no dust,” Samad said. Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation (HDMC) commissioner Suresh Itnal said that the Covid-19 crisis had already delayed completion of several projects, owing to which work on most roads was being carried on at an accelerated pace. “We have started work on filling up of potholes, and we will be sprinkling water on the roads to mitigate dust pollution. We are intent on covering all the roads before Deepavali,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/dust-makes-shopping-a-hazardous-exercise-in-twin-cities/articleshow/79157371.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 11, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Business picks up pace, festive season brings cheers to traders||HUBBALLI: The festival season has brought wide smiles on the faces of traders in Hubballi months after the business activities came to an abrupt halt in the city due to the pandemic-induced lockdown. With people from Hubballi and surrounding districts thronging the central business district area for festival shopping, several found it difficult to find a spot to park their vehicles. The festival season along with holy Kartik month is adding icing to the cake, as people are thronging the market for wedding shopping. Many wedding scheduled to be held in the month of March, April and June were postponed to Kartik month. Raju Pawar, owner of men’s fashion store Royal Cut told TOI that the business has been good since a few days. Clothes are selling like hot cakes as ready made garments are arriving from Gujarat and Maharashtra after the restrictions were eased. “We are happy that the economy has rebooted. We had incurred heavy loss in the last several months. God blessed us with good business this festival season,” he said. Rajaram Shinde, a Central government employee said he purchased an I-phone XR at a showroom on Tuesday. “This is my first big buy this year,” he said. Speaking to TOI, a police constable from Hirekerur attached to Vidyanagar police station said, “My wedding ceremony will be held on November 20 and so the extended family from Hirekerur and Haveri have come to Hubballi for shopping. Looking at the rush, we can certainly say that the old days are back.” Parshuram Rajput, an antique item seller in Hampi purchased an I-20 on Tuesday, he said, “We were planning to buy a car, due to lockdown and other restrictions we were not able to buy, my son’s marriage will be held in Kamalapur on November 20, hence we purchased a new car.” He purchased the car from a trader in Hospete and said the business in Ballari district is also picking up. Balaji Nelugal, who runs a sweet stall in Ballari said business is picking up as people are preferring to eat outside. “After hotels and restaurants were allowed to do business, there was no patronage, now I sell around 500 pieces of Samosa every day,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/biz-picks-up-pace-in-nk-festive-season-brings-cheers-to-traders/articleshow/79157547.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Industry should encourage research: Guv||Jaipur: Rajasthan governor Kalraj Mishra on Tuesday called upon the industrial sector to develop an institutional system to encourage research and design innovations. He was addressing the National Conference on Industrial Development through Research Development and Innovations organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) here. Mishra urged the CII to work on a policy of motivating entrepreneurs to get the latest research and design patents in the states. He said developing a common understanding of the government and entrepreneurs for industrial development can only help the country’s economy to grow rapidly. The governor also stressed on adopting science and technology innovation, adding that it is necessary to identify and bring forward local innovations, latest forms of design and research. There is no dearth of capabilities in the country, but industrial sectors need to come forward and work in the development of essential components required for research and innovation system, he said. Organisations like the CII should contribute to encourage micro, small and medium scale industries, Mishra added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/industry-should-encourage-research-guv/articleshow/79159496.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Chennai||Man who mentored Yesudas, Ilayaraaja||Composer of songs for more than 125 films and mentor of Ilayaraaja, K J Yesudas, N C Vasanthokokilam and P Susheela, ‘Malayalam’ Dakshinamoorthy left an everlasting impression on the south Indian film music industry. In his birth centenary year, ignored by the film industry, his work continues to enthral audiences. He holds the unique distinction of having provided songs to four generations of musicians from a single family — Augustin Joseph, his son the renowned Yesudas, the latter’s son Vijay Yesudas, and Ameya, grand-daughter of Yesudas. What is more interesting is that Dakshinamoorthy used songs from all the four singers of the Yesudas family in his last film, ‘Shyaamaragam’ (2020), released some seven years after his death.Venkateswaran Dakshinamoorthy Iyer was born to Parvathiammal and D Venkateswara Iyer, a banker at Mullakkal in Alappuzha, Travancore. His mother taught him Thyagaraja kritis from a young age. As a child, he had absorbed 27 of the kritis and learned Carnatic music from Venkatachalam Pothy in Thiruvananthapuram. He delivered his first public performance, when he was 13 years old at the Ambalapuzha Sri Krishna temple and was watched by M K Tyagaraja Bhagavathar, who told Swami’s father that the boy had a bright future. His first trip to Chennai was in 1942, for a 30-minute programme on AIR, and settled down in Chennai in 1948. The prefix Malayalam was given to him to differentiate him from S Dakshinamurthy who was called Telugu Dakshinamurthy. He was widely regarded as a pioneer in the Malayalam film industry for introducing Carnatic raga-based film songs. He went on to compose more than 1,400 songs in a period of 65 years. Dakshinamoorthy came to be known as Swami while he mentored countless singers and music directors including father of A R Rahman, R K Shekhar, who worked as his assistant, and Ilayaraaja, who learned Carnatic music from Swami and worked as his assistant. It was from he who instilling in Ilayaraaja the need for semi-classical or light classical melodies. Yesudas said it was this guru Dakshinamoorthy who shaped him as a musician and taught him to appreciate nuanced singing. It was Dakshinamoorthy who introduced P Susheela to the Malayalam music world. When P Leela did not turn up to sing a lullaby for the 1960 film, ‘Seetha’, he chose Susheela, whose Tamil songs he liked, but she wanted to opt out due to a problem with the Malayalam letter ‘na’. He later said, "I told her that she could touch her teeth with the tip of her tongue. She got it right finally." The song was "Pattu Padiyurakkam Njan", which remains a popular lullaby even after five decades.His songs in Nanda En Nila‘ (title song), Oru Ooothaappoo Kan Simittugiradhu (Nalla Manam Vaazhga),Jeevanaadi (Aruvi Magal Alaiyosai) (Devi (DeviSree Devi), Adi Sankarar and Bhaktha Hanuman were well-received, especially his brilliant compositions soaked in bhakti by Yesudas. At 90, he composed music for ‘Mizhikal Sakshi’. Dakshinamoorthy passed on to younger music directors the burden of providing good pure music to listeners. "My music was merely to give emotional expression to the words," he would say.(The writer is president of Chennai 2000 Plus Trust)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-mentored-yesudas-ilayaraaja/articleshow/79161475.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Train routes changed due to agitation||Jaipur: The routes of eight trains in Kota division of West Central Railway (WCR) have been diverted due to the ongoing Gurjar agitation. Due to blockade of track by Gujjar protestors, WCR has diverted several trains. Route changes was effected on Hindaun City-Bayana rail route in the Kota division for November 10. According to a release by the WCR, 02963 Udaipur City-Hazrat Nizamuddin Express has been diverted via Rewari-Jaipur-Ajmer-Chanderia route. Similarly, 02416 New Delhi-Indore Express has been diverted via Rewari-Jaipur-Sawai Madhopur route. Train number 02415 Indore-New Delhi Express has been diverted via Sawai Madhopur-Jaipur- Rewari route. Train number 02964 Udaipur City-H Nizamuddin Express has been diverted via the Chanderiya-Ajmer-Jaipur-Rewari route. Train number 09037 Bandra Terminus - Gorakhpur Express has been diverted via Sawai Madhopur - Jaipur - Bandikui - Bharatpur route. Train number 09111 Valsad-Haridwar Express has been diverted via the Sawai Madhopur-Jaipur-Rewari route. Train number 09042 Ghazipur City-Bandra Terminus has been diverted via Agra Cantt-Bharatpur-Bandikui-Jaipur- Sawai Madhopur route. Train number 02941 Bhavnagar Terminus - Asansol Express has been diverted via Sawai Madhopur - Jaipur - Bandikui - Bharatpur - Agra Fort route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/train-routes-changed-due-to-agitation/articleshow/79159488.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Ownership rights to low, middle income groups: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao assured ownership rights to people without collecting any fee. He said the government is committed to issuing ownership rights to all eligible low and middle class income groups across the state without charging any fee. “Towards this initiative, the government has already launched the Dharani land portal,” said KTR after inaugurating a waste-to-energy plant in Jawaharnagar on Tuesday. Citing the example of 15 to 16 colonies in Uppal, the minister said the residents of these colonies had been issued ownership rights and assured 40,000 residents of Jawaharnagar and neighbouring areas of pattas. “With this (issual of ownership rights), the residents can avail loans for business, education purposes, etc. Across the state, over 70% of people own pattas and in a few areas like Jawaharnagar, residents will be issued the pattas,” said the minister. He laid the foundation stone for 28 MW waste-to-energy plant and said the plant would be made operational in 18 months. “Another waste-to-energy plant (15 MW capacity) is coming up at Dundigul, which is sufficient to dispose of garbage for next 10 years. The plant at Jawaharnagar is the first waste-to-energy plant in south India,” he added. Gearing up for decentralised waste management in the city, the state government has identified two places — Lakdaram and Pyarenagar — on the city outskirts to set up plants there. Labour minister Malla Reddy, Mayor Bonthu Rammohan and GHMC officials attended the inaugural.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-ownership-rights-to-low-middle-income-groups/articleshow/79159485.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||Activists raise red flag over shutterbugs defacing Taramati||HYDERABAD: Heritage enthusiasts have raised objections over defacing of the historic Taramati Baradari. The scenic location has borne the brunt of firecrackers used by people involved in pre-wedding shoots, leaving several walls blackened. Spotting the blemishes, heritage expert Haseeb Jafferi said, “Taramati Baradari is in bad state of affairs with cement patch work at several places.” He also said firecrackers being used by photographers for pre-wedding photoshoots for as less as Rs 8,000 were damaging the heritage structure. Even more worrisome were the drones hovering about for photoshoots. Jafferi said there were at least six drones when he visited the site. “Drones can crash inside the structure and damage delicate stucco work,” he said. Elaborating on the significance of the Baradari, Jafferi said, “It is a unique structure and testimony to secular credentials of Hyderabad. People should be sensitised about dos and don’ts at a heritage structure. Abuse of heritage structures can’t be controlled by authorities alone. We as citizens of India should value it and cherish these monuments.” Located near Golconda Fort, the Baradari is where the famed Taramati used to perform for Abdullah Qutb Shah. After their attention was drawn to the matter, Telangana Tourism (@tstdcofficial) quickly went into damage control. Replying on Twitter, the officials said: “Thanks for bringing this to our notice. We take vandalisation of heritage sites very seriously. Rest assured, we have put in place strict measures to ensure that this won’t happen again.” “The security staff have been alerted regarding this issue and are making sure to prevent the entry of firecrackers and colour bombs into the heritage places,” they added. Jafferi had additionally been assured that cement patch work would be fixed with age-appropriate material. Activists chipped in to make their disapproval known to authorities. “Totally unacceptable. There’s absolutely no need to give out these spaces to callous citizens who do not respect our heritage building and monuments. Letting out should be prohibited,” Sanghamitra Malik, a history buff, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/activists-raise-red-flag-over-shutterbugs-defacing-taramati/articleshow/79159489.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Char Dham road: Pvt firm faces Rs 15 cr fine for flouting guidelines||DEHRADUN: A team of Tehri district administration, which held an inspection of the ongoing All Weather Road Project on the Char Dham route, found excessive dumping of material at designated zones and debris falling into the Ganga. Following which, the team which inspected the locations from Devprayag to Kaudiyala has recommended a penalty of Rs 15.88 crore on the private firm involved in the process and seized four of its vehicles. Tehsildar (revenue officer) Manju Rajput told TOI, “It was found that debris in far more than the approved amount was being deposited in the dumping zones. As a result, it was falling into the Ganga.” Rajput said that as the river stretch has no banks, the additional debris being deposited at the dumping zones was also falling into the river. She added that the debris was also being thrown outside the stipulated eight dumping zones. “We have slapped the fine on the private firm working on the project and the report has been forwarded to district magistrate for approval,” said the revenue official. On September 7, the Supreme Court had given its final seal of approval to the Char Dham national highway project to provide all-weather connectivity to four holy towns of Uttarakhand, but restrained the Centre from widening roads in the hills beyond five-and-a-half metres citing a 2018 circular of the road transport and highways ministry. The Trivendra Singh Rawat government, after the SC order, has appealed to the Centre that in wake of the state’s “strategic” location it was important to have broad roads leading towards the China border. Meanwhile, the head of the Supreme Court-appointed high-powered committee Ravi Chopra sought information from the state about the authorised muck dumping sites for the All Weather Road project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/char-dham-road-pvt-firm-faces-rs-15-cr-fine-for-flouting-guidelines/articleshow/79156599.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Rationalise staffing pattern in PHCs: HC||Shimla: Observing that the staff posted in excess in some of the primary health centres (PHCs) in Himachal Pradesh is in contravention of staffing pattern guidelines, the high court has directed the state government to take immediate steps to rationalise the staffing pattern in the PHCs as per the 2016 guidelines. The court further directed that after such rationalisation, if some staff is found surplus and left, then they should be adjusted or posted in the community health centres (CHCs). The division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed these orders on a writ petition alleging scarcity of doctors and staff in the primary health centre at Ghanahatti and seeking directions to the state to make all the PHC and CHCs in the state functional on a regular basis. Hearing the matter, the court observed that as per the affidavit filed by the state, the staffing norms have been notified by the state vide notification dated April 7, 2016, to ensure the optimal utilisation of the manpower posted in various peripheral health institutions of the state as well as the fiscal position of the state. As per notification, the staffing pattern is that each PHC consists of a doctor, pharmacist and Class-IV employee. However, it was brought to the notice of the court by counsel for the petitioner that in about 98 PHCs, postings have been made contrary to the 2016 guidelines. Perusing the data pertaining to excess staffing pattern in PHCs, the court observed that 77 doctors and 37 class-IV/peons can be immediately transferred to the PHCs where these posts are lying vacant. The court further observed that on the one hand, the government had accepted the 2016 guidelines qua posting of staff to various PHCs, but on the other, acted quite contrary to the affidavit filed. The court further observed that the requisite strength of the doctors and other officials to the PHCs is on the basis of requirements, but it appears that these persons, who are surplus, have not been posted in public interest and have been posted just only to accommodate kith and kin, which is contrary to the policy and is a liability on the public exchequer as these persons have been paid salary by the government though they are surplus in nature as per 2016 guidelines. The court also observed that the government has to take immediate necessary steps and pass appropriate orders as to how these persons are being paid salary without any work from the public exchequer and this exercise has to be done within a period of three weeks. The court directed the state to furnish individual orders of transfer of these persons to particular PHC and CHC and directed to file the compliance report by December 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rationalise-staffing-pattern-in-phcs-hc/articleshow/79159492.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Tunnel will boost tourism: Guv||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya said Atal Tunnel will take tourism in Rohtang region to new heights. He said the tunnel has telephone connections at every 150 metres for emergency communication, fire hydrant mechanism at every 60 metres, auto incident detection system with CCTV cameras at every 250 metres, air quality monitoring at every 1 km, lighting/exit signs at every 25 metres, broadcasting system throughout the tunnel and cameras at every 60 metres. The governor reached Atal Tunnel on the second day of his two-day visit to Kullu and Lahaul- Spiti districts. Addressing mediapersons, he said the engineering of the tunnel is unparalleled and it is the longest tunnel in the world at a height of more than 10,000 feet. Congratulating officials and engineers of the Border Roads Organisation (BRO) for construction of this state-of-the-art tunnel, he said it is a remarkable feat of engineering. Dattatreya said the tunnel would bring about unprecedented change in the lives of people of tribal areas by providing all-time connectivity to people of Lahaul-Spiti and Pangi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tunnel-will-boost-tourism-guv/articleshow/79159487.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress bags 4 mayors, BJP 2 in 6 municipal corporations||JAIPUR: The Congress won four mayoral seats while the BJP bagged two after councillors of six newly created corporations in Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota cast their votes on Tuesday. The mayoral seats were reserved for women in five of the six new corporations. The ruling Congress has installed its mayors in Jaipur Heritage, Jodhpur North, Kota North and Kota South corporations, while the opposition BJP won the mayoral polls in Jaipur Greater and Jodhpur South corporations. The contest in Kota South, which saw a tie with 36 councillors each for Congress and BJP in a house of 80, witnessed a nail-biting finish as both parties claimed victory. In the end, Congress prevailed as their candidate Rajeev Agrawal defeated BJP’s Vivek Rajwanshi by a margin of two votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/congress-bags-4-mayors-bjp2-in-6-state-municipal-corps/articleshow/79160677.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Submission of options for medical, allied courses begins||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Option submission process for admission to MBBS and allied professional courses has begun on Tuesday. Based on the options received online till 5pm on November 15, first allotment would be published on November 16, an official statement from the office of the commissioner for entrance examinations said here on Tuesday. Courses for which options are invited for the first phase allotment include MBBS/BDS/agriculture/cooperation and banking/veterinary/forestry and fisheries. More details regarding the allotment process and related government orders are available on www.cee.kerala.gov.in Meanwhile, the third phase of allotment to engineering/ pharmacy courses and the second phase allotment to architecture courses-2020 was published on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/submission-of-options-for-medical-allied-courses-begins/articleshow/79157967.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||NU to have Covid-19 fund for employees||Nagpur: After many of its employees contracted Covid, Nagpur University on Tuesday decided to have a dedicated fund to meet expenses pertaining to their hospitalization. On Tuesday, TOI had reported how declaration of results was affected as top officials from NU’s exam section along with those from software provider Promarc contracted the virus while conducting the online exams. The decision to allocate funds was taken at the management council meeting. The other proposals cleared included construction of two hostels for boys and girls. The 300-bed boys’ hostel was proposed at the Laxminarayan Institute of Technology (LIT) near the exam section. The 200-bed girls’ hostel will come up near the campus, said council members. NU has decided to form a panel to study the proposal of DV Patel and Company, which constructed the university’s new central administrative building near Amravati Road. The company has requested NU for a fine waiver for delaying the completion of the building. Till date, the building is incomplete. The deadline was 2018, said some members of the management council. The panel would be headed by the chancellor’s nominee Arvind Barahate. Another panel under Barahate would come up with guidelines regarding the use of NU’s general funds, which have been depleting over the years, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-to-have-covid-19-fund-for-employees/articleshow/79157965.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 11, 2020||Bengaluru||For Widdy, With love||BENGALURU: When students of St Joseph’s Boys’ High School on Museum Road return to the hallowed premises of the institution, there will be one less familiar face to say hello to — that of their beloved Widdy. On October 20, Mohammed Abdullah, the owner of their favourite haunt Widdy’s Tuck Shop, passed away at his residence in Kadugondanahalli. When news of his death broke on social media, students old and new grieved and tributes poured in not just from Bengaluru but from around the globe. The Widdy’s Tuck Shop was after all an institution within an institution and its owner Abdullah, fondly known as Abdul, Abu or Widdy, its avuncular custodian. Treating students since 1908 The tuck shop nestled inside St Joseph’s campus has a history that traces back to Abdullah’s grandfather’s times. Abdul Rehman, a street vendor from Shivajinagar, started selling samosas and sweets outside the pavement of the St Joseph’s European High School (erstwhile name) in 1907. “The priests who ran the institution noticed that the Indian and European kids of the school loved Rehman and the food he sold. They decided to lend him space within the campus and that is how the tuck shop started in the winter of 1908,” says Mohammed Farhathullah, Abdullah’s son and fourth-generation owner of Widdy’s. As for the origin of the name, Farhathullah attributes it to Europeans on campus who found it hard to pronounce the grand pater’s name. “They started calling him Widdy and the name just stuck.” Abdullah joined his grandfather at the tuck shop in 1942. “He was a little boy when he started so students would call him Widdy Junior. He became their Widdy after Rehman passed away in 1954. The shop and students were my father’s life and he loved and cherished them more than his own family,” Farhathullah recalls. A loving bond Among the alumni who grew up on the tiny store’s treats are cricketing legend Rahul Dravid and popular cartoonist Paul Fernandes. While Dravid invited Abdullah for his wedding, Fernandes made an entire illustration of the shop as a tribute from the school’s famous Old Boys’ Association (OBA). In his book Faith and Toil, which narrates the story of St Joseph’s Christopher Rego, a 1976-batch student, mentions Widdy’s along with a 1930 photograph of the place. The book incidentally was released by Dravid in Bengaluru in September 2008. The OBA honoured Abdullah for his services in September 1984 and had conferred him with a lifetime membership to the Association. Abdullah often remained an honorary guest in old students’ meets that were held in different parts of the country, and graduating students would proudly share photographs with him on social media, often evoking joyful reactions and memories. “It is unbelievable how Abdul remembered and recalled all the old students whenever he saw them outside the campus. I remember him cycling past my home on Infantry Road and he would stop and talk to me without fail. We would discuss the stickjaw sweets he made for us, which was every Josephite’s favourite,” Faisal Farook, a student from 1971, recalls. In recent years, Abdullah had started spending less time at Widdy’s owing to old age. “We believe he was in his early 90s but his correct age is unknown. That shop meant everything to him and he would come there once a week, despite his ill-health, and talk to the students,” says Farhathullah who now runs it with his nephew Kazhathullah. Few months ago, as Abdullah’s health began deteriorating, the family reached out to the OBA for help to support his treatment. The response, according to Farhathullah, was overwhelming with helping pouring in from across all quarters. “Even during his final days he kept saying that he wanted to go for the Old Boys meet and get-together. I kept convincing him that I’d take him once he recovered,” Farhathullah’s trailing voice notes. Main photo courtesy: Christopher Rego||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/for-widdy-with-love/articleshow/79150438.cms||Petlee Peter
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||No firecrackers in public places, cops to help catch violators||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Tuesday banned bursting of firecrackers in public places during Diwali. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B issued a notification banning bursting of firecrackers near hospitals, gardens, schools, railway stations and in silent zones. He said the ban had been imposed in view of the ongoing coronavirus pandemic. Speaking to TOI, Radhakrishnan said crackers generated smoke that stayed in the air for hours triggering respiratory problems and noise emitting firecrackers could add to the woes of patients suffering from Covid-19. Even other civic bodies like the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and the Pune Municipal Corporation have taken similar decision after medical experts issued warnings. Radhakrishnan said the list of firecrackers shops was available with the administration and instructions were being given to them discourage selling of firecrackers that made loud noise. He has also appealed to Nagpurkars to burst minimal or not firecrackers at home too. No cultural or public gatherings for programmes like ‘Diwali Pahat’ will be permitted. These can be conducted online, the notification has said. The civic chief said every year, firecrackers were used on a large scale that led to air and sound pollution. This adversely impacted not only the health of citizens, but also that of animals. The impact is seen after the festival was over, he pointed out. Amid the spread of Covid-19, the pollution caused by crackers may lead to add health problems for positive patients, he added. The order said citizens should be cautious while using inflammable sanitizers if they were going to burst crackers or lighting lamps. Instead, citizens should be washing hands with soap, he said. Norms for social distancing should be followed while celebrating the festival. The use of a mask is a must. All 10 zonal assistant municipal commissioners have been asked to create awareness regarding the notification. They have been asked to monitor implementation in their respective zones. Radhakrishnan said, “We will also take the help of police in enforcing rules. Any violation will attract fines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-firecrackers-in-public-places-cops-to-help-catch-violators/articleshow/79157979.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jodhpur has Cong and BJP mayors||Jodhpur: Amid apprehensions of cross-voting during the election of mayors for Jodhpur North and South municipal corporations, the mayors were finally elected on Tuesday. The Congress candidate won the seat for North municipal corporation, while the BJP candidate was the winner for South municipal corporation. Congress’s Kunti Parihar got 61 votes against BJP’s 19 votes in North. BJP’s Vanita Seth secured 45 votes against Congress’s 35 votes in South. In this entire exercise, Congress succeeded in pushing BJP to the wall by getting votes of all the eight Independents in North, thereby adding 8 votes to its 53 that the party won in election for councillors last week. On the contrary, the BJP that had won 43 wards and claimed to have support of three Independents could manage only 45 votes against the expected 46 in South. Five Independent candidates, including Hemlata Parihar who had thrown her hat in the mayoral election but did not vote for herself, sided with the Congress and pushed the ruling party’s tally of votes to 35 in South. Thus in total, the Congress secured 96 votes in the mayor election in both North and South corporations, while BJP managed just 64. On the other hand, cross-voting by one candidate, either from its own candidate or anyone from among the three Independents, has given BJP a reason to play cautious for deputy mayor’s election scheduled for Wednesday. Considering this, the opposition party does not seem to be able to take any risk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jodhpur-has-cong-and-bjp-mayors/articleshow/79159504.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||MP pulls up officials over delay in work||Shimla: Days after expressing his ire over delay in completion of the PGIMER satellite centre in Una district, minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur on Tuesday hauled up officials for failing to resolve the issue of the Central University of Himachal Pradesh over the last 10 years. The varsity is proposed to come up at Dehra and Dharamshala in Kangra district but formalities have not been completed till date. Anurag attended the District Development and Monitoring Committee (DISHA) meeting of Kangra district through video-conferencing from Delhi. Dehra campus of Central University falls under his Hamirpur parliamentary constituency. He directed officials concerned to complete the formalities to set up permanent campuses of the Central University at the earliest. The Prime Minister, in his address to the nation on August 15, 2007, announced the establishment of a Central University in each state that did not have one. Subsequently, the 11th Plan provided for the establishment of 16 new Central Universities. The Central Universities Act 2009 (No 25 of 2009), which received Presidential assent on March 20, 2009, provided for the establishment of the university of Himachal Pradesh. In the absence of infrastructure and permanent campuses, the university is operating from temporary campuses. The university will have two distinct campuses in Dharamshala and Dehra, both in Kangra district. The permanent campus in Dehra will be called Beas Campus. It will have schools, departments and centres as may be decided by the university and may have infrastructure for about 70% of the academic activities. The permanent campus in Dharamshala will be called Dhauladhar Campus and it will have schools, departments or centres as may be decided by the university and may have infrastructure for about 30% of the academic activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mp-pulls-up-officials-over-delay-in-work/articleshow/79159493.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 84% of peak-hour suburban trains to resume services from today||KOLKATA: The Railways may be resuming 47%-48% of its suburban services from Wednesday but there will be little impact on peak-hour trains, an official said. Eastern Railway (ER) has assured that nearly 84% of services will be maintained during the peak hours as this is when trains are most crowded. This will help commuters maintain social distancing, he added. “We used to run 177 services during the morning and evening peak hours. From Wednesday, we shall be running 148 services during this period. During the morning, most trains will be bound for Howrah and Sealdah while they would be starting from these stations in the evening. Depending on demand, this may go up to 100% as well after some time. So, people who used to travel to Kolkata on work need not worry too much about the number of services. There will be adequate number of trains,” the official said. The morning and evening peak hours are the most crucial as these are when daily passengers travel. Over the last few months, after the unlock phase began, these are the people who suffered the most, having to spend a lot of money and time to get to their places of work. According to a banker, it was the time taken to travel that mattered most. “Earlier, it would take me about 50 minutes to travel from my home in Agarpara to my branch in the central business district. Now, the travel time has gone up to nearly one and a half hours,” he said. The Railways hopes that running more trains during the peak hours will allow passengers maintain social distancing. People can avoid boarding trains that are crowded and wait for the next one. They can also maintain a gap while using the seats as per protocol. “We are doing our best and expect support from passengers. Masks are essential and people should not get too close to each other at stations or on trains. We realize that this will be difficult at first as daily commuters normally travel in groups. However, adequate distancing must be maintained to prevent spread of the virus. Every passenger should realize that s/he can carry the virus back home and pass it on to relatives. Hence, they need to be very careful,” another rail official said. The Railways also plans to start running the late night/early morning services that it used to before the pandemic. These trains used to carry newspapers and other essentials from Kolkata to the districts. These services are expected to start running within the next 10-odd days. Talks are also on with the Railway Board for resumption of UTS apps on mobile phones to book both daily and monthly season tickets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/84-of-peak-hour-suburban-trains-to-resume-services-from-today/articleshow/79157972.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 11, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘No conversion fee for any old industry for service shift’||NEW DELHI: Under its new industrial policy, Delhi government has decided to waive off the conversion fees for any existing manufacturing industry that wants to switch to the service sector, industry minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. Under the policy, only high-tech and service industries will be allowed to be set up in new industrial areas while existing manufacturing industries in the old zones can shift to the service sector. Jain convened a meeting with various industries associations on Tuesday to address industrialists’ concerns regarding the recent central notification. The associations called the policy revolutionary and expressed confidence that it would help in the expansion and growth of the industrial sector. “As per the amendments in the master plan 2021, hi-tech industries will be set up in new industrial areas, something that we were trying for the past four years. These sectors were not legally allowed to be set up in traditional industrial areas,” he added. “The old industrial areas can operate both new hi-tech services and old services, while the new industrial areas can only set up hi-tech ones.” In the new areas, offices of chartered accountants, lawyers and media houses can be opened, besides various industries such as those dealing with computer hardware and software, systemic integration, integration and manipulation of interfaces of computer and telecom facilities, IT services, internet and email provider, and IT-enabled services. “We have also increased the floor area ratio (FAR) of certain industrial plots irrespective of their sizes. The new FAR has been approved as per industrial standards,” the minister stated, adding that offices of hi-tech services would be allowed in all industrial areas, including Bawana and Badli. Jain clarified that the decision won’t impact the old industrial sectors. “The decision was made after due consideration with the Union minister, and are in addition to the already running industrial activities across Delhi,” he pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-conversion-fee-for-any-old-industry-for-service-shift/articleshow/79159517.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hubballi||Hampi Utsava limited to one day, artistes fume||BALLARI: While the district administration is busy in preparing to hold Hampi Utsava on November 13, artists from Ballari and other surrounding districts are opposing the decision to reduce the celebration from three days to one day. Theatre artists, musicians, folk artists, dancers and others who have formed ‘Ballari Jilla Kalavidara Vedike’ have expressed their anguish against the district administration for not allowing artists to perform in the Utsava by limiting the event to one day. Vedike convenor and playwrite K Jagadish told TOI, “Great injustice has been done to many artists by denying them an opportunity to showcase their talent by curtailing the celebration to just one day.” “If there is Covid fear, why is the government holding this Utsava for just one day by spending nearly Rs 30 lakh? Let the government cancel the festival this year. As per the schedule, the Utsava will begin at 4pm on November 13 and culminate within three-four hours after taking out a procession and offering arati at Tunga river. We will protest near the venue on November 13,” he said. “We also oppose the use of the name Hampi Utsava for a 3-4 hour event. Hampi Utsava has its own significance. It has been celebrated with pomp and gaiety all these years. There were also instances when it was either cancelled or postponed due to some unavoidable situations like flood and other reasons, but it was never limited to just one day. We demand that the event either be cancelled or postponed, instead of limiting it to just 3-4 hours,” said Jagadish. Many artists have reiterated Jagadish’s demand. The district administration has not even called a meeting of artists to decide about the event, they alleged. When contacted, Ballari DC SS Nakul said, “This year Hampi Utsava will be symbolic and will be celebrated in a very simple way for one day due to the pandemic. We are spending a small amount as the government has not sanctioned the Rs 30 lakh yet. Next year, it will be celebrated in a big way involving all artists.” Hampi Utsava used to be conducted for three days in the month of November every year. The organisers would set up eight big stages where artists would perform. More than 3,000 artists would perform for three days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hampi-utsava-limited-to-one-day-artistes-fume/articleshow/79157744.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
November 11, 2020||Nashik||NMC to write to govt offices for clearing tax dues||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is in the process of writing letters to as many as 20 central and state government offices located in the city to clear their property and water tax dues — pending for at least over two years. The dues of these establishments are at least over Rs 1 lakh, while some bills are over 50 lakh as the taxes have not been paid for the past few years. Municipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav said the civic body needs funds for carrying out development works owing to which they have decided to recover dues from these government establishments. “I have directed the divisional officials of all the six divisions of NMC to send letters to the central and state government offices, seeking clearance of dues. These offices will be revising their budgets in January and February of the current financial year. Hence, they will be told through letters to make provision of their pending tax dues in the budget andmake the payments,” Jadhav said. The NMC is reeling under severe financial crisis due to the ongoing pandemic and it is unable to collect adequate revenue through property and water taxes. When contacted, a divisional official said that he is in the process of writing the letters to the central and government offices under his jurisdiction for clearing their dues. “They should regularly pay their taxes, but they are not. We will also visit these government offices to urge them to make the payments at the earliest,” the official said. The NMC has also introduced an amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters. As per the scheme, defaulters can get rebate up to 75% on penalty and interest on dues amount if they clear their dues in one go. The civic body has also started serving notices to defaulter who have property tax dues of over Rs 5,000. “There are around 1.30 lakh people who have defaulted on property tax dues of over Rs 5,000 each,” a civic official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-write-to-govt-offices-for-clearing-tax-dues/articleshow/79159503.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Man held for text msg fraud in Kullu||Kullu: Police arrested a man who cheated people in several states by sending fake messages and acting as an imposter from a leading science and educational television channel. Police exposed a new kind of cybercrime when accused Arvind was arrested for text message fraud after an e-commerce website's delivery boy registered a complaint against him. Arvind sent a fake text message indicating credit of money to the delivery boy's mobile when he was requested to pay the due amount of Rs 30,000 for a laptop he ordered from the e-commerce website. After registration of the complaint, police found out that the fake money-credit message received by the delivery boy was generated through an app. Kullu police immediately started searching for the accused and apprehended him near Manali. After recovering Arvind's Aadhaar card, his identity was revealed as Saurav Mitra, 30, of West Bengal. "He is a big thug and master of cybercrime. He cheated a boy in Bihar for Rs 8 lakhs, he introduced himself as an employee of the Discovery Channel. In another instance, the accused cheated a person in Shimla by imposing as the director of the Discovery Channel and asking him to shoot a video for the channel. He took away Rs 3.30 lakh from the person. Also, he fooled some people in Kinnaur by looting Rs 4.5 lakh," police said. ANI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-held-for-text-msg-fraud-in-kullu/articleshow/79159498.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Hyderabad||1,200 new Covid-19 cases, four deaths in T||Hyderabad: Telangana on Monday recorded 1,267 new Covid-19 cases and four deaths, taking the total count in the state to 2,52,455. The death toll in the state is 1,385 and 2,32,489 patients have recovered from the virus. While there are 18,581 active cases of Covid-19 in the state, the case fatality rate (CFR) has reduced to 0.54% from 2% during the initial period of the pandemic. The case fatality rate, which is a measure of the number of patients succumbing to the virus, has been on a constant decline, despite the high number of people getting infected. Also, the recovery rate improved over the past few months and is now at 92%. Meanwhile, 42,490 samples were tested on Monday for the virus, taking the total count of samples tested so far to over 46.8 lakh. With this, the number of samples tested per million population is 1,25,866. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Monday recorded 201 new cases, the highest among the districts. This was followed by 109 cases in Medchal Malkajgiri, 104 cases in Rangareddy district, 89 cases in Nalgonda, 85 cases in Bhadradri Kothagudem and 62 cases in Khammam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/1200-new-covid-19-cases-four-deaths-in-t/articleshow/79159497.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: BJP’s S V Sankanur retains West Graduates’ seat||DHARWAD: BJP retained its seat in Karnataka Legislative Council from West Graduates’ constituency with its candidate S V Sankanur getting re-elected on Tuesday. The  for the seat was held on October 28, and the votes were counted at UAS here on Tuesday. For Sankanur, the victory didn’t come easily as it was in 2014. He kept the lead right from the first round, and clinched victory in the fourth round. Sankanur won by a margin of 11,409 votes against his nearest rival R M Kuberappa (Congress). Sankanur and Kuberappa were polled 23,857 and 12,448 votes, respectively, while independent candidate Basavaraj Gurikar got 6,188 votes. Regional commissioner Amlan Aditya Biswas, who is the returning officer, announced the results. Of the 52,041 votes polled, 8,772 votes got rejected as invalid. Sankanur had won in 2014 in the first round defeating political greenhorn Vasanth Horatti (JD-S) by a margin of 14,000 votes. The present election had 11 candidates in fray. Shivashankar Kallur (JD-S) was forced by the party top brass to retire and support Gurikar. Sankanur told TOI that he owed his victory to the party leaders, workers and his supporters in teaching community. “This victory has proved that the people continue to repose faith in the policies and programmes of BJP government at the state and Centre,” he said, adding: “My re-election has increased my responsibility towards the constituency. I will continue to strive and fulfil the promises made to the voters.” Though the constituency has an estimated 3.50 lakh graduates, only 72,000 had registered their names in the electoral roll, signalling their indifference towards the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/bjps-sankanur-retains-west-grads-seat/articleshow/79156598.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Kota Cong workers hurt in lathi charge||Kota: Around 10-12 Congress workers sustained injuries in a lathi charge by the police here after the Congress workers attempted to halt a bus carrying BJP’s 40 councillors heading to the municipal corporation building for polling on Tuesday. Independent councillor Lekhraj Yogi, whose ‘missing’ report was lodged, was also reportedly travelling among the 40 councillors in the bus and Congress workers along with the missing independent councillor, attempted to stop the bus to take out their candidate at CAD Circle, where Congress and BJP workers had a near face-off and the police had to use force to disperse the party workers on Tuesday afternoon. The police, removing a barricade at CAD Circle, allowed the bus carrying BJP councillors to the main gate and they attempted to stop it as one of the independent councillors Lekhraj Yogi, who was poached by BJP and who wanted to come with them, was in the same bus, said Shyam Singh Yadav, Congress youth wing leader, who also sustained injuries in the lathi charge. The police officers ordered for lathi charge and the cops started lashing cans over the workers, leaving the 10-12 party workers and a mediaperson injured, he said. Some of the party workers sustained fractures and severe injuries in the lathi charge and are under treatment in hospital. The minimum force required was exercised to disperse the crowd and no heavy lathi charge was needed there, Kota city SP Gourav Yadav said, adding that around 8-9 persons reportedly reached the hospital with injuries. Meanwhile, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, along with party workers also reached the MBS Hospital and spoke to the party workers and took stock on their health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-cong-workers-hurt-in-lathi-charge/articleshow/79159535.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Both municipal corporations in Kota to have Cong mayors||Kota: The Congress succeeded to get its mayors in both the municipal corporation boards — Kota North and Kota South — in the elections held on Tuesday. Of the total 80 votes for Kota South, Congress candidate Rajiv Agrawal received 41 votes while BJP candidate Vivek Rajwanshi received 39, returning officer of Kota South RD Meena said. Out of 70 councillors in Kota South, Congress candidate Manju Mehra bagged 50 votes and her rival Santosh Bairwa managed 19 while one vote was rejected, retuning officer of Kota North Mohammad Tahir said. Kota South had been the decades long stronghold of BJP and RSS and home turf of Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla. Both the parties were in neck-and-neck fight with 36 councillors each on their side and eight independents to play decisive role for mayor. The BJP had placed its 36 councillors as well as four of the eight independents in a hill station in Madhya Pradesh and brought them back only on the day of polling on Tuesday. Despite that, BJP tasted defeat. “We did our best and took all 40 councillors, including 36 of BJP, with us and the result is because of dissidence within the party,” Kota city BJP president Rambabu said. He added, “The independent councillors are unlikely to go with Congress and it is possible that someone among the BJP councillors might have done it (cross-voting). Who did it will come out in the next few days,” Rambabu said. Congress Kota city president Ravinder Tyagi, who piloted elections in Kota North and South under UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal, termed the victory as ‘historic’ and a ‘vote on development’ by Ashok Gehlot-led state Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/both-municipal-corporations-in-kota-to-have-cong-mayors/articleshow/79159559.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Malegaon powerlooms to shut for a week||NASHIK: The powerloom sector in Malegaon, which produces grey cloth worth about Rs 45 crore daily, will be observing a week-long closure from Tuesday due to a sharp fall in demand and sky-rocketing yarn prices over the past one month. A decision in this regard has been taken by the All Malegaon Powerloom Weavers Association, an apex body of different powerlooms in the textile town . “Traders from cities like Balotra and Pali in Rajasthan, Surat, Mumbai, Eorde in Tamil Nadu have almost stopped buying our product. To make things worse, some of them have not cleared outstanding dues. Our inventory is piling up,” Ansari Nehal Ahmed Danewala, one of the conveners of the association, said on Tuesday. “The situation had remarkably improved for a couple of months after we resumed operations in June, but things took a turn for the worse over the last one month. If there is no marked improvement in market conditions, we could announce another closure,” he said. There are over three lakh powerlooms owned by around 6,000 people in Malegaon while the daily production of grey cloth from these powerlooms is 3 crore metres. Sajid Ansari, another senior member of the association, attributed the steep rise in yarn prices to the powerloom owners’ problems. “What has compounded our woes is that the prices of different qualities of yarn that we buy from various places in south India have hit the roof. We have been forced to decide for this closure to save ourselves from deep financial crisis,” he said. The powerloom industry in Malegaon is the mainstay of the local economy and thousands of workers from the town and outside are employed in the units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/donepowerlooms-fall-silent-for-a-week-in-malegaon-over-increasing-losses/articleshow/79159538.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 11, 2020||Madurai||HIV +ve children celebrate Children’s Day, Diwali early||Trichy: Diwali and Children’ Day rang in early this year for around 100 kids from under-privileged households in Trichy on Tuesday as the district administration and some non-governmental organisations (NGOs) treated them with gifts. Since Children’s Day coincides with Diwali on November 14 this year, the district social welfare office (DSWO) organized a program for HIV-positive children and kids of sanitary workers at the district collector office. Presiding over the function, Trichy collector S Sivarasu distributed gift hampers worth Rs 1000 each to 100 children. The gift hampers included new clothes, sweets, crackers and Covid-19 protection kits. “We decided to combine the celebrations for Children’s Day and Diwali. We have identified the children through the NGOs. They enjoyed the celebration a lot,” said district social welfare officer (DSWO), A Thamim Munisha. Some NGOs also chipped in with their contribution for the cause. Sevai, a NGO, distributed food products and self-hygiene kits worth Rs 700 to each child. Dynamic Social Trust (DST) provided toys worth Rs 300 to each child while AIMSS gifted fruits worth Rs 100 to each. A handbook about the child welfare schemes was also provided to all the children in the program. There were 38 children affected by HIV who were part of the celebration while their parents also participated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hiv-ve-children-celebrate-childrens-day-diwali-early/articleshow/79159537.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nashik||Two civic contract workers held in forgery case||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The Malegaon police have arrested two contractual workers of the Malegaon Municipal Corporation in connection with the case of forging documents to apply for passports. On Friday, the police had arrested eight people, including two Bangladeshi nationals, for forging documents to apply for passports. Senior officers of the Malegaon police said that over the past three days, two more people working with the Malegaon municipal corporation in the birth and death certificates department on contract basis were arrested. They are suspected to have issued forged birth certificates. The police said that the suspects used to forge important documents such as aadhaar cards, birth certificates, and all other documents required for passport application. So far, the police have found involvement of three Bangladeshis. While two have been arrested, one is absconding. The Malegaon police have sent teams in different directions in search of the suspect on the run. Superintendent of police Sachin Patil confirmed the two new arrests. The police have secured custody of all the 10 suspects till November 17. A few days back, a team of Mumbai police had come to Malegaon and arrested a person in connection with a case of fake passport there. On this backdrop, the Malegaon police took up a special drive from November 1 to 6 to check more people from Malegaon were involved in forging documents to apply for passports.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/two-civic-contract-workers-held-in-forgery-case/articleshow/79159524.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Stubble burning cases race past 66k in Punjab||Bathinda: With 3,508 crop residue-burning events on Tuesday, the count of stubble burning cases so far this year reached 66,352 in Punjab. This is much more than the burning cases since 2017. Bathinda recorded the maximum 555 burning events, followed by 501 in Moga, 438 in Sangrur, 331 in Muktsar, 323 in Barnala, 298 in Mansa, 272 in Fazilka, 195 in Faridkot, 187 in Ludhiana, 171 in Ferozepur, and 127 in Patiala. Five districts did not record any burning case, whereas SBS Nagar recorded two, Rupnagar four and Kapurthala nine. In 2019, Punjab had recorded 49,628 stubble burning cases till November 9. In the corresponding period in 2018 and 2017, the state recorded 40,788 and 41,928 cases, respectively. The figure was 72,555 in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/stubble-burning-cases-race-past-66k-in-punjab/articleshow/79159536.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Salem||Thenpennai river covered with foam near Hosur||Krishnagiri: Villagers near Hosur in Krishnagiri district woke up on Tuesday to a stink and a sight of foam covering Thenpennai river. They alleged that companies in Karnataka are letting untreated effluent into the river frequently. After rainfall in Karnataka, the Kelavarapalli dam has been receiving 560 cusecs of water per day since November 7. The PWD has been discharging the entire 560 cusecs of water into the river as the dam had satisfactory level of water. “There was not much foam on Monday, but on Tuesday, the river was covered with foam for a few kilometers,” K Siva, a resident of Kelavarapalli village, said. A foul smell also emnates from the water whenever it was covered with foam, he added. Villagers said factories in Karnataka are discharging untreated effluents into the Thenpennai river whenever there was rain in the state. The National Green Tribunal had taken a suo-moto action in 2019 and directed the Centre to appoint a nodal officer to look into this issue. Based on the direction, a team from the Central Pollution Control Board led by engineer Selvi inspected the river pathways and the Kelavarapalli dam on September 9 and collected water samples. Now again, factories have released untreated effluent before the team reports its findings, villagers alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/thenpennai-river-covered-with-foam-near-hosur/articleshow/79159558.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Nashik||NMC to build 25 EWTs to meet water requirement of city||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to build 25 more Elevated Water tanks (EWTs) to meet the rising demand for water in the city. These 25 EWTs are to be built across six divisions of the city — Panchavati, Nashik Road, Satpur, Nashik East, Nashik West and Nashik East. The standing committee of the NMC on Tuesday gave its approval to the proposal of the civic administration. The cost of construction for these EWTs is estimated at over Rs 60 crore. Chairman of the standing committee of NMC Ganesh Gite said that these EWTs will solve the water supply issue of the city residents and they will get adequate water. Currently, the city has a total of 84 EWTs spread across all six divisions. The daily supply of water to the city around three years back was around 380 million litres per day (MLD). The demand for water supply has increased by 130 MLD in the last three years. Redevelopment charges for staircase for houses in Cidco waived The standing panel of NMC on Tuesday approved the proposal of the civic administration to waive off redevelopment charges for staircase and passages of houses in Cidco division of the city. While such charges were not into effect in other five divisions of NMC, they were being levied on houses in Cidco division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-build-25-ewts-to-meet-water-requirement-of-city/articleshow/79159562.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: LDF to protest at 25,ooo centres on November 16||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: LDF state committee decided to organize a mass movement against the vindictive approach of central agencies towards the state government on November 16. The protest at 25,000 centres in state, adhering to strict Covid-19 protocols, will be led by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, ministers and MLAs. LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan alleged that the attitude of the central agencies was such that whenever opposition levelled allegations, they would register a case and start probe. “There is a larger conspiracy, to stall government’s development projects. State government is functioning with the powers assigned by the Constitution. Central agencies are misusing their powers to interrupt governance. This is unacceptable. We won’t obstruct genuine probes. The mass resistance is against the misuse of power by central agencies,” he said after the LDF meeting on Tuesday. At the meeting, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan raised the issue of interference by central agencies. He detailed the bid of ED to probe projects such as K-FON and Life Mission. Sources quoted Vijayan blaming the opposition for taking up a lie-campaign against all prestigious projects of the government. He said that K-FON was a project for which KIIFB was making payment directly to BHEL and that too was being probed now. The recent allegations by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala about hi-tech school project were also dubbed as baseless by CM, said sources. Vijayan said that the real aim of opposition and central agencies was to demoralize officials so that they wouldn’t take an active role in implementing path-breaking projects. Expressing confidence that LDF will register a big win in local body polls, Vijayaraghavan said the slogan of UDF —a vote against corruption— will boomerang as several UDF leaders are already facing corruption charges. “MLA MC Kamaruddin is in prison. Another MLA is in the midst of investigation. Ebrahim Kunju is an icon of corruption. UDF will be in big trouble if they decide to expel corrupt leaders,” he said. LDF also decided to intensify its intervention on social media so that all allegations by the opposition are dealt with facts. A subcommittee, led by Vijayaraghavan, was formed to ready a social media campaign strategy. Another panel, led by Vijayaraghavan, has been asked to finalize the manifesto for local body polls. The manifesto will be released as the contest picture becomes clear with the last date nomination. LDF meeting was attended by the new constituent KC (M). Chairman Jose K Mani and ex-MLA Stephan George represented the party. Jose thanked LDF constituents for understanding the party’s position and accommodating them in the front. Complaints of various constituents, regarding seat sharing in some districts, were also discussed at the meeting and district leaderships were directed to sort out differences before Thursday when the nomination submission will begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-to-protest-at-25k-centres-on-nov-16/articleshow/79158034.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nashik||Expedite process for issuing NA orders: Divn commissioner||Nashik: Divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game on Tuesday stressed on expediting the process of providing non-agricultural (NA) orders to the land owners. “I have advised the district collectors of all five districts — Nashik, Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar — to expedite the process of issuing NA orders under the ease of doing business so that the people do not have to run around for getting the order that may also result in unauthorized construction activity,” Game said. The official pointed out that people who want to change the use of land status from agriculture to non-agriculture in Yellow Zone — where mixed use is permitted for residential or commercial purpose — for carrying out any kind of construction are made to visit number of offices to get the no-objection certificate (NOC) and then present it to the district collector office that then provides the NA order. At times the people face inordinate delay at the collector office and keep visiting the office to get the permission despite having already wasted time in getting permissions from various offices and waiting for days together. “In order to expedite the process, I have asked the district collectors to issue permissions on first-in-first-out system. Also the state government has simplified the process of the issuing the NA order,” Game said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/expedite-process-for-issuing-na-orders-divn-commissioner/articleshow/79159566.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Pb allows green crackers for 2 hours on Diwali, Gurpurab||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Tuesday announced a two-hour window for bursting “green firecrackers” on Diwali and Gurpurab, and a 35-minute perod for Christmas Eve. However, there will be a total ban on bursting crackers in Mandi Gobindgarh from the midnight of November 9-10 to November 30-December 1 midnight on account of its poor AQI levels. Only green crackers will be allowed, as per the orders, which are in compliance with the directives of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), as well as various judicial orders passed amid reports of fire crackers likely to aggravate the Covid problem. On Diwali, green crackers can be burst from 8pm to 10pm, while the window is from 4am to 5am and 9pm to 10pm on Gurpurab. On Christmas Eve, timing is from 11.55pm to 12.30am. tnnChairing a virtual Covid review meeting, Amarinder directed the department of science, technology and environment to issue the necessary notification in this regard. Warning against any violation of these curbs, he asked DGP Dinkar Gupta to crack down heavily on violators to ensure action as per law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-allows-green-crackers-for-2-hours-on-diwali-gurpurab/articleshow/79159553.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Follow Cov rules, CM says during Puja award ceremony||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged all the puja committees and district administration to maintain peace and law and order during Kali Puja and other festivals during the coming days. She was speaking at the Biswa Bangla Sharad Samman award ceremony on Tuesday. Due to the pandemic, the awards were handed over virtually this year. “We have to take care so that Covid figures do not multiply manifold. We are giving the awards virtually since we follow norms. But there are some who do not follow the protocol,” she said while congratulating clubs for organizing Durga Puja successfully. As many as 271 community puja organizers from 22 districts were handed over awards through DMs and SPs and also through local MPs and ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/follow-cov-rules-cm-says-during-puja-award-ceremony/articleshow/79158028.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore traffic police to nab drunk drivers||COIMBATORE: Motorists involved in accidents in drunken states will be arrested and remanded in judicial custody, announced the city traffic police. Vehicles will also be seized from drunken drivers and will be released only after Diwali, police said. The city traffic police took this decision after seizing a new sports utility vehicle from a Hindu outfit functionary, Jaishankar,41, who drove his vehicle without registration in a rash and negligent manner at Ram Nagar in the city on November 2. He was under the influence of alcohol and hit a vehicle used by a courier company and a few motorcycles parked on the roadside. Police booked him under section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code, sections 181 (3) (an individual driving without a valid driving license), 185 (driving under the influence of alcohol) and 192 (1) (using vehicle without registration) of the Motor Vehicle Act. Police also seized his vehicle. “We took Jaishankar to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) where a blood test was taken to detect the alcohol level. If our cops find any motorists under the influence of alcohol, we will book them and seize their vehicles. The seized vehicles will be handed over to them after Diwali,” deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Coimbatore city, R Mutharasu said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-traffic-police-to-nab-drunk-drivers/articleshow/79159569.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on two-day visit to Jaisalmer||JAIPUR/JAISALMER: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, AICC general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra and her two children would be reaching Jaisalmer for a two-day personal visit on Wednesday. It being a personal visit, the Congress state leaders would be staying away from Rahul and Priyanka, party sources said on Tuesday. The CRPF squad managing Rahul’s security has already reached Jaisalmer and the district administration has been put on high alert. "It will be a strictly personal visit, so none of the state leaders would be meeting him," a senior Congress leader said confirming about the development. Sources said Rahul, Priyanka and her children are scheduled to reach Jaisalmer by a charter plane around 6.30am on Wednesday. They are likely to stay at the Suryagarh Palace where the Congress MLAs were lodged during the political crisis in Rajasthan when Sachin Pilot revolted against chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s leadership. Sources said Rahul has plans to spend a night in a tent at the sand dunes. Arrangements have been made for a camel ride and Rajasthani folk singers singing for Rahul during his stay. Local police and the administration reviewed the security arrangements around the possible places where Rahul and Priyanka would be staying and going around during their visit. The Congress leaders are scheduled to return to Delhi on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rahul-on-two-day-visit-to-jaisalmer/articleshow/79159567.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kolkata||Plans afoot to keep traffic outside stations moving||Kolkata: With local train services resuming from Wednesday, Kolkata traffic police and local police are gearing up to ensure smooth flow of traffic in and around railway stations. On top of the cop priority list is ensuring easier access to stations, removing all blockades and making sure GRP and RPF get adequate back-up as and when required. While streamlining train passengers is high on agenda for Howrah Bridge and Sealdah traffic guards, Jadavpur and southeast traffic guards will ensure that slow-moving vehicles do not impede people’s movement outside stations in south Kolkata. These are in line with the SOP prepared by the state government for quick dispersal of passengers. The biggest challenge will be on roads like MG Road and Brabourne Road that will see a surge in the number of train passengers after a gap of more than seven months. The fact that cycles are being allowed on Howrah bridge will make the job challenging for cops. The Howrah Bridge traffic guard has introduced movement of pedestrians on both sides of Kalakar Street near the Swaminarayan AC Market to ensure vehicular speed is not compromised. “With local trains scheduled to begin operations from Wednesday, we have decided to calibrate the signals and introduce more time for pedestrian crossovers. In each slot of six hours, we are deploying 10 extra personnel on important roads like Kalakar Street, MG Road and Canning Street,” said an officer from the central division. At Sealdah, police have earmarked separate drop-off and pick-up points for cabs and have asked for resumption of the Howrah-Sealdah bus route. “We have already handed over 200 guardrails to GRP to earmark entry and exit of train passengers. Though the Metro construction has meant no buses can enter the premises, we are trying to put up enough street furniture,” said a police source. At some other stations like Park Circus, Ballygunge and Jadavpur, police are taking all measures to ensure there are no encroachments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/plans-afoot-to-keep-traffic-outside-stations-moving/articleshow/79158037.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jhotwara residents protest over water crisis||Jaipur: For more than a week now, residents of different colonies in Jhotwara have been facing an acute water crisis because of erratic supply from Bisalpur forcing them to buy water from tankers daily. New Colony resident Sushila Kanwar said Bisalpur water was being supplied for five minutes in low pressure. “Water pressure is really low. Every day, we get water for a few minutes and then it stops. My husband and son go to a nearby park to fill up some buckets for survival,” said Kanwar. Residents of the colony say despite their area being in the state capital, nobody was paying any heed to their complaints and not making any arrangements for drinking water supply. A few residents even staged a protest in their area. Other affected colonies were Shivpuri, Ramnath Puri and Ram Nagar. Dinesh Aman, a former councillor of the area said, “Festival season is here and the government is not yet ready to pay attention to the problems faced by the residents. Every day people have to either order for tankers or go to parks and other public places to fill water. This is sheer neglect of government agencies.”Usha Chaudhary, assistant engineer of Public Health and Engineering Department (PHED), said the pipeline was checked on Tuesday. “Pipeline was choked due to some dirt which has been cleared. From Wednesday, water supply will resume as usual,” said Usha. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jhotwara-residents-protest-over-water-crisis/articleshow/79159572.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nashik||CP awards Rs 30,000 cash prize to crime branch||Nashik: Commissioner of police Deepak Pandey on Monday felicitated teams of the crime branch unit for detecting three major cases in the city. The teams of the crime branch were awarded with cash prize of Rs 10,000 for each case. Working under the guidance of DCP Sangramsinh Nishandar, Unit 1 of the crime branch recently detected a case of bag lifting in which cash of Rs 1 lakh was stolen from a car on October 5. Another team of crime branch unit 1 arrested four people who cheated people by taking documents required for getting a loan and using the same for purchasing cellphones. Furthermore, one more team of the crime branch unit 1 arrested nine suspects who were involved in stealing sandalwood. The police also seized 20 sharp weapons use to cut trees, stones to sharpen the weapons and 10 motorcycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cp-awards-rs-30000-cash-prize-to-crime-branch/articleshow/79159573.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Sindhari police seize 960kg dodapost||Jaisalmer: Sindhari police of Barmer district recovered 960kg dodapost filled in 44 sacks and ten 9mm live cartridges from an overturned vehicle on Tuesday. Two smugglers sitting in the vehicle managed to run away. During the police barricading, a car was seen coming at high speed and on seeing the police, the smugglers increased the speed, the vehicle overturned and the two smugglers Gordham Ram and Shri Ram managed to run away. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sindhari-police-seize-960kg-dodapost/articleshow/79159588.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: K Surendran meets JP Nadda, rebels hope for justice||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: BJP state president K Surendran called on party’s national president JP Nadda in New Delhi on Tuesday even as the pent up discontent among party functionaries and leaders continued to plague its unit in Kerala. Though Surendran camp said that his visit was related to the upcoming local body elections, those who are opposed to Union minister V Muraleedharan and K Surendran, rejected the same. They argued that he was summoned by the central leadership who sought an explanation for the disharmony in the state unit. However, disconnect between state and central leaders in BJP is such that none of the party leaders, outside the coterie of the official camp, know what transpired between the central and state leadership. Meanwhile, the state unit is witnessing an unexpected churning after state vice-president Sobha Surendran publically criticized the state leadership for having sidelined her. The leaders in the second and third rung have started gravitating towards her as leaders like PK Krishnadas maintained a silence after Sobha and former state vice-president PM Velayudhan aired their discontent in public. Leaders close to Sobha believe that the central leadership will step in and mollify her by one way or another. Following the diktat of RSS and the central leadership, the rebellious leaders have stopped public criticism. They hope that the complaints raised against the one-upmanship of Muraleedharan would be addressed by the Centre. Meanwhile, Sobha has started an exercise to disprove rumours that her open criticisms against the party leadership, just before the local body election in state, was a sign of her crossing over to the CPM camp. Her latest attack against health minister KK Shailaja on her being chosen as the woman of the year by a lifestyle magazine is seen as a move that shows her loyalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/surendran-meets-nadda-rebels-hope-for-justice/articleshow/79158069.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||BJP’s Somya, Greater’s first woman mayor, gets 97 councillors’ support||Jaipur: Somya Gurjar of BJP was elected mayor of Jaipur Greater municipal corporation (GMC) on Tuesday. Gurjar defeated 28-year-old Oxford returned Divya Singh of Congress by a margin of 44 votes. The BJP candidate got 97 votes in her favour, while the Congress candidate received 53 votes. Gurjar has scripted history by becoming the first mayor of Jaipur Greater. Talking to TOI after her victory Gurjar said, “Our aim will be to have transparent functioning at the municipal corporation. Efforts will be made to strengthen heath, sanitation and security (swasthya, suraksha, swacchta) in the city.” It appears that nine Independent councillors out of total 16 voted for Gurjar, while seven remaining supported Divya Singh. Gurjar, former women’s commission member, was entangled in a controversy after she clicked a ‘selfie’ with a rape victim in 2016. She was handpicked by RSS and fielded in Greater municipal corporation, where BJP party has a stronghold. The 150 wards of GMC cover five constituencies. While the BJP party has made strong grip in the three constituencies including Sanganer, Vidhyadhar Nagar and Malviya Nagar, two constituencies — Bagru and Jhotwara — are dominated by the Congress after winning the state assembly elections. Out of total 42 wards in Vidhyadhar Nagar constituency, BJP secured 27 seats. Similarly, BJP won 22 out of 40 seats in Sanganer constituency from where BJP former mayor Ashok Lahoty was elected in the bypolls. In Malviya Nagar the party won 16 seats. Gurjar allegedly faced opposition by local city MLAs as she hails from Karauli. Before the elections city MLAs had meekly protested that party should not field a candidate from outside Jaipur. However, member of Parliament (MP) from Jaipur, Ram Charan Bohra and Sanganer MLA Ashok Lahoty were seen at JMC headquarters during the election on Tuesday. While talking to the media, Gurjar said, “BJP party leaders and members are disciplined. I have been getting support from all my seniors and colleagues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjps-somya-greaters-first-woman-mayor-gets-97-councillors-support/articleshow/79159579.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Red tape chokes Pirana-clearing machines||AHMEDABAD: The order of the NGT (National Green Tribunal) to take immediate measures to eradicate the Pirana dump seems to have been ensnared by red tape. The health committee of the AMC has kept in abeyance the new tender for the installation of Trommel machines to process solid waste at Pirana. The health committee, which met on Monday, has refused to clear the new tender and has sought some replies from the administrative wing. The committee wants to know how many Trommel machines will be installed, what will be the duration of the tender, and what will be the expenses incurred by the AMC. A senior officer in the AMC said that these questions could have been answered in the meeting and noted down in the minutes. The officer said the information could have been incorporated in a note sent to the standing committee for the final approval. The officer pointed out that the elected wing was buying time till the local body elections or till its term ends next month. That way, the12 machines that were installed as recently as July can continue to operate in the absence of a new tender. The officer said that the contract for the 12 machines has a political link, and was awarded at Rs 6.40 lakh per month per machine. There is a condition in the tender that a reduction or an increase in price can come into effect during the period of the contract. Officials said that for the new tender, the lowest price quoted was Rs 3.11 lakh per month per machine. Hence if the new contract was awarded, the contractors hired in July this year will have to agree to the Rs 3.11 lakh cost. Paresh Patel, the health committee chairman, said “We are meeting after Diwali and if all our queries are answered, the tender will be allotted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/red-tape-chokes-pirana-clearing-machines/articleshow/79159576.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||196 fresh cases, one death logged in district||COIMBATORE: The district recorded 196 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 45,492. This marks the second day in a row that the district is recording less than 200 cases a day. With 186 people getting discharged on the day, number of active cases stood at 1,018. The total number of people getting discharged went up to 43,897, taking the recovery rate to 96.4%. The district recorded only one death due to the virus taking the toll to 577. The death rate remained at 1.26%. The victim was a 55-year-old man from Coimbatore who got admitted to a private hospital on November 6 with complaints of cough. He tested positive for the virus on November 7 and died on Sunday due to severe Covid-19 pneumonia. With the death rate in November being hardly 0.9% so far, health officers are confident of bringing the death rate under 1% by November-end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/196-fresh-cases-one-death-logged-in-dist/articleshow/79159583.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Ex-IITians start AI revolution in Indian farming||CHANDIGARH: If technology started Green Revolution in the mid-1960s to multiply key crops’ production, livestock, and horticulture output, information technology (IT) and artificial intelligence (AI) drive the new millennium’s agriculture and its self-made entrepreneurs like ex-IITians Taranjeet Singh Bhamra and Rajamanohar Somasundaram. Their AI-powered platforms help the growers, buyers, and end-users of farm produce. Bhamra went to the Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs), Kharagpur, while Somasundaram graduated from Kanpur. In 2016, Bhamra founded AgNext Technologies, an award-winning venture-capital backed company that envisions a new world of food value chain based on data science that can transform the way we grow, procure, trade, store, and consume food, benefiting all stakeholders in agribusiness. The Mohali-based enterprise built a platform for instant quality assessment and traceability linkages to remove subjectivity and bring transparency across food value chain. The company is bridging the agricultural sustainability and food safety gaps by digitalising food quality, safety, and traceability. Agriculture engineer Bhamra, who also holds a postgraduate diploma from the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Calcutta, said: “The major loss in the food supply chain occurs on production, storage and transportation of food from farms. AgNext’s AI-enabled solution ‘Qualix’ uses molecular science, computer vision and the internet of things (IoT) to sense food rapidly at every node of the supply chain to maintain its quality. It detects the conditions and the place in which the food is kept, and when it starts losing its quality. AgNext’s aim is to change the dynamics of food quality and safety in India by replacing manual procurement, trade, production, and consumption with technology.” Somasundaram, known as the ‘aquaman of India’, founded Aquaconnect, a venture that works with shrimp and fish farmers to improve their aquaculture productivity and market linkage through AI and satellite-based remote sensing technology. The Aquaconnect app is an AI-driven advisory solution and package of practices (POP) that helps farmers improve productivity, predict disease and achieve higher income. Somasundaram said: “Despite being a Rs 51,800 crore industry, aquaculture lacks technology adoption and efficiency. Production inefficiency due to the lack of scientific farming and tech tools raises the input cost, losses due to diseases. Farmers don’t get loans for inputs.” Started in April 2017, Aquaconnect’s Aquabazaar e-bidding platform helps 20,000-odd farmers of Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat sell the produce directly to buyers. AquaCRED brings financial inclusion, transparency and predictability to credit access, lowering risk. Aquaconnect Super Store is where fish and shrimp farmers can buy quality feed, healthcare products, and equipment. Both Bhamra and Rajamanohar Somasundaram are upbeat about the use of AI in Indian agriculture. Bhamra said: “Till 20 years ago, nobody used data science in farming. A bit ahead of our times, we managed to create a niche segment and a scalable model that can be applied globally.” Somasundaram said: “We had some initial difficulties in making farmers adopt technology. Now we plan to enter Punjab and Haryana, where inland fisheries are coming up. We are on the cusp of transformation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-iitians-start-ai-revolution-in-indian-farming/articleshow/79159568.cms||Ikhhlaq Singh Aujla
November 11, 2020||Nagpur||Weddings can have bands, with restrictions||Nagpur: With the wedding season around the corner, Nagpur Municipal Corporation has allowed bands to play during weddings in the city limits. The notification issued by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, however, says band party strength should be counted among 50 guests permitted. The band players should not crowd at one place and they should not play after 9pm. Owner of the band should record temperature of each player. Regular sanitization of instruments is mandatory and all should use facemasks, the notification stated and added that any musicians having fever or any other Covid-19 symptoms should not be included in the team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/weddings-can-have-bands-with-restrictions/articleshow/79158066.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Dehradun||Unusual forest fire season: Around 140 hectares of forest cover gutted in over 95 forest fire incidents||DEHRADUN: One of the most unusual occurrences of this decade, according to experts, is raging forest fires in Uttarakhand in the month of October. The state witnesses such blaze from February 15 to June 15 annually. Till the time of filing this report, a total of 140 hectares of forest land was gutted. Diwali holidays of the frontline forest force have been cancelled. A team of around 500 forest workers and over 250 villagers have been deployed to control the wildfires. This week is crucial as bursting of firecrackers during Diwali increases the risk of forest fires. The maximum forest area that was damaged is in Pauri (56.6 hectares in 33 wildfire incidents), Bageshwar (21.35 hectares in 15 incidents), Dehradun (20 hectares in 10 incidents), Uttarkashi (16.85 hectares in 23 incidents), Almora (9.25 hectares in 8 incidents) and Rudraprayag (7 hectares in 4 incidents). According to the Met department, the south-west monsoon had ended with a rain deficiency of 21% — the first month of the post-monsoon season — which led to a 99% rain deficit in Uttarakhand. The state received 0.1mm rainfall between October 1 and October 31 against a normal of 33.6 mm. Barring Pithoragarh and Chamoli, all the 11 districts of the state received “zero rainfall”. The forest officials have attributed “dry conditions” of the forest floor to be the reason behind these incidents. “We have the majority of fires in Garhwal region’s Pauri (33), Uttarkashi (23) and Dehradun (10) districts, followed by Kumaon region’s Bageshwar (12). The reason being Garhwal is laced with chir pine trees, and the scanty rains in August and September had left the forest floor full of pine sans any moisture. Therefore, the smallest spark is turning into a forest fire. We have never witnessed forest fires in Uttarakhand in October,” said Man Singh, chief conservator of forests (forest fires). One of the forest frontline workers has suffered injury while dousing flames in Uttarkashi on November 7, he added. The forest department has already pegged losses to the tune of Rs 3.54 lakh so far. The forest authorities are stating that the spurt in fire incidents is due to the large number of entry of villagers into the forests post-lockdown. “The task of collecting fuelwood and other forest resources was earlier done during summers, but this year owing to Covid-induced lockdown, nobody was allowed inside the forests. After a short span of monsoon, now the villagers are entering into the forests,” added Singh. Experts, however, have a different take on this. Dr Amit Verma, a senior scientist at FRI who is studying the forest fire patterns in India, said, "The intense sunlight and lack of moisture in the forest floor is indicative of climate change. The forest department will have to formulate an all new strategy to combat the wildfires. The entire fire season cycle is witnessing change, not just in Uttarakhand or India but, across the globe. Places like Australia and California are witnessing fires in non-fire seasons there. In the coming days, India would have to make a dynamic forest fire season, rather than the static one -- from February to June -- that we have."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unusual-forest-fire-season-around-140-hectares-of-forest-cover-gutted-in-over-95-forest-fire-incidents/articleshow/79156673.cms||Shivani Azad
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Gandhi park bounces back to life after eight months||COIMBATORE: Gandhi park sprang to life after eight months on Tuesday, when it was reopened, with at least 200 people flocking to it to unwind. They were let in after collecting their details (including mobile number), screening them for temperature and making them sanitize their hands. However, children aged below 10 years and elderly people above 65 years were not allowed in. They have to wait longer. A person, who is incharge of the park, said the children’s play area was not reopened and the people were allowed only to walk or relax inside the park by maintaining physical distancing. Some people were seen walking leisurely and others unwinding with their children or friends on the day. The park would remain open for a few hours in the morning and evening. “The park used to draw 500 to 700 people in the morning and 1,500 to 3,000 people in the evening during the week days. And on weekends the number used to almost double. In comparison, there was only a lukewarm response on the first day of reopening,” the park incharge said. Pointing out that the Covid-19 cases had started to dip, R Purushotaman, 50, a local resident, said the government had reopened the park at the right time. “I have been visiting the park for years together. When it was closed, I was forced to walk on the roads amid huge traffic congestion and pollution. It was difficult.” He said many people were not aware that the park was opened and hence the low turnout. “The footfall will increase in a few days.” Another resident, Balaguru, 45, meanwhile, urged the city corporation to take necessary steps to control the crowd as people from RS Puram, Gandhi Park and a part of Town Hall would be visiting the park. “As most of them are regulars to the park, the authorities should allow them on a rotational basis.” When contacted, city corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian said other parks would be reopened based on request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/gandhi-park-bounces-back-to-life-after-eight-months/articleshow/79159603.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 11, 2020||Nashik||Police put up posters of externed criminals outside chowkies||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The city police have started putting up posters of externed criminals near police chowkies so citizens take note and inform them if the person is spotted in the area. The police have been taking strict action against criminals who have body offences, thefts, robberies registered against them. Criminals, who have two or more offences registered against them, are constantly on the radar of the police. The police have been externing such criminals for the past two years. However, some of such externed criminals sneak into the city and again start indulging in criminal activities. This also creates fear in minds of people, who get the impression that the criminals are not even afraid of the police. On this backdrop, the city police have started putting up posters of criminals at police chowkies. PI Vijay Dhamal of the Mumbai Naka police station said the decision has started yielding good results. On Sunday, a citizen informed the police that an externed criminal, Mustakin Rehman Shaikh alias Mujja, was in Dwarka. The police plunged into action and arrested the criminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-put-up-posters-of-externed-criminals-outside-chowkies/articleshow/79159590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 11, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Drug peddlers open fire at cops in Chittorgarh, narcotics seized||UDAIPUR: The Chittorgarh police chased drug peddlers and seized 4 quintals of doda powder on Kharmalia Road in the district on Monday night. Chittorgarh SP Deepak Bhargava said the drug traffickers who were in a jeep opened seven rounds of fire at the police teams which chased them. Under the instructions of ASP Sarita Singh and DSP Ashish Kumar, Badi Sadri SHO RamSwaroop Meena and his team barricaded Kharmalia Road around 10pm.  A white jeep coming from Kharmalia, on seeing the blockade, began reversing. When police chased them, the man seated next to the driver opened fire. Some metres ahead, the driver and his accomplice abandoned the vehicle in a field and disappeared in the darkness. The cops found 22 plastic bags with large stock of doda powder. The SP said the car did not have a number plate and hence the registration details are being searched. The cops also found empty bullet cases from the place. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/drug-peddlers-open-fire-at-cops-in-chittorgarh-narcotics-seized/articleshow/79159599.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man held for blackmailing people using morphed photos||JAIPUR: City police arrested a person for blackmailing people by editing their photographs and then threatening them to circulate those on the social media if they did not pay up. Hitesh Saini (24) was arrested by Vidhayakpuri police after the victim lodged a complaint on Tuesday. Jaipur South police received a complaint from a person who alleged that Saini had sent him a friend request on Instagram under the guise of a woman. When the complainant accepted the request, the accused asked him to video call on Instagram. “As soon as the complainant called, the accused placed an obscene picture of a woman in front of the camera and took a screenshot in which the complainant was also visible. After this, the accused edited the photo and sent it to the complainant demanding money threatening that he would upload the morphed picture on social media,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-for-blackmailing-people-using-morphed-photos/articleshow/79159596.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nashik||NMC to add 200 more oxygen beds at Bytco hosp||Nashik: With the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic projected by December end in the city, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started preparations to tackle the same. As part of the measures, the NMC is in the process of adding 200 oxygen beds to the Bytco hospital, taking the total number of beds in the facility to 400. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said that the tender process is in progress and an agency is expected to be finalized in a day or two. The agency will prepare 200 oxygen beds with a centralized oxygen system at the new Bytco hospital. Civic officials said that they have installed a large oxygen tank with 19,000 litres capacity at the hospital. The tank has been procured on rent from a Pune-based firm for 10 years. Besides, the firm will also regularly supply oxygen needed for large oxygen tanks that it has rented out to the NMC. The city has a total of 4,550 Covid beds in both civic-run as well as private hospitals. Of these, 85% are vacant due to rise in recoveries of coronavirus patients. “Though around 84% of the total beds are reserved for Covid-19 patients in civic and private hospitals, we have no plan to close any Covid care centre or free any beds in private hospitals in the city considering the second wave projected by the government by December end,” said NMC officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-add-200-more-oxygen-beds-at-bytco-hosp/articleshow/79159597.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Common veggies no small potatoes||AHMEDABAD: Prices of onions, potatoes, and tomatoes — used in most dishes — have risen to the Rs 60-95 per kg mark in retail markets. The wholesale price has touched the Rs 50 mark. If the prices of 1kg of each of the three essential vegetables are added, the bill will be Rs 200 in the retail market. App-based purchases will cost Rs 175. The shortage of vegetables, especially of onions and potatoes, has pushed up vegetable prices in the city. To make matters worse, the prices of at least five other vegetables have crossed the Rs 100/kg mark. These vegetables include cluster beans, French beans, capsicum, and chilli. Even the price of brinjal in retail has crossed the Rs 75/kg mark. A senior officer of the APMC (Agricultural Produce Market Committee) said that there was already a shortage of potatoes and onions and hence prices were increasing and were expected to rise further. He said retailers have been selling medium- or low-quality onions at double the rate. For example, medium-size onions are sold at Rs 30 per kg in the wholesale market but at Rs 80 in retail. App-based sellers are specifically mentioning that the onions on offer are medium sized. Deepak Patel, the secretary of the APMC, said: “There was a shortage of potatoes and onions. And due to the delayed monsoon and subsequent heavy rains, there was a delay in sowing of tomato crops.” Patel added: “Hence the supply of local crops is still awaited. At present, the city is getting tomatoes from Bengaluru and Nashik; so prices are high.” Another office-bearer of the APMC said: “The supply of locally produced vegetables has been delayed. Besides, monsoon sowing of vegetables is resulting in high prices.” The office-bearer added: “But the gap of about 100% in retail and wholesale markets is seen because of retailers’ mark-up.” He said that if the best quality ladyfinger costs Rs 45 per kg, retailers were selling at Rs 75-90. “Moreover, retailers charge for the best quality produce but add medium-quality vegetables into the mix to maximize profits,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/common-veggies-no-small-potatoes/articleshow/79159601.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 11, 2020||Pune||Documentary charts stand-up comedy scene in rural Maharashtra||PUNE: A web documentary is shining the limelight on the vibrant, growing stand-up comedy scene in rural Maharashtra. The documentary, titled ‘Gheun Tak’, was released on the popular YouTube channel of Marathi variety group Bharatiya Digital Party (BhaDiPa) on Sunday. The documentary, directed by Chaitanya Golhar, follows a two-yearold programme called ‘Kaay Boltay’, a joint venture by BhaDiPa and a couple of arts and culture charities and collectives — Maree and the Fund for Global Human Rights. In the near-30 minute documentary, the filmmakers track some of the emerging stand-up comics — all from rural Maharashtra, cutting across the lines of caste and gender. The ‘Kaay Boltay’ programme popularized dozens of new and emerging stand-up comics in semi-urban and rural parts of Maharashtra, including some who have started organizing large shows over the past year. “There are similar art forms that are extremely popular in rural Maharashtra, such as batavani or kirtans. What mentors in the project made the participants realize is the potential to satirize using these art forms, given the socio-political background in their areas and the country at large, including issues faced in their communities. As one of my colleagues said, people performing such sets in rural areas are far more politically aware than the most of us think,” Sarang Sathaye, the co-founder of BhaDiPa, told TOI. Sathaye was also one of the mentors of the programme. Two of the principal protagonists in the documentary are women. Each of them have their own challenges of battling societal- and domestic- gender and caste discrimination, as well as issues of poverty and unemployment in their communities, while trying to satirize their challenges through wisecracks and entire stand-up comedy sets in Marathi. The sets were also filmed in largely modest venues in towns like Sangli and Sangamner, and other parts of rural Maharashtra, in front of local and largely adoring crowds. One of the protagonists mentions in the documentary that their aim is to be comedians who make fun of problems “more than those of traffic jams”, alluding to stand-up comedy in urban areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/documentary-charts-stand-up-comedy-scene-in-rural-maharashtra/articleshow/79159602.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 11, 2020||Pune||Eight staffers booked on charge of duping car dealer of Rs 1 crore||PUNE: At least eight employees, including the general manager, insurance manager and the cashier, of a four-wheeler dealer along the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass have been booked on the charge of cheating their employer to the tune of Rs1 crore for five years, between 2013 and 2018. Police said the eight employees had misappropriated Rs84 lakh the customers had paid to the firm for drawing insurance policies of their vehicles. They were also accused of issuing fake insurance policies to some of these customers. Another Rs17 lakh they had collected from customers towards works done at the workshop were not deposited with the company. Assistant inspector Uddhav Khade of the Hinjewadi police said, “The fraud came to light in 2018 when a customer visited the showroom for the repairs of his car after it met with an accident. When he submitted the insurance policy to get the repairs, an employee found that the document was fake. On checking the policy, he realized that it was some other customer’s policy that had lapsed in 2017. Someone had given that policy to the customer by changing the name and the year.” When the dealer checked the accounts, he found that the amount of the insurance paid by the customer was debited to the insurance company’s account from the dealership’s bank account. But, the same amount was not deposited in the dealership’s account. “The dealer had filed a complaint application in 2019. After the probe, an offence was registered on Monday. We are yet to make any arrest,” Khade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8-staffers-booked-on-charge-of-duping-car-dealer-of-rs-1cr/articleshow/79159595.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 11, 2020||Pune||Criminal murdered||Pune: A 23-year-old criminal on police record, Suraj Bhalchandra Yashwad from Rajendranagar, was murdered by two unidentified men at Ambil Odha during the wee hours of Monday. An injured Yashwad went to a nearby private hospital on his own. Following initial treatment, the hospital officials alerted the police who shifted him to Sassoon hospital where he succumbed to his wounds on Tuesday morning, police said. The murder may be the fallout of an old rivalry. A search has been launched for the suspects. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-murdered/articleshow/79159613.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nashik||Drop in complaints against private hospitals||NASHIK: With the drop in number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Nashik city, the number of complaints related to private hospitals, too, has dropped significantly in the last few days. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had set up a call centre at its headquarters in Rajiv Gandhi Bhavan to help corrnavirus patients and their families with problems related to the contagion and its treatment. The helpline was started around six months back. The NMC’s Covid helpline numbers 9607601133 and 9607432233 are operational 24x7. The civic body had appealed to people and families of Covid-19 suspects and patients to reach out to NMC on these helpline numbers about any complaints or queries related to Covid-19. “We received very good response to our call centre. During the last six months, we received over 5,000 complaints related to patients’ sanitization, medicines, overcharging by private hospitals, etc. We solved almost all complaints,” said NMC officials. “Around a month back, we would get over 200 complaints against private hospitals every week through call centre helpline numbers. But, with the drop in number of new Covid-19 positive cases, the number of complaints has also reduced at large. We are now getting around 25-30 complaints every week” said NMC officials. The number of active patients has dropped from 6,000 to 1,745 during the last one-and-a-half month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drop-in-complaints-against-private-hospitals/articleshow/79159606.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 11, 2020||Pune||Entry ban on heavy vehicles in Pune's Talegaon||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police banned the entry of heavy vehicles in Talegaon Dabhade between 7am and 7pm from Tuesday. The move follows Sunday evening’s incident when a 37-year-old woman, Kalita Torkade, was killed after her moped was hit by a container near the Talegaon Dabhade railway station chowk. Torkade’s daughter escaped with minor injuries in the accident. Heavy vehicles heading towards Chakan MIDC from Mumbai, ply via Talegaon Dabhade. Even vehicles coming towards Talegaon MIDC via Ahmednagar and Nashik too pass from Talegaon Dabhade. The heavy traffic on the narrow road has caused fatal accidents in the recent past. To avoid these accidents, heavy vehicles coming to and from, between Indori toll naka and Vadgaon Phata, are now not allowed between 7am and 7pm. During this period, the vehicles can be parked at a plot near the Indori toll naka, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/entry-ban-on-heavy-vehicles-in-talegaon/articleshow/79159609.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Nashik||Patients at CBD’s dedicated Covid facility drop to 30||NASHIK: With Covid-19 cases fast dropping in the Deolali Camp area and surrounding villages, the admission of patients at the dedicated covid health centre (DCHC) at the Cantonment Board hospital is declining. As on November 9, there were only 30 patients at the 90-bed DCHC. Corporator and former vice-president of Cantonment Board Deolali (CBD) Bhagwan Kataria said that even as the number of new patient admissions are dropping at the DCHC, it has been decided to continue the functioning of the facility until December end in view of the possibility of second wave of Covid-19. “A couple of weeks back, the Covid Care Centre (CCC) in the Deolali Camp area was shut owing to the less number of fresh Covid-19 cases. Nonetheless, the DCHC would continue to function until December end,” said Kataria. With respect to the treatment of non-Covid patients, an out-patient department (OPD) has been set up at CBD school where people are checked and given medication. During check-up, if the doctors feel that a patient needs to be admitted, he or she is referred to Nashik Road’s Bytco Hospital or the civil hospital. Kataria said that the CBD was taking all necessary measures to ensure that there is no spread of coronavirus in the cantonment board area. As part of the unlock process, jogging track and library of the CBD has been opened for public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/patients-at-cbds-dedicated-covid-facility-drop-to-30/articleshow/79159612.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eating joint on SB Road razed by Ahmedabad municipal corporation||AHMEDABAD: One of the prominent eating joint SBQ Social located on Sindhu Bhavan Road was razed to rubble after a team of municipal estate department’s demolition squad found that the structure had no permission from the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC). Sources in the AMC’s estate department claim that the large area purportedly belonged to Popular Builders. The AMC razed the 52 food stalls and cleared some 14,000 sq feet of ground area for which SBQ Social did not have building use permission nor had they placed a plan before the AMC for approval.  “It was a large prominent site on Sindhu Bhavan Road and residents around complex had started approaching the AMC zonal office over the construction activities at SBQ Social,’ says a senior estate department official at AMC. A temporary structure raised on iron bars was was also pulled down. “In all some 30,000 sqfeet of constructed space including a floor on the top of the temporary structure was razed,” says the senior AMC official. Sources in the Town Planning department add that all construction activities over the last one and half years are being identified . “Minor constructions like extensions of space too are not being spared under this drive,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/eating-joint-on-sb-road-razed-by-amc/articleshow/79159640.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Kochi||CBI files DA case against Cochin Port deputy chairman||KOCHI: The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) of Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Kochi, has registered a case of amassment of disproportionate assets against Cyril C George, Deputy Chairman, Cochin Port Trust (CPT). The first information report (FIR) submitted by the central agency before the CBI special court, Kochi, stated that George has allegedly amassed disproportionate assets worth Rs 90.7 lakhs between 2004 and 2013, during his tenure as the secretary of CPT. According to the CBI, Cyril C George joined as a labour officer at Kandla Port Trust in 1987 and stayed there still 1993. He later got promotions and worked as the secretary at CPT from 2003 till 2014. In August, he was appointed as deputy chairman at CPT. His wife is a teacher at Kendriya Vidyalaya, Ernakulum. According to the report filed on 26 October, George, who hails from a middle-class family, during his tenure, from January 1, 2004, to December 31, 2013, has amassed assets worth Rs 90,73,582 in his as well as his family members’ names and these were found disproportionate to his known sources of income. The case was registered under section 13(2) read with 13(1) (e) of Prevention of Corruption Act 1988 and the probe was led by DSP Devraj B, ACB, Kochi. The report stated that after calculating George’s income and savings, the CBI has claimed that the assets acquired by him during the check period were 120% more than his known source of income. CBI, after filing the case, conducted searches at his office and residential premises leading to the recovery of documents related to the assets, including sale deeds, share certificates, statement of immovable property and mutual fund receipts, and bank account details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cbi-files-da-case-against-cochin-port-dy-chairman/articleshow/79158128.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Fake currency of Rs 1.35 lakh seized in Sriganganagar district||JAIPUR: The BSF along with the police seized fake currency of Rs 1,35,000 in denominations of Rs 2000 and Rs 500 from a car in Gharsana police station area in Sriganganagar district. The joint team arrested three culprits. The three have been identified as Satpal Singh, Pragat Singh and Ranjeet Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fake-currency-of-rs-1-35l-seized/articleshow/79159611.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||SPPU may hold exams for promoted non-final yr law pupils||PUNE: Savitribai Phule Pune University may hold examinations for all promoted students of non-final year law courses. The board of studies’ will meet in two days after which its recommendations would be sent to the board of examination, officials said. A Bar Council of India press release added that while the students’ promotions to the next level stands, they still need to appear for all the exams before they get their law degree. It says all students affected by the pandemic who are promoted to the next year/semester, without their promotion getting affected, and who are unable to appear in or having appeared is/are unable to clear any presently held (during pandemic) offline/online exam and/or the physical exam to be preferably held within one month of physical re-opening of universities/colleges, shall also be provided with opportunity to clear such papers, before the grant of law degree, immediately, after the final year examination, without any penalization or prejudice being caused to them. “Although the university is an autonomous body, we have to consider the notifications by the Bar Council of India. A decision about an examination is a two-level process. The matter will be placed before the board of studies’ meeting. Their recommendations would be sent to the board of examination and their decision will be communicated,” N S Umarani, pro-vice-chancellor of Savitribai Phule Pune University, said. Principal of a law college, on the condition of anonymity, said, “The BCI’s instructions will be adhered to. The university must decide quickly for colleges to prepare.” Bar Council of India’s Message Examination for all intermediary along with final year law students/classes too may be held online if universities/law colleges are able to hold it online, and if adequate infrastructure and other facilities for students is/are available. It is further resolved that if the online exam is so conducted and any student/students is/are unable to take it, or having appeared therein, is unable to pass such exam/subject paper, such students shall be entitled to take the ‘reappear’ exam/paper whenever it is held preferably within one month of physical reopening of the universities/colleges after the pandemic is averted||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-may-hold-exams-for-promoted-non-final-yr-law-pupils/articleshow/79159647.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 11, 2020||Coimbatore||Silver screens come alive, bring cheer to movie buff||COIMBATORE: R Sivam, 40, a resident of Saibaba Colony, was excited ever since the state government announced the plans to reopen cinema theatres. And he has been waiting to watch a movie on the first day itself. On Tuesday, he took leave from work, stepped out of his house around 9am, and visited a few theatres in and around Gandhipuram. But to his disappointment, they were not screening any movies. Finally, he managed to watch the first show at the PVR Cinemas at Brookfields in the city. While a few like him thronged the theatres, the overall response was lukewarm on the first day. Also, only a handful of theatres functioned in the district on the day. M Subramaniam, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners’ Association, said, “Only 40 of the 169 screens in Coimbatore, Nilgiris, Erode and Tirupur districts functioned on the first day, when only recent hit movies were screened. Many did not reopen the theatres as they did not want to screen old movies.” Most of the theatres are expected to operate from Friday or Saturday, as new movies would be released for Diwali. He said all the theatres were ready for operation by adhering to the standard operating procedures issued by the government. Pointing out that the theatres would function only with 50% occupancy, Subramaniam said even members of a family would be seated only on alternate seats and the same has been updated on ticket booking applications. The public would be admitted to the theatres only after screening them for temperature. “We will ensure that they are wearing face masks and following other precautionary measures prescribed by the government,” he said. K Rajamannar, president, Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris and Erode Distributors’ Association, says the theatres usually draw only less crowd before the Diwali as people are more interested in shopping. “The situation will be the same this year too. But we are confident that the number of people visiting the theatres will increase gradually, as nothing can replace the experience of watching a movie in theatre.” S Rajkumar, duty manager, PVR Cinemas, said they had taken all precautionary measures to prevent the infection at the theatre. “We have covered door handles and hand rails with antimicrobial films and adopted a paperless ticket system. We have reduced the ticket price by Rs 30 as we are screening only old movies.” D Saravana Kumar, 40, a moviegoer, said he decided to watch the first show as he felt the theatre would be cleaned and maintained neatly. “I just wanted to enjoy the experience of watching a movie in the theatre and I wasn’t concerned whether it was an old movie or a new one.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/silver-screens-come-alive-bring-cheer-to-movie-buff/articleshow/79159628.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Kota man dies in custody, all police station staff suspended||Kota: At least four policemen, including a sub-inspector, were booked for murder and the entire staff of Bundi Sadar police station was suspended on Tuesday. This was done after a 55-year-old man allegedly died in police custody at Ramnagar police check post on Monday afternoon. Policemen from Ramnagar police check post on receiving report of gambling in Ramnagar village, reached the village on Monday around 2pm. They nabbed one of the accused identified as 55-year-old Harji Kanjar while others fled. While the cops were taking Harji Kanjar to police check post outside the village, his condition deteriorated and the cops straightaway took him to Bundi district hospital, where he was declared brought dead. The family members and villagers created ruckus in Bundi district hospital alleging that Harji was beaten to death by police. They demanded action against police personnel, a judicial inquiry into the matter and compensation to Harji’s kin. In his report to the police, Harji’s son Sultan Singh alleged that four cops identified as Hanuman, Satyanarayan, Prahlad and Madan from Bundi Sadar police station had come to his home and demanded money for Diwali. When Harji refused to oblige them they began to thrash him and forced him to sit on their motorbike. The cops held his father’s neck tightly which caused his death, the son alleged. Bundi SP Shivraj Meena and Bundi MLA Ashok Dogera reached the hospital and convinced the family members. Kota range DIG Laxman Gour also reached Bundi and took stock of the situation. The family members after being assuaged by the officials agreed for post-mortem which was carried out in presence of judicial magistrate on Monday late evening. But, the family members demanding a case of murder be filed against the cops blocked Bundi–Bejoliya route on Tuesday morning and refused to perform the last rites. The four cops were booked for murder under section 302 of IPC while entire staff of Bundi Sadar police station, including its circle inspector Shoket Ali was sent to line on Tuesday. A report on alleged custodial death of Harji Kanjar is being sent to the state government, SDM Kailash Gurjar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-man-dies-in-custody-all-police-station-staff-suspended/articleshow/79159608.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man orders laptop online, gets stone instead; lodges complaint||JAIPUR: A buyer was in for a rude shock when he received a package from the e-tailer Flipkart with a stone inside, instead of the laptop that he had ordered. The complainant lodged a case with the Shipra Path police station after writing to the website which failed to address his complaint. Satendra Jain (44) had ordered a laptop for his son’s online classes from the website last month. Speaking to TOI, the complainant said, “I had ordered the laptop on October 17 and received the package after five days. The money was deducted from my account the same day that I ordered it. On October 22, two persons came to my house for delivering it.” According to the complainant, he asked the delivery boys to first let him check the product but they asked Jain to share the OTP sent by the website on the buyer’s phone. “I shared the OTP and took the package. As I was standing outside near my car, I kept the box on the seat and when I turned around in mere seconds, the two delivery boys had started their bike and left. I even called out to them but they did not stop,” said Jain. The delivery boys’ fleeing piqued Jain’s suspicion and while opening the box, he made a video and found a stone inside. Elaborating further, the complainant said, “I immediately called Flipkart helpline number and they said they would look into my complaint within 24 hours. After many calls and mails to the website, they finally replied saying that according to the vendor, the laptop has been delivered to me. After this reply, I lodged a case and following the FIR, I again received a call from Flipkart in which they asked for some more time to deal with the complaint.” Meanwhile cops have initiated an investigation into the case though no one has been arrested yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-orders-laptop-online-gets-stone-instead-lodges-complaint/articleshow/79159626.cms||---
November 11, 2020||India||Hopeful of pact with China on resolving LAC row: Naravane||NEW DELHI: India is hopeful of reaching an agreement with China to defuse the military confrontation in eastern Ladakh, in accordance with guidelines issued after meetings between the foreign and defence ministers of the two countries, said Army chief General M M Naravane on Tuesday. The rival corps commanders, who held the eighth round of military talks on November 6, “are ironing out the modalities of how to proceed ahead within the overarching guidelines communicated after the ministerial meetings”, said Gen Naravane, speaking at a conclave organised by defence web portal ‘Bharat Shakti’. “The process is on. We are hopeful that we will be able to reach an agreement that is mutually acceptable and mutually beneficial in keeping with the overarching policy guidelines…The situation is quite stable,” he added. TOI had reported after the November 6 meeting that the two countries were now working on a fresh set of proposals for troop disengagement at the various “friction points”, including the Pangong Tso-Chushul area, even as the harsh winter was providing a test of endurance for the rival armies deployed at heights over 15,000-feet. India and China had agreed to refrain from taking any further military actions that could escalate tensions during the meeting between defence minister Rajnath Singh and his counterpart Gen Wei Fenghe on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in Moscow on September 4. Then, on September 10, external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Chinese counterpart Wang Yi had agreed on a five-point diplomatic consensus for disengagement and de-escalation. “It was discussed by the defence ministers that it has to be an overall solution to the entire issue which brought this situation to the fore. Within those guidelines, we are discussing how to actually achieve it on the ground,” said Gen Naravane. He dismissed reports about shortage of extreme winter clothing and gear for soldiers deployed in eastern Ladakh. “There is no shortage whatsoever. All troops are equipped with the latest, newest clothing, equipment and weapons that they need to have,” he said. “The current situation required us to deploy additional troops and for them we had to go for certain emergency procurements,” he added. The Army does “a fair deal of advance winter stocking” in Ladakh during the summer months to cater for the road-closure period from November to May. “This is a process we do year on year.We just had to ramp it up to cater to the additional numbers which are there,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hopeful-of-pact-with-china-on-resolving-lac-row-naravane/articleshow/79161797.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||Technical education backlog exam for non-final year from Nov 23||PUNE: A circular from the Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education said the backlog examination for all non-final year students will be held online between November 23 and December 5. The board is autonomous and mandated to regulate matters pertaining to diploma level technical education. Students can use their own gadgets to access the examination from home. Those lacking digital gadgets can make use of computers in their college, a notification issued on Sunday said. Practical examinations for non-final year backlog students would now be held online where students would appear for viva. If the student is unable to use an internet platform for the viva, then a telephonic exam must be held. In case the student is not reachable by any means, then the student must be marked based on internal assessment, journal submissions etc. All backlog non-final year theory examinations would be MCQ-based and held online at the institute’s level which will declare a schedule. There will be 40 questions of which the student needs to solve a total of 30. Each question will carry one mark and the duration of the examination would be an hour. “Students with disability will be given additional time as per the rules and all facilities for such students need to be provided by the institute. No photocopy, reassessment facilities will be available for this examination. Institutes must make students and parents aware about these changes and respond to any queries,” Mahendra Chitlange, secretary of the board, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/technical-education-backlog-exam-for-non-final-year-from-nov-23/articleshow/79159664.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 11, 2020||Nashik||At 10° C, Niphad coldest in north Maharashtra||NASHIK: Niphad town, the grape growing belt of the Nashik district, on Tuesday was the coldest in north Maharashtra with a minimum temperature of 10 degrees celsius. A day before, the minimum temperature recorded here was 11 degrees celsius. Niphad often emerges as the coldest during the winter due to the presence of a large number of grape vineyards and sugar cane fields in the taluka. The minimum temperature in Niphad town is often lower by around 2 degrees when compared to the minimum temperature in Nashik city because of the greenery and open stretches. It is also usually colder than other Towns in north Maharashtra. Meanwhile, Nashik city on Tuesday recorded a minimum temperature of 11.8 degrees celsius, which is a departure of 3 degrees from the normal. The city had a recorded minimum temperature of 12.5 degrees celsius on Monday. The maximum temperature in Nashik city was 28.3 degrees celsius on Tuesday. According to IMD sources, the sky will be clear, and the minimum temperature will drop further to 11 degrees celsius and stay at the same level over the next five days here. Malegaon tehsil town recorded a minimum temperature at 13.8 degrees celsius, a departure of 1 degree from the normal. The maximum temperature was 30.4 degrees celsius, a departure of 2 degrees. IMD sources said the minimum temperature in Malegaon is expected to drop to 13 degrees celsius over the next five days. Jalgaon, another north Maharashtra city, had a minimum temperature of 12 degrees celsius, with a departure of 4 degrees. The maximum temperature here was 32.8 degrees celsius, a departure of 1 degree.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-10-c-niphad-coldest-in-north-maharashtra/articleshow/79159645.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur youth hangs self over love affair||JAIPUR: A 24-year-old youth hanged himself on the terrace of his coaching centre in Jaipur’s Govindgarh on Tuesday apparently because his girlfriend had got engaged to someone else. The youth had appeared for the constable recruitment exam last weekend. The deceased was identified as Babulal Yadav who hailed from Niwana village in Govindgarh. “Around 1 am on Tuesday, Yadav hung himself and we received information about 30 minutes later. He left behind a suicide note in which he wrote that the girl who he liked got engaged to someone else due to which he was taking his own life,” said an official of Govindgarh police station. In the note, Yadav also mentioned that his life was in danger as the girl’s father might kill him. The deceased’s post-mortem was done on Tuesday and the body handed over to the family. The youth had previously given exam for government jobs including for the post of patwari and had been preparing for the same for last few years. Cops claimed that they will question the persons involved. “The family was unable to tell us much at this stage. They said they had no idea that Yadav was thinking of taking his own life. We will question the girl as well as her father who was named in the note to find as to what actually transpired which made Yadav take his own life.” Cops will also look into the fact as to what was Yadav doing at the coaching centre at such a late hour to gather more details into the case. At present no one has been called in for questioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-youth-hangs-self-over-love-affair/articleshow/79159655.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||Coldest November morning in 4 years as temp drops to 11.3°C in Pune||PUNE: The city’s minimum temperature in the early hours of Tuesday nosedived 4 notches below normal to a chilly 11.3ºC, giving Puneites the coldest November morning in four years. At just 2 degrees shy of registering the single digit minimum temperature, Pune was not only one of the coldest spots (among plains) in Maharashtra, but even colder than several north Indian locations such as Kasauli, Shimla airport region (12.9º), Jammu airport region (13.3ºC), Katra and Chandigarh (11.8ºC). The minimum temperature in Pune was also almost on a par with the kind of minimums recorded in other cities up north, such as Delhi (10.7ºC), Dehradun (10.8ºC), Patiala (11ºC) and Ambala (11.1ºC). In Maharashtra, Chandrapur was the coldest at 8.2ºC. For the city, the November chill has arrived early, with similar spells expected to continue through the season. A colder winter is expected this time, especially with La Nina getting stronger over the equatorial Pacific Ocean. Skymet Weather Services president G P Sharma told TOI: “The minimum temperatures have dipped significantly below normal all across Vidarbha, right from Parbhani to Gondia, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Yavatmal, among others. At some places, the minimums recorded on Tuesday early morning were even 7ºC below normal. Similar falling trends have been witnessed in parts of Madhya Maharashtra, including Sangli, Satara, Kolhapur, Solapur and Pune where the recorded minimums have fallen 2-5 degrees C below normal.” Sharma said the dry weather across north India as well as central India till Tuesday morning was mainly responsible for the significant plunge in the minimums. “Minimum temperatures in parts of Punjab and Haryana have also hit single digits. Cold winds were blowing in North India, reaching as far as up to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra till Tuesday morning,” he said. The wind pattern, however, changed during the day on Tuesday, said India Meteorological Department (IMD) director general Mrutyunjay Mohapatra. He also said the minimum temperatures were set to gradually rise. “The northeast monsoon has activated, with wind pattern across a major portion of the country changing to easterly from northerly. We are now expecting rain over south peninsular India, with two easterly waves in quick succession to influence the southeast Peninsular India during this week,” said Mohapatra. “Mainly easterlies, which are relatively warmer in nature than northerly winds, will thus prevail over the entire country, causing a gradual rise in minimum temperature by 2-3°C over Northwest India and by 2-4°C over east, central and south Peninsular India during next three days, with minimums to rise over Maharashtra as well during this period,” he added. Sharma, on the other hand, said a fresh western disturbance was very likely to affect the western Himalayan region from November 13, which was also likely to arrest the fall in the minimums further in the coming time. On Pune and parts of Maharashtra, especially Vidarbha, have been recording minimums as low as some parts of north India, or even lower in some locations, Sharma said, “Barring the hill stations, the plain areas in the north, like Delhi and its adjoining regions, have a thick layer of smog during winter. Conversely, the plains such as Vidarbha, Pune and Nashik in the central parts of India have clear skies with a good amount of sunshine during the day in winter.” He added, “In regions where a thick layer of smog, along with cloudy skies in night, is there, this layer will prevent the escape of the warm long-wave radiation from the earth’s surface to the atmosphere during the night. This will arrest the drop in minimum temperatures. If the same, cold, northerly winds reach central parts, including Maharashtra, this radiation will escape unhindered into the atmosphere on account of the clear and relatively smog-free skies, causing the minimum temperatures to drop significantly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mercury-plummets-to-11-3c-in-city-chandrapur-coldest-in-state-at-8-2c/articleshow/79159648.cms||Neha Madaan
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Police launch helpline for its staff||JAIPUR: Rajasthan police has launched a helpline number for its officials on which they can call in case of mental health issues. The cops can call at 0141-2821500 between 10.30 am and 5pm for redressal of their issues. Officials claimed that the number was launched as police personnel do not get time for rest and recreation due to which they come under stress. Along with police personnel, their families can also call on this number. Since May, over half-a-dozen police personnel have committed suicide in Rajasthan. Senior cops are concerned about the surge in such cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-launch-helpline-for-its-staff/articleshow/79159650.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid deaths breach 2,000 as Rajasthan reports highest daily cases in 22 days||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 infections surged by 1,902 on Tuesday as it reported a hike in daily new infections for the fourth day in a row. The last time the state had reported more than 1,900 new infections was on October 19 when 1,960 persons tested positive. Since then, the cases had been reducing steadily. The overall tally currently stands at 2,15,071. In the last 24 hours, 10 deaths were reported across the state taking the casualty count to 2,008. Jaipur reported its 387th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 196th, Bikaner 147th, Bharatpur 97th, Udaipur 76th, Sikar 64th, Nagaur 63rd, Alwar 62nd, Churu 30th and Jhalawar reported its 14th Covid-19 fatality. A senior health department official said, “We have managed to prevent Covid deaths as the mortality rate stands at 0.93%. We are strengthening the logistics and facilities for treatment to ensure better healthcare facilities along with increasing the capacity of generating more oxygen for Covid treatment.” For the past four days, active cases have also been rising. It stood at 16,725 on Tuesday, up from 16,542 on Monday, 16,376 (Sunday) and 16,327 (Saturday). On Friday, active cases were 16,277. Since Saturday, active cases have been increasing. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (379), Jodhpur (278), Ajmer (210), Alwar (145), Kota (119), Bikaner (110), Jalore (87), Sikar (83), Nagaur (78), Sriganganagar (76), Udaipur (55), Bharatpur (44), Pali (41), Hanumangarh (32), Churu (25), Bhilwara (19), Jhunjhunu (19), Bundi (15), Barmer (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Dausa (13), Dungarpur (11), Jhalawar (10), Rajsamand (8), Banswara (4), Tonk (4), Sirohi (3), Karauli (3), Baran (1), Chittorgarh (1), Dholpur (1) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-deaths-breach-2000-as-state-reports-highest-daily-cases-in-22-days/articleshow/79163813.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Udaipur||Covid deaths breach 2,000 as Rajasthan reports highest daily cases in 22 days||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 infections surged by 1,902 on Tuesday as it reported a hike in daily new infections for the fourth day in a row. The last time the state had reported more than 1,900 new infections was on October 19 when 1,960 persons tested positive. Since then, the cases had been reducing steadily. The overall tally currently stands at 2,15,071. In the last 24 hours, 10 deaths were reported across the state taking the casualty count to 2,008. Jaipur reported its 387th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 196th, Bikaner 147th, Bharatpur 97th, Udaipur 76th, Sikar 64th, Nagaur 63rd, Alwar 62nd, Churu 30th and Jhalawar reported its 14th Covid-19 fatality. A senior health department official said, “We have managed to prevent Covid deaths as the mortality rate stands at 0.93%. We are strengthening the logistics and facilities for treatment to ensure better healthcare facilities along with increasing the capacity of generating more oxygen for Covid treatment.” For the past four days, active cases have also been rising. It stood at 16,725 on Tuesday, up from 16,542 on Monday, 16,376 (Sunday) and 16,327 (Saturday). On Friday, active cases were 16,277. Since Saturday, active cases have been increasing. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (379), Jodhpur (278), Ajmer (210), Alwar (145), Kota (119), Bikaner (110), Jalore (87), Sikar (83), Nagaur (78), Sriganganagar (76), Udaipur (55), Bharatpur (44), Pali (41), Hanumangarh (32), Churu (25), Bhilwara (19), Jhunjhunu (19), Bundi (15), Barmer (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Dausa (13), Dungarpur (11), Jhalawar (10), Rajsamand (8), Banswara (4), Tonk (4), Sirohi (3), Karauli (3), Baran (1), Chittorgarh (1), Dholpur (1) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-deaths-breach-2000-as-state-reports-highest-daily-cases-in-22-days/articleshow/79163814.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sree Narayana Guru Open University invites suggestions for new courses||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sree Narayana Guru Open University is seeking public opinion before finalizing the courses it will offer. Vice-chancellor Mubarak Pasha said the university would function in a distinctive fashion so that students would get maximum benefits. "The main objective of the university is to offer courses that will help students improve their skills. Recorded video, printed study material and live online classes would be offered for all courses. Also, study centres would provide separate classes for students. A committee chaired by the vice-chancellor has started discussing about new courses. It is in this context that the university has decided to seek public opinion of courses and assimilate acceptable suggestions," said university authorities. Those who wish to share suggestions with the university may submit the same by email: course.sreenarayanaguru@gmail.com before November 18. The name of the course suggested and the course duration should be specifically mentioned. The course level, such as certificate course, diploma/degree/post graduate should be clarified. The outcome of the course, such as the qualities to be achieved by the student after completing the course and its employment/higher education prospects should be also mentioned in brief, said the university registrar PN Dileep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sn-open-university-invites-suggestions-for-new-courses/articleshow/79158174.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Jaipur||Covid deaths breach 2,000 as Rajasthan reports highest daily cases in 22 days||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 infections surged by 1,902 on Tuesday as it reported a hike in daily new infections for the fourth day in a row. The last time the state had reported more than 1,900 new infections was on October 19 when 1,960 persons tested positive. Since then, the cases had been reducing steadily. The overall tally currently stands at 2,15,071. In the last 24 hours, 10 deaths were reported across the state taking the casualty count to 2,008. Jaipur reported its 387th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 196th, Bikaner 147th, Bharatpur 97th, Udaipur 76th, Sikar 64th, Nagaur 63rd, Alwar 62nd, Churu 30th and Jhalawar reported its 14th Covid-19 fatality. A senior health department official said, “We have managed to prevent Covid deaths as the mortality rate stands at 0.93%. We are strengthening the logistics and facilities for treatment to ensure better healthcare facilities along with increasing the capacity of generating more oxygen for Covid treatment.” For the past four days, active cases have also been rising. It stood at 16,725 on Tuesday, up from 16,542 on Monday, 16,376 (Sunday) and 16,327 (Saturday). On Friday, active cases were 16,277. Since Saturday, active cases have been increasing. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (379), Jodhpur (278), Ajmer (210), Alwar (145), Kota (119), Bikaner (110), Jalore (87), Sikar (83), Nagaur (78), Sriganganagar (76), Udaipur (55), Bharatpur (44), Pali (41), Hanumangarh (32), Churu (25), Bhilwara (19), Jhunjhunu (19), Bundi (15), Barmer (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Dausa (13), Dungarpur (11), Jhalawar (10), Rajsamand (8), Banswara (4), Tonk (4), Sirohi (3), Karauli (3), Baran (1), Chittorgarh (1), Dholpur (1) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-deaths-breach-2000-as-state-reports-highest-daily-cases-in-22-days/articleshow/79159672.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Pune||Pune: Some pet owners face delay in getting license||PUNE: City-based pet owners have alleged harassment after the civic body’s refusal to give licences to owners, who have more than two pets. Animal activists and pet owners have said that there is no law by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) or State Animal Welfare Board to restrict the number of pets in a household. Thus, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) cannot withhold licenses on the premise that an owner has more than two pets. Vineeta Tandon, managing head of People for Animals (PFA) Pune district, said, “The order (to withhold pet licenses in cases where the number of pets was more than two) was verbally given by a PMC official to ward offices. I had requested the official to convey to ward offices that there is no such rule.” However, PMC’s assistant medical officer Manisha Naik said, “No verbal orders were given to ward officers on restricting pet licenses. However, ward officers have sought our opinion on giving licences in such cases. We will seek legal opinion on the same.” Naik also clarified that until a legal opinion is sought on the matter, PMC will not restrict pet licence issuance to owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/some-pet-owners-face-delay-in-getting-license/articleshow/79159681.cms||Neha Madaan
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: No rail supply, farmers face urea crunch||PATIALA: With freight trains not operating, Punjab farmers may face a shortage of urea for wheat crop in December. As per officials of the state agriculture department, Punjab has around 2 lakh metric tonnes of urea available, against the demand of 11 LMT. The state is facing a shortage of urea since the halt of goods trains due to blockade of rail tracks by farmers against the three new farm laws and later due to stoppage of goods trains by the central government despite rail tracks being cleared by farmers. Usually, around 4 LMT of urea reaches Punjab via ral in September, 4 LMT in November, and 3 LMT in December. Punjab chief inspector (fertilizers) G S Brar said farmers may not be able to get a complete supply even if goods trains start immediately. Farmers need urea in the first week of December and up till December last. “We have 1 LMT of urea in the stock.Another 1 LMT is supplied from fertilizer plants at Nangal and Bathinda for emergency needs. The demand for urea is more than 10.3 LMT in Punjab,” Brar said. BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) president Jagjit Singh Dallewal said the central government had turned vindictive and wanted to suppress farmers. “The state government should get the supply by transporting urea in trucks from neighbouring states, where trains are operational,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-rail-supply-farmers-face-urea-crunch/articleshow/79159677.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 11, 2020||Ajmer||Covid deaths breach 2,000 as Rajasthan reports highest daily cases in 22 days||JAIPUR: State’s Covid-19 infections surged by 1,902 on Tuesday as it reported a hike in daily new infections for the fourth day in a row. The last time the state had reported more than 1,900 new infections was on October 19 when 1,960 persons tested positive. Since then, the cases had been reducing steadily. The overall tally currently stands at 2,15,071. In the last 24 hours, 10 deaths were reported across the state taking the casualty count to 2,008. Jaipur reported its 387th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 196th, Bikaner 147th, Bharatpur 97th, Udaipur 76th, Sikar 64th, Nagaur 63rd, Alwar 62nd, Churu 30th and Jhalawar reported its 14th Covid-19 fatality. A senior health department official said, “We have managed to prevent Covid deaths as the mortality rate stands at 0.93%. We are strengthening the logistics and facilities for treatment to ensure better healthcare facilities along with increasing the capacity of generating more oxygen for Covid treatment.” For the past four days, active cases have also been rising. It stood at 16,725 on Tuesday, up from 16,542 on Monday, 16,376 (Sunday) and 16,327 (Saturday). On Friday, active cases were 16,277. Since Saturday, active cases have been increasing. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (379), Jodhpur (278), Ajmer (210), Alwar (145), Kota (119), Bikaner (110), Jalore (87), Sikar (83), Nagaur (78), Sriganganagar (76), Udaipur (55), Bharatpur (44), Pali (41), Hanumangarh (32), Churu (25), Bhilwara (19), Jhunjhunu (19), Bundi (15), Barmer (14), Sawai Madhopur (13), Dausa (13), Dungarpur (11), Jhalawar (10), Rajsamand (8), Banswara (4), Tonk (4), Sirohi (3), Karauli (3), Baran (1), Chittorgarh (1), Dholpur (1) and Jaisalmer (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-deaths-breach-2000-as-state-reports-highest-daily-cases-in-22-days/articleshow/79163815.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Meerut||Inspection reveals Meerut shelter homes in a shambles||MEERUT: The municipal commissioner has pulled up concerned authorities after he found shelter homes in the city in a shambles, ahead of winter. As temperature dips and destitutes turn towards shelter homes, an inspection revealed the establishments had still not been cleaned and prepared for the poor and homeless. “During inspection on Tuesday, it was found that the shelter homes in Bacha Park and Town Hall are not well maintained. Concerned authorities have been asked to clean the premises, carry out repairs and arrange beddings for the destitute,” said Manish Bansal, Meerut municipal commissioner. He further warned officials that negligence won’t be tolerated in this regard and if any lapse is found, the officials responsible will have to face action. He added, “The sanitary inspector of the shelter home in Mission Compound area was let off with a warning, after that facility, too, was found in a shambles.” The city has 12 shelter homes which can accommodate up to 500 people. The facilities should ideally have been opened by now due to the dip in temperature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/inspection-reveals-meerut-shelter-homes-in-a-shambles/articleshow/79156742.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 11, 2020||Ahmedabad||Three held for killing friend over debt in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: Infocity police of Gandhinagar on Tuesday arrested three men — one from Mehsana and two from Ahmedabad city — for allegedly stabbing their friend to death at Bhat village on October 31.  The trio dumped body of the deceased, Jayesh Koshti, 25, a resident of Asopalav Society in CTM, in some bushes in Bhat village after killing him as he did not return Rs 7 lakh which he had borrowed from them around a year ago. DSP of Gandhinagar M L Rana said the accused were Dhaval Rabari, 24, a resident of Ambaliyasan in Mehsana, Sandip Rabari, 22, a resident of Bhagoydaynagar near CTM Crossroads and Happy Rabari, 22, a resident of Varvabhai Chawl in Amraiwadi. Rana said that they had got a message at the control room on October 31 that a body had been found in Bhat village. Police ascertained the identity of the deceased and began an investigation after registering a case of murder at Infocity police station. On questioning people known to Koshti and checking his call detail records, police learned that Dhaval, Sandip and Happy had a fight with Koshti over money and they took him with them in a car on the morning of October 31. When police went to the accused person’s homes, they had fled. On Monday evening, police got an input that the accused persons were near Uvarsad Crossroads, headed towards Adalaj from Mehsana. A team kept a watch and nabbed the accused. They were later taken for Covid-19 tests and booked for murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-held-for-killing-friend-over-debt/articleshow/79159676.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ranchi||Minister Rameshwar Oraon, BJP MP Sunil have Covid; 5 deaths in Jharkhand||RANCHI: State Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon and BJP’s Chatra MP Sunil Kumar were among the 252 new Covid cases reported in the state on Tuesday. Oraon is the sixth cabinet minister to test positive for the virus, while three have recovered, minority affairs minister Haji Hussain Ansari died of the disease and education minister Jagarnath Mahto is undergoing treatment in Chennai. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey said Oraon is admitted to a private hospital here. “His condition is stable and out of danger,” Dubey said. The state also reported five new Covid deaths, taking the toll to 910. The casualties were reported from Ranchi, East Singhbhum, Deoghar, Giridih and Bokaro. Of the fresh cases, Ranchi continued to lead the single-day spike with 43 new infections followed by East Singhbhum at 36, Dhanbad at 32 and Bokaro with 31 cases. A total of 456 patients were also declared cured through the day. The cumulative caseload now stands at 1,04,940 of which 4,042 are active and 99,988 have been cured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/min-oraon-bjp-mp-sunil-have-covid-5-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79159762.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 11, 2020||Ranchi||Education minister undergoes lung transplant in TN, doctors say he is stable||RANCHI: State education minister Jagarnath Mahato got a double lung transplant at the MGM hospital in Chennai on Tuesday evening. He was also taken off Extra Corporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO) treatment, sources at the hospital said. Confirming the development, clinical director of lung transplant, pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine at MGM hospital, Dr Apar Jindal, said: “An expert team led by Dr K R Balakrishnan and Dr Suresh Rao KG operated on the patient.” Dr Balakrishnan is a renowned lung transplant surgeon and is the director at the Institute of Heart and Lung Transplant & Mechanical Circulatory Support, MGM hospital. Dr Rao is an expert in critical cardiac care, heart and lung transplantations and ECMO initiation. The team has successfully conducted four such transplants on Covid-19 patients since the outbreak of pandemic. Mahato had tested positive for Covid-19 on September 18 and was first admitted to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences, Ranchi. He was shifted to the Medica hospital here on October 1 after his condition did not improve. He was then taken to MGM hospital in Chennai after a medical board constituted by the state government recommended that Mahato be shifted to a better medical facility. Mahato was admitted to the ECMO ICU of MGM hospital on October 19 and the doctors were waiting for a cross match for his transplant after receiving consent from the family members of the minister. “We got an organ crossed matched with Mahato. Since his lungs hadn’t shown any signs of recovery but all other organs were doing fine and his vital parameters were within the normal range, we decided to conduct the transplant on Tuesday evening. He is currently stable,” Jindal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/edu-min-undergoes-lung-transplant-in-tn-docs-say-he-is-stable/articleshow/79159715.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 11, 2020||Ranchi||Marigolds bloom, replace illegal poppy plants in Red-hit Chatra||CHATRA: Surrounded by forests on all sides, Chatra, a breeding ground of Maoist extremism in Jharkhand, is slowly shifting from the age-old illegal practice of cultivating poppy for opium to marigold plantations. Chatra, known as the vegetable bowl of Jharkhand, since the early 1990s was under the threat of rising extremism. Around 2005, when anti-rebel operations were increased in Jharkhand, Maoists took a hit, but found a new way of sustaining themselves — poppy cultivation. The rebels started luring farmers with money to produce poppy in order to extract opium and sell them around the country. A recent NCRB data showed demand of illegal opium is highest from Jharkhand. The illegal cultivation had initially started from Pathalgada block, where recently a woman was killed by Maoists for being a “police informer”. After poor farmers in other blocks heard stories of Pathalgada people going rags to riches overnight, they too started taking interest in the illegal cultivation. However, recently, the district administration along with law enforcing agencies increased their vigil and also made the farmers aware of the penal actions that they may face for cultivating poppy illegally. Steps like drones to spot illegal farmlands have also been taken. With the help of Jharkhand state livelihood promotion society (JSLPS), farmers have set up self-help groups in several villages, which in turn are providing them platforms to sell marigold in the markets outside the district. JSLPS block coordinator Rahul Ranjan Pandey said, “The self-help groups aid the farmers in getting loans. Usually Jharkhand is fed by marigold from West Bengal, but due to the lockdown and restrictions, currently Chatra is the sole supplier of marigold in Jharkhand. Of all the blocks, Simaria cultivates the maximum with 1,358 self-help groups active here.” Pandey also informed that currently the prices are high as only a few days are left for Diwali. “Usually, the farmers get Rs 30 per kilogram,” he said. A farmer, who was into the illegal trade of poppy before shifting to marigold, on condition of anonymity said, “The fear of legal action and the high risk involved in the cultivation of poppy was too much to take. Marigold is a befitting reply to guns and opium in Chatra. I hope others shift soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/marigolds-bloom-replace-illegal-poppy-plants-in-red-hit-chatra/articleshow/79159674.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ranchi||Sons restore status quo, Dumka, Bermo remain with families||Ranchi: Candidates of the ruling mahagathbandhan alliance, both sons of stalwarts making their debut in electoral politics, retained the prestigious Dumka and Bermo seats in the assembly. The development is a significant setback for BJP, whose senior leaders campaigned in the two constituencies saying the government in the state will be replaced soon after the bypoll results are out. JMM’s Basant Soren, son of party president Shibu and the younger brother of CM Hemant, defeated BJP’s Lois Marandi by 6,842 votes in the tribal heartland of Dumka while Congress Kumar Jaimangal alias Anup Singh, son of deceased MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh, beat the saffron party’s Yogeshwar Mahto ‘Batul’ by 14,225 votes. Though Basant secured 79,964 votes (1,047 less than what Hemant had in 2019 election) Jaimangal bettered the performance of Congress on Bermo seat by scoring more votes than what his late father got 10 months ago. Late Rajendra Prasad Singh had got 88,945 votes while Jaimangal got 92,973. Though the results does not alter the equations of politics in Jharkhand, the mandate makes it easy for the mahagathbandhan government to take forward its policies with more strength and conviction. JMM said the results are an endorsement of their effort to introduce a religious code for the indigenous people of the country. “We are taking the lead in demanding the Centre to accord separate religious code for the tribals and an official proposal is being sent by the assembly for that,” the party’s central general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said on Tuesday evening. He also attacked BJP, accusing the saffron party of spreading misinformation and making efforts to mislead not just the voters but the people of the entire state. “Three former CMs (Babulal Marandi, Arjun Munda and Raghubar Das) used all their might tried to confuse the people by saying they will topple the government after they win the two seats. These claims were made despite the mahagathbandhan having a thumping majority in the assembly,” he said. Conceding defeat, BJP legislative party leader Babulal Marandi extended greetings to the newly elected MLAs. “I hope both of them will live up to the expectations of the electors,” he said. However, BJP state president Deepak Prakash, who has been booked for sedition for “we will topple the government after bypolls” remark, congratulated the BJP candidates for reducing the margin. “Electors want a change and this is evident from the increase in the number of votes that NDA bagged on both the seats,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/sons-restore-status-quo-dumka-bermo-remain-with-families/articleshow/79159618.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 11, 2020||Surat||Garments trader ends life due to financial crisis||SURAT: A 28-year-old garment shop owner was found hanging at an apartment in Sarsana on Monday night. Karan Dhingra, a resident of Radhe Nagar in Parle Point, is suspected to have committed suicide due to a severe financial crisis as his business did not pick up as he had expected after lockdown. His body was found at the family-owned apartment in Sarsana which he visits occasionally. Since Dhingra was not answering the calls, his family members went to search him at the apartment. They were worried as he had not returned home after leaving in the afternoon. The deceased ran a shop of readymade garments at Rahul Raj Mall. The shop remained closed during the lockdown. Even after the lockdown was lifted, his business did not pick-up the way he had expected, his family members told police. Hailing from a family involved in the textiles business, Dhingra had planned to expand his business by opening another shop on VIP Road in Vesu. Preparations for it was already underway. “The exact reason is not known yet and we are investigating to find more details. The financial crisis could be one of the reasons behind taking the extreme step,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/garments-trader-ends-life-due-to-financial-crisis/articleshow/79156486.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Ranchi||Jaimangal credits Bermo victory to father’s ‘good work’||Bokaro: Emerging victorious by a hefty margin of 14,223 votes in Bermo assembly bypoll, Congress candidate Kumar Jaimangal alias Anup Singh on Tuesday said that that his performance in his debut election is evidence of the good work done by his deceased father when he represented the constituency. The bypoll was necessitated after the demise of Congress MLA Rajendra Prasad Singh in May and the party reposed its faith on his eldest son, Jaimangal, who ended up bagging 92,973 votes, the highest ever in this seat. His father had won 2019 election with 88,945 votes. Jaimangal, has earlier served as the president of state Congress’s youth wing, a post that his younger brother Kumar Gaurav holds at present. As the counting of votes began on Tuesday morning, Jaimangal and BJP’s Yogeshwar Mahto alias Batul were in a neck-to-neck fight, before the Congress candidate broke away and took a lead which continued to increase till the end. Jaimangal said, “This is a victory of the honesty and the work done of my father. It is a testimony to his good work. The entire credit of my victory foes to my mother, brother, chief minister Hemant Soren, state Congress president Rameshwar Oraon and other leaders in the mahagathbandhan. My real victory will be after four years, when I will again contest the assembly election with my own report card in hand.” He added, “The coming four years are precious to me as I have to work harder on the field. I have realised that the people only see work and vote for those who strive for development of the area. This time, they put their their faith on me because of my father’s reputation. But the next time, I will be assessed, analysed and targeted on the basis of my own work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jaimangal-credits-bermo-victory-to-fathers-good-work/articleshow/79159807.cms||Divy Khare
November 11, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara jail inmates turn to organic farming||VADODARA: A few months from now if you happen to buy organic vegetables from the market, there is a possibility that it may have been cultivated by inmates of Vadodara Central Jail on the 15 bighas of land within the jail’s premises. Some prisoners, as a part of welfare activities, indulge in farming on land behind the jail buildings within the campus. Until recently, the inmates used to cultivate the produce for use in the jail kitchen using chemical fertilizers and pesticides. But now the inmates have started developing compost using organic waste. Jail officials said that a lot of plant waste like dried leaves and flowers gets accumulated in the entire campus. The waste, after it decomposes, is mixed with cow dung, jaggery and wheat flour. The compost is then sprinkled across the farm instead of the chemical fertilizer. The inmates have also switched to drip irrigation system for watering the crops. The system was donated by a company manufacturing irrigation system to save water. The crops cultivated by the inmates are largely used in the jail’s kitchen, but a small part is also sold to the public by the jail’s welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-jail-inmates-turn-to-organic-farming/articleshow/79156116.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Hooda scores, Cong retains seat||Chandigarh: Victory of Congress candidate and first timer Indu Raj Narwal, who was targeted for being a dummy, has proved that former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda holds the key in the hinterland of Haryana. Most Congress stalwarts remained out of the poll campaign except on a few occasions, when some leaders came to address the press conference or mark their symbolic presence in the campaign. As the Congress nominee was a greenhorn, the entire poll campaign was planned and executed by senior Hooda and his son Deepender, a Rajya Sabha MP. Hooda was seen appealing to the people to vote for Narwal as their candidate. It was only because of him that Kapoor Narwal, a strong contender of ticket from BJP and Congress, and others had withdrawn in favour of the Congress candidate. Had he contested as an independent, he would have disturbed the political equations for Congress in Baroda. Several political leaders and sportspersons from across the state and even from the neighbouring Rajasthan, who have a close acquaintance with Hooda, were seen campaigning for Congress nominee. Baroda was a reserved seat till 2005 and a pocket borough of the INLD before the Congress won it for three consecutive terms starting in 2009. This byelection was necessitated after the death of Congress MLA Sri Krishan Hooda. During campaigning, Hooda also sought votes on the grounds that victory of Baroda would be victory of power in Chandigarh. His reference was that victory in Baroda would ensure the chief minister’s position for him in future. He also sought votes on the basis of the work done by him during his tenure as CM in Haryana. It was because of this factor that both father and son remained on the target of all leaders of other parties while canvassing for their candidate. Even BJP-JJP had targeted ‘pita-putra’ (father and son), convincing the electors that septuagenarian Hooda has lost his dominance in Congress and that the party may not project him as CM face in future. State power and jail minister Ranjit Singh even said that Congress has ‘use and throw’ policy and that it would throw out Hooda and appoint somebody else as CM when it gets majority in future. All these messages were clearly to convince the people of Baroda that Hooda had lost his hold in the party and no vote should be wasted by considering him as the future CM. The bypoll has also proved the popularity of Deepender, 42, as the MP. Deepender has served as Lok Sabha MP from 2005 to 2014 and is presently the Rajya Sabha member. Interestingly, the father-son duo is acceptable in the Jat as well as non-Jat sections of the state. The bypoll was also a battle of prestige for the Hooda family, as the assembly segment shares boundaries with Hooda’s home constituency, Garhi-Sampla-Kiloi. While sources confirmed that Congress may not give the entire credit of party candidate’s poll victory to Hooda, the entire responsibility for losing the election, had Narwal lost the bypoll, would have been his. Meanwhile reacting to the Congress victory in Baroda, Haryana state Congress president Kumari Selja said it was a befitting reply by the people of Baroda to the anti-farmers/labourers forces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hooda-scores-cong-retains-seat/articleshow/79159716.cms||Ajay Sura
November 11, 2020||Business||Century Ply in Q2||Century Plyboards has witnessed a marginal 1.4% decline in net profit to Rs 51.4 crore in the second quarter of this fiscal from Rs 42 crore. Net revenue from operations for the quarter, ending September 30, 2020-21 fiscal, was Rs 519.8 crore; a decrease of 12% over the year-ago period. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/century-ply-in-q2/articleshow/79159717.cms||---
November 11, 2020||India||Army’s gift to Bangladesh: Horses & sniffer dogs||NEW DELHI: India has gifted some smart and fighting-fit canine and equine soldiers to Bangladesh, in a move to further strengthen the military ties between the two countries. The Indian Army handed over 20 military horses and 10 mine-detecting dogs to the Bangladesh Army at the Petrapole-Benapole integrated check post on the border on Tuesday. “These equines and canines were trained by the Remount and Veterinary Corps (RVC) of the Indian Army. Bangladesh Army personnel have also undergone training to handle these specialist dogs and horses,” said an officer. Indian Army dogs have won several awards over the years for playing a stellar role in detecting explosives, tracking terrorists and rescuing disaster victims. “We are always ready to extend our assistance to a friendly country like Bangladesh in issues concerning security,” said Major General Narinder Singh, who led the Indian delegation at the presentation ceremony on Tuesday. “When it comes to security, the dogs have proven their mettle. The dogs which have been handed over are extremely effective in detecting mines and contraband items,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/armys-gift-to-bangladesh-horses-sniffer-dogs/articleshow/79161815.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Goa||Goa: 4 succumb, death toll touches 652||PANAJI: On Tuesday, four more people succumbed to Covid-19 taking the toll to 652. The state saw 180 new infections and 199 recoveries that pushed the tally of active cases to 1,860. Two deaths each were reported from the Goa Medical College (GMC) and the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. Two men — a 60-year-old from Ponda and a 54-year-old from Colva — and two women — a 57-year-old from Zuarinagar and a 70-year-old from Sada, Mormugao — all having comorbidities succumbed to the virus after over a week of treatment in hospital. Three had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and one had sepsis at the time of hospitalisation. With 180 samples testing positive out of 1,578 tests done over the past 24 hours, the case positivity rate was pegged at 11%. As many as 110 patients opted for home isolation and the number of patients hospitalised dropped to 29 on Tuesday. After a dip in cases over the past few days, on Tuesday, Porvorim witnessed a slight rise in infection and its case load increased to 100 while that of Panaji was 94. In the last two days, Panaji has hardly seen any new cases. In South Goa, the case load of Ponda, Margao and Vasco was 157, 153 and 122, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-succumb-death-toll-touches-652/articleshow/79158343.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Three criminals held after shootout||CHANDIGARH: Haryana police on Tuesday arrested three wanted criminals carrying a reward of Rs 25,000 after a brief exchange of fire from Sonipat district. A Haryana police spokesperson said seven country-made pistols, 19 cartridges and a car were recovered from their possession. The three criminals, who were wanted in 19 cases pertaining to murder, loot and snatching, have been identified as Rohit alias Dheela, Ashish and Mayanak alias Charkhia, all residents of Sonipat district. Two of the accused were injured in the exchange of fire that took place near Sector 16, TDI, Sonipat. Rohit and Mayank, who suffered bullet injuries, have been admitted to PGIMS, Rohtak while the third has been taken into custody. A police spokesman said a CIA team received a tip-off about the three criminals travelling in a car bearing Delhi registration number to commit a crime. As the police tried to intercept them, they opened fire at the police team, which reciprocated. A case has been registered under relevant sections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-history-sheeters-held-after-exchange-of-fire/articleshow/79159867.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Goa||Only 36.9% of iron ore e-auctioned on Tuesday||PANAJI: Of the three million tonne of iron ore put up for e-auction on Tuesday, only 1.1 million tonne was purchased. With only 36.9% of the ore lying at jetties and plots being sold, the revenue will not be as per the state’s expectation. With the state’s revenue collection dipping to 40%, and the government continuing to borrow money from the market, this auction was aimed at generating a substantial amount of much-needed revenue for the state. Thirteen mining companies participated in the e-auction. The government had announced the e-auction of the iron ore lying at jetties and plots at Pale, Rivona, Sirigao, Kotambi, Vagus, Sulcorna, Maina and Tollem. The last one, held in May, received a poor response largely because no mining company wanted to invest in the ore during the monsoon. In 2012, a Supreme Court judgment had declared mining after 2007 illegal. Ore lying at jetties and plots was subsequently declared state property. The government then identified 15 million tonne of ore lying at jetties and plots, of which around 12 million tonne has already been e-auctioned. On March 15, 2018, mining in Goa came to a halt following a Supreme Court order quashing the second renewal of 88 mining leases. In January 2020, the apex court permitted the export of royalty-paid iron ore extracted before March 15, 2018. This March, after a two-year hiatus, mining companies resumed transportation of royalty-paid iron ore in the state. There is around 1.5 million tonne of royalty-paid ore which companies have started transporting. There is also another 7.7 million tonne on which royalty has not been paid, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/only-36-9-of-iron-ore-e-auctioned-on-tuesday/articleshow/79158407.cms||---
November 11, 2020||Mumbai||Three years on, Kamala Mills directors cleared in eateries' blaze that claimed 14 lives||MUMBAI: A sessions court on Tuesday discharged Kamala Mills Ltd directors Ravi Bhandari and Ramesh Gowani almost three years after a fire at two restaurants situated inside its compound claimed 14 lives. While rejecting the discharge pleas of nine others, though, Judge P R Sitre held 12 of the 13 remaining accused, including owners of the two restaurants, a BMC official and two fire officers, will be tried for several offences, including culpable homicide not amounting to murder. The maximum sentence the charge attracts is 10 years’ imprisonment. The matter has been adjourned to Thursday, after which the court is likely to schedule the framing of charges against the 13 remaining accused. Bhandari and Gowani’s advocate Sudeep Pasbola had submitted they could not be held vicariously liable for acts of the restaurants' owners to whom they had given the premises on leave and licence for five years. The defence further submitted they were not liable for the unauthorized shed erected over the open terrace or the staircase that was blocked by the restaurant by keeping unused articles and which created an obstacle in the easy exit of customers during the fire. Among the 12 who are facing the culpable homicide not amounting to murder charge are 1Above’s owners Kripesh Sanghvi, Abhijeet Mankar and Jigar Sanghavi, Mojo’s Bristo partners Yug Tuli and Yug Pathak, 1Above managers Kevin Bawa and Libson Lopez and Mojo’s Bistro waiter Sayyed Ali. The others include fire officer Rajendra Patil, Utkarsh Pandey who supplied hookah to 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro, Dinesh Mahale, sub-engineer, GSouth Ward, BMC, and Sandeep Shinde, assistant divisional fire officer, Worli division. One more accused, Vishal Kariya, will face the less serious charge of harbouring an offender. He is accused of helping the absconding Sanghvi brothers and Mankar before they were finally arrested by the police. All accused are out on bail. The trial will commence once charges are framed. All accused, except Kariya, will face a host of other charges as well. The restaurant owners will also be tried for offences under Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act as the police had alleged violations that further endangered lives and made escape difficult. Owners of 1Above, Patil, Shinde and Mahale will also face trial on charges of cheating and forgery. The prosecution has accused Patil of giving a false report to his superior and on its basis a fire NOC was given for the rooftop restaurant. On December 29, 2017, the fire started at rooftop restaurants, 1Above and Mojo’s Bistro, where several patrons were enjoying a night out. The prosecution had accused Ali of having left the burning coals of the hookah unattended at Mojo’s Bistro, causing the fire. The fire is believed to have spread rapidly to combustible material and tarpaulin of 1Above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-years-on-kamala-mills-directors-cleared-in-deadly-eateries-blaze/articleshow/79161826.cms||Rebecca Samervel
