November 12, 2020||Goa||Goa United ready for a comeback||Panaji: In the not so distant past, Goa United Sports Academy were a force to reckon with in state junior football leagues. Somehow, they lost their way but are now planning a comeback. The academy was started in 2000 with a motive to keep surrounding boys and girls away from vices in the coastal belt. From 90 trainees on the first day to 150 on the next day, they started organising training camps with an overwhelming response. The academy simply grew in strength over the years. Founding member Fabiano De Souza now plans to go back to the same model that gave Goa United so much success. “We want to start everything how we used to do before. We are starting soccer schools as well as community football coaching. We have a lot of other plans as well,” Fabiano told TOI. For the last five years, Goa United were not active like before. They used to mostly field the school team from St Joseph’s HS in the U-14 and U-16 age categories. Goa United have always welcomed the underprivileged with free training and will continue to do so, besides fielding a team in the GFA Third Division League, Inter-Village football and other tournaments. Their plans also include bringing foreign coaches, sending best players for training abroad, training coaches and much more. They have already got permission for a year to use the Poriat ground in Calangute. Coach Agostinho Dias will continue his association with the club along with Marcelino Pereira, goalkeeping coach Sebastian Noronha and other youth coaches. “The players who are really good, we will give them a scholarship with free training and do something for them. Soon we will work out tie-ups with European academies as we had a lot of inquiries before,” said Fabiano. Goa United have provided a platform to many stars including Mandar Rao Desai (Mumbai City FC), Ali Mohamed (FC Goa), George D’Souza (Odisha FC) and Pratesh Shirodkar (Real Kashmir FC). The Goa-India team for the 2014 Lusofonia Games had seven players who donned Goa United colours, besides many others who are playing for top Goa Professional League teams. Goa United have tied up with Tito’s Foundation and Jessica Snock AK, a beauty pageant winner from Nagaland and ambassador of the Peacekeeping Force Council (PFC) for Southeast Asia. “We will also raise money to build a football academy, home for the old people and facility for the physically challenged,” said Fabiano.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-united-ready-for-a-comeback/articleshow/79179053.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
November 12, 2020||Mumbai||Behind-the-scenes protocol: How make-up artists have found new ways to work with actors||These include disposable wands, single-use make-up products, new sponges and personal brushes for every artisteProfessional make-up artists are stepping up their game as the world of entertainment is gradually returning to shooting films, keeping the necessary guidelines in mind. The fact that their work entails them to be in close proximity to the celebrity or a client they are working on, makes it even more necessary that they don't miss even a beat of the safety drill. Says celebrity make-up artist Ritoo Jenjani, “Ever since the unlock phase began, I have been making sure all the precautions are in place. A make-up artist has to make sure to provide a relaxed and trusted space. I did two lockdown weddings and few short films amidst all this.” Celebrity make-up artist Ojas Rajani adds, "I recently did a video shoot of the song, Teri Patli Kamar with Krishna Kaul, Donal Bisht, Sunidhi Chauhan and Samir Khan. It was a full-day shoot and we maintained all safety guidelines. Some of us who've been trained in America have always followed strict hygiene protocols even before the pandemic. But in the current scenario, I bought a machine that sanitises hair, make-up brushes, and all tools. I’ve also bought two UV Clear Lights to disinfect everything. I am not a fan of liquid sanitisers.” 'Spatula and palette are our best mates now' For make-up artists, following safety guidelines do not end with just wearing a face mask, shield and gloves all the time. They have now started rehauling their tools in keeping with the times. Ritoo explains, “A metal spatula and palette are our new best mates and we are sterilising all tools after every use with IPA. Cream products are more useful than ever. I scrape everything out of its container with a spatula and onto a palette. That goes for pressed powders too – treating them as if they were loose powders.” When it comes to products like lipsticks and mascara, disposable brushes and wands for application are preferred. “I am using new sponges for all my actors. I had also asked some of my female actors to carry their personal brushes to cancel out any cross contamination. I keep my tools clean and sterilised throughout the shoot,” informs Ritoo. The markets are already selling tiny throwaway products. These are good for single use, ruling out the chance of cross-contamination. Ojas explains, “There are these cute one-time use sachets of cream and foundation. You'll also get small cotton bud-like products of eyeshadow, eyeliners and lipsticks.” Getting down to basicsMake-up artists are now sticking to smaller teams as a precaution. “I had no assistants, except for my hairstylist for a wedding make-up session. For short films, I did the hair and make-up of the artiste myself. It's the need of the hour. It felt great being back to work, so I'll do whatever it takes to adapt to the new normal,” says Ritoo. Apart from this, make-up artists need to adhere to basic hygiene and cleanliness as they are working in close proximity with the actors. “I ensure that my hair is tied up when I am applying make-up," says Ojas. General cleaning up is another thing that all make-up artists advise. “COVID or no COVID, it's not only hygienic to clean up your make-up tools, especially the brush, but also prolongs its shelf-life,” shares make-up artist Ananya Kumar. Make-up on the set in the new normal- Actresses carry their own make-up brushes to avoid cross-contamination - Not using make-up products directly from the containers - Taking to single-use make-up products, whenever possible - Using products only from palettes for each actor - Disposable brushes for lipsticks - Disposable wands for mascara application - Pressed powder scraped and used as loose powder only||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/behind-the-scenes-protocol-how-make-up-artists-have-found-new-ways-to-work-with-actors/articleshow/79154106.cms||Debarati S Sen
November 12, 2020||Goa||‘Get out of the mindset of pointing fingers and saying this is not my job’ Sonia Shirsat||The pandemic has brought the world to a standstill but there are a lot of good things that I have seen happening around me. People are getting closer to each other – they now know who their neighbours are, if there are any senior citizens in the building, what are their needs, and so much more. The flip side of the pandemic is that – musicians are badly affected financially, due to the closure of event venues and no gigs taking place. But looking at the bright side – artistes have started performing online and making videos. There is a lot of original content now. Tiatrists have gone online too. Though online will be a major part of our lives, I only hope it doesn’t wipe out live music. Music is in the soul of every Goan and one cannot ask the government to look into everything. Security environment, infrastructure, crime – these are things that the government should look into; some other things as citizens we can do by ourselves. The government prioritises the Goan folk art forms which are important. As far as other musical events go, the government sponsors and organises events like film festivals, wine festivals, food festivals among others. I’m of the opinion whatever we can, we should. We cannot always depend on the government to do things for us. 15 years ago, fado in Goa was held at a private level. There are efforts made to popularise this art form – a hotel has been organising fado nights for some years now. For the last few years there are classes organised by Fado de Goa and fado competitions are also held. I wouldn’t complain about things not done, there are a lot of people interested in learning the fado. As of now we have had over 400 people of different age groups who have picked up this art form. I started off my music career 18 years ago, there was a big question mark as to why I was getting into music and in the entertainment field. Music was considered only a pastime or a hobby and not as a profession; today parents are encouraging their kids to take music professionally. It’s now easy to say that you want to be a musician. We shouldn’t ignore the fact that the pandemic can be a major reason for mental health, depression, mental isolation; this could result in a very negative outlook, but Goa has always been the best. We need to be responsible in terms of managing our garbage, resources, respecting our heritage, history, culture, value of tradition, costume, food, monuments and ruins. There is a lot to learn about Goa and we have to protect and preserve it. We have to get out of the system of pointing fingers – ‘this is not my job!’ Sonia Shirsat is a Fadista from Ponda||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/get-out-of-the-mindset-of-pointing-fingers-and-saying-this-is-not-my-job-sonia-shirsat/articleshow/79180084.cms||Kimberly Colaco
November 12, 2020||Goa||First community fair in Panaji since lockdown||After a long gap, Panaji saw its first event where several people of all ages got together to celebrate sustainability and co-existence. The first edition of Revival 2020 was held at Garcia Da Orta Garden in Panaji over the weekend and saw several performances over the course of three days. Local artistes performed diverse sets that included storytelling around the idea of their sustainable lives. Some of these story tellers included Elijah D'Souza and his eco library, Anjee Bhatia and her personal journey of composting and sustainability, Oishorjyo and her journey with sustainable menstruation and Vaishali, who shared her stories of wasteless stores. While a plethora of musical acts took centre stage, the event also offered a host of other exciting experiences like a bustling flea market that had items right from recycled material to thrift stores, several fun workshops, a vibrant food court and an array of art and craft work. Musician Varun Carvalho and the Rise Nation Army also took to the stage and had the crowd grooving endlessly! Musicians Maria and Neil were also present on the final day and performed some soulful Portuguese music that had the entire crowd captivated. Other acts included Baul Madhu Sudan, Manuka, Goa Hip Hop Projekt, Aviv Pereira, Prashant Edwin as well as Capoeira performers who had a lot of moves in them and ensured the crowd joined them as well! The musicians ensured the crowd was on its feet. The venue was bustling with people, young and old having a gala time with their friends and families while also being cautious about their hygiene and sanitisation. Children were seen dancing alongside their parents while many others relaxed at the tables and enjoyed their food and the music. On the final night, Gabriella and Sreeja also addressed the crowd about the current Mollem issue that the people of Goa continue to fight against. They highlighted currently happening and how people could volunteer their skills and resources to help the campaign. Speaking to Goa Times, Gabriella, a marine conservationist says, “Revival 2020 was a great way to get people engaging with the idea of sustainability and zero waste and see how we as citizens can look into our lifestyles and make changes". “I really enjoyed the food and music here. It was also a nice break since I had not been anywhere since March. It felt great to be out and I was quite relieved that people were also cautious about their personal hygiene, ” says Daniel Rodrigues who travelled from Margao to the event. Ati Aier, from the exotic Naga cuisine stall, says, “It was great exposure since I have a small home business. People were quite enthusiastic about the Naga food I served and were enjoying it! The aura of the place was also lovely!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/first-community-fair-in-panaji-since-lockdown/articleshow/79180266.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Let’s celebrate Diwali the eco-friendly way||Every year, Diwali is celebrated with splendour, happiness and enthusiasm. It’s a festival that celebrates victory over evil, even as the tide against the pandemic turns, we hope. People are coming up with novel ideas to celebrate the festival – the eco-friendly way. We talk to those who have used innovation and ideas to make this Diwali a special one for us and for the environment too. Narkasur of bamboo!It was a tradition many years ago that Narkasurs were made of all the hay collected after the fields were harvested. Over the years, as Goans evolved and started getting creative, these structures were replaced with metal rods. Krishna Mane and his family from Bicholim have been making these structures of bamboos and selling them. “This was what we used traditionally. Since it is made of bamboo, it is lightweight and can be carried around in the village. People can stuff it with hay or paper and make a mask,” Mane says. They come in varied sizes, the highest being 10-12 feet. “We get a lot of customers who come from cities and towns like Ponda, Sanquelim, Panaji and Mapusa. We start work 15-20 days before Diwali,” he adds. Refurbishing old akash kandilsRefurbishing old akash kandilsMeet 18-year-old Nandkishor Chopdekar from Panaji, who has started refurbishing old akash kandil structures this Diwali. “I have always loved art, and during the pandemic I decided that instead of buying new akash kandils and creating garbage, re-structuring them will be better instead of buying new ones. The older structures can be used to add paper and designs and make them look better,” says Nandkishor, a class XII arts student. He uses different kinds of paper to make the designs. “It takes time to make these akash kandils because of their intricate work and it’s also customised, as each one wants different designs and ideas inculcated in their akash kandils. Some like to have light passing through them, so I carve out the designs and stick them on the kandils.” He has received over 15 structures so far for reuse. He adds, “I have the time this year, because I wanted to get into Fine Arts College. I want to try that next year.” Plant your diya, this Diwaliplant your diyas After the grand celebration of Diwali, the diyas tend to lie around the house, some break and some are thrown in the waste bins. But what if you get a plant out of these diyas? For those who love surprises here is a chance – plantable diyas. “Mustard, wheatgrass, calendula, sunflower, marigold and others, you can plant these diyas after all the festivities are over. We can’t confirm which seeds one will get – it will be a surprise,” says Bharati Marwaha Kumar, the founder of TukTuk in Margao, which sells these eco-friendly diyas. She adds, “The idea behind having them at the store is to give back to the environment. I believe in joy for us should be joy for the earth too. Give back at every stage and not create waste.” If you’re wondering if the seeds will get burnt when the lamps are lit, they won’t. “These seeds are embedded in the terracotta and the diyas are sun baked, there is no chance that it will burn. People are slowly realising the importance of having a better environment, which is good,” says Bharati. Time to bite into chocolate firecrackers!Time to bite into chocolate firecrackers!It is time to give up the crackers and to meet the needs of those who love their patakas. There are chocolates like sutli bomb chocolate, chocolate ladis and even chakrris. Home chef Sonali Naik from Sancoale has been making these replica firecracker chocolates. “I was always of the opinion that the environment has to be protected and during Diwali people light a lot of crackers – causing noise pollution as well as air pollution. If you have to stop them from burning crackers, you have to give them an alternative and there is nothing better than chocolate. Instead of giving them a dangerous item to handle, it’s better to give them something sweet. The younger generation must be taught about the ill effects of crackers,” says Sonali. She tells us that the process of making the chocolate is easy but the wrapping it like a firecracker is the real trick.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lets-celebrate-diwali-the-eco-friendly-way/articleshow/79180481.cms||Kimberly Colaco
November 12, 2020||Mumbai||Colourful kandeels dispel COVID gloom in Mumbai||The COVID-19 pandemic has forced festivities and celebrations to go low-key this year, but the one thing it cannot dim is hope, especially when it comes to Diwali. And that is precisely the mood at Mumbai’s famous Kandeel Galli at Mahim, where pretty lanterns of all sizes and shapes are lighting up the night to dispel darkness and bring about a sense of cheer. BT dropped into the lane to catch the pre-Diwali buzz amidst the beautiful lanterns… This place is so beautiful with all these handmade kandeels: Vatsal Sheth and Ishita DuttaThey had fun browsing for a pretty kandeel The best time to go to Kandeel Galli is post sunset, for that is when all the lanterns are lit up and you can envisage how to transform your home space with them. There are kandeels to suit every pocket and choice — from floral patterns to round origami-style paper ones, jute kandeels and star-shaped options, as well as quirky cool ‘illusion’ lanterns. How about picking up a few mini crêpe kandeels for your work-from-home desk, this time? Kids are sure to love the cartoon-themed ones. For most Mumbaikars, the precursor to Diwali is a trip to this place. Actor Vatsal Sheth was at the lane with wife Ishita Dutta Sheth recently, to choose a festive lantern. “Kandeel galli is a beautiful place and the best part is, most of the kandeels are handmade. Logon ne haath se banaya hai aur bohot pyaar se banaya hai. Diwali is just not complete without getting a kandeel from here,” he states. Adds Ishita, “Itney lambey waqt ke baad, it feels good to come out for some Diwali shopping and we started it off by buying a lantern first. There are so many varieties, it’s tough to choose just one or two.” Hoping to see a better footfallYou will find a variety of lanterns hereSeveral of the tiny shops and stalls have been in this galli for over a decade or more. Like other businesses, they have also been impacted by the pandemic. Chandrakant Jadhav, who has been setting up his business for the last 15 years, says, “We usually see so many customers for our ‘double matka’ and ‘triple matka’ lanterns in the week before Diwali, but this time, it is almost 60 per cent less. Luckily, we preempted that and made lesser items. Earlier, where we would make 3,000 lanterns, this time we just kept around 1,000.” Apart from vibrant lanterns, stalls feature beautiful diyas and other festive souvenirsGreg D’Mello, who is a deejay by profession, has also set up his shop for the last eight years in the galli. He adds, “I make these smaller lanterns myself. I end up selling around 200 pieces every year, but this time, we have sold just 100. So yes, there is a lesser demand now, but we hope things will become better in the next few days. This is a business, so there will be investment risk. But we will still enjoy putting up the lanterns and will await customers.” Giving a sweet end to all the kandeel-buying are the few stalls selling savouries like karanjis and shankarpalis, which attract the customers who stop by before exiting the lane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/colourful-kandeels-dispel-covid-gloom-in-mumbai/articleshow/79179526.cms||Ismat Tahseen
November 12, 2020||Delhi||#LocalWaliDiwali: Eco-friendly decor, beautiful candles and customised packages: Let’s support NGOs this Diwali||NGOs across NCR are usually busy organising their Diwalimelas and taking part in exhibitions before the festival. This year, because of the pandemic, many of these events were cancelled and going virtual was the only option for these NGOs. From shipping the diyas and candles to your home to managing a virtual Diwali sale, NGOs are doing their bit so that the hard work of these underprivileged people is appreciated. With our #LocalWaliDiwali series, we bring you some of these NGOs which are selling Diwali products virtually as well on ground this year. Buy a colourful candle or gift a loved one an eco-friendly décor item to bring a smile on someone’s face who needs it all the more this year. Diwali sale is open at the Blind Relief AssociationThe annual Diwali Mela by The Blind Relief Association always attracts many to buy candles, diyas and other gifts for the festival. This year though, the annual mela is not happening, but the school is open for Diwali sale with COVID protocols in place. David Absalom, Deputy Executive Secretary (Operations), shares, “This year, it is only a Diwali sale. We are selling diyas and candles made by the trainees. The difference is that this year, we don’t have any outside vendors coming and putting their stall here. It’s just our products that we make in our school and people can visit the centre as we are following all COVID protocols”. He shares that going virtual was the need of the hour. “This is the first time we have gone online. Though people have been supporting us, we still need more help to come out of this pandemic.” The Blind Relief Association is selling a huge variety of candles, ranging from Rs 25 to Rs 3,400 Buy eco-friendly products made by paper crafters in GurgaonAction Centre for Transformation creates alternative livelihood for rural women by upcycling waste to resource. Currently working with 250 women from rural areas like Bhondsi and Badshahpur, the NGO teaches how to recycle paper into useful, durable and saleable items. “Before COVID, these women used to participate in at least 25 exhibitions during this time, but this year there are no events. They are making eco-friendly candles, paper door strings, light strings, eco-friendly gift boxes. These are paper crafters are based in the periphery of Gurgaon. These women are also giving an important message to upcycle your waste. These products are made from paper so please buy their products and bring a smile on their face,” requests Nilanjana Das, founder-director of the NGO. The Action Centre for Transformation provides livelihood to rural women by teaching them how to upcycle paper waste into eco-friendly, saleable productsCustomised Diwali hampers, candles and diyas by VSA IndiaVSA India is an NGO that works with underprivileged and disabled kids. Every year, they organise a Diwali mela and also take part in seven-eight other such melas during the festive time. “We started our Diwali sale this year online because of COVID. We have continued giving salaries to our staff and stipend to young adults with disabilities as part of their income generation. So we are in a financial crisis. We are selling diyas, candles and customised Diwali packages. Our cheapest diya is for Rs 15 and our most expensive candle set is for Rs 1,000. We cater to all price ranges, and also make hampers depending on that. To shop from us, people can give orders through our website, there’s a phone number for orders and they are more than welcome to come visit the centre since we are following all COVID protocols,” says Ambita Verti, one of the founders of the NGO. VSA India’s products are available on their website and also at the centre. They can make customised hampers for Diwali depending on your price rangeWatch Eco-friendly decor, beautiful candles and customised packages: Let's support NGOs this Diwali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/localwalidiwali-eco-friendly-decor-beautiful-candles-and-customised-packages-lets-support-ngos-this-diwali/articleshow/79173094.cms||Riya Sharma
November 12, 2020||Gurgaon||#LocalWaliDiwali: Eco-friendly decor, beautiful candles and customised packages: Let’s support NGOs this Diwali||NGOs across NCR are usually busy organising their Diwalimelas and taking part in exhibitions before the festival. This year, because of the pandemic, many of these events were cancelled and going virtual was the only option for these NGOs. From shipping the diyas and candles to your home to managing a virtual Diwali sale, NGOs are doing their bit so that the hard work of these underprivileged people is appreciated. With our #LocalWaliDiwali series, we bring you some of these NGOs which are selling Diwali products virtually as well on ground this year. Buy a colourful candle or gift a loved one an eco-friendly décor item to bring a smile on someone’s face who needs it all the more this year. Diwali sale is open at the Blind Relief AssociationThe annual Diwali Mela by The Blind Relief Association always attracts many to buy candles, diyas and other gifts for the festival. This year though, the annual mela is not happening, but the school is open for Diwali sale with COVID protocols in place. David Absalom, Deputy Executive Secretary (Operations), shares, “This year, it is only a Diwali sale. We are selling diyas and candles made by the trainees. The difference is that this year, we don’t have any outside vendors coming and putting their stall here. It’s just our products that we make in our school and people can visit the centre as we are following all COVID protocols”. He shares that going virtual was the need of the hour. “This is the first time we have gone online. Though people have been supporting us, we still need more help to come out of this pandemic.” The Blind Relief Association is selling a huge variety of candles, ranging from Rs 25 to Rs 3,400 Buy eco-friendly products made by paper crafters in GurgaonAction Centre for Transformation creates alternative livelihood for rural women by upcycling waste to resource. Currently working with 250 women from rural areas like Bhondsi and Badshahpur, the NGO teaches how to recycle paper into useful, durable and saleable items. “Before COVID, these women used to participate in at least 25 exhibitions during this time, but this year there are no events. They are making eco-friendly candles, paper door strings, light strings, eco-friendly gift boxes. These are paper crafters are based in the periphery of Gurgaon. These women are also giving an important message to upcycle your waste. These products are made from paper so please buy their products and bring a smile on their face,” requests Nilanjana Das, founder-director of the NGO. The Action Centre for Transformation provides livelihood to rural women by teaching them how to upcycle paper waste into eco-friendly, saleable productsCustomised Diwali hampers, candles and diyas by VSA IndiaVSA India is an NGO that works with underprivileged and disabled kids. Every year, they organise a Diwali mela and also take part in seven-eight other such melas during the festive time. “We started our Diwali sale this year online because of COVID. We have continued giving salaries to our staff and stipend to young adults with disabilities as part of their income generation. So we are in a financial crisis. We are selling diyas, candles and customised Diwali packages. Our cheapest diya is for Rs 15 and our most expensive candle set is for Rs 1,000. We cater to all price ranges, and also make hampers depending on that. To shop from us, people can give orders through our website, there’s a phone number for orders and they are more than welcome to come visit the centre since we are following all COVID protocols,” says Ambita Verti, one of the founders of the NGO. VSA India’s products are available on their website and also at the centre. They can make customised hampers for Diwali depending on your price rangeWatch Eco-friendly decor, beautiful candles and customised packages: Let's support NGOs this Diwali||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/localwalidiwali-eco-friendly-decor-beautiful-candles-and-customised-packages-lets-support-ngos-this-diwali/articleshow/79174011.cms||Riya Sharma
November 12, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi folk go the extra mile to comfort their pets on Diwali||VARANASI: Diwali is a difficult time for pets due to the loud sound of crackers. Pet parents have to make an extra effort to keep their pets comfortable during the festival. Shimmer Seth, a BBA student from Varanasi, who has a pug as a pet, says, “Diwali is a trying time for him and us as the loud sound of crackers really scares him. We try to comfort him as much as possible. We put him in a room where the sound of the crackers is minimum. At times we plug his ear with cotton, which is quite a relief for him. As it is not possible to be around him all the time, we put a loose cloth around him, so that he has a comforting feeling of somebody being with him. To distract his attention we place chewies near him so that he remains busy.” Shimmer Seth with her pet pug (BCCL)Similarly Vatsal Agarwal, from Varanasi pursuing BBA, says “Our Rottweiler Rudy like other dogs, barks incessantly when the crackers are burst.” Vatsal adds, “He makes it a point to go to the driveway to check what is happening outside and we let him do that since, if he remains indoors, he runs from one room to the other. Personally, we do not burst crackers. Earlier we had Pomeranians and they used to hide inside cupboards to stay away from the noise.” Devyani switches on the TV on a loud volume to Jojo calm (BCCL)Nayanika D’Souza, from Prayagraj, who is pursuing BA (Honours), says, “It is tough to keep my pet Blazer calm when crackers are burst, so personally we avoid crackers that create loud sounds. I keep my pet constantly on my lap, so that he feels relaxed. There is enough food and water for him inside the room that keeps him quite engaged.” Devyani Kapoor, a class X student from Prayagraj, says, “My pet Jojo, a German Shepherd, feels very distressed when the crackers burst, so I make it a point to keep him in my room where the least sound of crackers reaches. I also put him in my quilt and turn on his favourite show on television on loud volume, so that the sound of the crackers is suppressed.” (L) Vatsal doesn’t burst crackers as it stresses with Rudy his pet dog (R) Nayanika keeps Blazer in her lap when crackers are being burst (BCCL)Animal communicator Reshma Baran Motwani has a few tips for pet parents on how to keep their pets safe and comfortable during Diwali Ensure your pets are inside and in a safe place. Try and be near your pets, or if you are going out, try and have a house help be near them. That way they feel safe. Keep water for them because some pets tend to drool and salivate excessively due to anxiety and stress. Please do not burst crackers with loud noise near your pet. Their ears are very sensitive and loud noises hurt them. Play music or keep stroking them when the crackers are being burst outside. Dogs and cats especially. are allergic to some fragrances, so avoid lighting strong fragrant agarbatti or dhoop if you have a pet around. Some cats are very allergic to camphor or kapoor. Write your name and phone number on your pets’ collar before Diwali so that in case they run away in fear, they can be traced back to you. For feeders and animal caretakers of strays, keep a first aid box handy to tend to those injured on the roads. Do not feed cats and dogs chocolates or raisins, they can be fatal for them. Share sweets but in small quantities with your pet babies.  Teach kids, yours and those you know, to be kind to animals. Whether at home or strays||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/city-folk-go-the-extra-mile-to-comfort-their-pets-on-diwali/articleshow/79175922.cms||Meera Vohra
November 12, 2020||Goa||Making Akash Kandils at home this year!||Diwali is a festival of light and this year many families are opting to reuse their old akash kandils – with new designs and decoration. Amita Naik from Margao decided to reuse the structure of the akash kandil she purchased last year. “I had purchased a steady structure last year and decided to decorate it now. I like light colours such as blue and green. Being a teacher by profession, I felt that we tell our students to keep the surroundings clean and it is not right on my part to generate waste. Hence I decided to make the akash kandil this year.” It is a festival of light and there is nothing better than making it at home. “I have a five-year-old daughter and since the pandemic, my wife and I have been looking for ways to keep my daughter busy. Usually we would buy a readymade akash kandil but this year I got one made of metal so we could use it every year,” says Aakash Desai, from Vasco.  Nandkishor Chopdekar from Panaji has started refurbishing old akash kandil structures this Diwali. “I feel that instead of buying new akash kandils create garbage, re-structuring it will be better instead of buying new one, the older structures can be used to add paper and designs and make them look better.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/making-akash-kandils-at-home-this-year/articleshow/79180626.cms||Kimberly Colaco
November 12, 2020||Goa||This year its earthen diyas adorn homes in Goa||Diyas are a symbol which signifies light during the festival of Diwali. Clay artists in Goa have been toiling for almost two to three months to make diyas for the festival which is celebrated with gusto and fervour. Among them is Prashant Kudaskar, from Kumbar vaddo, Bordem in Bicholim. His generation has been making clay items for almost 75 to 80 years. “We have been following our ancestral career and it’s a privilege that we have been doing it for so many years now.” He tells us, “We start making diyas soon after we finish making Ganesha idols for Chaturthi. We still use the potter’s wheel to make these diyas. In a day we can make almost 400 lamps, and in the two months we have made over 2,000 diyas. They are available in variety of shapes and sizes – some people like colourful ones while some like with designs and we have to make them accordingly.” He adds, “This year the business has been hit badly due to the pandemic as not many diyas are sold. Many festivals and zatras have also been stopped most of which would use these lamps. Hopefully next year will be better.” Bharati Marwaha Kumar, the founder of TukTuk in Margao sells eco-friendly diyas which have a surprise element in them. “From mustard, wheatgrass, calendula, sunflower, marigold and others, you can plant these diyas after all the festivities are over.” Rajesh from Margao sells Diwali lamps at his shop, says, “People prefer to buy lamps which are trendy or have some colour in them, but lately I have noticed that there is a section of people who like to buy plain simple clay lamps. Some even ask me if they are made in Goa.” Another diya seller from Panaji says, “This year the sale has been less as compared to last year, there are people who are buying but very few.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/this-year-its-earthen-diyas-adorn-homes-in-goa/articleshow/79180724.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Five School boys complete their maiden 100 km cycle ride||Five school boys aged between 10 and 13 completed their maiden, 100km cycle rides in TriGoa’s ‘Multi-City Century Ride’ organised across four Goan cities on Sunday. The five school boys included the brother-duo of Ferdinand Varghese ( 10) and his older brother Frederick (13), Krishna Gaunekar (11), Akshat Shetty (12) and Yuvan Reddy (13). Two of the FIVE school boys-Akshat Shetty (12, left) and Krishna Gaunekar ( 11, right) completed their maiden 100km cycle rideVasco based Commander Deepak Varghese of the Indian Navy, who completed the ride in the company of his school-going sons, Frederick (13) and Ferdinand (10) said, “Both my wife Tiji and I have been regular endurance cyclists. However, the joy and happiness of seeing both our sons successfully complete their first, 100km cycle rides at such a young age has made us extremely happy. We are totally elated.” Frederick ( 13, second from left), with mother, Commander Tiji Abraham, father, Commander Deepak Varghese and younger brother Ferdinand (10)Margao based endurance cyclist, Venuvardhan Reddy was also extremely happy with his son Yuvan’s feat. “Yuvan who is 13 years old has been cycling with a cycling group regularly for the last three years and was very determined to complete his first 100km ride on Sunday,” Reddy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/five-school-boys-complete-their-maiden-100-km-cycle-ride/articleshow/79180798.cms||Kimberly Colaco
November 12, 2020||Goa||College organises webinar on realigning business amid the pandemic||The Department of Business Administration, Don Bosco College, Panaji, organised a national webinar entitled ‘Realigning Business to the New Normal: Paving the Way Forward’ on Friday, November 6, 2020. The webinar was conducted via the platform Stream yard and broadcasted live on the college YouTube channel, DonBoscoTV. Panelists from various industries namely: Desmond Nazareth of Agave India, Sandeep Vernekar of Anant Infomedia, Craig Saldanha of EMC Events and Dharamveer Singh Chouhan of Zostel India spoke about how their respective businesses came into being and how the pandemic has affected them. They also spoke about how they're currently adapting to the ‘new normal’ post the COVID-19 outbreak. The session had participants asking various questions making it very interesting. The department had about 496 registrations with about 964 views.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/college-organises-webinar-on-realigning-business-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/79180832.cms||Kimberly Colaco
November 12, 2020||India||No foreign funds for farmer or student organisations participating in party politics||NEW DELHI: After introducing a more stringent regime for foreign-funded NGOs and associations with recent amendments to the Foreign Contribution Regulation Act, 2010, the government has now revised the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Rules, 2011 to make them stricter. The rules require all entities seeking registration or prior permission under FCRA to be in existence for three years and having spent a minimum Rs 15 lakh on its core activities for the benefit of society during the last three financial years. Importantly, the new rules add a sub-rule to Rule 3, stating that organisations specified under clauses (v) and (vi) of sub-rule 1 -- which cover organisation of farmers, workers, students, caste and community-based organisations not directly aligned to parties but which advance political interests of such groups, as well as outfits that habitually engage in political action like bandhs, hartal, rasta roko -- shall be considered of political nature if they participate in party politics. Entites of political nature are barred from receiving foreign contributions. The new rules have also increased the application fee for grant of registration under FCRA to Rs 5,000 from Rs 3,000, and for grant of prior permission to Rs 10,000 from Rs 5,000; also, the fee to be paid with application for renewal of FCRA registration has also been fixed at Rs 5,000. Such fee should be submitted through a payment gateway. If no application for renewal of registration is received or the application is not accompanied by the requisite fee before the expiry of validity of the certificate of registration, such validity shall be deemed to have ceased from the date of completion of five years from the date of the grant of certificate of registration, as per the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) (Amendment) Rules, 2020 notified on Wednesday. The Central government, in exceptional cases or in cases where a person is controlled by the Central government or a state government may waive the conditions requiring entities applying for registration/prior permission under FCRA to be in existence for three years and having spent Rs 15 lakh on its core activities aimed at benefit of the society for past three years. If an entity wants inclusion of its existing capital investment in assets like land, building, other permanent structures, vehicles, equipment in the computation of its spending during last three years, then the chief functionary shall give an undertaking that the assets shall be vested henceforth with the person till the validity of the certificate and they shall be utilised only for the activities covered under the Act and the rules made thereunder and shall not be diverted for any other purpose. A person seeking prior permission for receipt of a specific amount from a specific donor for carrying out specific activities or projects, under the new rules, must submit a specific commitment letter from the donor indicating the amount of foreign contribution and the purpose for which it is proposed to be given. For the Indian recipient and foreign donor organisations having common members, prior permission shall be granted to the person provided the chief functionary of the recipient NGO is not a part of the donor organisation and 75% of the office-bearers or members of the governing body of the NGO are not members or employees of the foreign donor organisation. In case of foreign donor organisation being a single individual that individual shall not be the chief functionary or office bearer of the recipient person; and in case of a single foreign donor, 75% of the office bearers or members of the governing body of the recipient person shall not be the family members or close relatives of the donor. In the new rules, after rule 9, a new rule 9A shall be inserted to regulate permission for receipt of foreign contribution in application for obtaining prior permission. If the value of foreign contribution on the date of final disposal of an application for obtaining prior permission exceeds Rs 1 crore, the Central government may permit receipt of foreign contribution in such instalments, as it may deem fit: provided that the second and subsequent instalment shall be released after submission of proof of utilisation of 75% of the foreign contribution received in the previous instalment and after field inquiry of the utilisation of foreign contribution.” The fee to be paid along with application for the compounding of an offence under Section 41 has also been doubled to Rs 3,000 from Rs 1,500 earlier, and shall be submitted electronically. Watch No foreign funds for NGOs backing political activities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-foreign-funds-for-ngos-backing-political-activities/articleshow/79180694.cms||Bharti Jain
November 12, 2020||Goa||12 women cyclists rode for 100 kms this Sunday||It was a great day for these 12 women cyclists who rode in TriGoa’s ‘Multi-City Century Ride’ organised across four Goan cities on Sunday, November 8. The list included Micha Fernandes, Megan Fernandes, Natasha Sharma, Nalini Cardozo, Divya, Puja Mapxecar, Swati Palekar, Rebecca George, Rohini Shetkar, Sakshi Verenkar, Raksha Verenkar and Anuja Negi. 174 cyclists all over Goa participated in the cycle ride. Rajesh Malhotra, founder of TriGoa Foundation said, “This 100km ride was unique because the cyclists could start from a city of their choice namely Panaji, Margao, Vasco and Ponda.” A total of 174 cyclists successfully, completed the 100km cycle ride simultaneously in the cities of Panaji, Margao, Ponda and Vasco. The city wise break-up of successful cyclists from Margao were 58 participants, Panaji were 52, Ponda 48 and Vasco there were 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/12-women-cyclists-rode-for-100-kms-this-sunday/articleshow/79180892.cms||Kimberly Colaco
November 12, 2020||India||Arnab Goswami seeks pre-arrest bail in second case||MUMBAI: A day before his liberty was restored by the Supreme Court, Arnab Goswami also filed for pre-arrest bail before Mumbai sessions court in connection with a case registered by the city police for allegedly resisting arrest and obstruction of public servants from doing their official duty on November 4. The N M Joshi Marg in Mumbai has last Wednesday registered an FIR against Republic TV’s Goswami, his wife, son and two others for allegedly assaulting police officials and trying to obstruct them when they reached his house in Lower Parel to arrest him in a 2018 case. His wife too filed for pre-arrest bail. An Alibaug police team had arrested Goswami in a case of alleged abetment of a May 2018 suicide of Anvay Naik, an interior designer who had worked on his TV studio. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeThe police booked him and his wife under Section 353 of Indian Penal Code (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging duty), Section 504 (intentional insult to provoke breach of peace and 506 (criminal intimidation) and under the Damage to Public Property Act. Section 353 is non-bailable and attracts a punishment of maximum two years’ imprisonment. Read AlsoSC gives bail to Goswami, questions need for arrestNEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to journalist Arnab Goswami, eight days after he was arrested by the Maharashtra police in a 2018 case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer. Granting an urgent hearing during vacation, a bench of justices D YThough listed for hearing on Wednesday before the sessions court, it was deferred since the Supreme Court was seized of his challenge to the HC rejection of interim relief. Read Also'Special treatment': SCBA chief slams 'selective listing' of Arnab Goswami's pleaNEW DELHI: The Supreme Court Bar Association president on Tuesday wrote a scathing letter to the secretary general of the apex court to protest the "special treatment" accorded to Arnab Goswami, whose plea for bail has been listed for Wednesday. Earlier today, Goswami, who is the editor-in-chief of||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-goswami-seeks-pre-arrest-bail-in-second-case/articleshow/79180983.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||Central welfare schemes, EBC backing for Nitish saw NDA through in tight race||NEW DELHI: The utility of direct benefit and bank transfers, lack of a credible alternative despite Tejashwi Yadav’s energetic campaign and promise of jobs and the EBCs backing chief minister Nitish Kumar saw the NDA through in the see-saw battle in Bihar. Other than 15 years of Kumar’s incumbency causing an apparent fatigue among voters, a multitude of issues was stacked against the NDA, starting with the Covid-19 pandemic, economic distress and, migration, which had built up into what could have been a perfect storm. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's campaign — during which he highlighted welfare schemes, including those enhanced during the pandemic, development projects of the Centre and pro-women initiatives — was seen to have shored up NDA’s fortunes. He also made a concerted bid to remind people of the "alternative" to “jungle raj” associated with the rival's terms in office. It also served to emphasise Modi's "pro-poor" approach which is seen to have created a wide band of support for the PM. RJD’s efforts to focus the campaign on issues of employment in a bid to expand the core Muslim-Yadav umbrella were hampered by a consistent effort by the BJP to put the spotlight on RJD's record in office, questioning its ability to make good its promises. The direct transfers under ‘Prime Minister Samman Nidhi’ scheme were executed effectively in Bihar with almost all farmers, registered under the scheme, credited with the assured sum. The total beneficiaries in the state was 75,72,620 in the August-November period. Of them, 74,79,184 (Rs 2,000 each) received the payment, which comes to around 99% getting the payment. In the April to July period, 73,30,294 farmers, or almost 97%, received the payment. Read AlsoModi endorses Nitish ‘leadership’, but BJP may seek more berths from JD(U)Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unambiguous support for a fresh term for Bihar CM Nitish Kumar may have cleared the way for the latter to start his sixth term, but details regarding the new dispensation are yet to be worked out.The precision in timely payments to all registered farmers played a crucial role in convincing people that the Modi government was committed to bail out the distressed lot during the pandemic. The distribution of free ration under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, launched by Modi in March in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, was meticulously done in the state. From July to October, 17,42,328 tonnes of foodgrain was allocated to the state of which 12,69,855 tonnes was distributed. Just before the poll dates were announced, Modi launched and inaugurated a slew of Bihar-related projects and once again asserted that ‘Purvanchal’ states like Bihar, West Bengal and the north-east were top priority for his dispensation. The state also recorded good progress in provided drinking water connections to households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/central-welfare-schemes-ebc-backing-for-nitish-saw-nda-through-in-tight-race/articleshow/79181402.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 12, 2020||---||Central welfare schemes, EBC backing for Nitish saw NDA through in tight race||NEW DELHI: The utility of direct benefit and bank transfers, lack of a credible alternative despite Tejashwi Yadav’s energetic campaign and promise of jobs and the EBCs backing chief minister Nitish Kumar saw the NDA through in the see-saw battle in Bihar. Other than 15 years of Kumar’s incumbency causing an apparent fatigue among voters, a multitude of issues was stacked against the NDA, starting with the Covid-19 pandemic, economic distress and, migration, which had built up into what could have been a perfect storm. Prime Minister Narendra Modi's campaign — during which he highlighted welfare schemes, including those enhanced during the pandemic, development projects of the Centre and pro-women initiatives — was seen to have shored up NDA’s fortunes. He also made a concerted bid to remind people of the "alternative" to “jungle raj” associated with the rival's terms in office. It also served to emphasise Modi's "pro-poor" approach which is seen to have created a wide band of support for the PM. RJD’s efforts to focus the campaign on issues of employment in a bid to expand the core Muslim-Yadav umbrella were hampered by a consistent effort by the BJP to put the spotlight on RJD's record in office, questioning its ability to make good its promises. The direct transfers under ‘Prime Minister Samman Nidhi’ scheme were executed effectively in Bihar with almost all farmers, registered under the scheme, credited with the assured sum. The total beneficiaries in the state was 75,72,620 in the August-November period. Of them, 74,79,184 (Rs 2,000 each) received the payment, which comes to around 99% getting the payment. In the April to July period, 73,30,294 farmers, or almost 97%, received the payment. Read AlsoModi endorses Nitish ‘leadership’, but BJP may seek more berths from JD(U)Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s unambiguous support for a fresh term for Bihar CM Nitish Kumar may have cleared the way for the latter to start his sixth term, but details regarding the new dispensation are yet to be worked out.The precision in timely payments to all registered farmers played a crucial role in convincing people that the Modi government was committed to bail out the distressed lot during the pandemic. The distribution of free ration under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana, launched by Modi in March in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, was meticulously done in the state. From July to October, 17,42,328 tonnes of foodgrain was allocated to the state of which 12,69,855 tonnes was distributed. Just before the poll dates were announced, Modi launched and inaugurated a slew of Bihar-related projects and once again asserted that ‘Purvanchal’ states like Bihar, West Bengal and the north-east were top priority for his dispensation. The state also recorded good progress in provided drinking water connections to households.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/central-welfare-schemes-ebc-backing-for-nitish-saw-nda-through-in-tight-race/articleshow/79181267.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 12, 2020||Business||Bank employees to get 15% salary hike||MUMBAI: The Indian Banks Association signed the 11th bipartite wage agreement with representative of bank employees paving the way for a 15% wage hike. The agreement applies to public sector banks, a few old generation private banks and some foreign banks. IBA in a statement said that to inculcate a sense of competition and also to reward the performance, the concept of Performance Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme has been introduced for the first time. The scheme will be effective from the current fiscal. The PLI scheme in public sector banks will be based on operating profit/net profit of the individual bank. It is optional for private and foreign banks. The bi-partite agreement is a platform for bank employees to renegotiate wages every five years. In addition to the salary the wage agreement incorporates various employee benefits and incorporates any changes in service conditions. For instance, the computerisation of banks in the 90s was made possible through a wage agreement. The contract also includes employee benefits aimed at promoting inclusion. Although the tenure of the previous agreement ended in 2017, the present deal was delayed because of protracted negotiations and Covid-19 lockdown. The bank wage agreement is significant for other public sector employees including those in Life Insurance Corporation and other public sector insurance companies, the Reserve Bank of India and public financial institutions like Nabard. The government revises the payscales for employees of these organisations based on the wage agreement signed with bank unions. “The Indian Banks' Association is pleased to announce the conclusion of 11th Bipartite Wage Negotiations with bank unions and associations to be effective from November 1, 2017. The agreement reached today, provides for a 15 per cent increase in pay slip,” IBA chief executive Sunil Mehta said in a statement. The new wage revision would entail an additional yearly outgo of Rs 7,898 crore for the banks. According to a note circulated by the All India Bank Employees Association the new agreement includes leave benefits like additional sick leave for those who have completed 30 years of service. Women employees can avail sick leave to take care of sick children on production of medical certificate. Maternity leave up to nine months can be granted for legal adoption of one child and longer maternity leave for mothers of twins. Another relief to employees is that absence from office due to curfew, riots, prohibitory order, natural calamities at the place of work would eb treated as special leave on duty. The employee unions which signed the agreement include United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), representing four Workmen Unions and four Officers' Associations and also Bank Karamchari Sena Mahasangh (BKSM), who were parties to agreement, an IBA statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-employees-to-get-15-salary-hike/articleshow/79181444.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||ISI link in Army recruitment scam?||BAREILLY: A joint team of Military Intelligence (MI) and UP Police on Wednesday unearthed a racket —involving an ex-serviceman, two policemen and five others — which allegedly helped several youths land jobs in the army on fake documents in the last two years. The investigators suspect that Pakistan’s spy agency ISI or some other anti-national forces may also have sneaked their men into the army using the racket. Police have arrested the retired soldier, one of the policemen and three others so far. At a press conference attended by senior police officers and a representative of the MI, the number of those who got jobs in the army through the racket was put at 21. UP Police have also roped in the Intelligence Bureau as it has started reverification of all the candidates who made it to the Indian Army starting January 2019 in four districts where the racket was active. DIG of Bareilly range, Rajesh Pandey, told TOI, “I have ordered reverification of all the successful candidates in Bareilly, Pilibhit, Budaun and Shahjahanpur. We have also asked the IB and other security agencies to join the investigation. I am monitoring the case and coordinating with all the agencies.” The accused were arrested from a rented apartment in Banda area, Shahjahanpur. They were later identified as Suresh Som, 55, Hukum Singh, Paramveer Singh, Mukesh Kumar and police constable Manveer Singh. The MI officer from Bareilly said, “Suresh Som was a havildar in 26 Rajput Regiment and retired in February 2010. Our Bareilly unit is thoroughly investigating the case with police. A separate internal investigation is also going on. The possibility of the involvement of anti-national groups like ISI cannot be ruled out as Som had leaked inside information to recruit the candidates on fake documents.” He said that the MI Bareilly is scanning antecedents of 21 candidates as of now. “The numbers can go up after the investigation,” he said. Two other accused, including police constable Moolchand and one Arvind Kumar are on a run, police said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Shahjahanpur, S Anand, said that arrested constable Manveer Singh used to ratify the fake documents of candidates in Shahjahanpur district using his position. The SSP said, “It is a very big scam. Data of 21 candidates, shortlisted in the army through fake documents and showing them as residents of Bareilly division, has been found so far. “We have seized 23 fake stamps of government offices and village heads. Several forged mark-sheets and other fake documents were also recovered from the accused. We are trying to find out the total number of candidates who were recruited through fraudulent means. This is a matter related to national security and no one will be spared. One of the accused constables, Manveer, had accepted a bribe of Rs 52,000 from the accused for the verification of a candidate. The accused were getting huge amounts of money for the recruitment. The involvement of ISI or some other anti-national forces behind this racket cannot be denied," he added. During the press conference, ex-servicemen Som said that he wanted to make quick money to start a career in politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/isi-link-in-army-recruitment-scam/articleshow/79181458.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 12, 2020||Business||RBI warns of ‘unrelenting’ inflation woes||MUMBAI: Even as it advanced its projections for an economy recovery, the RBI warned that keeping the system flush with funds, to keep long-term rates low, is “taking a step into the unknown and could kindle inflation without reviving growth”. “If the current upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth in Q3FY21,” RBI said. However, the central bank warned that inflation could corrode nascent growth impulses that are making their appearance. The RBI on Wednesday made public its concerns over inflation in a report on the state of the economy and an article on long-term interest rates both published in its monthly bulletin. According to the RBI, the economic momentum of September has been maintained and the contraction appears to be short-lived. However, it has raised serious concerns over inflation. “The foremost downside risk is the unrelenting pressure of inflation, with no signs of waning in spite of supply management measures,” the RBI said. It added that there was a ‘grave risk’ of generalisation of price pressure, unanchoring of inflation expectations feeding into a loss of credibility in policy interventions and the ‘eventual corrosion of nascent growth impulses’ that are seen. Explaining why it sees inflation as unrelenting, the RBI said that measures such as the imposition of stock limits on onion traders, imports of potatoes and onions (without fumigation) and a temporary reduction in import duties on pulses have not managed to keep prices under check. “There is a grave risk of generalisation of price pressures, unanchoring of inflation expectations feeding into a loss of credibility in policy interventions,” the RBI said. According to the RBI, two major risks are collapse of external demand due to a second Covid wave globally. Finally, there was a risk of stress in the household and corporate sector passing on to the financial sector. “If the green shoots manage to survive these risks and take root, the key question is what will be the drivers of the recovery?” the RBI said. The RBI’s comments come a day after its monetary policy committee’s external member Ashima Goyal said in an interview to news agency Cogencis that there was no need to worry about the medium-term inflation target until the output gap is closed. The central bank paused its rate cuts after the first quarter over fears of inflation. Besides inflation, the RBI also faces the challenge of managing the government’s borrowing programme. To keep rates low, the RBI has infused significant amount of liquidity into the money markets. The surplus liquidity in the market is reflected in the money that banks park with the central bank under its liquidity adjustment facility which stood at Rs 4,46,802 crore in October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-warns-of-unrelenting-inflation-woes/articleshow/79181507.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||Govt brings OTT platforms under I&B ministry||NEW DELHI: The Union government has ordered that all online news portals and content providers like Netflix, Amazon Prime Video, Hotstar and others be brought under the purview of the information and broadcasting ministry. The notification, signed by President Ram Nath Kovind and issued on Monday, said government regulations would also apply to news on social media platforms such as Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Until now, OTT platforms streamed digitally fell under the domain of the information and technology ministry. Content on digital platforms, however, remained unregulated, and was regarded by the government as anomalous especially since the Press Council of India monitors print media, the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) monitors news channels, and the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) regulates film content. OTT platforms grew rapidly in India, especially during the coronavirus-induced lockdown period, when the closure of film theatres led several production houses to release their films directly on OTT platforms. While emphasising the need for “convergence” between various ministries to keep abreast with the rapid growth in emerging platforms like OTTs, the I&B ministry also highlighted the need for a level playing field for both telecom and media and entertainment companies in terms of adjusted gross revenue (AGR). In this regard, the I&B ministry even wrote to the I-T ministry about a transfer of control. Earlier, the Supreme Court had sought the Centre’s response on a petition for regulating OTT platforms by an autonomous body. The government decision to put OTT platforms under the I&B ministry, however, triggered mixed reactions from the film industry. Some contended that the move to regulate digital content would “curtail” creative and personal freedom of filmmakers and viewers. Anshuman, director-writer of web series ‘Mirzapur’ and ‘Inside Edge’ on Amazon Prime Video, however, said the decision was “unacceptable” and appealed to viewers and creators to band together and challenge “censorship” of any kind. “Whatever happened to the understanding with (Prakash) Javadekar that OTT will be self-regulated? The government is giving in to the basest demands of prudes. How is this progress in any manner? Don’t like it, don’t watch it. Don’t impose your regressive views on a billion people. Where is the public discourse before this autocratic decision was announced? And what’s the process to appeal, if there’s one at all?” he said on Twitter. Others, like filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri, welcomed the decision. “Brilliant news. Perversion and psychotic content must be regulated. They are slowly turning OTT into not just soft-porn, gore and abusive platform but also as religious, cultural and political weapons,” he said on Twitter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-brings-ott-platforms-under-ib-ministry/articleshow/79181513.cms||Swati Mathur
November 12, 2020||India||Gangster with Rs 6 lakh bounty nabbed after 4-year hunt||NEW DELHI: Ending a manhunt lasting four years, Delhi Police’s special cell arrested the city’s most wanted gangster, Asim, alias Hashim Baba, after a brief shootout early on Wednesday. Hashim's most recent crime was in May when he murdered local journalist and YouTuber Haider by shooting him 24 times. It placed Hashim on top of the most wanted list with a reward of Rs 6 lakh, the highest for any criminal in Delhi, had been declared on his head. A team led by ACPs Lalit Mohan Negi and Hriday Bhushan had intensified the search for Hashim in the past four months. From selling shoes and belts in northeast Delhi to becoming a face synonymous with terror, Hashim’s rise in the world of crime was phenomenal, beginning with gambling syndicates in northeast Delhi in 2007. At the time, the gambling network in the area was run by Meharban. To make his presence felt, Hashim shot Meharban’s close associate, after which there was no looking back. He eventually formed a gang and established supremacy by attacking rivals and extorting businessmen. He also joined hands with another gangster, Abdul Nasir. Hashim’s first attempt to establish complete dominance was the murder of gangster Aqil Mama of Seelampur. This was followed by several murders of businessmen close to Mama’s gang. Eventually, Hashim took over the reins of Nasir’s gang when the latter was jailed. He took the gangs to new heights by making extortion and robbery organised crimes. In 2019, when Nasir came out of jail and found that his crime syndicate had been taken over by Hashim, he made peace with his arch rival Irfan Chhenu. This irked Hashim. In May this year, Hashim gunned down two of Nasir’s associates, Imran and Haider. His next targets were Nasir and a businessman who supported him. Nasir, meanwhile, was equally desperate to kill Hashim. However, on September 13, ACP Negi and his team nabbed Nasir after a gunfight. The final breakthrough came on Wednesday with Hashim’s arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gangster-with-rs-6-lakh-bounty-nabbed-after-4-year-hunt/articleshow/79181519.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||SCO for need to contain extremist ideologies and respect of territorial integrity of member-states||NEW DELHI: The Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) in its Moscow Declaration, following the 20th SCO summit in which PM Narendra Modi participated on Tuesday, emphasised the need to intensify common efforts to prevent and suppress the spread of terrorist, separatist and extremist ideologies. The Declaration also said SCO will work in keeping with the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in internal affairs of other states. It said that the member-states were convinced that “promotion of extremist, separatist and terrorist ideas, any information support (sic), propaganda and justification of terrorism” created conditions for the spread of radical sentiments and recruitment of supporters by terrorist organizations. "The member-tates advocate consistent deepening of counter-terrorism cooperation between the SCO and UN, including in the implementation of projects of technical assistance to the SCO member-states at their request from the relevant UN departments. The Parties call for the early adoption by consensus of a comprehensive convention against international terrorism," said the Declaration. India has used SCO to voice its concerns over cross-border terrorism and Modi had again taken up the issue in his address to the virtual summit. Modi had also slammed Pakistan for using SCO to raise the Kashmir issue. The Declaration also underlined the significance of sovereignty and territorial integrity. Modi had asked for member-states in his address at the virtual summit, which was also attended by Chinese President Xi Jinping and Pakistan PM Imran Khan, to respect these while pursuing connectivity initiatives. The Declaration said SCO will work to further increase its contribution to ensuring "peace and security, the settlement of international and regional conflicts exclusively by political and diplomatic means, proceeding from the principles of equality, respect for sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-interference in internal affairs of states, refusal to use force or the threat of its use".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sco-for-need-to-contain-extremist-ideologies-and-respect-of-territorial-integrity-of-member-states/articleshow/79181537.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||Active cases fall below 5L for first time since July-end||In what is seen as a major achievement for India in its fight against Covid-19, the actual load of active cases fell below 5 lakh on Tuesday for the first time since the end of July while many countries across the world are witnessing a surge, the health ministry said, reports Sushmi Dey. Around 27 states and UTs reported less than 20,000 active cases, whereas six states and UTs, including Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, UP, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, have active cases between 20,000 to 50,000. Maharashtra and Kerala have over 50,000 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/active-cases-fall-below-5l-for-first-time-since-july-end/articleshow/79181563.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 12, 2020||Business||Signs of revival: Govt allows 10% more flights on domestic routes||NEW DELHI: The government allowed airlines on Wednesday to operate 70% of their pre-Covid domestic flight capacity, raising this from the 60% allowed till now. With domestic aviation showing signs of revival the permission to operate over 2,100 additional domestic weekly flights has come just ahead of Diwali and will allow airlines to utilise their fleet more. Aviation minister H S Puri said in a tweet: “Domestic operations recommenced with 30,000 passengers on May 25 and have reached 2.06 lakh on November 8, 2020. (We are) now allowing domestic carriers to increase their operations from the existing 60% to 70% of the pre-Covid approved capacity.” Schedule domestic flights were suspended on March 25. They were allowed to resume on May 25. When the winter schedule for domestic flights was approved, airlines were allowed to operate 60% of the domestic flight schedule. Accordingly, the DGCA had cleared a schedule for 12,983 weekly domestic flights covering 95 airports for winter 2020-21, down 44.3% from 23,307 in winter 2019-20. Fare bands for domestic flights will remain in force till February 24, 2021, a three-month extension from the earlier deadline of November 24, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/signs-of-revival-govt-allows-10-more-flights-on-domestic-routes/articleshow/79181566.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||Crackers ban to save lives justified: SC||The Supreme Court on Wednesday favoured ban on firecrackers during the Diwali festival to keep in check growing air pollution which could aggravate the Covid pandemic, saying nothing can be more important than preserving human lives. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said the court is conscious of the importance of festivals but emphasised that such measures may be the need of the hour as the very lives of people are in danger. The court was hearing an appeal filed by one Gautam Roy and Fireworks Dealers’ Association, challenging last week’s HC order banning the use and sale of firecrackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crackers-ban-to-save-lives-justified-sc/articleshow/79181569.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
November 12, 2020||Business||RBI warns of ‘unrelenting’ inflation woes||Mumbai: Even as it advanced its projections for an economy recovery, the RBI warned that keeping the system flush with funds, to keep long-term rates low, is “taking a step into the unknown and could kindle inflation without reviving growth”. “If the current upturn is sustained in the ensuing two months, there is a strong likelihood that the economy will break out of contraction of the six months gone by and return to positive growth in Q3FY21,” RBI said. However, the central bank warned that inflation could corrode nascent growth impulses that are making their appearance. The RBI on Wednesday made public its concerns over inflation in a report on the state of the economy and an article on long-term interest rates both published in its monthly bulletin. According to the RBI, the economic momentum of September has been maintained and the contraction appears to be short-lived. However, it has raised serious concerns over inflation. “The foremost downside risk is the unrelenting pressure of inflation, with no signs of waning in spite of supply management measures,” the RBI said. It added that there was a ‘grave risk’ of generalisation of price pressure, unanchoring of inflation expectations feeding into a loss of credibility in policy interventions and the ‘eventual corrosion of nascent growth impulses’ that are seen. Explaining why it sees inflation as unrelenting, the RBI said that measures such as the imposition of stock limits on onion traders, imports of potatoes and onions (without fumigation) and a temporary reduction in import duties on pulses have not managed to keep prices under check. “There is a grave risk of generalisation of price pressures, unanchoring of inflation expectations feeding into a loss of credibility in policy interventions,” the RBI said. According to the RBI, two major risks are collapse of external demand due to a second Covid wave globally. Finally, there was a risk of stress in the household and corporate sector passing on to the financial sector. “If the green shoots manage to survive these risks and take root, the key question is what will be the drivers of the recovery?” the RBI said. The RBI’s comments come a day after its monetary policy committee’s external member Ashima Goyal said in an interview to news agency Cogencis that there was no need to worry about the medium-term inflation target until the output gap is closed. The central bank paused its rate cuts after the first quarter over fears of inflation. Besides inflation, the RBI also faces the challenge of managing the government’s borrowing programme. To keep rates low, the RBI has infused significant amount of liquidity into the money markets. The surplus liquidity in the market is reflected in the money that banks park with the central bank under its liquidity adjustment facility which stood at Rs 4,46,802 crore in October 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-warns-of-unrelenting-inflation-woes/articleshow/79181048.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Business||Strong foreign inflows take sensex to record 43,594 pts||Mumbai: Nearly a $3.4-billion net buying of stocks by foreign funds in eight sessions of November lifted the sensex by almost 4,000 points or 10% to a record high at 43,594 points at Wednesday’s close, with investors’ wealth too at a new high at Rs 166 lakh crore. In the US, the win by Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, news about a potent Covid-19 vaccine by pharma major Pfizer and better-than-expected quarterly results by Indian corporates aided this surge in buying by foreign fund managers during the last two weeks, market players said. In the last three sessions, the sensex also hit new life-highs on all the sessions. An identical trend was seen in Nifty too, which on Wednesday ended at 12,749 points, also a new-closing high. And in the last eight sessions, investors’ wealth, measured by BSE’s market capitalisation, has risen by Rs 9.6 lakh crore. Brokers and fund managers here said that Biden’s win in the US presidential race ended a global uncertainty about the course of the world’s largest economy, while the news about the efficacy of the Pfizer vaccine raised chances of economies returning to normalcy faster than expected. However, some correction is expected. According to Sahaj Agrawal of Kotak Securities, Nifty has gained significantly in the short term and currently trades at all-time high levels. “We continue to believe the medium-term trend is positive while short-term volatility is expected. Since the recent rise has been vertical, we expect some correction to set in to provide comfortable entry points.” During the day’s session, Infosys, HDFC and Kotak Bank contributed the most to the index’s rise, while strong selling in RIL limited the gains. Of the 30 sensex constituents, only six stocks closed in the red.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/strong-foreign-inflows-take-sensex-to-record-43594-pts/articleshow/79180937.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Sero survey to detect Covid-19 prevalence completed in Madurai||Madurai: Blood samples were collected from 1,140 households in 38 identified clusters across Madurai district as part of the state-wide sero surveillance study to assess the spread of Covid-19 in random populations. District health officials said that reports of the survey have been submitted to state authorities.A sero survey involves testing of blood serum of groups of individuals in a population for the presence of anti-bodies to Covid-19. The exercise, which began on October 19, was carried out in such a manner that 30 blood serum samples were collected from each of the 38 clusters - 20 in rural limits and 18 in corporation limits. The participants of the survey were also given questionnaires. The samples were processed via chemiluminescence immunoassay (CLIA) test, which makes use of the emission of electromagnetic radiation caused by a chemical reaction to produce light, for the detection of antibodies to SARS CoV-2 in the blood serum.A CLIA machine was specially installed at the Samayanallur community health centre (CHC) to process all samples from Madurai, Virudhunagar, Dindigul, Theni, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Pudukottai districts. Health officials said that since similar surveys were carried out in all districts, the findings will be collected and published by the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sero-survey-to-detect-covid-19-prevalence-completed-in-madurai/articleshow/79180551.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Patna||What sunk MGB in Bihar? ‘Jungle Raj’ campaign or RJD’s generosity||PATNA: It was a case of so near, yet so far for the Mahagatbandhan leader, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who came within sniffing distance of forming the next government as counting tally flip-flopped on Tuesday evening, eventually dashing his dream of becoming the youngest chief minister of Bihar. A large part of the blame for the missed opportunity, despite the anti-incumbency factor against Nitish Kumar-led NDA, lies with ally Congress, which failed to do justice to the 70 seats it hard-bargained from RJD, say political watchers as well as RJD leaders. Patna-based election analyst DM Diwakar said fifty seats were more than enough for Congress. “They had taken at least 20 extra seats which should have been given to VIP and HAM (S), or to the Left parties, who had a good strike rate.” Tejashwi’s RJD managed to get the largest vote share and has emerged as the biggest party with 75 seats in this election. Out of 243 seats, RJD gave 70 seats to Congress, which was the second-highest among all alliance partners. However, the Grand Old Party could win only 19 out of its 70 seats and had the worst strike rate compared to its alliance partners. While RJD won 75 out of 144 seats and the Left partners together won 16 out of 29, Congress could not even reach its 2015 assembly election tally of 27 seats out of 41 it had got. Experts also called out RJD for its wrong decision to give 70 seats to Congress, which tried to bite more than it could chew. “Congress is a leaderless organization and it has pulled Mahagatbandhan down. Even AIMIM has been a factor. While it won few seats, it also polarized Hindu votes and divided Muslim votes,” said another analyst Nawal Kishore Chaudhary. He further said that Nitish is a towering figure and the PM Narendra Modi factor gave him an advantage. Choudhary, however, praised Tejashwi saying he had shown maturity throughout the campaign. “Bihar has a strong opposition now which is good for democracy,” he said. “They have made us suffer because of their stubborn attitude to fight on more number of seats. They should first try to improve their base at the ground first, before demanding a large number of seats,” said a senior RJD leader, who did not wish to be named. Diwakar further said even though Congress gave maximum tickets to upper caste candidates, it failed to get their votes and cited lack of ground-level workers in the state. However, state Congress leaders are putting up a defence. “The best seats were taken by the Left parties, followed by RJD. They had even taken some of our sitting seats. Also, the seats were given at the end, which did not prove beneficial for us,” said a state Congress leader. At a press conference held on Wednesday, state Congress president Madan Moha Jha refused to comment on this issue. “It has to be analyzed. I cannot reply immediately,” Jha said. Apart from Congress which became a liability for Mahagatbandhan, political experts feel PM Modi’s ‘Jungle Raj’ barb was another reason which dented Mahagatbandhan’s vote. “People who had made up their mind to vote for Mahagatbandhan later changed the decision because of the fear which came in their mind,” said Shaibal Gupta. Diwakar and Choudhary, too, cited the “Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj” barb of the PM as another reason for Tejashwi’s defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/what-sunk-mgb-jungle-raj-campaign-or-rjds-generosity/articleshow/79178072.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 12, 2020||---||Over 7 lakh voters press NOTA button in Bihar assembly polls||PATNA: About 7,06,252 people chose the None of The Above or (NOTA) option in the assembly election, which works out to 1.68 per cent of the total votes polled, according to data provided by the chief electoral office. Around 4.1 crore people cast their votes in the three phases of the election. The number of people who had chosen NOTA in 2015 — 9.4 lakh out of 3.8 crore people who voted — was higher than this year’s figure. The JAP-L, led by Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, and The Plurals Party, led by Pushpam Priya Choudhary, got fewer votes than NOTA in several seats. Pushpam fielded candidates in 149 seats and she herself contested the polls from Bisfi and Bankipur. She got 1,521 votes in Bisfi, where 2,929 people pressed NOTA. In Bankipur, where there were 1,213 NOTA votes, she won 5,189 votes. Politics watchers said the decline in the NOTA percentage indicated that people had started reposing faith in candidates and political parties. An awareness programme run by the EC is another factor behind the decrease in NOTA votes. Shaibal Gupta, a social scientist and founding member-secretary of Asian Development Research Institute in Patna, told TOI on Wednesday that the decline in NOTA percentage was a clear indication that people’s faith in the state system had increased. “They are not voting for NOTA any more. Their faith in democracy has increased, which is good,” he said. DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, added, “If people are not getting basic amenities, they become dissatisfied. That is one of the reason they press NOTA instead of choosing a candidate.” “Secondly, people choose NOTA because of the kind of candidates fielded by political parties. They are not fielded on the basis of their commitment to the people. Rather, candidates get tickets based on caste equations and other factors. These are some important reasons why people chose NOTA,” the economist said. Of the total votes polled, AIMIM received 1.24%, BSP 1.49%, CPI 0.8%, CPI-M 0.65%, JMM 0.06%, Shiv Sena 0.05%, JD(S) 0.04%, NCP 0.2%, and NPEP got zero per cent vote, as per the data on the Election Commission website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/over-7-lakh-voters-press-nota-button-in-assembly-polls/articleshow/79178094.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 12, 2020||---||Resentment in Congress ranks against Bihar leadership||PATNA: The poor performance of Congress in the assembly polls has sparked resentment among party workers and functionaries, who have demanded that the central leadership take note of the state of affairs in the Bihar unit and overhaul the organization. They also raised questions on the “arbitrary distribution” of tickets and “parachute candidates” with no connection to the party getting the nomination. Congress, which fought on 70 seats, could win only 19 of them recording the worst strike rate among all Mahagathbandhan partners and is being held responsible for the alliance's loss. Several leaders who had come to Sadaqat Ashram on Wednesday expressed their anger. Talking to a media channel, former Union minister LN Mishra’s grandson Rishi Mishra said Mahagatbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav worked hard yet he (Tejashwi) lost the battle as our party couldn't give the support. He pointed out his party’s dismal performance in the Mithilanchal region saying it could not even win one seat in the area even though the state president is from there. “I request Sonia Ji to save Congress,” Mishra said, adding, “I can name candidates who did not even know the names of panchayats in their assembly constituency but were given the tickets. We have won 19 seats and even that is enough. Now responsibility needs to be fixed.” State Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra echoed the same sentiment. “I congratulate Tejashwi Yadav, leader of the biggest party who worked hardest in the Bihar election. Whoever forms the government, it is clear that the common people have given their mandate by giving more seats to RJD than JDU and BJP,” Mishra said. State Congress workers Purushottam Mishra and Janardhan Sharma also expressed their grievances. “Common workers who toil for the party are denied tickets and instead new people are preferred. I will go and stage a protest at the All India Congress Committee office in Delhi,” an angry Purushottam said. A senior party leader preferring anonymity said, “The high command should identify those who were roped in for ticket distribution and make them accountable. The same team was working during the parliamentary election and even in this assembly election, the same team made a similar blunder.” The senior leader added, “Weakness of our state leadership is reflected in the fact that Bachhwara which we have won seven times, was given to other partners. Instead of bargaining for 70 seats, they should have opted for 50 strong seats with good candidates. This team had kept the high command in the dark and did not convey the right information. A few senior leaders do not let the right information reach Delhi for their personal benefit. ” All India Congress Committee secretary incharge for Bihar, Ajay Kapoor said the party was analyzing the shortcomings. “We are looking into it and we will now sit together and review all the aspects. Party workers are sad and it is natural because everyone has worked hard,” Kapoor said. When asked about his party’s poor performance, he replied, “We will look into it. But even the administration is responsible for it. In several seats, Mahagatbandhan candidates were intentionally made to lose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/after-drubbing-resentment-in-cong-ranks-against-state-leadership/articleshow/79182876.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 12, 2020||Patna||Resentment in Congress ranks against Bihar leadership||PATNA: The poor performance of Congress in the assembly polls has sparked resentment among party workers and functionaries, who have demanded that the central leadership take note of the state of affairs in the Bihar unit and overhaul the organization. They also raised questions on the “arbitrary distribution” of tickets and “parachute candidates” with no connection to the party getting the nomination. Congress, which fought on 70 seats, could win only 19 of them recording the worst strike rate among all Mahagathbandhan partners and is being held responsible for the alliance's loss. Several leaders who had come to Sadaqat Ashram on Wednesday expressed their anger. Talking to a media channel, former Union minister LN Mishra’s grandson Rishi Mishra said Mahagatbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav worked hard yet he (Tejashwi) lost the battle as our party couldn't give the support. He pointed out his party’s dismal performance in the Mithilanchal region saying it could not even win one seat in the area even though the state president is from there. “I request Sonia Ji to save Congress,” Mishra said, adding, “I can name candidates who did not even know the names of panchayats in their assembly constituency but were given the tickets. We have won 19 seats and even that is enough. Now responsibility needs to be fixed.” State Congress MLC Prem Chandra Mishra echoed the same sentiment. “I congratulate Tejashwi Yadav, leader of the biggest party who worked hardest in the Bihar election. Whoever forms the government, it is clear that the common people have given their mandate by giving more seats to RJD than JDU and BJP,” Mishra said. State Congress workers Purushottam Mishra and Janardhan Sharma also expressed their grievances. “Common workers who toil for the party are denied tickets and instead new people are preferred. I will go and stage a protest at the All India Congress Committee office in Delhi,” an angry Purushottam said. A senior party leader preferring anonymity said, “The high command should identify those who were roped in for ticket distribution and make them accountable. The same team was working during the parliamentary election and even in this assembly election, the same team made a similar blunder.” The senior leader added, “Weakness of our state leadership is reflected in the fact that Bachhwara which we have won seven times, was given to other partners. Instead of bargaining for 70 seats, they should have opted for 50 strong seats with good candidates. This team had kept the high command in the dark and did not convey the right information. A few senior leaders do not let the right information reach Delhi for their personal benefit. ” All India Congress Committee secretary incharge for Bihar, Ajay Kapoor said the party was analyzing the shortcomings. “We are looking into it and we will now sit together and review all the aspects. Party workers are sad and it is natural because everyone has worked hard,” Kapoor said. When asked about his party’s poor performance, he replied, “We will look into it. But even the administration is responsible for it. In several seats, Mahagatbandhan candidates were intentionally made to lose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/after-drubbing-resentment-in-cong-ranks-against-state-leadership/articleshow/79179617.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 12, 2020||Patna||RJD keeps mum over Bihar assembly results||PATNA: RJD on Wednesday kept mum over the state election results, which went in favour of the NDA and its CM Nitish Kumar. Even Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who was the chief ministerial candidate of the Mahagatbandhan, kept quiet. A senior RJD leader said they were reviewing the results, especially of those areas where they lost by small margins. When asked about its defeat, RJD state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari replied, “Aage aage dekhiye hota hai kya (see what happens next). They (NDA) have lost even after getting the mandate and we have won. You have to accept the fact that Tejashwi ji has got the maximum blessings from people in this election. This 31-year-old youth slowed down the speed of PM and CM” He said the party will talk to the media soon. However, Tiwari refused to comment on the role his party and Tejashwi will play in the opposition. “He is the leader of opposition and a new government has yet not been formed,” he said. RJD Rajya Sabha member and party’s national spokesperson Manoj Jha tweeted on Wednesday, “Employment and equal pay for equal work has become an integral part of Bihar’s public demand. Thank you Tejashwi ji. You (NDA) may not form the government anyhow, but an awakened Bihar will not let the ruling establishment sleep. This is the clear message of this mandate. Jai Bihar Jai Hind.” The party leaders even mocked Nitish’s late response to the results and thanking people and PM Modi through his tweet. “Nitish Kumar thanked the PM for the victory in Bihar. It seems after much thought, he realized throwing much tantrums will put the chair in danger. Hence keeping aside self-respect, he thought of saving his chair,” said RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-keeps-mum-over-results/articleshow/79178138.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 12, 2020||Patna||Madhepura man beaten to death by brothers over property dispute||PATNA: A 35-year-old man was beaten to death by his two brothers over a property dispute at Kashipur village under the Murliganj police station area in Madhepura district on Wednesday. Police said the deceased was identified as Mahesh Sah. Murliganj police station additional SHO Siddeshwar Kumar Pathak said that Mahesh had four more brothers. “One of the brothers lives separately in Gol Bazaar area at Falka where he had constructed his own house. Two brothers Ganesh Sah and Vinod Sah reside next to Mahesh’s house in the village, while another brother lives in Katihar,” the SHO added. The SHO said that the brother, who resides at Gol Bazaar, has given up his share in the family property. “However, Ganesh and Vinod wanted the entire property to be distributed in four parts, while Mahesh wanted that it should be divided into five parts so that their mother can also get a share. This was opposed by the duo which was the root cause of dispute. Mahesh was hence thrashed to death by them,” Pathak said. He said that a panchayat-level meeting was scheduled to take place in the village on Wednesday evening to resolve the property dispute among the Sah brothers but before it the meeting, they picked up a fight. Pathak said that Mahesh’s wife Pinky Devi has lodged an FIR against Ganesh, Vinod and five more persons for killing her husband. “Ganesh’s father-in-law and brother-in-law are also among the seven named accused,” the SHO said adding that raids were conducted in the village but all the accused are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/madhepura-man-beaten-to-death-by-brothers-over-property-dispute/articleshow/79179636.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 12, 2020||Patna||Patna: PPU to complete all pending exams by January 2021||PATNA: Patliputra University (PPU) has released its calendar according to which all the examinations, which were delayed due to the Covid-19 lockdown, will be completed by the end of January, 2021. “The university will hold the pending examinations of the Degree Part I (vocational) courses in the second sitting from November 25 to December 5 at different centres in Patna and Nalanda districts. These programmes include BCA, BBM, BBA, BSc IT, Biotechnology, biochemistry, industrial microbiology as well as subsidiary papers,” PPU’s controller of examinations, Pravin Kumar, told this newspaper on Wednesday, adding that the practicals and viva voce exams would be conducted from December 7 to 15. Similarly, all the Degree Part II (vocational) exams will be held from November 25 to December 5. Pravin said, “PPU will conduct the first semester exams of different vocational courses at the postgraduate (PG) level from November 25 to December 2 and the practicals and viva voce exams from December 3 to 7.” According to the university’s media in charge B K Mangalam, the third semester exams of the PG vocational courses will be held from November 25 to December 2 and the practicals and viva voce exams between December 2 and 7. “We will hold the exams of the regular undergraduate (UG) programmes from November 7 to December 12 and the subsidiary exams from December 14 to 23. The Degree Part II examinations will begin from January 5 and the subsidiary exams from January 12. Besides, the exams of the regular PG courses will be held from November 25 to December 2 and the practicals and viva voce exams from December 25 to 7,” Mangalam said and added that the second semester examinations of the regular PG programmes would start from November 25. PPU vice-chancellor Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal has directed all college principals to hold online classes regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-to-complete-all-pending-exams-by-jan-21/articleshow/79178502.cms||Kumod Verma
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Exhibition of Lord Ram idols to take off with Deepotsav in Ayodhya||LUCKNOW: An exhibition of Lord Ram’s idols, depicting important incidents from the Ramayana, will be set up in Ayodhya on November 13, the day the city will celebrate Deepotsav. The exhibition is being organised by Lalit Kala Akademi in which around 25 artists will display their work on the theme ‘Jan jan ke Ram’. A government official said that the exhibition will be held in the Ram Katha Park where artists from Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Mathura and Lucknow will display their sculptures. “A social message will be given to people through these idols, which will be cast to reflect Ram in various moods. Popular scenes from Ramayana will be on display during this exhibition. Material like fibre, terracotta and wood are being used and artists will be able to showcase the various styles of sculpting through these,” he said. Various stories from Ramayana like deliverance of Ahilya, story of Kewat, various forms of Ram, the relationship between Ram and Laxman, and Bharat Milap will be depicted through the idols. The ongoing Mission Shakti programme of the state government will also be reflected in the exhibition. Sacchidanand and J Yadav, who have sculpted the deliverance of Ahilya, said that through this, Ram had given the message of respect to women and the idol would sensitise people towards Mission Shakti. Lucknow’s Parul Srivastava has carved an idol depicting the story of Jatayu while Ambedkar Nagar’s Uday Raj Maurya’s work will depict the time of construction of the bridge to Lanka. An official said that the Lalit Kala Akademi had organised a nine-day camp where 30 statues and idols were carved or modelled on the theme of Jan jan ke Ram. The selected idols from this will now be exhibited in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/9-day-exhibition-depicting-lord-rams-life-to-begin-in-ayodhya/articleshow/79180905.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||335 available beds in Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation quota||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has stated that as of 6pm on Wednesday, there were 335 beds available in the AMC quota at designated Covid hospitals in the city. Additional chief secretary Rajiv Kumar Gupta who is responsible for Covid management in Ahmedabad said that contrary to certain reports, there were beds available at Covid hospitals in the city. Gupta said details of private Covid beds are available on the website of the Ahmedabad Hospitals & Nursing Homes Association (AHNA). Gupta said there are 74 designated Covid hospitals in the city with 3,852 beds which were available. Of these, 1,745 are AMC beds and the rest are private quota beds. An AMC statement said there are 482 beds currently available in the private quota, where the treatment cost is subject to AMC caps. The statement said the AMC was dedicated to providing treatment to the people of Ahmedabad and had made adequate arrangements for this. According to AMC, the city had 2,711 active Covid cases at 11am on Wednesday. On Tuesday, 141 patients were discharged while 166 new cases were reported. Some 47% of active cases are from the western part of the city. The most active cases are from the areas of Thaltej, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia and Gota, or the North West Zone. The zone has 445 cases, followed by 441 cases in the South Zone. Covid cases in other zones are as follows: West Zone (438 cases), South West Zone (403), East Zone (362), North Zone (337) and Central Zone (285).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/335-available-beds-in-amc-quota/articleshow/79178790.cms||---
November 12, 2020||---||10 Nitish Kumar ministers lose elections in Bihar||PATNA: Ten out of the 24 ministers in the outgoing cabinet of CM Nitish Kumar, who contested the assembly elections in Bihar, lost. Eight of them were from JD(U) and two from BJP. There are 29 ministers in the outgoing cabinet, but 5 of them are MLCs and did not need to contest the assembly election to continue as the minister. While 23 ministers contested from their respective constituencies, education minister Krishna Nandan Prasasd Verma was shifted to Jehanabad from Ghosi, which had sent him to the assembly in 2015. Urban development minister Suresh Kumar Sharma and mines and geology minister Brij Koshor Bind were ministers from BJP quota and lost from Muzaffarpur and Chainpur, respectively. Apart from Verma, the other JD(U) ministers who lost were rural works minister Shailesh Kumar (Jamalpur), transport minister Santosh Kumar Nirala (Rajpur), science and technology minister Jai Kumar Singh (Dinara), social welfare minister Ram Sewak Singh (Hathua), SC/ST welfare minister Ramesh Rishideo (Singheshwar), minority welfare minister Khurshid alias Firoz Ahmad (Sikta) and disaster management minister Lakshmeshwar Rai (Laukaha). Of the eight JD(U) ministers, four lost the election because of LJP candidates against them, like Jai, Shailesh, Lakshmeshwar and Ramesh. “Some of our ministers lost because the LJP candidates dented the traditional NDA vote bank in their respective constituencies. Had LJP not sabotaged, the JD(U) winners’ tally would have crossed the 80-mark,” JD(U) national general secretary K C Tyagi told TOI on Wednesday. He said the NDA leaders would analysis such defeats in days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/10-nitish-ministers-lose-elections-in-bihar/articleshow/79182740.cms||Madan Kumar
November 12, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Now, water-based hand sanitizers||RAJKOT: Alcohol-based hand sanitizers (ABHS)a re flying off the shelves due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but experts have often cautioned against its improper and excessive use that may cause health hazards. However, those allergic to ABHS will soon have an option of disinfecting their hands with sanitizer made from water. The Bhavnagar-based Central Salt And Marine Chemicals Research Institute (CSMCRI) has developed an alcohol-free water-based sanitizer which can kill not just Covid-19 virus but nine other dangerous pathogens. The aqueous non-toxic sanitizer’s efficacy and safety have been certified by Faridabad-based Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), an autonomous laboratory under the central government’s department of bio-technology. In fact, this sanitizer will soon be available in the market with CSMCRI signing a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for transfer of technology with two start-ups, one based in Bhavnagar and other in West Bengal. CSMCRI works under the reputed Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). Dr Kannan Srinivasan, director, CSMCRI, said, “Alcohol-based sanitizers are class 1 inflammable liquids and studies have shown that their improper and excessive use may cause several problems such as ocular irritation, vomiting, oral irritation, cough, abdominal pain, acidosis, respiratory distress, headache and others. Moreover, there is a risk of blaze if the user is closely exposed to fire.” “It was a challenge for scientists to develop aqueous, non-toxic and safe water based hand sanitizer formulation with 100% efficiency against coronavirus,” Srinivasan said. Senior scientist Sanjay Pratihar explained: “This sanitizer has been made using stable biomolecule capped aqueous silver nanoparticles with inorganic emulsifying agents and surfactants. The nano silver plays an important role in paralyzing pathogens before they become active. CSMCRI says this is probably the first such water-based hand sanitizer made in India. Sumit Pramanik, another scientist who played an important role in this invention, said ABHS are composed of alcohols like ethanol and isopropyl solely or with additives such as oxidants, colorants, stabilizers, fragrance, antimicrobial agents, moisturizer and sometimes preservatives. Syed Zaidi, director, business development of Bhavnagar start-up told TOI: “We have applied for a license to start manufacturing and once granted, we can make 500 litres per day.” Watch Now, water-based hand sanitizers developed in Gujarat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/now-water-based-hand-sanitizers/articleshow/79179278.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 12, 2020||Business||‘We recovered to pre-Covid levels by Sept’||Udit.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com Normalcy in the overall economy may return by the end of this Covid-hit fiscal, believes Sanjiv Goenka, chairman of RPSG Group which straddles power, retail, IT, engineering, FMCG & entertainment. However, he said RPSG was back to pre-Covid levels by September… How far has your business returned to normal? Some of our companies are part of essential services and were up and running during the lockdown, especially in the months of April and May. Our power distribution companies in Kolkata, Rajasthan, Noida and Maharashtra ensured uninterrupted power supply to more than 4 million consumers. Our retail venture Spencer’s Retail ensured contactless service to consumers and online delivery saw a big jump during the lockdown. By September, the whole RPSG Group was back to pre-Covid levels. What challenges has the new normal posed? We saw a lot of workers migrate to their hometowns during the lockdown. This did impact operations, and in some of our businesses, we were operating at 50% workforce. We concentrated on expanding utilisation levels. During the pandemic, cyclone Amphan devastated Kolkata. With reduced workforce, we restored normalcy in record time. We thought it was prudent to launch immunity boosting ayurvedic products from our FMCG stable during this time. Has Covid hit remuneration, caused downsizing? We have allowed our employees to work from home as much as possible. Those who are part of essential services followed all safety protocols. The group did not engage in downsizing. Senior leadership opted for voluntary pay cuts. Learnings from doing business in a pandemic? We had anticipated supply disruptions and were able to handle it slightly better. It’s a constant exercise to reach our consumers digitally first. Across the spectrum, our companies in the power distribution, retail, IT-enabled services and music use analytics to serve consumers efficiently. Companies that were more digitised and automated appear to have fared better... RPSG Group ventured into digitisation nearly five years ago. Our power distribution and retail businesses have adopted AI, analytics and robotics for seamless integration. Automated meters were installed for ease of consumers. More than 1.2 lakh songs, housed in our music company Saregama, have been digitised so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/we-recovered-to-pre-covid-levels-by-sept/articleshow/79171775.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Business||Logistics cos see online shipment volumes rise by 40%||Chennai: Strong growth in online shopping has led to a 35% increase in shipping volume and logistics companies expect further uptake ahead of Diwali.E-commerce focused logistics and warehousing firm Ecom Express has seen nearly a 40% increase, YoY, in shipment volume. Its VP for strategy and planning Siddharth Agarwal said, “As far as the overall volume since lockdown is concerned, we saw a significant jump of 72% from August vis-à-vis October period.” Sales of apparels doubled while the beauty and wellness category, which was sluggish during the lockdown, saw significant increase during festive sale period. The surge in consumer electronics like laptop, tablets and mobile phones, a category which saw a spike in the last festive season, came in early this year as these become more of a necessity rather than a luxury induced by remote working, e-learning, and online schooling.DHL Express said it has experienced around 35% e-commerce shipment volume growth in 2020, and is expecting an all-time high of over 50% more shipment quantities for Diwali. “We are seeing a significant uptick in shipment volumes. It has been led both by the build up to global shopping days, and closer home, a similar momentum with Diwali around the corner. In India, we are seeing our exporters and e-commerce sellers experience an upswing as well. There is room for cautious optimism as the economy opens up and activities pick up further in the coming weeks,“ said R S Subramanian, MD, DHL Express India.The pandemic has caused a shift in buying behaviour, where service providers see a rise in sales from e-commerce platforms exponentially from Tier II and Tier III regions too.On hiring additional workforce to meet the growing demand in both metro and non-metro cities, Agarwal said “We added over 30,000 seasonal employments through September and October across our Fulfilment Centres, Hubs, Sortation Centres and Delivery Centres.” Majority of the hires were delivery personnel, hub and sorting centre associates and workforce for the warehousing activities.LetsTransport said it has seen an additional 30% surge in shipment volume in the month of November, besides the monthly 30% growth seen since the lockdown. Its CEO & co-founder Pushkar Singh said “We have increased our delivery partners by 20% (i.e) 10,000 delivery trucks/drivers to meet the massive festive demand. We also see a new trend of increasing purchase by retail outlets from e-commerce platforms, which is similar to the growth seen in individual customer behaviour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/logistics-cos-see-online-shipment-volumes-rise-by-40/articleshow/79179064.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 12, 2020||Business||Syrma Tech acquires SGS Teknik||Chennai-based electronics manufacturer Syrma Technology has signed a cash plus stock agreement with Gurgaon-based SGS Tekniks for a takeover. PE investor GEF Capital has supported this transaction with an undisclosed investment. While the valuation of the deal remains undisclosed, Sandeep Tandon, MD, Syrma Technology, said that the deal can help Syrma grow its business by over 20% year-on-year and will result in the creation of Syrma SGS Technologies Private Limited with a combined turnover of over Rs 1,000 crore.Post the merger, given the pandemic, the annual run rate would be around Rs 1,200 crore, and plans are afoot to grow this aggressively in the next five years, Tandon said. “The combination will help us improve our footprints in both North and South India,” he added. The combined entity -Syrma SGS Technologies — will have eight manufacturing facilities in India across Gurgaon, Manesar, Bawal, Baddi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Bargur, and three design centre centres in Chennai,Gurgaon, Stuttgart Germany.Syrma Tech believes they can almost “double their capacity” as a result of the merger, and 55% of the revenues will come from exports primarily to the US & Europe.Syrma is currently around 3,000-people strong and the combined firm is expected to have a team of 4,700 employees. “We are seeing unprecedented interest in the EMS in India with recent government incentive schemes like the PLI and trade wars,” Tandon said. With Indian EMS market growing at a CAGR of over 25%, the merged entity will work to leverage this opportunity, he added.Syrma designs and makes RFID tech, power electronics, turnkey manufacturing services and custom magnetics. It also delivers IoT products for the automotive, computing, industrial, medical, power, and telecom companies. SGS Tekniks’ services include PCB assemblies, box-build services and electronics design services.Currently, Syrma has two units inside Chennai’s MEPZ, one unit in Bawal near New Delhi, one in Bargur (TN) and another in Uthiramerur (TN). SGS has four units — Gurgaon, Manesar, Baddi (HP), and Bengaluru.Syrma, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Tandon Group, has helped design, manufacture, and market more than 400 million products worldwide in the last decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/syrma-tech-acquires-sgs-teknik/articleshow/79179112.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 12, 2020||Business||Murugappa group sees changes at top management level||Chennai: Upon attaining superannuation, chairman of Murugappa group, MM Murugappan stepped down from the boards of Cholamandalam Investment and Finance Company, Tube Investments of India and Coromandel International. His last day at office was Wednesday. Murugappan has informed the various companies that he wishes to pursue philanthropy and other interests.The Rs 37,000 crore group which has a significant presence in agriculture business, engineering and financial services follows a policy where the chairman retires at the age of 65. What is intriguing is the appointment of A Vellayan, (who retired from the group after superannuation in February 2018), as a director and chairman of Coromandel International, with immediate effect. V Ravichandran, vice chairman of Coromandel International also stepped down from the company with immediate effect. Arun Alagappan and Rakesh K B Menon have been appointed additional directors of the company. “Fertilisers is a complex business and it is important to bring in people who know the industry well to head. Vellayan spearheaded various initiatives to make Coromandel a dominant player in the complex fertiliser segment,” group insiders said. At Cholamandalam, Vellayan Subbiah has been appointed as an additional director of the company with immediate effect and also elevated as its chairman. Subbiah is a civil engineering graduate from IIT Madras and holds an MBA from University of Michigan. He is also the MD of Tube Investments which has just acquired CG Power. In the engineering business under Tube Investments, Murugappan has stepped down as its chairman while a family member MAM Arunachalam has been co-opted as additional director. No chairman has been appointed. While these are at the statutory changes, the Murugappa group has a supervisory Murugappa Corporate Board (MCB) a non-statutory board which advises various companies in the group. The spokesperson of the group in a terse one liner said that Murugappan, a fourth generation family member, would continue to head MCB. While there is speculation on who will succeed Murugappan at MCB, indications are that Vellayan Subbiah will succeed as and when the transition happens. Murugappan steered the group in one of the most challenging phases as economic slowdown and Covid pandemic ravaged businesses. His leadership skills helped the group keep its head above water during his tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/murugappa-group-sees-changes-at-top-management-level/articleshow/79179153.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Street vendors eye last 2 days before Diwali to better sales||Madurai: Hundreds of seasonal street vendors from the district, whose livelihood depends on Diwali sales, have rued that the Covid-19 pandemic has slowed down their businesses. The vendors, who congregate at the corner of Vilakkuthoon and South Masi Street during Diwali season, are hoping that sales would pick up in the next two days.“Compared to last year, the sales have dropped. Also, the prices of the products are inflated due to the lockdown, but customers are expecting the old prices so it has not been easy,” said P Parimala Devi, a vendor from Alanganallur. For more than 20 years, her family has been setting up shop during Diwali season every year in Vilakkuthoon. With their regular sales coming down in the last few months, they are hoping that Diwali sales will give them a boost financially.The vendors said that Covid-19 fear has not deterred them from setting up shops as their livelihood depends on it. “Customers are bargaining and settle for a price which just equals the cost price. But, we don’t have the luxury of losing customers. As days go by, especially on the eve of Diwali, most vendors will definitely bring down prices,” said K Arun, a textile vendor.A Pandiammal, a 65-year-old woman from Aruldaspuram, who sells accessories and trinkets with her husband said that Diwali is one time where people do not hesitate to spend money on new things. “It is sad that sales are not as good this year so far. We are hoping it will pick up at least in the next two days,” she said.Vendors said that there are many loyal customers who buy from them in spite turning to branded shops. “Even if customers buy from showrooms, they still go for street shopping and pick up something at discounted prices. That will never change,” said K Saraswati, a vendor selling umbrellas and bedspreads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/street-vendors-eye-last-2-days-before-diwali-to-better-sales/articleshow/79180542.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 12, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank m-cap crosses $100bn||Mumbai: HDFC Bank has become the third listed Indian entity (after TCS and RIL) to cross the $100-billion market-cap mark. On Wednesday, the country’s most-valued bank had a market cap of nearly Rs 7.7 lakh crore or about $103 billion. Tata Group’s flagship TCS was the first Indian company to cross this mark in April 2018, followed by Reliance Industries (RIL) in July of that year. Currently RIL, with a market cap of $189 billion is the most-valued Indian company, while TCS is second-most valued at $136 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-m-cap-crosses-100bn/articleshow/79181015.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: High rider count makes following distancing norms difficult on trains||KOLKATA: As suburban train services resumed in the Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur divisions of Eastern Railway (ER) and South Eastern Railway (SER) after nearly seven-and-a-half months on Wednesday, passengers thronged stations from as early as 8.30am. It became difficult to maintain social distancing both at stations and on trains. Till 6pm, ER’s passenger count in both the Howrah and Sealdah divisions had reached nearly 23.8 lakh. A railway official said that Wednesday’s figure could cross 27 lakh by the end of the day (just for ER). Both ER and SER are running nearly 84% of the services they used to before the lockdown. Prior to the pandemic, ER and SER used to carry nearly 30 lakh suburban passengers. The Bengal government and railways will meet on Thursday to fine tune a few issues and explore the possibility of augmenting things, like opening more ticket counters, more train services and better passenger dispersal. The meeting, to be attended by senior state and railway officials, will also explore whether Metro services can be augmented. “Fortunately, people were wearing masks. But maintaining social distancing at the ticket counters was a challenge. Many people were getting their monthly season tickets (MSTs) renewed though counters were open for this from Monday. This was taking a lot of time and people in the queue were getting restless. At some places, social distancing could not be maintained. Despite repeated requests, people crowded into the three-four compartments in the front while those at the rear were relatively empty. We did our best to carry out random thermal checks on passengers,” a railway official said. “Most people seemed to be aware of the risks involved and assured they would abide by the rules. They wore masks and avoided seats with the red cross on them. Both railways and state personnel did their best to prevent overcrowding. However, given the layout of our wayside stations, this was a challenge,” another said. The situation in the Kharagpur division of SER was better though. Till 4pm, 47 services were run. According to an official, about 12,800 tickets were booked till then, of which 4,800 were MSTs. The number of passengers was about 17,600. “This means that there were nearly 374 passengers per train. At 50% capacity, a train can carry about 600 passengers. If that is any benchmark, then there were fewer people on trains on an average. We left nothing to chance and entry and exit points were segregated at important stations,” an SER official said. (With inputs from Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-rider-count-makes-following-distancing-norms-difficult-on-trains/articleshow/79178922.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 12, 2020||Mumbai||Arjun Rampal’s partner questioned in drug case||MUMBAI: Actor Arjun Rampal’s girlfriend Gabriella Demetriades was questioned by Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in connection with a drug case on Wednesday. Gabriella has been summoned again on Thursday to record her statement, while Rampal, who was to be questioned by the agency on Thursday, has been told to appear before the agency on Friday. Gabriella reached NCB’s Ballard Estate office on Wednesday morning and was questioned till evening. She is being probed to ascertain links with her brother Agisilaos Demetriades, a South African who was arrested by NCB last week in a drug case. NCB on Monday conducted searches at premises of Rampal’s Bandra flat and seized electronic gadgets and medicines which fall under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-questions-rampals-girlfriend/articleshow/79179494.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 12, 2020||---||What sunk MGB in Bihar? ‘Jungle Raj’ campaign or RJD’s generosity||PATNA: It was a case of so near, yet so far for the Mahagatbandhan leader, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who came within sniffing distance of forming the next government as counting tally flip-flopped on Tuesday evening, eventually dashing his dream of becoming the youngest chief minister of Bihar. A large part of the blame for the missed opportunity, despite the anti-incumbency factor against Nitish Kumar-led NDA, lies with ally Congress, which failed to do justice to the 70 seats it hard-bargained from RJD, say political watchers as well as RJD leaders. Patna-based election analyst DM Diwakar said fifty seats were more than enough for Congress. “They had taken at least 20 extra seats which should have been given to VIP and HAM (S), or to the Left parties, who had a good strike rate.” Tejashwi’s RJD managed to get the largest vote share and has emerged as the biggest party with 75 seats in this election. Out of 243 seats, RJD gave 70 seats to Congress, which was the second-highest among all alliance partners. However, the Grand Old Party could win only 19 out of its 70 seats and had the worst strike rate compared to its alliance partners. While RJD won 75 out of 144 seats and the Left partners together won 16 out of 29, Congress could not even reach its 2015 assembly election tally of 27 seats out of 41 it had got. Experts also called out RJD for its wrong decision to give 70 seats to Congress, which tried to bite more than it could chew. “Congress is a leaderless organization and it has pulled Mahagatbandhan down. Even AIMIM has been a factor. While it won few seats, it also polarized Hindu votes and divided Muslim votes,” said another analyst Nawal Kishore Chaudhary. He further said that Nitish is a towering figure and the PM Narendra Modi factor gave him an advantage. Choudhary, however, praised Tejashwi saying he had shown maturity throughout the campaign. “Bihar has a strong opposition now which is good for democracy,” he said. “They have made us suffer because of their stubborn attitude to fight on more number of seats. They should first try to improve their base at the ground first, before demanding a large number of seats,” said a senior RJD leader, who did not wish to be named. Diwakar further said even though Congress gave maximum tickets to upper caste candidates, it failed to get their votes and cited lack of ground-level workers in the state. However, state Congress leaders are putting up a defence. “The best seats were taken by the Left parties, followed by RJD. They had even taken some of our sitting seats. Also, the seats were given at the end, which did not prove beneficial for us,” said a state Congress leader. At a press conference held on Wednesday, state Congress president Madan Moha Jha refused to comment on this issue. “It has to be analyzed. I cannot reply immediately,” Jha said. Apart from Congress which became a liability for Mahagatbandhan, political experts feel PM Modi’s ‘Jungle Raj’ barb was another reason which dented Mahagatbandhan’s vote. “People who had made up their mind to vote for Mahagatbandhan later changed the decision because of the fear which came in their mind,” said Shaibal Gupta. Diwakar and Choudhary, too, cited the “Jungle Raj ka Yuvraj” barb of the PM as another reason for Tejashwi’s defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/what-sunk-mgb-jungle-raj-campaign-or-rjds-generosity/articleshow/79182786.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 12, 2020||Patna||‘AIMIM a permanent threat to RJD in Seemanchal’||PATNA: What Chirag Paswan-led LJP was for CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar, Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM had been for the RJD and Mahagathbandhan in the Bihar assembly polls. RJD national vice president Shivanand Tiwari said on Wednesday blamed AIMIM, which prevented the Mahagathbandhan from crossing the magic figure of 122 in the 243-member House. He, however, admitted that the AIMIM’s rise in Seemanchal region consisting Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia districts with a sizeable Muslim population would pose a threat to the RJD and other secular parties in future. AIMIM has won five seats — Amour, Kochadhamam, Jokihat, Baisi and Bahadurganj. In the 2019 assembly bypolls, it had won Kishanganj assembly seat where Muslims are 70% of the population. In contrast, the party had performed poorly in the 2015 assembly polls when it contested six seats but won none. Votes mainly polarized on religious lines with political parties’ endeavour to fan religious sentiments during election campaigning. Tiwari said, “RJD leadership will discuss and analyse the factors responsible for its overall performance in the just concluded elections. But one thing is sure that AIMIM damage us in many seats of Seemanchal region.”Calling Owaisi the ‘B’ team of BJP-RSS, the socialist leader said AIMIM fought the election at the behest of BJP to defeat the Mahagathbandhan. “Had it not been the case, why not the BJP ever called Owaisi a ‘traitor’ or ‘anti-national’ despite the latter’s inflammatory speeches,” he asked. AIMIM youth wing state president Adil Hasan Azad, however, denied the charge and said, “We have our own political agenda like other political parties in the country as well as in the state.” Adil said the political parties registered with the election commission have rights to contest polls in the country. “When other parties do this, there is no clamour over it. But why is there a fuss when AIMIM is in the fray in Bihar polls?” he asked. Taking a swipe at Congress, he said, “They have no moral rights to question our credibility. It contested elections in Bihar with Left parties despite its political rivalry in Kerala.” AIMIM had fielded 20 candidates, including in 14 Muslim dominated Seemanchal region. Analysts believe that had there not been Owaisi, Mahagathbandhan would have won the election .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aimim-a-permanent-threat-to-rjd-in-seemanchal/articleshow/79178121.cms||Ramashankar
November 12, 2020||Patna||Over 7 lakh voters press NOTA button in Bihar assembly polls||PATNA: About 7,06,252 people chose the None of The Above or (NOTA) option in the assembly election, which works out to 1.68 per cent of the total votes polled, according to data provided by the chief electoral office. Around 4.1 crore people cast their votes in the three phases of the election. The number of people who had chosen NOTA in 2015 — 9.4 lakh out of 3.8 crore people who voted — was higher than this year’s figure. The JAP-L, led by Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, and The Plurals Party, led by Pushpam Priya Choudhary, got fewer votes than NOTA in several seats. Pushpam fielded candidates in 149 seats and she herself contested the polls from Bisfi and Bankipur. She got 1,521 votes in Bisfi, where 2,929 people pressed NOTA. In Bankipur, where there were 1,213 NOTA votes, she won 5,189 votes. Politics watchers said the decline in the NOTA percentage indicated that people had started reposing faith in candidates and political parties. An awareness programme run by the EC is another factor behind the decrease in NOTA votes. Shaibal Gupta, a social scientist and founding member-secretary of Asian Development Research Institute in Patna, told TOI on Wednesday that the decline in NOTA percentage was a clear indication that people’s faith in the state system had increased. “They are not voting for NOTA any more. Their faith in democracy has increased, which is good,” he said. DM Diwakar, former director of AN Sinha Institute of Social Studies, added, “If people are not getting basic amenities, they become dissatisfied. That is one of the reason they press NOTA instead of choosing a candidate.” “Secondly, people choose NOTA because of the kind of candidates fielded by political parties. They are not fielded on the basis of their commitment to the people. Rather, candidates get tickets based on caste equations and other factors. These are some important reasons why people chose NOTA,” the economist said. Of the total votes polled, AIMIM received 1.24%, BSP 1.49%, CPI 0.8%, CPI-M 0.65%, JMM 0.06%, Shiv Sena 0.05%, JD(S) 0.04%, NCP 0.2%, and NPEP got zero per cent vote, as per the data on the Election Commission website.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-7-lakh-voters-press-nota-button-in-assembly-polls/articleshow/79182827.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 12, 2020||---||Bihar: ‘Dent JD(U)’ operation a success, what next for Chirag Paswan?||PATNA: Last year in the Jharkhand election, Saryu Roy, a senior state BJP leader was denied ticket. The old-timer took his revenge by contesting as an Independent against then CM Raghubar Das. Roy not only defeated the incumbent CM but also damaged the saffron party enough to help Hemant Soren’s JMM come to power. JD(U) insiders cited the former Jharkhand BJP leader’s example to say that the LJP chief, Chirag Paswan, did a Saryu Roy on Nitish Kumar, damaging his party enough to relegate it to the third position after RJD and ally BJP. The only saving grace for Nitish, unlike Raghubar Das, was that he has managed to retain his CM’s chair. This comparison is doing the rounds in the political circles in Patna after Nitish’s JD(U) was reduced to 43 seats after the counting ended on Tuesday. JD(U) had won 71 seats when it contested in alliance with RJD and Congress in 2015. “Though it’s not clear whether Chirag’s decision to field its candidates against JD(U) was of his own or he did it at the behest of someone else. The answer to this question lies in the next expansion of Narendra Modi cabinet at the Centre,” a senior JD(U) leader said on condition of anonymity. The JD(U) leader’s statement assumed significance in the wake of Chirag's assertion on Wednesday that his party would not support Nitish Kumar. LJP, which had fielded 143 candidates, however, could manage to win only one seat (Matihani) in Begusarai district. Making LJP’s stand clear, the two-term Jamui MP said, “If he (Nitish Kumar) continues to remain the chief minister of the state, there will not be any support from me at the state level. We will continue supporting PM Narendra Modi at the Centre.” He also described the Bihar assembly election results as the victory of PM Narendra Modi. Chirag said the 2020 election paved the way for LJP in the 2025 polls and the motive to damage JD(U) has been achieved. “We want to change the impression of the party that it can only ally with bigger parties to benefit them,” he said, adding “LJP has lost nothing in this election.” “All LJP candidates contested gloriously on their own without any alliance. The party vote share increased. We went to the polls with the resolve of 'Bihar first, Bihari first'. The party has strengthened in every district and it is bound to benefit us in future,” Chirag told media persons, a day after the results were announced. Although LJP fielded its candidates on 135 seats, it won only the Matihani seat in Begusarai. Party nominee Raj Kumar Singh, son of the erstwhile don of Begusarai-Lakhisarai region the late Kamdeo Singh, was declared winner defeating another muscleman and sitting MLA Bogo Singh of JD(U). Kamdeo was gunned down in an encounter with police in the 70s. After the results were announced, JD(U)'s apprehensions came true about LJP causing major damage to the party as it campaigned vigorously against Nitish Kumar. Though Chirag didn't reveal his plans, sources said it will be interesting to see how Chirag deals with the situation post the Bihar assembly polls. It will be equally important to see whether PM Modi accommodates LJP in his cabinet in place of the late Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister. LJP's move to scuttle JD(U)'s electoral prospects benefited BJP, whose tally reached 74 in the 2020 election from 53 in the last assembly polls. Nitish will be watched closely on how he reacts to Chirag after swearing-in for the seventh time as the CM of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/dent-jdu-operation-a-success-what-next-for-chirag/articleshow/79182920.cms||Ramashankar
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad experiences coldest November day in a decade||HYDERABAD: At 12.4 degree Celsius, the city on Wednesday experienced its coldest November day in the last 10 years. As per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, the minimum temperature was almost seven degree Celsius below normal for this time of the year. The last time the mercury level dipped to as low as 12.4 degree Celsius in November was in 2016 and 2012. As per the IMD figures, the city recorded its lowest minimum temperature of 7.4 degree Celsius on November 26, 1964. As per the Telangana State Development Planning Society figures, BHEL Factory in Lingampally, surrounding areas of University of Hyderabad in Gachibowli and Rajendranagar recorded the lowest minimum temperature of 10 degree Celsius. Lingampally recorded a drop of around five degree Celsius in the last four days. Meteorologists attributed the drop in mercury levels to cold north-easterly winds prevailing over the state. Although the mercury levels have dropped drastically in the past few days, the IMD does not term it as a cold wave. “It can be termed as a cold wave only when there is a negative deviation of around 4.5 to 6.4 degree Celsius from the normal temperature for at least two consecutive days. When temperatures are less than 10 degree Celsius, it is simply referred to as a cold day,” said Naga Ratna, in-charge director, IMD, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-experiences-coldest-november-day-in-a-decade/articleshow/79178991.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Rajkot||Covid-19 test mandatory for all entering Bhavnagar district||RAJKOT: Anticipating a spike in Covid-19 cases with the movement of people during Diwali festivities in the district, the Bhavnagar administration has made it mandatory for all those entering the district to undergo Covid-19 testing. For this purpose testing centres have been set up at the two entry points into the district — Adhelai and Keria Dhal — and at the jetty of Ghogha-Dahej Ro-Pax ferry service. “It is feared that there will be a sudden spurt in the number of Covid-19 positive cases, as the movement of people coming to the district will increase during Diwali festivities. Keeping this in mind, we have decided to set up the rapid antigen test centres at the two entrance points into the district and at the jetty of ro-pax ferry service,” said an official from Bhavnagar district administration. “The rapid antigen test centres will remain functional throughout the week. The test has been made mandatory for all those entering the district,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/covid-19-test-mandatory-for-all-entering-bhavnagar-district/articleshow/79179157.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Rajkot||Jasdan trader robbed of Rs 3 lakh||RAJKOT: Two bike-borne thieves targeted a trader and sped away after snatching his bag containing Rs 3.10 lakh cash in Jasdan of Rajkot district on Wednesday morning. Police said the victim, Shaiesh Bhayani, had already Rs 2 lakh with him, while he had withdrawn Rs 1.10 from the ICICI Bank. It appears that the duo had started following Bhayani on their bike the moment he left his home for the bank. “When Bhayani stepped out of the bank and was talking to someone over the phone, the accused duo arrived on the bike, snatched the bag containing the cash that was slung on the handle of his bike and sped away,” said an official from Jasdan police station. “Two accused fleeing away from the spot with a bag has been captured by the CCTV installed near the crime spot. However, their identities could not be ascertained yet. Bhayani, who runs a trading firm in Jasdan market yard, said he was carrying the money that was meant to be paid to the farmers,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jasdan-trader-robbed-of-rs-3-lakh/articleshow/79179004.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: 15-year-old girl killed in crocodile attack||RAJKOT: A 15-year-old girl was killed when a crocodile attacked her in Gir Somnath district on Wednesday morning. According to the forest department officials, Hiral Vagh was attacked by a crocodile when she was washing utensils in Macchundri river in Popatdi ness in Babariya range of Zakhiya round of forest department under Una taluka. Officials said, at around 7am when the girl was washing utensils in the river, crocodile attacked her and dragged her deep inside the river. The other women who were near the river washing cloths informed the forest department following which a search operation was initiated. But the search team could only recover the girl’s dead body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/15-year-old-girl-killed-in-crocodile-attack/articleshow/79178929.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Rajkot||Gang of five involved in 46 robberies across Gujarat busted||RAJKOT: A gang of five robbers was busted and 46 cases of house break-ins and robberies detected in Junagadh on Wednesday. “We had received a tip-off that a five-member gang of robbers from Dahod district which was hiding near Gandhigram Grofed Mill in Junagadh. Acting on this information, we raided the spot and nabbed the robbers,” said R K Gohil, in-charge inspector with Junagadh crime branch. Those arrested were identified as Shailesh Bhambhor, Naresh Damor, both aged 27, Nagarsing Kalami (26), Mahesh Mavi (20) and Chandu Mavi (29). Police seized gold and silver jewellery and cash, all worth Rs 8.86 lakh from the accused, who were nabbed after a short chase. Talking about the modus operandi of the accused, Gohil said, “The accused would disguise themselves as labourers and work at different construction sites from where they would carry out recce during the day, zero in on their targets and commit house break-ins at nights.” During their interrogation, the accused confessed to having carried out as many as 46 house break-ins and robberies in Junagadh, Jamnagar and Porbandar districts, Jamkhambhalia and Mithapur of Devbhoomi Dwarka district, Palanpur of Banaskantha district and Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/gang-of-five-involved-in-46-robberies-across-state-busted/articleshow/79179127.cms||---
November 12, 2020||---||‘AIMIM a permanent threat to RJD in Seemanchal’||PATNA: What Chirag Paswan-led LJP was for CM and JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar, Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM had been for the RJD and Mahagathbandhan in the Bihar assembly polls. RJD national vice president Shivanand Tiwari said on Wednesday blamed AIMIM, which prevented the Mahagathbandhan from crossing the magic figure of 122 in the 243-member House. He, however, admitted that the AIMIM’s rise in Seemanchal region consisting Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia districts with a sizeable Muslim population would pose a threat to the RJD and other secular parties in future. AIMIM has won five seats — Amour, Kochadhamam, Jokihat, Baisi and Bahadurganj. In the 2019 assembly bypolls, it had won Kishanganj assembly seat where Muslims are 70% of the population. In contrast, the party had performed poorly in the 2015 assembly polls when it contested six seats but won none. Votes mainly polarized on religious lines with political parties’ endeavour to fan religious sentiments during election campaigning. Tiwari said, “RJD leadership will discuss and analyse the factors responsible for its overall performance in the just concluded elections. But one thing is sure that AIMIM damage us in many seats of Seemanchal region.”Calling Owaisi the ‘B’ team of BJP-RSS, the socialist leader said AIMIM fought the election at the behest of BJP to defeat the Mahagathbandhan. “Had it not been the case, why not the BJP ever called Owaisi a ‘traitor’ or ‘anti-national’ despite the latter’s inflammatory speeches,” he asked. AIMIM youth wing state president Adil Hasan Azad, however, denied the charge and said, “We have our own political agenda like other political parties in the country as well as in the state.” Adil said the political parties registered with the election commission have rights to contest polls in the country. “When other parties do this, there is no clamour over it. But why is there a fuss when AIMIM is in the fray in Bihar polls?” he asked. Taking a swipe at Congress, he said, “They have no moral rights to question our credibility. It contested elections in Bihar with Left parties despite its political rivalry in Kerala.” AIMIM had fielded 20 candidates, including in 14 Muslim dominated Seemanchal region. Analysts believe that had there not been Owaisi, Mahagathbandhan would have won the election .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/aimim-a-permanent-threat-to-rjd-in-seemanchal/articleshow/79182841.cms||Ramashankar
November 12, 2020||---||Two Saran MLAs score hat-trick in assembly polls||CHHAPRA: In Saran, while two former MLAs scored a hat-trick this time, the voters elected only one out of the three members of former Maharajganj MP Prabhu Nath Singh’s family, who had contested this assembly election. Three newcomers were also voted to represent the assembly. While Prabhu Nath Singh’s younger brother Kedar Nath Singh has been re-elected, two of his nephews—Randhir Kumar Singh, son of Prabhu Nath Singh and Sudhir Kumar Singh, son of Dina Nath Singh—lost the Chhapra and Taraiya seats respectively. In addition to this, Binay Kumar Singh, father-in-law of Randhir, has also been defeated from Sonepur constituency. Kedar, along with Jitendra Kumar Rai, who have been elected from Baniapur and Marhoura respectively have created a hat-trick this time. Sri Kant Yadav (RJD) from Ekma, Surendra Ram (RJD) from Garkha (R) and Satyendra Yadav (CPI-M) from Manjhi constituencies are first time MLAs elected from this district. Dr CN Gupta elected from Chhapra, Dr Ramanuj Prasad (RJD) elected from Sonepur, Janak Singh of BJP, elected from Taraiya, Krishna Kumar Mantu of BJP, elected from Amnour and Chhote Lal Rai of RJD, elected from Parsa have represented their seats either in 2015 or on previous occasions. Prior to his election as an MLA from Ekma, Sri Kant was known as a social activist and an industrialist in Kolkata. “During the lockdown, he had helped the people of this area,” said Birendra , a social activist of Ekma. Newly-elected Garkha MLA Surendra began his political career in 2002 as vice president of Dighwara Nagar Panchayat. People at Dighwara on Tuesday have expressed their pleasure over his victory and distributed sweets. While Manjhi MLA Satyendra was very active in SFI (Students Federation of India) during his college days. BJP district president Ram Dayal Sharma said, “The victory of NDA is the victory of 12 crore of people of Bihar.” Meanwhile, Shailendra Pratap Singh, who unsuccessfully contested the Taraiya seat, has congratulated the victorious candidate Janak Singh and has assured him full cooperation in all activities undertaken for the development of this region. It may be known that out of 10 constituencies, BJP has bagged three, RJD six and CPI (M) one only seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/two-saran-mlas-score-hat-trick-in-assembly-polls/articleshow/79182939.cms||H K Verma
November 12, 2020||Patna||Two Saran MLAs score hat-trick in assembly polls||CHHAPRA: In Saran, while two former MLAs scored a hat-trick this time, the voters elected only one out of the three members of former Maharajganj MP Prabhu Nath Singh’s family, who had contested this assembly election. Three newcomers were also voted to represent the assembly. While Prabhu Nath Singh’s younger brother Kedar Nath Singh has been re-elected, two of his nephews—Randhir Kumar Singh, son of Prabhu Nath Singh and Sudhir Kumar Singh, son of Dina Nath Singh—lost the Chhapra and Taraiya seats respectively. In addition to this, Binay Kumar Singh, father-in-law of Randhir, has also been defeated from Sonepur constituency. Kedar, along with Jitendra Kumar Rai, who have been elected from Baniapur and Marhoura respectively have created a hat-trick this time. Sri Kant Yadav (RJD) from Ekma, Surendra Ram (RJD) from Garkha (R) and Satyendra Yadav (CPI-M) from Manjhi constituencies are first time MLAs elected from this district. Dr CN Gupta elected from Chhapra, Dr Ramanuj Prasad (RJD) elected from Sonepur, Janak Singh of BJP, elected from Taraiya, Krishna Kumar Mantu of BJP, elected from Amnour and Chhote Lal Rai of RJD, elected from Parsa have represented their seats either in 2015 or on previous occasions. Prior to his election as an MLA from Ekma, Sri Kant was known as a social activist and an industrialist in Kolkata. “During the lockdown, he had helped the people of this area,” said Birendra , a social activist of Ekma. Newly-elected Garkha MLA Surendra began his political career in 2002 as vice president of Dighwara Nagar Panchayat. People at Dighwara on Tuesday have expressed their pleasure over his victory and distributed sweets. While Manjhi MLA Satyendra was very active in SFI (Students Federation of India) during his college days. BJP district president Ram Dayal Sharma said, “The victory of NDA is the victory of 12 crore of people of Bihar.” Meanwhile, Shailendra Pratap Singh, who unsuccessfully contested the Taraiya seat, has congratulated the victorious candidate Janak Singh and has assured him full cooperation in all activities undertaken for the development of this region. It may be known that out of 10 constituencies, BJP has bagged three, RJD six and CPI (M) one only seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-saran-mlas-score-hat-trick-in-assembly-polls/articleshow/79178180.cms||H K Verma
November 12, 2020||Business||ICICI Bank’s home loans cross Rs 2L cr||Mumbai: ICICI Bank has said that its share of home loans in its advances portfolio increased to 32.4% in the current fiscal from 28% a year ago. This follows mortgage growing at a healthy clip of 15%, even as the overall loans grew only 6% year on year. The bank on Tuesday said that its retail mortgage portfolio crossed Rs 2 lakh crore in the first half and it sees its share rising further. ICICI Bank executive director Anup Bagchi said that it took the bank four years to double its home loan book to Rs 2 lakh crore. He said that given that the mortgage book was growing, the next Rs 1 lakh crore would come in less than four years. This would also result in the share of home loans in the bank’s books going up further. Bagchi attributed the increased pace of loan disbursement to the digitisation of the loan application process, which enabled faster processing of loans. He said that the bank had seen record disbursements in October but did not share the figures. Home loan demand rose because of sharp discounts on stamp duty, reduction in prices by builders and interest rates on home loans being at a record low. The RBI has also made it more profitable for lenders to provide home loans by reducing the capital requirement on loans over Rs 75 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/icici-banks-home-loans-cross-rs-2l-cr/articleshow/79181078.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 12, 2020||Business||Bank employees to get 15% salary hike||Mumbai: The Indian Banks’ Association (IBA) signed the bipartite wage agreement with representative of bank employees paving the way for a 15% wage hike. The agreement applies to public sector banks, a few old-generation private banks and some foreign banks. For the first time, a performance-linked incentive (PLI) scheme has been introduced to “inculcate a sense of competition and also to reward the performance”, IBA said. The scheme will be effective from the current financial year. The PLI scheme in public sector banks will be based on operating profit/net profit of individual lenders, while it will be optional for private and foreign banks. The agreement is a platform for bank employees to renegotiate wages every five years. In addition to the salary, the wage agreement incorporates various employee benefits and changes in service conditions. For instance, the computerisation of banks in the ’90s was made possible through a wage agreement. The contract also includes employee benefits aimed at promoting inclusion. Although the tenure of the previous agreement ended in 2017, the current agreement was delayed because of protracted negotiations and the pandemic-induced lockdown. The new wage revision would entail an additional yearly outgo of Rs 7,898 crore for lenders. The bank wage agreement is significant for other public sector employees as well, including those in LIC and other state-owned insurance companies, the RBI and public financial institutions like Nabard. The government revises the pay scales for employees of these organisations based on the wage agreement signed with bank unions.“The Indian Banks’ Association is pleased to announce the conclusion of 11th Bipartite Wage Negotiations with bank unions and associations to be effective from November 1, 2017. The agreement reached today, provides for a 15 per cent increase in pay slip,” IBA chief executive Sunil Mehta said in a statement. According to a note circulated by the All India Bank Employees Association the new agreement includes leave benefits like additional sick leave for those who have completed 30 years of service. Women employees can avail sick leave to take care of sick children on production of medical certificate. Maternity leave up to nine months can be granted for legal adoption of one child and longer maternity leave for mothers of twins. Another relief to employees is that absence from office due to curfew, riots, prohibitory order, natural calamities at the place of work would eb treated as special leave on duty. The employee unions which signed the agreement include United Forum of Bank Unions (UFBU), representing four Workmen Unions and four Officers’ Associations and also Bank Karamchari Sena Mahasangh (BKSM), who were parties to agreement, an IBA statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-employees-to-get-15-salary-hike/articleshow/79181075.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Patna||702 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 702 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,24,977. Officially, six deaths were reported after which the toll reached 1,162. However, with 2,17,422 recoveries, there are 6,391 active cases in Bihar. As per the data shared by the state health department, four deaths were reported from Patna taking the toll figure to 288. One death was reported from Gopalganj and one from Saran. AIIMS-Patna reported five deaths and four of the deceased were from the state capital which include a 60-year-old female of Raja Bazaar area, a 68-year-old male from Malsalami, a 76-year-old male from Chandra Vihar Colony and an 84-year-old female from Priyadarshi Nagar. The fifth deceased was a 63-year-old male from Hanuman Nagar in Araria town. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 12 patients were admitted and 14 were discharged and as on Wednesday, there were 144 patients in the hospital. Among those admitted, 64 were in ICU, including 25 on ventilator and 18 on high flow nasal canula. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) did not report any death. One patient was admitted and as on Wednesday, there were 16 patients in the hospital. Of total 702 new Covid-19 cases reported on Wednesday, 194 were from Patna, taking the tally to 3,8,612. However, with 3,6,528 recoveries and 288 deaths, there are 1,796 active cases here. Covid-19 cases reported from some other districts include Purnia (78), Saharsa (52), Muzaffarrpiur (37), Nalanda (23), Supaul (20) Sitamarhi (20), and Saran (20). Health department further stated that 821 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state's recovery rate was 96.64%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/702-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-bihar/articleshow/79178344.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 12, 2020||---||RJD keeps mum over Bihar assembly results||PATNA: RJD on Wednesday kept mum over the state election results, which went in favour of the NDA and its CM Nitish Kumar. Even Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who was the chief ministerial candidate of the Mahagatbandhan, kept quiet. A senior RJD leader said they were reviewing the results, especially of those areas where they lost by small margins. When asked about its defeat, RJD state spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari replied, “Aage aage dekhiye hota hai kya (see what happens next). They (NDA) have lost even after getting the mandate and we have won. You have to accept the fact that Tejashwi ji has got the maximum blessings from people in this election. This 31-year-old youth slowed down the speed of PM and CM” He said the party will talk to the media soon. However, Tiwari refused to comment on the role his party and Tejashwi will play in the opposition. “He is the leader of opposition and a new government has yet not been formed,” he said. RJD Rajya Sabha member and party’s national spokesperson Manoj Jha tweeted on Wednesday, “Employment and equal pay for equal work has become an integral part of Bihar’s public demand. Thank you Tejashwi ji. You (NDA) may not form the government anyhow, but an awakened Bihar will not let the ruling establishment sleep. This is the clear message of this mandate. Jai Bihar Jai Hind.” The party leaders even mocked Nitish’s late response to the results and thanking people and PM Modi through his tweet. “Nitish Kumar thanked the PM for the victory in Bihar. It seems after much thought, he realized throwing much tantrums will put the chair in danger. Hence keeping aside self-respect, he thought of saving his chair,” said RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rjd-keeps-mum-over-results/articleshow/79182859.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar: ‘Dent JD(U)’ operation a success, what next for Chirag Paswan?||PATNA: Last year in the Jharkhand election, Saryu Roy, a senior state BJP leader was denied ticket. The old-timer took his revenge by contesting as an Independent against then CM Raghubar Das. Roy not only defeated the incumbent CM but also damaged the saffron party enough to help Hemant Soren’s JMM come to power. JD(U) insiders cited the former Jharkhand BJP leader’s example to say that the LJP chief, Chirag Paswan, did a Saryu Roy on Nitish Kumar, damaging his party enough to relegate it to the third position after RJD and ally BJP. The only saving grace for Nitish, unlike Raghubar Das, was that he has managed to retain his CM’s chair. This comparison is doing the rounds in the political circles in Patna after Nitish’s JD(U) was reduced to 43 seats after the counting ended on Tuesday. JD(U) had won 71 seats when it contested in alliance with RJD and Congress in 2015. “Though it’s not clear whether Chirag’s decision to field its candidates against JD(U) was of his own or he did it at the behest of someone else. The answer to this question lies in the next expansion of Narendra Modi cabinet at the Centre,” a senior JD(U) leader said on condition of anonymity. The JD(U) leader’s statement assumed significance in the wake of Chirag's assertion on Wednesday that his party would not support Nitish Kumar. LJP, which had fielded 143 candidates, however, could manage to win only one seat (Matihani) in Begusarai district. Making LJP’s stand clear, the two-term Jamui MP said, “If he (Nitish Kumar) continues to remain the chief minister of the state, there will not be any support from me at the state level. We will continue supporting PM Narendra Modi at the Centre.” He also described the Bihar assembly election results as the victory of PM Narendra Modi. Chirag said the 2020 election paved the way for LJP in the 2025 polls and the motive to damage JD(U) has been achieved. “We want to change the impression of the party that it can only ally with bigger parties to benefit them,” he said, adding “LJP has lost nothing in this election.” “All LJP candidates contested gloriously on their own without any alliance. The party vote share increased. We went to the polls with the resolve of 'Bihar first, Bihari first'. The party has strengthened in every district and it is bound to benefit us in future,” Chirag told media persons, a day after the results were announced. Although LJP fielded its candidates on 135 seats, it won only the Matihani seat in Begusarai. Party nominee Raj Kumar Singh, son of the erstwhile don of Begusarai-Lakhisarai region the late Kamdeo Singh, was declared winner defeating another muscleman and sitting MLA Bogo Singh of JD(U). Kamdeo was gunned down in an encounter with police in the 70s. After the results were announced, JD(U)'s apprehensions came true about LJP causing major damage to the party as it campaigned vigorously against Nitish Kumar. Though Chirag didn't reveal his plans, sources said it will be interesting to see how Chirag deals with the situation post the Bihar assembly polls. It will be equally important to see whether PM Modi accommodates LJP in his cabinet in place of the late Ram Vilas Paswan, who was the consumer affairs, food and public distribution minister. LJP's move to scuttle JD(U)'s electoral prospects benefited BJP, whose tally reached 74 in the 2020 election from 53 in the last assembly polls. Nitish will be watched closely on how he reacts to Chirag after swearing-in for the seventh time as the CM of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dent-jdu-operation-a-success-what-next-for-chirag/articleshow/79178438.cms||Ramashankar
November 12, 2020||Patna||4 injured in Siwan village clash||PATNA: At least four persons, including a woman, were injured in a clash between the supporters of BJP and RJD at village Agaya under Goriakothi police station area in Siwan on Wednesday morning. The incident took place when one RJD supporter, Krishna Kushwaha, allegedly accused a few supporters of BJP’s MLA-elect Devesh Kant Singh of rigging election to win. Sources said they first had heated arguments. Later, Krishna’s supporters also reached there and both sides clashed by using lathis, sticks and stones. Agaya panchayat mukhiya Kamlavati Devi told TOI over phone that a woman from Krishna’s side had received head injury while three BJP supporters were also injured. “Later, two police vehicles reached the village. Both sides used rods and stones in the clash,” she said. The mukhiya said she had got to know that some youths were returning from fields after attending the nature’s call in the morning when Krishna accused them of rigging the polls. “Krishna is a supporter of RJD’s Nutan Devi,” she said. Devesh has won from Goriakothi assembly seat. He garnered 87,192 votes against RJD’s Nutan, who got 75,477 votes. Maharajganj SDPO Polust Kumar said the clash was a result of personal enmity. “There was no evidence to suggest that they clashed due to separate political affiliations. There was no written complaint from either side to lodge an FIR, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-injured-in-siwan-village-clash/articleshow/79178582.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 12, 2020||Varanasi||Firecrackers banned in Kashi till November 30||VARANASI: People will have to celebrate a cracker-free Diwali, as the district administration, in pursuance of a National Green Tribunal order, has banned the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the district till November 30. UP Government has forbidden the bursting of crackers in Lucknow, Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Varanasi, Meerut, Hapur, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Moradabad, Greater Noida, Baghpat and Bulandshahr. Even those people who have purchased firecrackers cannot use them during this period. The district magistrate said that as per the NGT order, the air quality index (AQI) of Varanasi was found very poor. Hence, the sale and bursting of fire crackers has been prohibited with immediate effect, and the ban would continue till midnight of November 30. The DM said that all the licences issued earlier for the sale of fire crackers have been suspended with immediate effect. All the ADMs, SDMs, COs and SOs have been directed to keep vigil on their respective areas for the strict implementation of the order. In view of the NGT order, the state government has also restricted the use of firecrackers in other places including Lucknow, Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Meerut, Hapur, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Moradabad, Greater Noida, Baghpat and Bulandshahr. The air quality of Varanasi was, however, better than the air of other cities on Wednesday. According to the AQI bulletin issued by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), Varanasi recorded ‘moderate’ air quality on Wednesday, while the AQI of Agra, Noida, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Moradabad, Grater Noida, Baghpat was in the category of ‘very poor’, and other cities including Lucknow, Muzaffarnagar, Hapur, Meerut, and Bulandshahar had ‘poor’ air quality. Regarding the possible health impact of bad air, the CPCB clarifies that the ‘moderate’ air can cause breathing discomfort to the people with lung diseases, asthma and heart diseases, while ‘very poor’ air can cause respiratory illness on prolonged exposer, and ‘poor’ air can lead to breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/firecrackers-banned-in-kashi-till-nov-30/articleshow/79179782.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Patna||10 Nitish Kumar ministers lose elections in Bihar||PATNA: Ten out of the 24 ministers in the outgoing cabinet of CM Nitish Kumar, who contested the assembly elections in Bihar, lost. Eight of them were from JD(U) and two from BJP. There are 29 ministers in the outgoing cabinet, but 5 of them are MLCs and did not need to contest the assembly election to continue as the minister. While 23 ministers contested from their respective constituencies, education minister Krishna Nandan Prasasd Verma was shifted to Jehanabad from Ghosi, which had sent him to the assembly in 2015. Urban development minister Suresh Kumar Sharma and mines and geology minister Brij Koshor Bind were ministers from BJP quota and lost from Muzaffarpur and Chainpur, respectively. Apart from Verma, the other JD(U) ministers who lost were rural works minister Shailesh Kumar (Jamalpur), transport minister Santosh Kumar Nirala (Rajpur), science and technology minister Jai Kumar Singh (Dinara), social welfare minister Ram Sewak Singh (Hathua), SC/ST welfare minister Ramesh Rishideo (Singheshwar), minority welfare minister Khurshid alias Firoz Ahmad (Sikta) and disaster management minister Lakshmeshwar Rai (Laukaha). Of the eight JD(U) ministers, four lost the election because of LJP candidates against them, like Jai, Shailesh, Lakshmeshwar and Ramesh. “Some of our ministers lost because the LJP candidates dented the traditional NDA vote bank in their respective constituencies. Had LJP not sabotaged, the JD(U) winners’ tally would have crossed the 80-mark,” JD(U) national general secretary K C Tyagi told TOI on Wednesday. He said the NDA leaders would analysis such defeats in days to come.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10-nitish-ministers-lose-elections-in-bihar/articleshow/79178360.cms||Madan Kumar
November 12, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Labourer rapes his 11-year-old daughter, arrested||RAJKOT: A migrant labourer from Madhya Pradesh was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly raping his own 11-year-old daughter in Talana village Jodia taluka in Jamnagar district. Police said the accused had allegedly raped his daughter twice on November 1 and November 2 while her mother was away to her native in Madhya Pradesh. “After the crime, the girl sank into depression and stopped talking to her family members. Upon her return when her mother asked her as to what had happened, she complained of stomach ache and confided her sordid tale to her. Following which the girl’s mother lodged a complaint against her husband,” said R M Vala, sub-inspector with Jodia police station. “We have nabbed the accused, who is a migrant labourer from Alirajpur in Madhya Pradesh. We arrested him after conducting the mandatory Covid-19 test on him,” added Vala. The medical examination of the survivor was conducted at GG Hospital in Jamnagar, where the examination of the accused would also be carried out. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/labourer-rapes-his-11-year-old-daughter-arrested/articleshow/79179065.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Illegally hoarded bio-diesel seized||RAJKOT: A total of 13,500-litre illegally hoarded bio-diesel was seized from a trading firm in Kanpar village of Vallabhipur taluka in Bhavnagar district. “We had received a tip-off that the firm, Jai Ambe Traders, was illegally selling bio-diesel. Acting on the information, we raided the firm on the night of November 5 and seized the oil cache which was valued at Rs 10.65 lakh,” said Bhavnagar district food and civil supply officer Bhumika Vatalia. Also seized were three oil barrels. The seized cache would be sent to the state food and civil supply department in Gandhinagar for examination, after which a case would be filed against the firm owner, Hukamsinh Chauhan, in a court in Bhavnagar, said Vatalia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illegally-hoarded-bio-diesel-seized/articleshow/79179080.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||‘Man-eater’ tiger mauls tribal youth to death||HYDERABAD: A suspected man-eater tiger mauled a 20-year-old tribal youth to death in Digida of Khagaznagar forest division near Telangana-Maharashtra border on Wednesday. The victim has been identified as Sidam Vigensh from a village in the corridor of Kawal tiger reserve. The attack took place at 84km of aerial distance from Rajura in Maharasthra where the man-eater has claimed eight lives and has been tranquilised by the foresters. Dahegaon sub-inspector V Raghupati said, “Three cattle-grazers went into the forest. Two went searching for big leaves. The tiger attacking Vignesh, who was left behind and dragged him into the bushes. While a group of villagers were at the spot, the tiger tried to come back thrice to retrieve its kills.” Forest officials took pugmarks from the scene and they confirmed that the killing pattern is that of a tiger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/man-eater-tiger-mauls-tribal-youth-to-death/articleshow/79181571.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 12, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Administration to open talks with farmers for land||VARANASI: The district administration is gearing up the process to start execution of the second phase of the inter-model terminal at Ramnagar on Haldia-Alklahabad National Waterway-I on the river Ganga. In this connection, it has given 10 days time to the officials concerned to negotiate with farmers to decide if they will sell their land for various construction projects by the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) near its riverport at Ramnagar. In case the land owners disagree to sell their land, the process of acquisition would be initiated against them, officials said on Wednesday. Against the requirement of 34 hectare for the work proposed in phase-II of the project, 20 hectare land has already been purchased. However, the process of purchasing the remaining 14 hectare land is lingering due to one or the other reason. In case of more delay in finalization of negotiation to purchase of identified land, the administration will initiate the process of acquisition. To clear the hurdles coming the way of execution of inter-model terminal phase-II work, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma had convened a meeting of land revenue department and others concerned on Tuesday evening. After the meeting, the DM said that of the 34 hectare land needed for the project, 20 hectare had already been purchased. The remaining 14 hectare land will also be purchased after finalizing the negotiation with land owners and farmers, he said. In case the land owners would disagree to sell their land, the process of acquisition would be initiated against them, the DM said. Sharma asked the tehsildar Sadar to complete the finalization of negotiation with the farmers in 10 days. He also directed the officials to settle the issues of succession and intensify the process of disposal of cases if pending in any court concerned in same period. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had formally inaugurated the IWAI’s riverport of inter-model terminal at Ramnagar on the national waterway-I by receiving a shipment with 2,000 ton beverage on November 12, 2018 after laying its foundation in August 2016. In phase-I, the terminal got facilities including cargo handling, berthing space for two vessels, storage area, transit shed, parking areas, and a floating jetty for passenger transportation. IWAI deputy director (Varanasi) Rakesh Kumar said that in the next phase of this project laying of a railway track up to Jivnathpur, roads connecting to highways, godowns, and open areas have to come on the 34 hectare land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-to-open-talks-with-farmers-for-land/articleshow/79180056.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 12, 2020||Surat||Surat: Clerk, aide caught taking Rs 2,000 bribe||SURAT: A clerk of Taluka Seva Sadan in Pardi town of Valsad was caught accepting Rs 2,000 bribe which he had demanded to issue some documents. The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested the clerk Kirit Kumar Patel along with his aide Girish Parmar in the administrative branch of the seva sadan. The complainant had applied to get some documents and had met Patel. Before issuing the documents, Patel asked the complainant to meet Parmar who demanded the bribe on the clerk’s behalf. Parmar asked the complainant to come with the money in Patel’s office when ACB laid a trap and nabbed them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/clerk-aide-caught-taking-rs-2000-bribe/articleshow/79178972.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Mumbai||Rhea Chakraborty’s brother to get sweater in jail||MUMBAI: Actor Rhea Chakraborty, out on bail in the case Narcotics Control Bureau is probing in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, appeared before the special NDPS court on Wednesday for a hearing. But while the court adjourned the case to November 25, it allowed her brother, co-accused, Showik’s plea for a sweater. His lawyer told court he was shivering and jail authorities had not allowed him access to warm clothes. The court said either Rhea or their mother could hand over a sweater. Showik’s second bail plea is pending before the court. It also allowed the plea of another accused, Suryadeep Malhotra, for access to essential medicines, a towel, bedsheet and quilt, and a pair of spectacles. Watch Court allows Rhea Chakraborty's brother Showik Chakraborty to have a sweater in prison||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rheas-brother-to-get-sweater-in-jail/articleshow/79179495.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Aapli Bus ridership at 38% post-Covid shutdown||Nagpur: Aapli Bus has reported 38% ridership post lockdown. Data obtained from NMC’s transport department shows at present the civic body is operating 106 city buses and on an average the daily ridership on 31 routes is around 17,000 passengers. Before the Covid struck, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) used to run 360 buses with ticket ridership of over 1.50 lakh passengers. The transport department resumed women-only electric buses from Wednesday. “Two buses plied on Sitabuldi-Butibori route,” said a senior official from the department. As per an NMC’s transport department official, the ridership in 106 buses should have been over 44,000. But since last one week, it is hovering between 16,000 and 18,000, he said. The NMC resumed Aapli Bus service on October 28, after a seven-month shutdown due to coronavirus scare. Initially, the civic body rolled out 40 buses, including 32 standard and eight midi, on five routes, which made 572 trips from 6am to 10pm. Revenue generated through sale of tickets was Rs 82,825. As expected, the ridership is increasing slowly as the civic body has started operating more buses. The data revealed that the 106 buses are making over 1,500 trips on 31 routes. The 106 red buses are travelling almost 20,000km daily. The NMC is generating revenue through ticketing passengers between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 2.5 lakh. “Closure of educational institutions due to Covid-19 pandemic has dampened bus ridership recovery rate in the Orange City,” said the senior official. The official also said ridership is down sharply with many people, including those from neighbouring cities and states coming to the city for festive shopping have avoided the bus service. Routes like Sitabuldi to Khaparkheda and Indorama (Butibori) to Hingna, are witnessing good response and every day the ridership is going up. On November 9, the two routes witnessed over 2,500 passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aapli-bus-ridership-at-38-post-covid-shutdown/articleshow/79178986.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 12, 2020||India||Sivasankar, Kerala CMO team were aware of gold smuggling, says ED||KOCHI: M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to Kerala CM, and his team in the chief minister’s office (CMO) were aware of the smuggling of gold and other electronic items through the diplomatic channel, the ED submitted in the court on Wednesday. The special court considering Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases in Kochi extended Sivasankar’s ED custody for a day. His bail petition will also be considered on Thursday. The agency told the court that Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the gold smuggling case, was confronted on Tuesday with some WhatsApp she exchanged messages with Sivasankar, when she stated that Sivasankar and his team in the CMO were aware of the smuggling of gold. It also filed a report opposing Sivasankar’s bail plea, stating that Swapna had — in her statement on Tuesday — said an amount of about Rs 1 crore was given to her by consulate employee Khaled Muhamed Ali Shoukry as “kickback” meant for Sivasankar. The NIA had subsequently seized this amount from Swapna’s bank lockers, including the one opened on Sivasankar’s directives from which Rs 64 lakh was seized, it said. The ED report said Sivasankar had shared confidential information related to KFON and Life Mission projects with Swapna and there could have been possible kickbacks from certain private parties in these projects as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sivasankar-kerala-cmo-team-were-aware-of-gold-smuggling-says-ed/articleshow/79181578.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||With proper diet and regular exercise during lockdow,race-fit jockeys eager to saddle up this winter||It’s been more than eight months since the last race took place on city turf. And now, the jockeys are eagerly waiting for the winter proceedings to kick off amidst the new normal. “Though the nightclubs and theatres have reopened, no one is paying heed to this sport. However, we are not sitting idle,” said a horse handler, while walking a 450 kg black stallion on the grounds near the Race Course. Going by the latest buzz that races are about to start post Diwali, horse trainers, jockeys and handlers are brimming with enthusiasm and working out every day to stay in shape so that they can perform even on a day’s notice. Jockeys and horses beat the lockdown blues, back in formUsually, the two months of summer is resting time for race horses. As the Indian climate is too extreme for the animals to run or exercise, their regular practice starts from June. However, this year, due to the lockdown, the practice season started in August. But these extra two months made all the differences. Both jockeys and the horses put on weight. “For a horse, there is nothing like the correct weight. It varies from animal to animal. A 500 kg horse can be the fastest runner, while a 300 kg horse may not perform well. Seeing the performance of a horse, we decide what should be the ideal weight for the animal,” said Aashay Doctor, a horse trainer, adding that without proper training for four months most of these horses gained about 20 to 30 kg each. Similarly, every jockey, who should be between 48 and 62.5 kg as per the international standard, gained 2 to 3 kg extra during this phase. But only for a while. Starting August, they have already burnt those extra fat. “Since our career depends on this, we exercise regularly and walking is the ultimate exercise for us. Every morning, we go to the grounds and walk briskly for at least two hours,” said Asghar, a jockey for 36 years who reduced 3 kg in the last three months. Nikhil Naidu, one of the youngest jockeys and considered a prodigy, agreed and said that he gained about 3 kg during the lockdown. “Along with walking, riding is another important exercise for us. Since I was not getting that, I joined the gym. I used to exercise twice a day to get back in shape,” he added. Proper diet is also very important for the jockeys. Shezad Khan, who has been a professional jockey for the last 11 years, said, “It is all about the quantity. Unlike bodybuilders, we do not take a protein or carbohydrate-rich food. We eat everything. The trick is to monitor how much you are eating.” Over-exercising can be counterproductive for horsesFor horses, however, it’s a different deal. Under no circumstances, they can be fed less than usual and at the same time, over-exercising can be counterproductive. “These horses are like athletes. They have a specific routine and we stick to that. They need their morning and evening exercises, which includes warming up, trotting and running. However, the exercise pattern and techniques vary for different horses. In the morning, the horses go on the fields for two to three hours of exercise and then brought back to the stables,” said Bharath Singh, one of the prominent horse trainers in Kolkata. During summer, their exercise is kept limited to 45 minutes of walk twice a day. Vijay Singh, a senior horse trainer, said, “I got ample of time to work with the trained and experienced horses in the last few months. However, there wasn’t enough time to train the new ones for races. Also, they are very young.” Racing community ready for actionThe trainers and the jockeys said that despite all the delay and uncertainties, the entire racing community of Kolkata is ready to hit the turf as soon as possible. “We are going through some rough patches, but that doesn’t mean good days will never come. All of us, including our horses, have adapted to the new normal and are ready to race again,” Vijay signed off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/with-proper-diet-and-regular-exercise-during-lockdowrace-fit-jockeys-eager-to-saddle-up-this-winter/articleshow/79178944.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Wheels of change: UPPCL to shun fossilfuel vehicles, switch to eco-friendly mode||Lucknow: To reduce dependency on fossil fuel to bring down air pollution as well as departmental expenditure, state energy minister Shrikant Sharma on Wednesday announced that UPPCL will phase out petrol and diesel vehicles and switch to eco-friendly means of transportation. Leading from the front, Sharma has already started riding bicycle for the last few days for surprise inspections and field visits. On Wednesday too, he pedalled his way to reach MVVNL office to attend a meeting. Sharma has also urged UPPCL officials and general public to take to cycling for distances up to 5km to save environment and stay healthy. Following the appeal, scores of engineers have also started using bicycles to reach their offices. “Rising pollution is a matter of concern for all of us. That’s why I have started riding bicycle to reach my office, to patrol and visit feeders. Even our engineers have started using bicycles. UPPCL engineers, especially those in urban areas, will soon start using electric vehicles for official work,” Sharma said. “We will replace existing diesel and petrol vehicles with electric ones in a phased manner,” he added. A press statement by MVVNL also said that all executive engineers and field employees would use bicycles to cover small distance under their jurisdiction. “Using bicycles will help in establishing communication with consumers which will eventually help discoms in improving its image,” the statement added. ‘Ensure uninterrupted supply during Diwali’ Lucknow: Energy minister Srikant Sharma on Wednesday said the state has sufficient electricity to ensure uninterrupted power supply during Diwali. Chairing a review meeting of Madhyanchal distribution company, Sharma asked the chief engineers to conduct an audit of sub-stations under their respective jurisdictions and address the problems, if any, to ensure round-the-clock power supply. He said engineers should start working on substations and power distribution infrastructure for seamless electricity supply by next summer season. Sharma also reviewed the ‘knock-the-door’ campaign envisaging officials to reach out to consumers and address their problems besides putting in measures to bring down line losses below 15%. “Engineers should listen to the complaints of consumers. Disconnecting power supply is not the right option to recover pending dues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wheels-of-change-uppcl-to-shun-fossilfuel-vehicles-switch-to-eco-friendly-mode/articleshow/79180931.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 12, 2020||Mumbai||Four shop owners move Bombay high court to shut, seal Central Mall||MUMBAI: Four shop owners at Mumbai Central’s Orchid City Central Mall, where a fire raged last month, have moved Bombay high court to “close and seal” the mall till it is restored as per a 2006 sanctioned occupation plan and safety measures are installed. They moved an application for interim relief in a pending petition filed by them in 2018 to direct BMC and the chief fire officer to take immediate steps for fire prevention and demolition of illegal constructions, and forewarned that failure to do so may cause death and loss of life and limbs of several thousand persons in the mall, neighbouring occupants and residents of Orchid Enclave building above the mall. They also placed before HC the “rampant and unlawful construction” carried out by developer Neelkamal Realtors & Builders Pvt Ltd and unlawful sale and storage of cellular phones and lithium batteries. The application referred to the October 22 fire that broke out in a mobile accessories shop on the second floor and spread to other floors. It was doused after 56 hours. “Owing to restrictions in force due to Covid-19 pandemic and since the fire started late in the evening, at closing hours of the mall, fortunately only about 300 persons were present, who were later rescued by officials without suffering serious injuries, and there were no casualties,’’ it added. The plea raised several questions, including why illegal construction of several hundred shops was permitted, and why BMC allowed the developer to use over 15,000 sq ft free of FSI area for constructing illegal shops. Also, after an occupation certificate was granted in 2006, as per a 2006 sanctioned plan , how fresh plans were sanctioned by BMC “in 2014, 2015 and thereafter”. It informed that as per an April 27, 2006, sanctioned occupation plan, only 344 shops were permitted to be constructed, but 1,233 were constructed. Among interim relief sought, is to direct BMC and the chief fire officer to submit a report on cause of fire and delay in extinguishing it, and “to appoint an independent architect or any other fit and proper person as a court commissioner” to visit the mall and submit a report to court. It also sought action against civic officials and directors and officer of Neelkamal, Future Markets Networks Ltd and Neelkamal City Shopping Mall India Ltd, who are directly and indirectly responsible for the fire. The matter is likely to be heard after Diwali vacations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/four-shop-owners-move-hc-to-shut-seal-central-mall/articleshow/79179524.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Nigerian dupes Goan of Rs 5 Lakh in online fraud||PANAJI: The cyber crime cell of Goa police arrested a Nigerian national from Delhi for defrauding a Goan of Rs 5 lakh by befriending her on Facebook. The FIR was registered on November 6. The complainant said the accused used a fictitious name Steve Jose to befriend her on Facebook and promised to send the victim a gift from abroad. “Thereafter, on the pretext of customs clearance, he had cheated the victim of Rs 5 lakh, which was deposited in fictitious accounts used by the fraudsters. After an investigation was carried out in coordination with Delhi police, crime branch team led by PI Filomena Coasta and PSI Nitin Halankar identified Nigerian national Onuorah Donatus Jideoffor, 28, currently residing in Delhi,” police said. Jose first sent the friend request to the victim in August this year. The complainant said she has little technical knowledge of social media platforms, which enabled the accused to cheat her. The accused posed as a UK national and began sending her messages. On her birthday in September, he told the victim he would send her a surprise gift and asked for her mailing address. After some days she began receiving calls claiming that they are speaking from the customs office in Delhi and the accused began calling the victim forcing her to pay the sum demanded, claiming that otherwise the money spent on the gift would be a loss to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nigerian-dupes-goan-of-rs-5l-in-online-fraud/articleshow/79180593.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Pune||CoEP launches online index of birds sighted on its Shivajinagar campus||PUNE: The College of Engineering Pune (CoEP) launched on Wednesday what it called an online indexed list of birds sighted on its Shivajinagar campus. The forest and environment departments also joined the launch. Along with detailed photographs to be uploaded within a few days, the indexed list contains the details of as many as 74 species of birds sighted by a community of avid bird watchers in the city, including some of the staffers, students, and CoEP faculty. Ornithologists and ecological groups active in the city, as well as experts, also helped in putting together the indexed list. The list was launched by state environment secretary Manisha Mhaiska, and principal chief conservator of forests (Maharashtra) N Vasudevan. “Ours as a campus is blessed to be in a location that is at the confluence of the Mula and Mutha rivers. There are many trees on our campus older than our institution. Many people have contributed to sighting the birds and listing them out in the manner that we have. We want to bring out a detailed booklet of birds on our campus in the future,” said Mahesh Shindikar, professor at the applied sciences department, CoEP. The birds have been listed in a manner where their common names, scientific names, names in Marathi, as well as their natural habitat — that includes the classification of trees — can be accessed by users. The species range from the common house sparrow and house crow to the oriental honey-buzzard, Indian grey hornbill, white throated kingfisher and red-whiskered bulbul, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/coep-launches-online-index-of-birds-sighted-on-its-shivajinagar-campus/articleshow/79180606.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 12, 2020||Mumbai||After 8 yrs, WR to undo Rs5cr Churchgate transformation||Mumbai: Western Railway (WR) has begun removing steel members on which the vertical glass facade of Churchgate station building rested, as it plans to undertake structural repairs before painting the building. The aluminum cladding came loose and fell on four pedestrians, including a 63-year-old man who died on June 12, 2019. WR decided to undertake a structural audit of all four sides of the building and removed the cladding months after the incident. Five panels (one of 2.4m x 1.2m and four of 1.2m x 1.2m) came loose as the passing Vayu cyclone had led to strong wind. WR’s chief public relations officer Sumit Thakur said, “A scrap contractor has been appointed to remove the steel members on which the cladding and glass facade were fixed. We decided to do away with glass facade as the steel is prone to corrosion due to its proximity to the sea. Structural repairs of the building will be undertaken before painting.” The scrap contractor will remove the 165 tonnes of steel members on an as-is-where-is basis at a cost Rs 35 lakh. Churchgate station underwent a major transformation in 2012, with a glass facade along with cladding, for Rs 5 crore. The move was controversial because of the cost of the essentially cosmetic changes and it rendered the building poorly ventilated. The 81ft-high Gandhi mural, showing the Mahatma alighting from a train, was commissioned one and a half years back and was the creation of Brazilian artist, Eduardo Kobra. The initiative was by NGO St+art India Foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-8-yrs-wr-to-undo-rs5cr-churchgate-transformation/articleshow/79179497.cms||Manthank Mehta
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Green crackers available in Hyderabad: Vendors||HYDERABAD: A recent National Green Tribunal (NGT) order mandating use of green crackers in cities with ‘moderate’ pollution levels has left residents searching for this safer option. Fireworks Dealers Association of Telangana was quick to reassure citizens that most crackers available this year would be green. “Our stock comes from Sivakasi in Tamil Nadu, where manufacturing has been happening on the lines of Supreme Court guidelines from a year before. Almost 70-80% of city’s stock will be green this year,” said J Manik Rao representing the association. Seconding this, Venugopal from Bhagwati Fireworks in Rajendranagar said, “All crackers we have are green this time. There are several options available that will be non-polluting.” However, other experts cast doubt on the claim that the eco-friendly crackers were widely available. Shaik Basha, who heads National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) in Hyderabad said: “Green crackers might have permeated about 30% of the city market. With the NGT and apex court insisting on their use, there will be a slow transition to this eco-friendly option.” Raghavendra Chowdary, a distributor, confirmed that only 25-30% of the stock available was green. “Every year a discussion starts around Diwali about the use of eco-friendly crackers. It would reduce the confusion if measures to be taken are made clear well in advance,” he said. On the streets, several outlets did not have green crackers and did not even know what they mean. A seller in Begum Bazaar, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said, “Some bigger outlets have been able to purchase green crackers, but the stock available was limited even from manufacturers as there is high demand for this.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-crackers-what-are-they-ask-cracker-sellers/articleshow/79179017.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Varanasi||Gorakhpur: 11,000 diyas to be lit in the name of martyrs||GORAKHPUR: In the memory of the freedom fighters who sacrificed their lives for their motherland India, a programme ‘Ek Diya Shaheedon Ke Naam’ will be organized under the joint aegis of Gorakhnath temple and Bhojpuri Association of India (BHAI) at Bheem Sarovar in Gorakhnath temple on Diwali. Convenor of the programme and zonal director of BHAI, Rakesh Srivastav said, “The programme will be organized on November 15 at 5.30 pm at Bheem Sarovar in Gorakhnath temple in the presence of chief minister Yogi Adityanath.” “As many as 11,000 earthen lamps will be lighted to pay tribute to the martyrs. Covid-19 protocol will be strictly followed during the programme,” he added. “We have been organizing the programme since six years. As we all illuminate our houses on Diwali, why not light diyas to commemorate our martyrs as well!,” said Srivastav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/11000-diyas-to-be-lit-in-the-name-of-martyrs/articleshow/79180564.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Plan to construct Sriperumbudur airport may be a non-starter again||CHENNAI: It is said that it will take at least three to five years to plan an airport, probably more for a city like Chennai which has active defence airfields on its periphery. But it looks like the Union government wants to start building an airport at Sriperumbudur in four months and complete it in three years. However, experts say it is going to be a non-starter yet again as land has not been acquired for the project even though the website of National Infrastructure Pipeline (NIP), aimed to showcase projects to attract investors, says that land has been acquired. The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is happy but the state government officials wonder how work on a new airport can be started in four months as at least 2,500 acres of land will be needed. “There is no large tract of land that has already been identified so that it can be diverted for the airport. Sipcot had land but it has already been allotted to industries to set up plants,” said an official with the district administration. There is no land parcel as big as 2,000 acres to acquire in Sriperumbudur area which is fast getting industrialised, he said. “A location at Sriperumbudur was identified and was found fit for an airport almost a decade ago. A report was submitted to the state government so that land acquisition could begin. Now, it is tough to find land large enough for an airport anywhere closer to Chennai. Sriperumbudur could have been an airport by now,” said an airport official. He said the cost to acquire land will be too high and may run into hundreds of crores. “This was shown as a reason by the state government when they wanted to find alternative sites,” he said. Sources said there was some discussion in the Union government to revive the project as the state government is yet to clearly commit on an alternative location. “But who will build it and who will operate it are issues that can be decided based on the need to expedite the project. There was a feeling, several years ago, among the ministry officials that the airport may be handed over to private players to build if the state government took its time to find land. Including it in the NIP could be as part of that plan,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/plan-to-construct-sriperumbudur-airport-may-be-a-non-starter-again/articleshow/79179022.cms||V Ayyappan
November 12, 2020||Varanasi||Varanasi: Plot worth crores of Mukhtar Ansari’s kin confiscated||VARANASI: Ghazipur administration and police, on Wednesday, ensured confiscation of 4.1696 hectare plot of Rs 22.13 crore owned by jailed mafia don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afsha Ansari and her brothers in the name of a firm- Vikas Construction company in Fatehullapur area. SP Ghazipur OP Singh said that the action has been initiated against Afsha and her brothers Anwar Shahjad and Sharjil Raja under Gangster Act. Gangster court in Ghazipur district had issued non-bailable warrants (NBWs) against the trio on September 19 a week after they were booked under Gangster Act for involvement in grabbing land confiscated on DM’s order in different cases, embezzlement and other criminal activities, he said adding, as the trio did not appear before the court even after 15 days of the issuance of NBW rewards of Rs 25,000 on each of them was announced. CO Sadar Ojaswi Chawla, with heavy police force, reached Fatehullapur where the DM’s order for confiscation of the property was displayed and announcement was made by the cops. Earlier, many illegal constructions had been demolished on the same plot by on July 5. Officials said that the firm Vikas Construction company of the trio and others including one Ravi Narain Singh had given this property to FCI on rent. As per the land revenue records the property existed on land of a pond. THe officials said, during consolidation process in Fatehullapur village in 1970, 32 bigha land of pond was transferred in the name of individuals like Ramdev who later sold over five bigha land to Vikas Construction Company. After the revelation of these facts the chief revenue officer removed Ramdev’s name and returning the land to gramsabha while on the report land revenue department an FIR was also lodged with police against grabbing of pond land. Meanwhile in Mau, on DM Amit Singh Bansal’s order, the arms licence of Mukhtar’s close aide Julfikar was cancelled. SP Sushil Ghule said that the pistol owned by Julfikar, which he used to brandish publicaly, had also been seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/plot-worth-crores-of-mukhtars-kin-confiscated/articleshow/79180247.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh intensifies testing to stall Covid-19 surge in NCR||LUCKNOW: Alarmed over the rise in Covid-19 cases in western UP districts, including those in the national capital region, the Uttar Pradesh government has decided to embark on aggressive testing and contact tracing in these areas. Additional chief secretary, information, Navneet Sehgal said cases in other districts across the state have plateaued, but the number of patients is rising in NCR districts. On Thursday, Meerut reported 157 new cases while among NCR districts, 134 infections were detected in Ghaziabad and 80 in Gautam Budh Nagar. “Considering the surge in cases and the pattern of infection spread in western UP, aggressive testing has been started,” he said. Though the case positivity rate in UP has declined, but the state government has not reduced the number of tests, Sehgal added. Focused Covid-19 testing is being done in the state on a daily basis. On Wednesday, staff and security personnel at malls were tested. The additional chief secretary warned that checking the Covid-19 virus spread was in the hands of the people. “We all must follow Covid prevention protocol strictly to break the infection chain and check the virus from spreading,” he stated. Meanwhile, the state recorded 1,911 new cases in the past 24 hours, taking the state total to 5.03 lakh. As many as 2,112 persons were discharged from hospitals increasing the count of recovered persons to 4.73 lakh so far. As many as 20 patients died due to the novel coronavirus infection in the state in the last 24 hours increasing the total of Covid casualties to 7,281.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-intensifies-testing-to-stall-surge-in-ncr/articleshow/79180942.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Gold demand up thanks to price correction ahead of Dhanteras||HYDERABAD: The fall in gold prices, after pharma giant Pfizer announced its Covid-19 vaccine candidate had shown over 90% effectiveness, seems to have injected a fresh dose of consumer interest in the precious metal in the run-up to Dhanteras. Gold prices, which were reigning at over Rs 5400 per gm (24K), crashed nearly Rs 200 per gm earlier this week and were quoting at about Rs 5240 per gm (24k) on Wednesday. “We have seen a 15-20% increase in Dhanteras pre-bookings on Tuesday and Wednesday. The price drop has strengthened the Dhanteras buying sentiment,” said Darshan Gupta, partner, Mangatrai Jewellers. Pavan Mor, MD, Pavan Mor Jewellers, said they have witnessed a 25% jump in queries and footfalls since prices fell and 75% of queries are converting into sales. “The correction has provided customers an opportunity to make purchases for Dhanteras and weddings as people expect prices to cross Rs 6,000 per gm (24k) in future.” Agreeing Arun Narayan, VP-marketing & retail, Tanishq, said the price drop has infused positivity and buoyancy in the lead up to Dhanteras which is why they are gearing up for Dhanteras rush on Thursday and Friday. Avinash Gupta, who caters to the B2B segment, said over the past 2-3 days jewellers are placing more orders signalling revival in consumer interest. “Usually smaller items do brisk business during Dhanteras, but suddenly jewellers are asking for over 100 gm items like necklaces and bangles. People too have realised that despite fluctuations prices won’t fall much,” he said. In its report `Commodity Insight: Gold Crackles This Diwali’, Motilal Oswal Financial Services, on Wednesday said it expects domestic gold prices to surge to Rs 65,000-67,000 per 10gm in the long term. Motilal Oswal said though overall gold demand fell 49% in the first three quarters of 2020 as coronavirus-triggered lockdowns hit jewellery demand, the demand for coins and bars (investment demand) jumped 51% in the third quarter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-demand-perks-up-thanks-to-price-correction-ahead-of-dhanteras/articleshow/79179055.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 12, 2020||Kanpur||Ban on crackers disappoints wholesale traders in Kanpur||KANPUR: The blanket ban imposed on sale of crackers in Kanpur district has disappointed cracker traders who were hoping to recover their losses in Diwali. The state government passed an order on Tuesday imposing ban on sale and bursting of crackers in 13 districts of the state till November 30 in view of poor air quality index (AQI) there. National Green Tribunal (NGT) has imposed a blanket ban on crackers. Disappointed wholesale traders convened a meeting to make a representation to the district administration and met DIG/SSP Preetinder Singh. They apprised him about losses they would suffer following the ban. The DIG made it clear to them that the ban had been imposed in view of the deteriorating air quality and the district administration would comply with the directives of NGT and the government. “There will be a total ban on sale of crackers. Action will be taken against those caught selling crackers. However, there will be no exploitation of traders”, he added. The wholesale traders, on the other hand, said that the ban order has given them double blow after Covid pandemic. “We were hoping that the festival would give us some relief but that too has been denied”, said a trader. Kanpur is a hub of crackers supplied from the neighbouring districts. Mohd Shahabuddin Shamsi, president of Crackers Association, said, “The blanket ban has destroyed several trader. Now, they cannot sell crackers while cracker companies will not return the money”.  A trader said, “We had completed everything from license to storage of crackers. Now the ban has pushed us in deep trouble. Just two days before the festival when the sale of crackers should be in full bloom, we are weeping as our investment has been blocked”. The ban has also disappointed children and cracker lovers..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ban-on-crackers-disappoints-wholesale-traders-in-city/articleshow/79180612.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Trichy||Toddler goes missing in Trichy||TRICHY: A toddler went missing while he was playing near the house of his relatives at Kallathukombai near Uppiliyauram on the outskirts of Trichy on Wednesday. The two-and-a-half-year-old boy was identified as D Hareesan, son of Devendhiran from Vazhavandhi Nadu on Kollimalai hills in Namakkal district. The boy was last spotted playing near the house of Chelliah at Kallathukombai B Mettur at around 10.30 am on Wednesday. The incident came to light when his mother who came looking for him around 11.30 am could not find him. Though they searched for the child, they could not find him anywhere in the vicinity. The family informed the Uppiliyapuram police. Inspector Vinod Kumar took charge of the case and launched investigation. Preliminary inquiry revealed that the boy’s father is a typist in the labour welfare department at Conoor. He and his family members had visited the village to take part in a funeral of their relative. Devendhiran returned to his work while his wife, four-year-old daughter and the boy stayed back . When contacted, Devandhiran said he was on the way to the village from Conoor after being informed about the incident. “We have no idea how he went missing. Neighbours confirmed that he was playing there. We hope the police will trace him,” he said. Inspector Vinod Kumar said that they are investigating the case from all angles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/toddler-goes-missing-in-trichy/articleshow/79181146.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Diwali cheer: No power tariff hike, slabs unchanged in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Ushering cheer for power consumers before Diwali, UP Electricity Regulatory Commission (UPERC) on Wednesday declined to raise power tariff and retained the slabs of 2019-2020 fiscal. TOI was the first to report earlier this year that tariff would remain unchanged. The regulatory commission decided not to change the slab category and the fixed charge, which was kept at Rs 110/KW/month. An urban domestic consumer would continue to pay at the rate of Rs 5.50 per unit for first 150 units, followed by Rs 6 per unit on consumption of 150-300 units. Likewise, for the slab between 301-500 units, a consumer would be required to pay at the rate of Rs 6.50. Consuming electricity above 500 units will require the consumer to shell out Rs 7 per unit. The tariff has also been kept unchanged for rural households and industrial units. In case of rural consumers, consumption up to first 100 units would invite Rs 3.35 per unit, followed by Rs 3.85 for consumption of 101-150 units. ‘UPPCL decision driven by dip in eco activity’For next 151-300 units, a consumer would be required to pay at the rate of Rs 5 per unit, followed by Rs 5.50 per unit for next 301-500 units. Power consumption above 500 units would invite energy charge of Rs 6 per unit. The development, UPERC sources said, comes days after UP Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) submitted a business plan, pushing for increase in revenue collection. The commission, on Wednesday observed the UPPCL has to raise its revenue recovery efficiency and curb line losses. The commission’s decision not to hike power tariff, sources said, was also driven by a dip in economic activity following the pandemic. In fact, the nationwide lockdown that affected operations of commercial and industrial units and this too moved the commission to keep tariff unchanged. For townships, registered societies, residential colonies, multi-storied residential complexes (including lifts, water pumps and common lighting within the premises) with loads 50 KW and above, the commission decided to keep the fixed charge at Rs 110/KW/ month with energy charge at the rate of Rs 7 per unit. A housing apartment seeking to supply at single point for bulk loads to flats shall be considered a deemed franchisee of UPPCL. The association shall charge not more than 5% additional charge on specified ‘rate’, apart from applicable charges such as regulatory surcharge, penalty, rebate and electricity duty on actual basis. The 5% additional charge shall be towards facilitating supply to individual members to recover expenses towards supply of electricity, distribution loss, electrical maintenance in its supply area, billing, accounting and audit. The commission also announced that rebate to power loom consumers shall be provided in accordance with applicable government orders, subject to adherence of provision of advance subsidy. President of UP Rajya Vidyut Upbhogta Parishad, Avdhesh Verma, said, the commission should have considered its plea to reduce power tariff. “Nevertheless not increasing power tariff is a welcome step,” he said. Verma said, the parishad would file a review petition after Diwali seeking reduction in power tariff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diwali-cheer-no-power-tariff-hike-slabs-unchanged/articleshow/79180994.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||‘Keeping heritage tag intact will be our aim’||Munesh Gurjar, who became the first mayor of Jaipur Municipal Corporation, Heritage, said the centuries-old Walled City needs urgent attention especially with regard to dilapidated and neglected buildings, heritage structures and sanitation. With the creation of the new civic body, city residents hope that their complaints will get full attention. TOI spoke to Gurjar to know about her plans. Excerpts... Which issues will be your main focus? Sewerage lines in the Walled City which were laid decades ago are not in a position to hold the pressure of thde burgeoning population. During our campaigns, people complained about sewerage lines. All our councillors have said until sewerage is improved, Walled City will not be developed. Hence, our prime focus will be laying new sewerage lines. Moreover, CCTV cameras are important for the security of the city. What is your biggest challenge? Revenue generation in Walled City will be a difficult task as most of the commercial properties are in JMC, Greater. A few years ago, there was a plan to lay down sewerage lines, but was scrapped due to financial crunch. However, we hope to get financial assistance from the government whenever needed. Pandemic is not over yet. How do you plan to deal with it? Until there is a vaccine, we have to learn to live with it. We will organise awareness programmes in the Walled City areas. There is a need to implement social distancing norms strictly and we will ensure it. To keep the UNESCO Heritage tag intact, what do you think will be your major challenge? The havelis and structures are getting old and many buildings are in dilapidated condition. It is okay if people want to renovate them, but heritage bylaws need to be followed. We will make a committee that will look into the implementation of laws and to remove encroachments. -||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/keeping-heritage-tag-intact-will-be-our-aim/articleshow/79180636.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Heritage & Greater get deputy mayors||JAIPUR: BJP candidate Puneet Karnawat was elected unopposed as deputy mayor of Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Greater, as the Congress didn’t put any candidate. MLA Ashok Lahoty, mayor Somya Gurjar, BJP district head Raghav Sharma were present when Karnawat assumed office. In JMC, Heritage, Aslam Farukkhi was elected deputy mayor bagging 56 votes out 100. His opponent Mahesh Dhalet managed 44 votes. Munesh Gurjar, the mayor of JMC, Heritage, had received the exact number of votes on Tuesday. Nominations for the deputy mayor’s post were filed around 11 am in JMC, Heritage, and BJP councillors arrived to vote from 2pm. Later, Congress councillors voted. Both the parties had kept their councillors in hotels till Wednesday evening fearing cross-voting. Karnawat said his focus would be overall development of the city. “We need to improve sanitation. Similarly, an elaborative plan to reduce pollution has to be made for which it is important to increase the green cover in the city. We will work with the Congress government for the development of the city. I believe both the parties can work together for the uplift of Jaipur,” said Karnawat. Farukkhi, after assuming office, said his priority would be to change the sewer lines in Walled City. “A few years ago, a plan was made to change the outdated sewer lines of Walled City, but it wasn’t implemented. Now, with a separate corporation, our main focus will be to change the sewer lines of Heritage city. Moreover, we will also install CCTV cameras in lanes for the security and safety of women,” said Farukkhi. Umar Daraz, Congress party councillor who was considered a strong contender for the deputy mayor’s post, expressed anger over the nomination of Farukkhi. “The party didn’t do justice to my years of service. This is sheer injustice towards me,” said Daraz. He was also the last one to vote in the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heritage-greater-get-dy-mayors/articleshow/79180629.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||‘Health, sanitation & security are priority’||BJP’s Somya Gurjar, who was elected mayor of Jaipur Greater Municipal Corporation (GMC) on Tuesday by defeating 28-year-old Oxford returned Divya Singh of the Congress by a margin of 44 votes, talks about her plans. Excerpts... What are your priorities? Efforts will be made to strengthen heath, sanitation and security (swasthya, suraksha, swacchta) in the city. However, focus will be on to improve sanitation condition. I believe that if the city is not clean, how will its residents feel healthy. You are the first woman mayor of Greater Jaipur. What steps will you take for women safety and empowerment? In the last two years, the law and order situation has deteriorated. It is extremely important to install CCTV cameras in every corner of the city. This will be a crucial step to protect women. We will also seek suggestions from various organisations and bring reforms on women safety. The functioning of municipal corporation has always been under scanner. How will you improve it? Strict action will be taken against those who indulge in corruption in the civic body and unnecessarily stop the files related to development work. Transparent and effective work policy will be adopted. Following the footsteps of prime minister Narendra Modi, corruption-free governance will be the mantra. Initially, there was a friction between local MLAs when your name was announced for mayor. Will you face difficulty in absence of their support? It’s a false propaganda and there is no discontent. BJP party leaders and members are disciplined. I have been getting support from all. I will improve the city’s condition through their guidance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-sanitation-security-are-priority/articleshow/79180639.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Allahabad||PM Narendra Modi lauds Yogi Adityanath for good show||PRAYAGRAJ: After BJP’s stupendous show in the UP assembly bypolls, PM Narendra Modi on Tuesday praised chief minister Yogi Adityanath and the state party unit. He tweeted: “In UP, the pro-people policies of the UP government under Yogi Adityanathji have endeared our party to the citizens. They have been given unequivocal support to BJP, for which I express gratitude. I appreciate the good work of the BJP UP unit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pm-modi-lauds-yogi-for-good-show/articleshow/79180664.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Navelim temple ruins may be shifted to museum||PANAJI: The Navelim temple ruins, which are currently in the custody of the department of archaeology, are likely to be shifted to a museum very soon. Sources from the department said the files are moving very slowly, with the financial decisions especially affected due to the pandemic. “We have kept the move on hold, but the remains are safe in our custody. We will be shifting them very soon either to the Goa state museum or some other location in the state that falls under the department of archaeology,” an archaeology official said. “The temple ruins are significant of the state’s architecture, so they will be displayed in the state itself after we decide the location,” the official added. During the process of excavation for the highway expansion of Navelim in Salcete, workers stumbled upon the ruins of an old temple. Experts were able to estimate that the remains belonged to the 13th-14th century. TOI had reported the same on June 29. Soon after, the department of state archaeology was alerted about the discovery by a few locals and the department had then sought permissions from the PWD to supervise the digging and salvage the remains. Sources said that following the discovery of the excavated temple ruins, there has been no further find of the monument’s remains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navelim-temple-ruins-may-be-shifted-to-museum/articleshow/79180646.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Meerut||Trade bodies in UP see huge losses to cracker makers, want permission to sell green crackers||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Anticipating huge losses due to National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order banning bursting of firecrackers in NCR region to check pollution, a group representing the associations of crackers’ manufacturers on Wednesday gave a petition to Union minister Sanjeev Balyan seeking government's intervention to sell green crackers. According to fireworks traders’ welfare association, there was stock of crackers worth several crores of rupees lying in most of the western Uttar Pradesh district. Traders have also paid GST, it said. If permission to sell the green crackers is not given, traders will face heavy losses, the associations said. Sachin Agarwal, district president of western UP’s fireworks traders’ welfare association, said, “We have been trying to get permission to sell green crackers on Diwali for the last several days. We already discussed the issue with state minister Kapil Dev Agrawal after staging a dharna in front of his house. On Wednesday, traders also reached Union minister Sanveej Balyan’s residence and handed over a memorandum.” On the other hand, the district administration and pollution control board have issued instructions about the ban of the fireworks in the district. Additional district magistrate (enforcement) Amit Singh said, “There are clear guidelines from NGT and the government that no one will be allowed to burst or sell any fireworks. Action would be taken if any trader is found selling crackers in the district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/trade-bodies-in-up-see-huge-losses-to-cracker-makers-want-permission-to-sell-green-crackers/articleshow/79176764.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 12, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Woman batters lover with grinding stone||KANPUR: A woman, who was living with her lover after eloping, allegedly killed him with a grinding stone in Hamirpur district on late Tuesday evening. The accused, identified as Anuragi, had a fight with her alleged lover Virendra over some issue on late Tuesday evening. Later, she pinned him on the ground and repeatedly attacked him with a grinding stone at latter’s Bhatiyana locality home. “She was living at the victim’s place since the past five months after eloping with him,” an officer said. Virendra was hit by a heavy object on his head and face he died on the spot, said Inspector Kotwali KK Pandey. The incident came to light after Virendra’s other family members returned home and found him lying in a pool of blood and alerted local police. We have recovered grinding stone which the accused used to kill her lover, from the spot, he added. The body has been sent for post-mortem. A case has been registered against the accused and she has been arrested. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-batters-lover-with-grinding-stone/articleshow/79180630.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Excited for Diwali, shoppers turn blind eye to safety rules||PRAYAGRAJ: The rising number of Covid-19 cases in Prayagraj notwithstanding, excited shoppers thronged markets ahead of Diwali on Wednesday even as many were spotted without masks and flouting social distancing. The crowds outside shops and temporary markets indicated how people were turning a blind eye to safety norms. Electrical items, gadgets, garments, decorative items, earthen lamps, candles and lai and lawa (puffed rice) were among the most demanded goods in markets, many of which have mushroomed in narrow lanes of localities. In several places, both shopkeepers and customers were found ignoring Covid-19 safety protocol. Of those who were seen wearing masks, many didn’t cover their noses. Despite the presence of police personnel in markets, the violations went unchecked. Meanwhile, shops in Civil Lines, Katra, Chowk, Teliarganj, Sulem Sarai, Mutthiganj, Kydganj, Khuldabad, Batasa Mandi and Loknath remained open till late and did brisk business. “As it is our businesses were affected due to the pandemic and lockdown. So, we are trying to recover our losses by staying open for longer hours,” said Gopal Das, a shopkeeper in Chowk. Traders are hopeful that festive sales for the next three days will help them shore up their businesses. Roadside shops selling decorative items like artificial flowers, lamps and decorative lights also drew a lot of shoppers. The festive rush also led to heavy traffic on several routes in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/excited-for-diwali-shoppers-turn-blind-eye-to-safety-rules/articleshow/79180649.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad University revives effort to equip central library with RFID technology||PRAYAGRAJ: After a long gap of around 12 years, the authorities of Allahabad University (AU) have once again initiated the effort to equip its central library with radio frequency identification system (RFID)technology. The technology would enable the users to locate any book from the huge treasure of around 7.5 lakhs books in the library at a mere click of a mouse. Moreover, it would check the cases of book-theft from the library. A proposal worth Rs 1.10 crore has been sent to the ministry of education by the varsity authorities, and once the funds are sanctioned, the work to set-up the technology would begin. Earlier, it was in 2008 when the then HRD minister, Arjun Singh had announced sanctioning an amount of Rs 10 crores for up-gradation of the central library. Singh was at AU as the chief guest of an alumni function, and he had announced while speaking at the Senate Hall of the Arts faculty. However, only half of the promised money was sanctioned to AU, and the concept of RFID was never initiated at the library. Sources inform that the technology uses a set of stripes, which when placed inside the pages of a book, gets self-dissolved. After that, any user can trace the book by placing it on the machine which reads its signals and the user can also log the book or make entries related to it on the software supporting the unique RFID of each book. RFID automated material handling systems also helps accelerate the process of returning books to library shelves faster. However, experts in the field of library science have some reservations on the RFID technology in the context of AU. “It is debatable whether AU central library is ready for the sophisticated technology as it would need every student to pass through a ‘gate’ (something like the metal detector gate). How safe it would be among the students and for how long it would keep working is hard to tell”, says a senior former faculty member of AU. “That may be one reason why universities like Banaras Hindu University, Aligarh Muslim University, Delhi University etc. have not gone for this technology,” he added. But, AU has sent the proposal to the ministry of education. Once the funds are sanctioned, efforts to integrate the technology within the current library set-up would begin in earnest. “The technology is beneficial when it comes to tracing a particular book from the stack area or maintaining the inventory of the book. Besides, this would put a check to the practice of stealing books from the library. Presently our guards at the gate frisk the students who are supposed to keep their bags deposited at the pigeon box at the gate”, said AU Librarian, Dr BK Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/au-revives-effort-to-equip-central-library-with-rfid-technology/articleshow/79180638.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Heart conclave ends, top docs participate||Jaipur: Among hypertensive patients having resistant hypertensive disease, catheter-based renal artery denervation has emerged as a potential therapy, with favourable clinical efficacy and safety in early trials, says the cardiologists at a recently concluded online 4th Eternal Heart Conclave 2020 where most of the physicians and cardiologist across the country participated to understand the various recent advances in cardiolgy shared by International faculties from US and host faculties from Eternal Hospital. Faculties include Dr Valentine Fuster, Dr Samin Sharma, Drs Jagat Narula, Dr Sameer Mehta, Dr George Dangas and Dr Roxana Mehran from US and Conclave Course Directors Dr Sanjeev K Sharma, Dr Jitendra S Makkar and Dr Ravindra Rao shared their experiences. “Additional benefits of this therapy are also being identified and include effects on left ventricular remodeling, cardiac performance, and symptom status in congestive cardiac failure,” said one of the Conclave Course Directors, Dr Sanjeev K Sharma. He said that resistant hypertension means non respondance of medication for high blood pressure. Renal denervation (RDN) is a minimally invasive procedure to treat resistant hypertension. The procedure uses radiofrequency ablation to burn the nerves in the renal arteries. This process causes a reduction in the nerve activity, which decreases blood pressure in the patients with various comorbidities. The research is in process on patients with various parameters like age with or without isolated systolic hypertension, atrial fibrillation, diabetes mellitus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/heart-conclave-ends-top-docs-participate/articleshow/79180647.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Widow ends life after cop she accused of rape dies||KANPUR: A widow, who had accused a constable of raping her over the pretext of marriage, hanged herself at her rented accommodation after the accused died in a road accident two days ago. “The woman, a native of Dibiyapur, was married to a native of Etawah. After her husband’s death, she returned to her parents’ house in Auraiya. She lived in a rented accommodation in Brahmnagar locality where she came in contact with constable Jitendra, a native of Fatehpur. Jitendra was posted at Devkali police outpost of Auraiya,” said the police, adding, “She had alleged that she was repeatedly raped by the constable on the pretext of marriage and had lodged a complaint at Dibiyapur police station after Jitendra refused to marry her. The constable was suspended thereafter.” “On November 4, the constable was going to his hometown on a two-wheeler when he got injured in an accident and died during treatment at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital on November 9,” informed police. Locals said that on hearing some commotion from the woman’s house, they rushed there and found her hanging from the door frame of her house. On being alerted, the local police rushed to the spot and shifted the body to the district hospital. The woman’s family arrived at the hospital to claim her body. “Preliminary investigation suggested that the woman had died by suicide. She had scribbled a love message on her hand saying, ‘Jitendra meri jaan.......’, and had also left a suicide note stating that she loved Jitendra and could not live without him. She had also written her name next to the constable’s with mehendi on her palms. We are awaiting for the postmortem report after which investigation will be initiated,” said CO (city) Surendra Nath. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/widow-ends-life-after-cop-she-accused-of-rape-dies/articleshow/79180623.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Agriculture enterprise gets push with tech-enabled farmer producer organisations||LUCKNOW: Taking a precision move to make agriculture an entrepreneurial activity, the state government has decided to set up a farmer producer organisation (FPO), a registered body with agro producers as shareholders as a demand-based unit that would function with cluster-based approach. The step, official sources said, is aimed to pass on benefits of various agricultural schemes of state and Centre to FPOs to raise their capacity and improve marketing of agro produce. This move comes when the state is pushing for field paddy procurement to boost farming activity. According to a memorandum issued by agriculture department, FPOs will raise capacity and quality of agro-produce in the most populous state. Under FPO promotion and strengthening policy 2020, the state government would be required to make agriculture an attractive activity which could potentially generate employment at a local level, especially for small and marginal farmers. Officials said, investment and use of better techniques would help FPOs improve marketing and value add in agro products. The memorandum said, the development follows the state government policy to strengthen FPOs and promote them through constitution of nodal agencies at state, divisional and district level. This is being done to address various problems faced by agricultural sector, particularly FPOs. The state-level nodal agency would be headed by agriculture production commissioner with principal secretary (agriculture), principal secretary (law) and representative of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) as member. The UP government will also coordinate with NABARD to help FPOs get loans from banks either as working capital or to set up food processing units, cold storages, branding and packaging units, warehouses among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agri-enterprise-gets-push-with-tech-enabled-fpos/articleshow/79180963.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||15-yr-old’s organs save four lives||Jaipur: Amid Covid-19 pandemic, Sawai Man Singh (SMS) medical college achieved a major success and reported 38th organ donation of the state on Wednesday. Relatives of a 15-year-old boy donated his organs to save lives of four persons. His kidneys and liver were transplanted at SMS hospital, while his heart was sent to Delhi’s private hospital. The boy, a resident of Uniyara, Tonk district, was admitted to SMS on November 3 after an accident. “The doctors did their best to treat him. But he was declared brain dead on November 7,” said Dr Manish Sharma, consultant, the State Organ and Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO). The SMS hospital’s counsellors persuaded the family to donate the boy, who was declared brain dead by the hospital. From November 7, the counsellors continued with their efforts and on Wednesday, the family agreed to donate the organs, said the hospital officials. The doctors harvested kidneys, liver and heart of the boy and transplanted the kidneys to needy patients at SMS hospital. The liver was also transplanted into a patient at SMS. However, the hospital did not find a suitable match for the heart, so they sent it to a private hospital in Saket, Delhi for transplant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15-yr-olds-organs-save-four-lives/articleshow/79180655.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Dhanteras to be celebrated on two days||LUCKNOW: Dhanteras will be celebrated for two days this year. The festival as per Hindu calendar is overlapping on two days —Thursday and Friday. Clearing the confusion prevailing among people over the dates and auspicious timing, head priest of Hanuman Setu temple Chandrakant Dwivedi said, “As per the Hindu calendar, Dhanteras will begin at 5.27pm on Thursday (November 12) and end at 4.12pm on Friday (November 13).” “Similarly, Narak Chaturdashi will begin at 5.59pm on Friday and end at 1.59pm on Saturday (November 14). Amavasya, i.e, Diwali day, will begin at 2pm on Saturday (November 14) and end at 11.30am on Sunday (November 15),” he added. Dwivedi said Lakshmi Puja timing on Diwali will be from 5.16pm to 7.13pm. On Dhanteras, people buy gold, utensils, silver and other precious metal products. Traders are expecting huge rush on Thursday and Friday on account of Dhanteras. “We have received pre-order bookings for both the dates and expect high footfall on the two days. Traders have also made arrangements for crowd management as per Covid-19 protocols,” said Lucknow Vyapar Mandal president Pawan Manocha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dhanteras-to-be-celebrated-on-two-days/articleshow/79180938.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Covid-19 cloud: Grand three-day Ayodhya Deepotsav cut to one day||AYODHYA: The Covid-19 cloud forced curtailment of the three-day grand Deepotsav celebrations in Ayodhya to just one day — November 13. Festivities which were scheduled to kickstart in the temple town from Wednesday and carried forward to Thursday in the run-up to the grand finale on Saryu banks were cancelled by the district administration to stop crowds from spilling onto streets to celebrate what was touted as the grandest Diwali in 500 years. On Friday, Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will attend the main event, which is on schedule. Talking to TOI, Ayodhya district magistrate Anuj Kumar Jha, said, “We decided to make the Deepotsav a one-day affair as a precautionary move due to the pandemic-induced crisis. Two Ramlilas scrapped, drones deployedHowever, the scheduled lighting of diyas and rangoli competition will continue in rural swathes of Ayodhya district on Thursday.” The 30-member women’s group from Balod district of Chhattisgarh who were scheduled to enact the Shabri act of Ramlila at Ayodhya’s Bhajan Sandhya amphitheatre on Thursday were disappointed after their event was cancelled at the last minute. Wednesday’s Ramlila at Bharat Kund too was cancelled due to the pandemic. On Friday, a procession comprising around 150 invitees will meander through the streets from Saket College to the Deepotsav venue on Saryu banks, where the coronation ceremony of Lord Rama will be held after a chopper modelled around the epical ‘Pushpak Vimaan’ lands at Ram Katha Park helipad. The chief minister and Governor will receive Lord Ram, Sita and Laxman at the park and the CM will perform the coronation rituals, said district magistrate Anuj Jha. At least 5.51 lakh diyas will be lit at Ram Ki Paidi on banks of Saryu and Deepotsav will be celebrated in the Ramjanmabhoomi premises with the lighting of 11,000 earthen lamps. A multi-layered security blanket has been thrown around Ayodhya and the temple town was sealed and traffic diverted on Wednesday. While drones kept vigil from the skies, paramilitary forces and special police commandos conducted search operations on the ground, said Ayodhya DIG, Deepak Kumar. “We have secured entry points to the town and even narrow lanes and routes leading to Saryu river have been barricaded. Twenty-four points from national highway to roads leading to Ayodhya and Faizabad have been barricaded,” said DIG Deepak Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-19-cloud-grand-three-day-ayodhya-deepotsav-cut-to-1-day/articleshow/79180968.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Thief held at MP's birthday bash in Jubilee Hills||HYDERABAD: A pickpocket, who stole wallet of a follower of Malkajgiri MP Revanth Reddy when supporters gathered at the legislator’s house to wish him on his birthday recently, was arrested. The accused, Ch Sai Gopi, 22, is a native of Prakash Nagar in Tadepalli mandal of Guntur district in Andhra Pradesh. On November 8, hundreds of supporters from the city and different parts of the state came to Revanth Reddy’s house at Jubilee Hills to wish him on his birthday. As supporters gathered in front of the house of the MP, Sai Gopi along with three of his associates arrived there to steal wallets and jewellery. However, the supporters spotted Sai Gopi when he stole the wallet of Revanth’s supporter, V Janga Reddy. He was nabbed and handed over to the Jubilee Hills police. Janga Reddy, 30, a farmer from Indrimala village in Yadadri Bhongir distgrict, lodged a complaint with Jubilee Hills police stating that his wallet containing Rs 15,000 cash was stolen by the accused. A case was registered under Section 379 of the IPC. Police interrogated the accused to know details of his associates, who fled from the scene. On Tuesday, Sai Gopi was produced before court and sent in judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pickpocket-held-for-stealing-wallet-at-mps-birthday-bash/articleshow/79179081.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Meerut||Bijnor: Bikers kidnap beggar’s toddler daughter promising food & clothes||BIJNOR: Two people, promising to provide food and clothes to the three-year-old daughter of a beggar, escaped with the toddler in Bijnor on Wednesday. A case has been lodged. According to SP Dharamveer Singh, “The woman, Sumitra from Sarai village of Singrauli district in Madhya Pradesh, has been living in a rented house at Jhalu town of Bijnor for the past few months. A divorcee, she begs for a living. On Wednesday, Sumitra was out begging, when two people, including a woman, appeared on a bike and lured her three-year-old daughter with the promise of food and clothes, and kidnapped her.” Singh added, “The woman filed a complaint against unidentified persons under relevant sections of the IPC. A probe is on and the accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/two-people-on-bike-kidnap-beggars-toddler-daughter-promising-food-clothes/articleshow/79176773.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Grant loans to women, SC/ST & help revive business, directs Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday directed officials to organise ‘loan mela’ in each district in which all the branches of banks should issue loans to at least one woman and one SC/ST entrepreneur. The CM said all departments should work in collaboration with banks to set targets for each branch for approval and disbursal of loans. “Under the Stand Up India Scheme, all branches of banks should ensure that loans are given to at least one woman entrepreneur and one SC/ST entrepreneur. This will benefit 36,000 women and members of SC/ST communities,” the CM added. A government spokesperson said after May 14, 2020, nearly 6.3 lakh new MSME units were issued total loans of Rs 18,330 crore. Another 4.4 lakh functional MSME units were given loans of Rs 10,847 crore under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme, he added. “Loans will help revive businesses and help those who are seeking to start new enterprises in times of economic downturn after coronavirus lockdown. With more than 40 lakh migrant workers having returned to the state during lockdown, we are encouraging MSMEs to employ at least one person so that the problem of unemployment can be tackled,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-grant-loans-to-women-sc/st-help-revive-biz/articleshow/79180950.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Trichy||Temporary bus stands opened in Trichy for Diwali||TRICHY: Temporary bus stands have been set up at Mannarpuram and on William’s Road to avoid traffic congestion in the space-crunched Central bus stand during Diwali this year too. The facilities will be functioning from November 11 to November 17. Deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, R Vedarathinam on Wednesday inaugurated the temporary bus stands at Mannarpuram roundabout and opposite Sona Mina theatre on the William’s Road. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) officials also participated. The buses plying from Trichy to Thanjavur will be operated from the TNSTC depot near Sona Mina Theatre whereas buses to Pudukottai and Madurai routes will be ferrying passengers from Mannarpuram roundabout. Buses plying from Pudukottai and southern districts to Chennai via Trichy should carry and drop the passengers at the Mannarpuram roundabout and use the national highway only. Buses to all districts originating from Trichy will leave from the central bus stand, as usual. The temporary bus stand at Sona Mina theatre is in close proximity to the Central bus stand but Mannarpuram bus stand is situated away from it. Hence, TNSTC will operate circular buses from the Central bus stand to Mannarpuram. In a statement, commissioner of police, Trichy city J Loganthan said that security has been put in place in those areas to ensure the safety of the passengers. Police will make announcements through the public address system (PAS). The commissioner warned of severe action against those parking their vehicles on the national highway and disrupting traffic. The buses should be stopped at the designated places. Taking into consideration the haphazard parking of autorickshaws and other vehicles, the commissioner insisted them to use the space marked for parking them. Hawkers and cracker vendors should not let their sales cause inconvenience to the people. Any violations can be reported to ‘100’ or through WhatsApp at 96262-73399.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/temporary-bus-stands-opened-in-trichy-for-diwali/articleshow/79181151.cms||---
November 12, 2020||World||Sputnik found to be 92% effective: Makers||NEW DELHI: Russia’s experimental Sputnik-V vaccine has proved to be 92% effective against Covid-19 infection in interim trial results, the country’s sovereign wealth fund said on Wednesday, days after American drug-maker Pfizer released interim information showing its vaccine candidate as being over 90% effective against the coronavirus. The claims made by Russian authorities, though not yet peer-reviewed, are crucial for India because unlike Pfizer’s candidate, Sputnik-V is undergoing clinical trials locally and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has also partnered with Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories for trials and distribution of the shots. RDIF is also looking for Indian manufacturers to produce the vaccine. While Pfizer’s interim data was collected from 94 participants, the Sputnik-V findings come from an evaluation of around 16,000 participants who received the vaccine or placebo 21 days after the first injection, according to RDIF. “As a result of an analysis of 20 confirmed cases, the case split between vaccinated individuals and those who received the placebo indicates that the Sputnik-V vaccine had an efficacy rate of 92% after the second dose,” RDIF said. In September, Dr Reddy’s and RDIF entered into a pact to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik-V vaccine and its distribution in India. As part of the partnership, RDIF will supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr Reddy’s upon regulatory approval in India. RDIF and Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology – the developers of Sputnik-V - are conducting a double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled Phase 3 clinical trials in Russia involving 40,000 volunteers. Phase 3 trials of the vaccine are also ongoing in Belarus, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela and a few other countries. In India, Dr Reddy’s will undertake Phase 2 and 3 trials with the vaccine candidate. “The data received will be published by Gamaleya Center researchers in one of the world’s leading peer-reviewed medical academic journals following an independent valuation of the data by leading epidemiology experts. Following the completion of Phase 3 clinical trials of the Sputnik-V vaccine, Gamaleya Center will provide access to the full clinical trial report,” RDIF said. As of November 11, as part of the clinical trials in Russia’s 29 medical centres, more than 20,000 volunteers were vaccinated with first dose and over 16,000 volunteers with the first and the second dose of the vaccine, the sovereign wealth fund said, underlining that no unexpected adverse events were identified as part of the research so far. Some of those vaccinated had short-term minor adverse events such as pain at the injection site, flu-like syndrome including fever, weakness, fatigue and headache.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/sputnik-found-to-be-92-effective-makers/articleshow/79181582.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Court: Institute must take proper action||Jaipur: The court of the commissioner for specially abled persons has taken cognizance of the issue pertaining to rejection of admission of a disabled student to a private medical university. It stated that this was violation of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, and has directed medical education department and the institute (Mahatma Gandhi Medical University of Medical Science and Technology) to ensure admission of the student immediately. According to Hemant Bhai Goyal, national vice-president of Divyang Adhikar Mahasangh, who had filed the petition, “There is a provision for 5% reservation for disabled students in government and government aided institutes. This is a violation of Section 32 of the Act,” he added. One person Purba Mathur was denied admission to the University for an MPhil course in clinical psychology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/court-institute-must-take-proper-action/articleshow/79180673.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to launch Mission Rozgar after Diwali, provide 50 Lakh jobs||LUCKNOW: UP government will be launching Mission Rozgar after Diwali, a programme under which it aims to provide jobs to at least 50 lakh youth till March 2021. The scheme will be targeted at largely those who lost their jobs during the Covid-19 economic slowdown. Chief Secretary RK Tiwari said that a target of 50 lakh has been set, which it aims to achieve in the next four and a half months. “Through this campaign, unemployed youth and those who have lost their jobs in the past few months will get a chance to apply for jobs in government departments, councils, corporations, etc. The government will also collaborate with the private sector for job creation,” the chief secretary said. Till February 2020, UP had about 34 lakh unemployed persons as per official government data. In the first few months of the lockdown, close to 40 lakh persons had returned to UP from various states where they had been employed, at least half of whom are skilled, semi-skilled or unskilled labour. On Wednesday, Tiwari met with officials to finalise the action plan for rolling out the scheme. Employment help desk should be set up in every dept: CSHe said that under the programme, the government would also help people become self-employed, linking it with the Atma Nirbhar Bharat scheme of the Centre. The CS has said that an ‘employment help desk’ should be set up in every department and in all organisations. The help deski will provide information about the various employment programmes being run by various departments and possible job openings. A database of employment will also be prepared. For this, an app and a web portal are being developed by the Directorate of Training and Employment. Data related to employment will be updated on the portal every fortnight. All directorates, corporations, boards, commissions, etc have been directed to appoint a nodal officer to keep track of the progress and coordinate between various stakeholders. The Infrastructure and Industrial Development Commissioner has been appointed to oversee and coordinate the Mission Rozgar campaign while a high level committee headed by the CS will monitor the campaign monthly. In each district, a committee under the chairmanship of the district magistrate will be set up to prepare an action plan for implementing the scheme at the district level. Simultaneously, the Directorate of Training and Employment, in collaboration with private industries, will organise employment fairs and resolve all pending recruitment cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-launch-mission-rozgar-after-diwali-provide-50l-jobs/articleshow/79181002.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 12, 2020||Udaipur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Collectors on alert as daily virus cases mount||JAIPUR: The state witnessed a sudden spike in new Covid-19 cases with 2,080 infections on Wednesday, the highest in the last 30 days. This is for the time such cases have breached the 2,000 mark since October 16, when 2,010 persons had tested positive. On October 12 and 13, the state had reported 2,132 and 2,035 daily new infections, respectively. Since then, cases had fallen steadily. But in the last few days, infections started increasing. As on Wednesday, the state’s Covid count stood at 2,17,151 cases. Jaipur, too, reported a big jump of 450 new cases, the highest in 35 days. In the last 24 hours, 11 people died taking the state’s toll to 2,019. A health department official said, “While the state government is anticipating that cases might increase in winter and due to the festive season and panchayat polls, directions have been issued to district collectors to remain alert and review the pandemic situation on a daily basis.” In the order issued on Tuesday, principal secretary (health) Siddhartha Mahajan said that it in the coming days, cases might rise keeping in mind the festive season, approaching winter and panchayat elections. The health department has asked district collectors to keep the government informed about the situation in their respective districts. It has also asked districts to increase the number of oxygen supported and ICU beds and ventilators for Covid patients in dedicated hospitals. District collectors have been asked to inform the state government if they fall short of oxygen supply and medicines needed for the treatment of Covid. All private hospitals treating Covid patients should deploy a nodal officer to connect with the government. In the last 24 hours, 11 people died in the state. Jaipur reported its 388th Covid death, Jodhpur 197th, Ajmer 150th, Bikaner 148th, Udaipur 77th, Sikar 65th, Nagaur 64th, Alwar 63rd, Jhunjhunu 31st, Dungarpur 28th and Jaisalmer reported its 19th Covid casualty. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (450), Jodhpur (310), Bikaner (175), Ajmer (141), Alwar (115), Kota (113), Sriganganagar (85), Sikar (65), Jhunjhunu (61), Naguar (61), Udaipur (57), Pali (46), Bharatpur (43), Sirohi (35), Dungarpur (35), Barmer (35), Bhilwara (34), Jalore (30), Rajsamand (29), Churu (27), Jaisalmer (23), Chittorgarh (20), Hanumangarh (17), Tonk (14), Baran (10), Bundi (10), Dausa (10), Sawai Madhopur (9), Jhalawar (7), Dholpur (5), Karauli (5) and Pratapgarh (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/collectors-on-alert-asdaily-virus-cases-mount/articleshow/79182805.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ajmer||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Collectors on alert as daily virus cases mount||JAIPUR: The state witnessed a sudden spike in new Covid-19 cases with 2,080 infections on Wednesday, the highest in the last 30 days. This is for the time such cases have breached the 2,000 mark since October 16, when 2,010 persons had tested positive. On October 12 and 13, the state had reported 2,132 and 2,035 daily new infections, respectively. Since then, cases had fallen steadily. But in the last few days, infections started increasing. As on Wednesday, the state’s Covid count stood at 2,17,151 cases. Jaipur, too, reported a big jump of 450 new cases, the highest in 35 days. In the last 24 hours, 11 people died taking the state’s toll to 2,019. A health department official said, “While the state government is anticipating that cases might increase in winter and due to the festive season and panchayat polls, directions have been issued to district collectors to remain alert and review the pandemic situation on a daily basis.” In the order issued on Tuesday, principal secretary (health) Siddhartha Mahajan said that it in the coming days, cases might rise keeping in mind the festive season, approaching winter and panchayat elections. The health department has asked district collectors to keep the government informed about the situation in their respective districts. It has also asked districts to increase the number of oxygen supported and ICU beds and ventilators for Covid patients in dedicated hospitals. District collectors have been asked to inform the state government if they fall short of oxygen supply and medicines needed for the treatment of Covid. All private hospitals treating Covid patients should deploy a nodal officer to connect with the government. In the last 24 hours, 11 people died in the state. Jaipur reported its 388th Covid death, Jodhpur 197th, Ajmer 150th, Bikaner 148th, Udaipur 77th, Sikar 65th, Nagaur 64th, Alwar 63rd, Jhunjhunu 31st, Dungarpur 28th and Jaisalmer reported its 19th Covid casualty. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (450), Jodhpur (310), Bikaner (175), Ajmer (141), Alwar (115), Kota (113), Sriganganagar (85), Sikar (65), Jhunjhunu (61), Naguar (61), Udaipur (57), Pali (46), Bharatpur (43), Sirohi (35), Dungarpur (35), Barmer (35), Bhilwara (34), Jalore (30), Rajsamand (29), Churu (27), Jaisalmer (23), Chittorgarh (20), Hanumangarh (17), Tonk (14), Baran (10), Bundi (10), Dausa (10), Sawai Madhopur (9), Jhalawar (7), Dholpur (5), Karauli (5) and Pratapgarh (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/collectors-on-alert-asdaily-virus-cases-mount/articleshow/79182806.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Surat||Surat: Driver held for raping minor schoolgirl||SURAT: A 32-year-old school van driver was arrested on Wednesday from Puna area for allegedly raping a 15-year-old schoolgirl for over two years since 2018 after developing friendship with her. Police also arrested the driver Jagdish Agarwal’s wife Ravina (22) and her friend Mamta Agarwal (27) for allegedly kidnapping the minor Class IX girl and thrashing her on Tuesday. All three accused have been charged for rape, kidnapping and assaulting a minor girl, besides under various sections of POCSO Act. Jagdish developed friendship with the girl in 2018 when she was 13-years-old. He used to drop and pick her up from school. He promised the minor girl that he will marry her and developed physical relations with her,, said police. Meanwhile, Ravina came to know about Jagdish’s relationship with the teenager. She along with Mamta and Jagdish went to the girl’s apartment on Tuesday afternoon and allegedly kidnapped her in a car. They thrashed the minor girl in the van and later dropped near her house after half-an-hour. After the girl came home, she told what had happened to her elder sister, who lodged complaint with the Puna police station. “Ravina wanted to pressurise the minor into discontinuing her relationship with Jagdish, so she kidnapped her and beat her up,” said a police officer at Puna police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/driver-held-for-raping-minor-schoolgirl/articleshow/79177821.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Trichy||District collector reviews progress of smart city projects in Trichy||TRICHY: District collector S Sivarasu on Wednesday inspected the progress of the smart city projects being implemented by the Trichy Corporation. During the inspection, the civic body officials informed that three major projects are nearing completion of which the Uyyakondan riverfront and Panchapur solar power projects will be commissioned in the next few months. The collector inspected the solar project at Panchapur near the sewage treatment plant, which is coming up at a cost of Rs 13.50 crore. Corporation officials told the collector that the project is likely to be completed by December and that civil work for installing high-tension power lines are under way. The ongoing riverfront development along the banks of the Uyyakondan canal passing through the city was also inspected. Corporation sources said that civil work for Tiger park, Peacock park and Lotus park in the Uyyakondan banks are nearing completion. The Rs 17.56 crore project is likely to be commissioned for public use in January 2021. The collector also inspected the progress of the Chathiram bus stand redevelopment work under way at a cost of Rs 17.34 crore. The work is likely to be completed by June 2021. The redeveloped bus terminus will have provisions to accommodate 30 buses at a time. With 30 shops and food court in proposed in the terminus, the facility will have 36 urinals and 38 toilets for the public. At present, bus bay installation work and roofing work are under way. The progress of biomining work at Ariyamangalam dump yard was also inquired by the collector. Officials said that around 2.60 lakh cubic metres of waste have been removed and processed for recycling from the dump yard so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/district-collector-reviews-progress-of-smart-city-projects-in-trichy/articleshow/79181152.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Meerut||UP police campaign among cane farmers to curb residue burning||BIJNOR: Using loudspeakers, UP Police is carrying out a sensitising campaign among sugarcane farmers of western UP districts including Bijnor not to burn leaves after harvesting, to curb pollution. Police teams are meeting farmers in their fields to and spread the message. Across western UP, known as India’s sugar bowl, farmers burn cane leaves after harvesting the crop to clear their fields for the next wheat crop. There are 119 sugar mills in UP that produce sugar, with over 10,000 kohlus and crushers manufacturing jaggery. Sugarcane is cultivated over 27.63 lakh hectare. Sugarcane crushing season has begun and most of the mills and kohlus have started their operations. Sugarcane harvesting is also in full swing. Cane growers are clearing their fields for the next crop. Most farmers in western UP sow wheat after sugarcane. Many cane farmers burn sugarcane leaves and stubble before ploughing the field, as it is faster and cheaper than clearing the field and disposing the garbage before cultivating the new crop. Only paddy residue is not burnt, as it’s used as cattle fodder. As a result, with the onset of winter, air pollution is rising fast. In Bijnor, AQI has risen to 97 from 55-70, which is the norm. But the condition has worsened in Delhi and NCR. The agriculture department and state pollution control board are holding seminars to raise awareness among agriculturists about harmful effects of burning residue, how inhaling air polluted by smoke from residue burning pose a threat to the life of humans and animals alike. On Wednesday, SP Dharamveer Singh visited Najibabad with a contingent of cops and addressed peasants in their sugarcane fields on loudspeakers, urging them not to burn residue, with a warning that they will be fined otherwise. Regional officer of the pollution control board, J P Maurya, said, “We’re organising seminars to sensitise farmers on the harmful effects of air pollution. We’ve appealed to them not to burn residue. PCB is also keeping a close eye on pollution control devices fixed in sugar mills and kohlus. All kohlu owners have been served notice and instructed to raise the height of their chimneys to at least 10m.” Reacting to the steps taken by the administration, president of Pragatisheel Kisan Sangathan, Shoorveer Singh, said, “Sugarcane leaves filter the air and clean it. Western UP is covered with sugarcane crop. Their leaves curb air pollution, besides emitting oxygen. When farmers burn the residue, it causes some pollution, but it’s not a big issue. The main cause of rising pollution is industries, which are being ignored by the administration, as their owners are big capitalists.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-campaign-among-west-up-cane-farmers-to-curb-residue-burning-pollution/articleshow/79176788.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Employees protest salary delay||Jaipur: Around 3,000 government employees - under All Rajasthan State Employees’ Joint Federation - got themselves arrested as a part of Satyagraha organized on Wednesday in protest against delay in release of 14-day salary for the month of March and for not fulfilling 15 other demands of the employees. “Satyagraha was organized outside the district collectors’ offices in all districts and submitted a memorandum to the chief minister (Ashok Gehlot), chief secretary (Niranjan Arya), principal secretary (finance), secretary (DOP), through the district collectors. A 15-point demand charter has also been submitted,” said Tej Singh Rathore, general secretary of the federation. “We also oppose the government’s decision to pay our Diwali bonus in two parts,” he added. The other demands include implementation of 7th pay commission, payment of salaries which were deducted in 2013 and 2017, payment of DA, regularization of contractual employees, implementation of pension scheme etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/employees-protest-salary-delay/articleshow/79180679.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Jodhpur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Collectors on alert as daily virus cases mount||JAIPUR: The state witnessed a sudden spike in new Covid-19 cases with 2,080 infections on Wednesday, the highest in the last 30 days. This is for the time such cases have breached the 2,000 mark since October 16, when 2,010 persons had tested positive. On October 12 and 13, the state had reported 2,132 and 2,035 daily new infections, respectively. Since then, cases had fallen steadily. But in the last few days, infections started increasing. As on Wednesday, the state’s Covid count stood at 2,17,151 cases. Jaipur, too, reported a big jump of 450 new cases, the highest in 35 days. In the last 24 hours, 11 people died taking the state’s toll to 2,019. A health department official said, “While the state government is anticipating that cases might increase in winter and due to the festive season and panchayat polls, directions have been issued to district collectors to remain alert and review the pandemic situation on a daily basis.” In the order issued on Tuesday, principal secretary (health) Siddhartha Mahajan said that it in the coming days, cases might rise keeping in mind the festive season, approaching winter and panchayat elections. The health department has asked district collectors to keep the government informed about the situation in their respective districts. It has also asked districts to increase the number of oxygen supported and ICU beds and ventilators for Covid patients in dedicated hospitals. District collectors have been asked to inform the state government if they fall short of oxygen supply and medicines needed for the treatment of Covid. All private hospitals treating Covid patients should deploy a nodal officer to connect with the government. In the last 24 hours, 11 people died in the state. Jaipur reported its 388th Covid death, Jodhpur 197th, Ajmer 150th, Bikaner 148th, Udaipur 77th, Sikar 65th, Nagaur 64th, Alwar 63rd, Jhunjhunu 31st, Dungarpur 28th and Jaisalmer reported its 19th Covid casualty. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (450), Jodhpur (310), Bikaner (175), Ajmer (141), Alwar (115), Kota (113), Sriganganagar (85), Sikar (65), Jhunjhunu (61), Naguar (61), Udaipur (57), Pali (46), Bharatpur (43), Sirohi (35), Dungarpur (35), Barmer (35), Bhilwara (34), Jalore (30), Rajsamand (29), Churu (27), Jaisalmer (23), Chittorgarh (20), Hanumangarh (17), Tonk (14), Baran (10), Bundi (10), Dausa (10), Sawai Madhopur (9), Jhalawar (7), Dholpur (5), Karauli (5) and Pratapgarh (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/collectors-on-alert-asdaily-virus-cases-mount/articleshow/79182804.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Surat||Gurajat: Drastic fall in demand for new notes for Diwali gifting||SURAT: Come Diwali and Gujaratis make a mad rush to banks to get freshly printed currency notes of smaller denominations to gift their near and dear ones during the festivities. But with economy hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic, the demand for new currency notes has dipped by a whopping 50%. Anil Kumar Joshi, manager of State Bank of India’s (SBI) Chowk Bazaar branch in Surat told TOI, “Last year, customers would start visiting the branch 15 days ahead of the festival to get the new currency notes. This time, very few customers are visiting the branch for getting the new notes.” Joshi added, “However, some of our customers from diamond and textile businesses have placed the advance orders for new currency notes for their employees and gifting purpose.” Sources in Surat’s banking sector informed that the currency chests in the city including that of State Bank of India (SBI) received less number of new currency notes in the smaller denominations such as Rs 10, Rs 20, Rs 50 and Rs 100 from RBI due to the weak demand. Last year, the six currency chests of the nationalised and private banks received Rs 1,200 crore worth of new currency notes. This year, the banks are likely to receive anything between Rs 600 to Rs 700 crore in new currency notes due to the weak demand said sources in the banking sector. Rakesh Sindhav, a money exchanger in Bhagal said, “Last year during the same time, people would exchange their old notes with new currency notes. This time, we are hardly getting one or two customers per day.” These exchangers charge anything between Rs 15 to Rs 30 per exchange of Rs 1,000 with new currency notes. Bankers in Ahmedabad said that demand for cash has certainly gone down post the lockdown as people have either limited cash withdrawals and switched to online payments. “However, Diwali is a different time, when people traditionally withdraw cash, particularly new currency notes to give it as a token of love to their dear ones. This tradition particularly exists among elderly people and due to the pandemic, footfalls at the banks of the elderly have drastically reduced. In general, the demand for new currency notes is also less,” said a city-based banker, without willing to be named. The Maha Gujarat Bank Employees Association (MGBEA) has alleged that that the supply of currency notes from the RBI has taken a major hit. “The demand for new notes has reduced due to the pandemic. However, there is no constraint on the supply side from the RBI and it is easily available,” said MM Bansal, convener, State Level Banking Committee (SLBC) - Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/drastic-fall-in-demand-for-new-notes-for-diwali-gifting/articleshow/79179109.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu goes slow on proposed facility at Parandur||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu’s move to find an alternative site for a second airport for Chennai seems to have taken a back seat. The government was thinking of finalising Parandur, 70km away, when the pandemic struck. Tidco, the nodal agency for developing greenfield airport, floated a tender before the pandemic but withdrew it after bidders said land had to be identified first. Tidco sources said Parandur too was not finalised though Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials studied the wind direction, obstacles, proximity to defence airfields or another airport and impact of a no-fly zone and found it suitable. They also checked three other sites including Cheyyur. The government should decide whether the airport should come up at Sriperumbudur or Parandur. An AAI official said the state wants a location not too far away in the south of the city. After the government decided not to go ahead with Sriperumbudur, AAI is pushing the government to identify a location for a second airport. There was pressure from AAI towards end-2017 and early 2018 to find a location because officials felt the project was already delayed. AAI then started expanding the existing airport — planning an integrated terminal for which construction is on and a satellite terminal between the runways. Air safety expert and former pilot Mohan Ranganathan said there was no spot which would not interfere in flight operations at Chennai airport. "Defence airfields in Tambaram and Arakkonam would restrict flight operations at the second airport. The location in Sriperumbudur also would have infringed into the approach zone of runway 07 (Pallavaram-end) of Chennai airport." "There is no need for one now as it may take at least five years for passenger traffic to bounce back to pre-pandemic level at Chennai. Tourist traffic is yet to resume. It may take longer," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-goes-slow-on-proposed-facility-at-parandur/articleshow/79179115.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Covid-19 in Rajasthan: Collectors on alert as daily virus cases mount||JAIPUR: The state witnessed a sudden spike in new Covid-19 cases with 2,080 infections on Wednesday, the highest in the last 30 days. This is for the time such cases have breached the 2,000 mark since October 16, when 2,010 persons had tested positive. On October 12 and 13, the state had reported 2,132 and 2,035 daily new infections, respectively. Since then, cases had fallen steadily. But in the last few days, infections started increasing. As on Wednesday, the state’s Covid count stood at 2,17,151 cases. Jaipur, too, reported a big jump of 450 new cases, the highest in 35 days. In the last 24 hours, 11 people died taking the state’s toll to 2,019. A health department official said, “While the state government is anticipating that cases might increase in winter and due to the festive season and panchayat polls, directions have been issued to district collectors to remain alert and review the pandemic situation on a daily basis.” In the order issued on Tuesday, principal secretary (health) Siddhartha Mahajan said that it in the coming days, cases might rise keeping in mind the festive season, approaching winter and panchayat elections. The health department has asked district collectors to keep the government informed about the situation in their respective districts. It has also asked districts to increase the number of oxygen supported and ICU beds and ventilators for Covid patients in dedicated hospitals. District collectors have been asked to inform the state government if they fall short of oxygen supply and medicines needed for the treatment of Covid. All private hospitals treating Covid patients should deploy a nodal officer to connect with the government. In the last 24 hours, 11 people died in the state. Jaipur reported its 388th Covid death, Jodhpur 197th, Ajmer 150th, Bikaner 148th, Udaipur 77th, Sikar 65th, Nagaur 64th, Alwar 63rd, Jhunjhunu 31st, Dungarpur 28th and Jaisalmer reported its 19th Covid casualty. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (450), Jodhpur (310), Bikaner (175), Ajmer (141), Alwar (115), Kota (113), Sriganganagar (85), Sikar (65), Jhunjhunu (61), Naguar (61), Udaipur (57), Pali (46), Bharatpur (43), Sirohi (35), Dungarpur (35), Barmer (35), Bhilwara (34), Jalore (30), Rajsamand (29), Churu (27), Jaisalmer (23), Chittorgarh (20), Hanumangarh (17), Tonk (14), Baran (10), Bundi (10), Dausa (10), Sawai Madhopur (9), Jhalawar (7), Dholpur (5), Karauli (5) and Pratapgarh (3).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/collectors-on-alert-asdaily-virus-cases-mount/articleshow/79180670.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Akhilesh Yadav & Priyanka Gandhi can take a leaf out of Tejashwi Yadav ’s craft||LUCKNOW: By reaching within the striking range of power with an energetic campaign, RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav has shown the way to the Opposition netas in Uttar Pradesh. With UP elections just over a year away, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav and Congress general secretary in charge for the state, Priyanka Gandhi should learn a lesson or two from the 31-year-old younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad, say political observers. “The way he campaigned tirelessly and tactfully, and almost single-handedly gave a scare to the NDA team spearheaded by none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah, Bihar chief minister Nithish Kumar and UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, Tejashwi has drawn a big line for UP opposition leaders,” they say, adding “he has shown them how to tackle mighty opponents having immense political and pelf power.” The two leaders, Akhilesh and Priyanka, who are more than 15 years older than Tejashwi, don’t carry the past baggage of ‘jungle raj’ which his political opponents use against him. Besides, RJD has been out of power for 15 years while SP was in power in UP till 2017 and Congress at Centre till 2014. “What they need is to get reconnected with masses. Akhilesh did it when he led an all-UP bicycle tour before 2012 state elections, which provided him an instant connect and proved the clincher. He again needs to go back to the masses,” says an analyst. “While Priyanka has somewhat galvanised the moribund Congress cadre in UP where it is out of power for more than 30 years, she must understand that a state like UP can’t be managed from Delhi. She must make her base in Lucknow for a better grass-roots connect,” says a former vice-president of UPCC. Let’s say that the leadership in SP and Congress will have to follow the Tejashwi model, which has proved that there is no alternative to going to the masses with real issues like jobs, livelihood and bijli, sadak, pani. Propaganda through social media can be an add-on and not the sole vehicle to reach to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-pgv-can-take-a-leaf-out-of-tejashwis-craft/articleshow/79181009.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||RSGL to expand pipe gas network across state||Jaipur: Rajasthan State Gas Ltd. has doubled profit in 2020 by significantly reducing expenses. Chairman RSGL and principal secretary of mines and petroleum Ajitabh Sharma said that in the financial year of 2020, the profit of RSGL has increased from Rs 5.38 crore to more than Rs12.63 crore. Sharma also said that 10,000 new domestic gas connections will be given through pipeline in Kota by March, while the distribution of LPG through pipeline to domestic consumers, industries and setting up of CNG stations is in progress in 19 cities of the state by various companies. Sharma, while addressing the seventh annual general meeting, said developing PNG and CNG distribution networks is the need of the hour in view of increasing pollution and cost. He added that RSGL is working on the urban gas distribution system on a war footing in Kota city. Domestic gas is being distributed through pipelines to 10,000 households by establishing eight CNG stations in Kota city. CNG is being made available to industries and vehicles from Mother Station in Neemrana, Alwar and by setting up at Jaipur’s Dotter Booster Station, Kukas. A network of urban gas distribution system is also being developed by RSGL in Gwalior and Sheopur in Madhya Pradesh. He said that one CNG station has been established at both the places. Mohan Singh, MD RSGL said that with the doubling of CNG stations and better financial management, have resulted in reduction in expenditure resulted in achievement of over 130 per cent in pre-tax profit, post-tax profit and earnings per share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rsgl-to-expand-pipe-gas-network-across-state/articleshow/79180690.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Trichy||Colleges in Trichy resume practical sessions through virtual mode||TRICHY: Technical institutions in Trichy have been holding practical sessions for students, which were put on hold due to the pandemic, through online mode for the last few days. Teachers are videographing the experiments by performing them in the college laboratories and sending them across to the students. They are also live-streaming the sessions. Colleges are also making use of the virtual labs available on the open online sources to teach practical sessions. “In case of departments like mechanical engineering, students have to make some components in the machine shops. When such operations can be learned only at the laboratory, we are live-streaming the faculty demonstrating such activities,” said D Valavan, principal of Saranathan college of Engineering (SCE), Trichy. After effectively engaging students in the online theory classes, we decided to take the practical session too through the virtual mode, he said. R Jayapreetha, a final year ECE student of SCE said that she was unsure if practical classes would happen this year. “We are happy that practical sessions have started from the last two weeks,” she said and added that watching the video lab recording is like watching videos on the internet. “Teachers are accessible over phone for doubts, which is an advantage,” Jayapreetha added. Director of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy Mini Shaji Thomas said faculty members in many departments are recording the experiments and sharing it with the students. “We have given the freedom to faculty members to choose the mode they want to engage students, as there is the option of virtual labs where students can perform experiments online.Now as the pandemic has made it more popular, most of the B Tech core labs are available on the open source online,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/colleges-in-trichy-resume-practical-sessions-through-virtual-mode/articleshow/79181197.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Fund crunch halts restoration of Chitlapakkam lake||CHENNAI: The state government’s Rs 25cr eco-restoration project at Chitlapakkam lake has been halted due to fund crunch. The public works department had proposed the project last year after residents began de-silting and restoring the lake on their own. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had visited the lake and sanctioned the project. Work began in February but was stopped due to Covid. In June, the contractor started work again but then stopped it. “We held a meeting last week and presented before the state government the developments. The government has sanctioned Rs 2cr now and we have given the cheque to the contractor. Work will begin after Diwali. By March next year, it will be complete,” said an official. Under the project, the PWD plans to strengthen of the bund, desilt and deepen the tank, remove garbage, lay a footpath, build macro drains and stop sewage inflow among others. “We are on the right track. Earlier, instead of removing the legacy waste we had planned to cover it with grass. However, after residents protested, we decided to remove the garbage,” said an official. Residents contented that desilting has yet to be completed and sewage inlets have not been plugged. They said work was had made little progress. “The drain constructed has already cracked. They haven’t completed de-silting and with the monsoon on, we are worried that water will not percolate. This may create water scarcity in the summer. Had they stopped sewage inflow and completed desilting and deepening of the lake, water would have filled it,” said Sunil Jayaram from Chitlapakkam Rising, the movement behind the restoration project. “Sembakkam lake is filled with sewage and not rainwater. We do not want the same in Chitlapakkam lake.” An official said the PWD understood concerns of the residents. “But engineering work cannot be completed overnight. We have removed a portion of the legacy waste. And we need to fill that area with sand and debris. We are awaiting permission from the government to remove the remaining waste. We have explained all this to the residents,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fund-crunch-halts-restoration-of-chitlapakkam-lake/articleshow/79179146.cms||Komal Gautham
November 12, 2020||India||Sporting a TRS scarf, 35-yr-old hangs self after party loses poll||HYDERABAD: Reportedly depressed over the defeat of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) candidate in the bypoll held to the Dubbak assembly constituency, a 35-year-old party worker allegedly died by suicide in Siddipet district, police said on Wednesday. The man committed suicide by hanging from a tree in Konaipally village late on Tuesday night, a police official said. According to his wife, he was depressed over the TRS candidate losing the by-election,the official added. A case under CrPC section 174 (unnatural death) was registered. The deceased was found wearing a TRS scarf around his neck. In a close contest, BJP’s M Raghunandan Rao defeated the TRS candidate Sujatha by a margin of 1,079 votes in the Dubbak bypoll, results of which were announced on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sporting-a-trs-scarf-35-yr-old-hangs-self-after-party-loses-poll/articleshow/79181648.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||PM to dedicate Ayurveda varsity to people||Jaipur: National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA) has been granted deemed-to-be-university status de-no category. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi will dedicate it to the nation at 10.30 am on November 13 (Dhanwantari Diwas) through video conferencing in the presence of Shripad Yesso Naik, Union minister of state for AYUSH and Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha,” said Dr Sanjeev Sharma, director (NIA). He said Governor Kalraj Mishra and chief minister Ashok Gehlot will also grace the event. A ceremony has been arranged at NIA auditorium where state health minister Raghu Sharma will be present. NIA was affiliated to Dr Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan Rajasthan Ayurved University, Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-to-dedicate-ayurveda-varsity-to-people/articleshow/79180703.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur’s air quality dips, doctors link it with rising Covid cases||JAIPUR: The city’s air quality turned ‘very poor’ for the first time this season on Tuesday before improving a bit to ‘poor’ category on Wednesday. Doctors are linking rising Covid cases in the city to deterioriating air quality. Not only in the state capital, the air quality has been affected badly across the state as the temperature has taken a dip in the last seven days and visibility has gone down due to increasing concentration of suspended particulate matter (SPM). Doctors said more the concentration of SPM in the air, more are the chances of spread of the virus. “Since suspended particulate matter remains in the air, it helps the virus to stay in the air for a longer time,” said Dr Virendra Singh, member of the state’s advisory committee on Covid. The committee had already informed the state government about the possibility of increase in cases with onset on winter and deterioriating air quality. Doctors are establishing the link between deterioriating air quality to spread of Covid. When the air quality deteriorates, the concentration of SPM in the air increases helping virus to remain in the air for a longer time, they said. The city’s air quality turned ‘poor’ for the first time on November 5. For the last five days, the city’s daily infections have been increasing, indicating a link beteeen rising cases and deterioriating air quality. In the past seven days, city air quality remained ‘very poor’ once and ‘poor’ for the past five days and only once it has remained ‘moderate’. The Centre monitors 120 cities’ air quality, among those eight are in Rajasthan. Out of those eight, three cities including Bhiwadi, Jodhpur and Kota’s air quality remained ‘very poor’. Jaipur and Ajmer’s air quality remained ‘poor’ and Pali, Udaipur and Alwar’s air quality remained ‘moderate’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-air-quality-dips-docs-link-it-with-rising-covid-cases/articleshow/79180709.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Gold worth Rs 12 lakh seized at RGI Airport||HYDERABAD: Customs sleuths intercepted a passenger trying to smuggle in 233 grams of gold at Rajiv Gandhi International (RGI) Airport on Tuesday night and booked a case against him. The offender came from Riyadh to Hyderabad by a GoAir’s flight (G8 6652) on Tuesday night. At the customs check area, he opted for green channel, indicating he was not carrying any dutiable items. However, during the check, customs officials found suspicious object concealed in the secret pockets of his trousers. “The passenger had concealed two gold bars weighing 233.06 grams in two specially designed pockets of his trousers. The value of the seized gold is Rs 12.22 lakh,” a customs official said. A case was registered against the offender under the Customs Act and the gold was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gold-worthrs-12-l-seized-at-rgi-airport/articleshow/79179155.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Trichy||Thanjavur: Farmers seek enhanced ceiling on crop loans||THANJAVUR: As Thanjavur district collector M Govinda Rao convened a technical committee meeting to discuss the scale of finance to fix a revised amount for crop loan for various produce for 2020-21, farmers have appealed to the government to enhance the ceiling on crop loan issued by cooperative societies. They said the input cost incurred for cultivation is skyrocketing. The scale of finance is the money required for raising a crop per unit cultivated area that is per acre or hectare. The scale of finance for different crops in a district is decided every year by the district level technical committee. Speaking at the meeting, the farmers said that fuel prices have been changing frequently and it would be hiked at least four times during 2021-22. Moreover, input costs, labour cost, price of fertilizer and seeds keep on going up. Compared to last year, the input cost would go up by at least 15%. The loan amount should also be increased accordingly, secretary of Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association Swamimalai S Vimalnathan said. “Loan amount for paddy should be Rs 39,000 and Rs 35,000 for direct sowing per acre. For sugarcane, the loan amount should be Rs 63,000 while it should be Rs 75,000 for banana,” he said. Replying to the farmers, the district collector said that the loan amount should definitely be higher than the amount they were getting now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-seek-enhanced-ceiling-on-crop-loans/articleshow/79181212.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Trichy||Gold worth Rs 1.25 crore seized at Trichy airport||TRICHY: The officials of the Air Intelligence Unit (AIU) seized gold bars weighing 2.5 kg worth Rs 1.25 crore at Trichy international airport on Tuesday from two passengers who arrived here from Dubai. The passengers, Haji Mohammed from Athirampattinam in Thanjavur district and Asarudeen from Ramanathapuram, were subsequently arrested. According to airport officials, the air intelligence unit officials found the two passengers, who arrived by Air India Express, to be suspicious. The officials screened their luggage and found gold bars stuffed inside their bags and the duo were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/gold-worth-rs-1-25-crore-seized-at-trichy-airport/articleshow/79181219.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Thief drowns trying to steal pump||HYDERABAD: A thief accidentally drowned in a water sump while trying to steal a submersible pump from a house-cum-shop at Chatrinaka on Tuesday night. The deceased was identified as Allauddin, 25, a resident of Sikh Chawni in Chatrinaka. The incident happened at a two-storied building owned by Sadanandam in Ramaswamygunj area of Chatrinaka. Sadanandam runs Balaji garments store in the ground floor and he has rented out portions in above floors to families. On Wednesday morning, one of the tenants, Madhusudhan, noticed that foul smell was emanating from the tap water and went to check the water sump. “Madhusudhan found a slightly decomposed body of Allauddin in the watersump. Allauddin was addicted to whitener and we suspect he got into the sump to steal a submersible pump and accidentally drowned,” Chatrinaka sub-inspector (SI) B Aravind Goud said. Based on a complaint, a case was registered under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the CrPC. After an autopsy, police handed over the body to Allauddin’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/thief-drowns-trying-to-steal-pump/articleshow/79179165.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records over 700 Covid-19 cases after 40 days||DEHRADUN: The infections of novel coronavirus recorded a single-day spike of 700 cases after a gap of almost 40 days in Uttarakhand. On Wednesday, the state recorded 783 fresh infections of the virus. With this, the Covid-19 case tally shot up to 66,788 in the state. The last time Uttarakhand recorded more than 700 cases was on October 4 when 1,419 infections had surfaced in the state. According to the health department, the maximum of 227 cases were yet again reported from Dehradun, followed by 108 from Pauri Garhwal, 73 from Chamoli, 71 from Nainital, 61 from Rudraprayag, and 55 cases each from Haridwar and Tehri districts. “Pithoragarh reported 53 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday. Among other hill districts, 18 infections were recorded in Almora, nine each in Bageshwar and Uttarkashi, and seven in Champawat. Udham Singh Nagar also reported 37 cases on the day,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Apart from the fresh cases, deaths of six Covid-19 positive patients were also reported in Uttarakhand, taking the toll of the virus to 1,086 in the state. Meanwhile, 471 Covid-19 patients recovered from the infection. On Wednesday, the recovery rate was 91.1% and the total number of cured cases had reached 60,900 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-over-700-covid-19-cases-after-40-days/articleshow/79176883.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata residents lead from front, no roof-rights this Diwali||KOLKATA: The residents’ welfare associations of multiple complexes across the city have willingly decided to shut the doors leading to the terrace during Kali Puja and Diwali to ensure no firecrackers are burst in violation to the high court cracker ban. Reportedly, housing complexes have always been a point of worry for police when it comes to bursting of crackers during Kali Puja and Diwali. Cops in Kolkata and surrounding areas have already kicked off their anti-fireworks campaign at gated communities, where they made announcements on the dos and don’ts, plastered posters and notices and held meeting with the associations. Although the cops didn’t ask them to shut roof doors, several high-rises have taken the initiative by themselves. TimesViewResponsible celebration is the need of the hour and it is heartening to see citizens voluntarily embracing this. Framing and enforcement of rules can achieve little in the absence of popular support.Similar steps are being taken at Rameshwaram Apartment in Bhowanipore, which has even decided to cut down on lighting and decoration this year. “The roof will be out of bounds on festive days. We are even refraining from large-scale decorations and lighting and have also opted out of an annual ritual of exchanging Diwali gifts among residents. We are asking residents to stay at home and celebrate Diwali with their family members this year,” said Hansmukh Kundalia, vice-president of the complex on Sarat Bose Road. High-rises at New Town, Lake Town, Dum Dum Park and other areas surrounding the airport have also been instructed by cops to ensure no sky lanterns are lit and flown from terraces. “We had decided to ban all sorts of crackers inside our complex several days ago. Now that there is a court order, we need to be even more vigilant to ensure no one burns crackers on our premises. Hence, we have decided to shut the doors leading to the roofs of all three towers on festive days,” said Joy Dasgupta, secretary of the apartment owners’ association. Associations of some other complexes like Udita Apartments at Survey Park said they can also cut off the access to roof if needed but will take a call on the day of the festivity. “We have undertaken a number of online activities to keep the residents engaged within the complex and keep the festive mood alive while we plan to implement the cracker ban. We can also shut the access to roof if needed,” said Deepak Sarkar, one of residents of the complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/residents-lead-from-front-no-roof-rights-this-diwali/articleshow/79179161.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 12, 2020||Trichy||Delay in hiring over 2,000 assistant professors takes toll on teaching in Tamil Nadu colleges||TRICHY: Though the Teachers Recruitment Board (TRB) issued a notification more than a year ago for directly recruiting 2,331 assistant professors at government arts and science colleges across the state, the process has been getting delayed owing to several reasons. Now the Covid-19 pandemic has put fresh obstacles in filling the posts. Officials from the directorate of collegiate education said that vacancies accumulated for more than half a decade. However, ad hoc teachers have been managing the job in the absence of the professors at the colleges, though a section of them are not qualified. It is widely said that the delay in the recruitment process has been affecting the quality of education in the colleges, especially during the pandemic in the absence of classroom learning. “We can clearly feel the difference when a regular teacher and an ad hoc teacher takes online classes. On some occasions, ad hoc teachers could not clear our doubts. We cannot blame them as they are trying to deliver with their limited knowledge,” said a final year undergraduate student from Periyar EVR College in Trichy. “Many of the qualified ad hoc teachers too are struggling even if we show interest in attending the classes. We could raise our doubts if it was a classroom atmosphere but it has become difficult during online classes,” said another student from the Government Arts College in Thuvakudi in Trichy. State vice-president of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association (TNGCTA) G Ramesh said that the concept of online classes may not work for government arts colleges as half of the students either don’t have a mobile phone or they are unable to recharge their phones to attend online classes. However, he said that the quality of education has been hit over the years in the absence of regular teachers. Quality of education will take a back seat when there are unqualified teachers, said S Sivasubramanian, former vice-chancellor, Bharathiar University. The government should take steps to fill the posts at the earliest, he said adding that the qualified ad hoc teachers should also be paid well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/delay-in-hiring-over-2k-asst-professors-takes-toll-on-teaching-in-state-colleges/articleshow/79181220.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||BTP to take on Cong, BJP in rural & municipal polls||Jaipur: Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) has decided to go solo in all gram panchayat polls and municipal elections in Banswara, Dungarpur, Udaipur and Pratapgarh. The entry of BTP in the polls has made the contest trilateral in the tribal belt, which has been bastion of either the Congress or the BJP. The party, which had announced to contest the Rajya Sabha polls in alliance with the Congress, has termed the party as its rival in the forthcoming polls. “No question of going with the Congress as they had betrayed us repeatedly since they came to power. What they did to our youths during the peaceful protest demanding teaching jobs was the last straw on the camel’s back,” said BTP state president Velaram Ghogra. The party has taken a lead and allotted tickets to its candidates before the Congress and the BJP. “Most of our candidates are young and are victims of political, social and economic harassment of consecutive governments, bureaucrats and police. They understand the party’s vision of separate statehood, reservation for indigenous tribal and share in governance,” said Ghogra. The tough fight is in Dungarpur. Here the party is contesting municipal council polls where the Congress or the BJP have been in power. “Our party represents the anger of the community youths who suffered in the hands of police in the recent riots. Now, we have stopped relying on the Congress or the BJP. Our elected representatives will help us in achieving our demands,” said Rajkumar Roat, BTP MLA from Chorasi constituency. Experts say the entry of BTP will surely divide the votes in the region. “BTP has given tickets to new faces mostly from non-political families while the Congress and the BJP have been giving tickets to traditional politicians. So far, both the parties have made been enjoying the political space. BTP is likely to dent the Congress more as its voters’ base are tribals while BJP’s core voters are non-tribal,” said Avadesh Akodia, a political analyst. Refuting the influence of BTP, Asrar Khan, former chairman of state minority finance commission and Congressman based in Dungarpur, said the relief work carried out by the Congress in the tribal region will certainly attract voters in our favour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-to-take-on-cong-bjp-in-rural-municipal-polls/articleshow/79180726.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||6 arrested for cheating in health officer exam||Jaisalmer: SOG ATS on Tuesday arrested six persons involved in cheating in community health officer examination organised by National Health Mission. Three of them are from Barmer and had gone to Udaipur to appear in the exam on behalf of other candidates. The ATS recovered Rs 1 lakh in cash from them. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said that ATS received information that Sanga Ram (21), a resident of Gida police station area in Barmer was appearing for the exam at Udaipur on behalf of one Naresh Patidar of Sagwara, Dungarpur. The team reached the examination centre and questioned Sanga Ram, on which he replied that he was Naresh Patidar. However, when strictly questioned, the accused told the team his real name and home address in Barmer. The team under the direction of additional SP (ATS) Anjana Sukhwal reached the centre and detained Sanga Ram. He gave out the names of five colleagues. The team then found five youths sitting in two cars under suspicious conditions near the centre. The five were identified as Devaram Choudhary, brother of Sanga Rama and resident of Gida, Jhumar Lal Choudhary, resident of Khokhasar, (both in Barmer district), Anil Vishnoi, resident of Dangewas in Jodhpur, Rakesh Bhil and Gopal Patidar, both residents of Sagwara in Dungarpur. Official sources said that Devaram had a bag containing cash worth Rs 50,000 while the other accused also had Rs 50,000. The ATS team handed over the six to police for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-arrested-for-cheating-in-health-officer-exam/articleshow/79180716.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC stalls registration of over 6.7 lakh Sada Bainamas||HYDERABAD: Wondering how the state government can issue GOs under a repealed legislation, the Telangana high court on Wednesday directed it not to process or act upon the 6.74 lakh applications filed by farmers seeking registration of their unregistered sale deeds — known as Sada Bainamas — they entered into prior to June 2014. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing a PIL moved by Shinde Devidas of Nirmal district, who brought to the notice of the court the issuance of GO No. 112 (issued on October 12) inviting applications from the people to register their unregistered sale deeds recorded before June 2014. This was issued in the backdrop of repealing the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 1971 and replacing it with a 2020 Act. This came into force from October 29. But prior to that, the state government issued two GOs asking people to register their Sada Bainamas before October 29. It was later extended up to November 10. The petitioner says that by virtue of the new Act, the old Act stood repealed but the state has been issuing the GOs under the old Act asking people to register their Sada Bainamas. The bench observed that even the General Clauses Act that takes care of interregnum periods cannot come to the rescue of the state after October 29. When verified about the number of applications that were received between October 12 and October 29 and later, advocate general BS Prasad replied that 2.26 lakh applications were received between October 12 and October 29. And for the period from October 29 to November 10, as many as 6.74 lakh applications were received. The bench said the government has no power to deal with or act upon the 6.74 lakh applications because there is no saving clause in respect of them. However, in respect of 2.26 lakh application received prior to October 29, the bench said that they will be subject to the final outcome of this litigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hc-stalls-registration-of-over-6-7l-sada-bainamas/articleshow/79179205.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand CM directs officials to act tough against those not wearing masks||DEHRADUN: Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday interacted with health ministers of eight states to discuss the existing Covid-19 situation in these states. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, who also holds charge of health in the state, said, “Uttarakhand shares close proximity with Delhi and a high number of people coming to the state from the national capital. Therefore, the number of cases in Uttarakhand is somewhere linked with the situation in Delhi.” Rawat said that the Union minister has directed the states to ensure compliance of norms during the festive season. He also advised them on the precautionary steps required to prevent the spread of Covid-19. The CM pointed out that the state had enough beds, ventilators and health facilities and also dedicated hospitals for Covid-19 patients. He, however, maintained that more efforts were required for strict compliance of norms in the state. “We need to act tough against those not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing norms,” the CM added. In the same breath, the CM maintained that during the festive season, people should avoid overcrowding of shops. “If one has slightest of symptoms, he needs to take medical advice and get the test done. In most cases of casualties, it has been observed that the patients took a long time before approaching the hospital or getting their tests done,” added Rawat. With the start of winter and festive season, the CM said, “Required steps have been initiated to check Covid spread.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-interacts-with-union-health-minister-directs-officials-to-act-tough-against-those-not-wearing-masks/articleshow/79176909.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||Explosives Act for chocolate bomb, tubri: Kolkata cops show intent||KOLKATA: In a crackdown against illegal sale of firecrackers, Kolkata Police on Wednesday slapped provisions of Explosives Act, 1884, after seizing over 100kg illegal firecrackers in Patuli, Phoolbagan and Tangra. Police said these were being brought into the city from South 24 Parganas’ Champahati and the three arrested persons were trying to sell them on bicycles and cycle rickshaws. Patuli police arrested two Bansdroni youths from near Garia Bazar area with 55kg of firecrackers — mostly tubris and sprinklers. “They claimed it was for Kali Puja celebrations at homes but a probe indicated these were procured from Champahati and would have been sold. Penal sections, including Explosives Act, have been slapped,” said an officer. In Phoolbagan, police nabbed Ranjan Das (40) of CIT Road. “We seized 40kg crackers, including illegal ones, from him. These include chocolate bombs and shells. Das had returned from Champahati and had hailed a rickshaw for distribution. We checked the rickshaw and seized the items,” said an officer. At Tangra, police slapped Explosive Act after a seller was found in possession of 10.5kg of chocolate bombs. “Accused Mohim Sardar was intercepted on Tangra Road for having in his possession 10.5kg of chocolate bombs that were hidden inside a white nylon bag. Sardar was arrested from the spot,” said an officer. Section 9B (1) (b) of Explosive Act, 1884, can lead to a three-year prison term and a Rs 5,000 fine. To stop firecrackers being brought in from the two South 24-Parganas hubs — Champahati and Nungi — Patuli police has already set up two checkpoints. Three more checkpoints are coming up in the Behala division. Kolkata Police has asked citizens to dial 100 or call 9432610444 to lodge complaints against firecrackers. At Entally and Patuli, cops are distributing 3000 leaflets at high-rises, apartments and markets on the HC order. Beliaghata police roped in celebrities to spread the word. A one-and-a-half-hour-long rally was organized there. “Message was given to public not to use any sort of fireworks during this Kali Puja and Diwali. Amongst the dignitaries present were former footballers Krishnendu Roy and Aloke Mukherjee, actor Saptarshi Moulick and other social workers. The rally stopped at different high-rises and market places where the dignitaries pleaded with people to obey the court order,” said DCP (ESD) Ajoy Prasad. The high court on Monday said: “It is made clear that no effort should be spared by the state, particularly the police, to take appropriate steps against anyone seeking to sell or purchase firecrackers or the like or any such material which emanates smoke and has the propensity to pollute the air. The risk is far too great for the matter to be left to chance and the state has assured that every step will be taken to implement the court order and ensure that there is no bursting or display or the like of firecrackers and similar items during the festive season, including at Kali Puja and Diwali, Chhat Puja and Guru Nanak’s birthday celebrations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/explosives-act-for-chocolate-bomb-tubri-cops-show-intent/articleshow/79179179.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||13 elected unopposed for ZP posts, 40 for samitis||Jaipur: Thirteen candidates have been elected unopposed for posts of zila parishad members and 40 to posts of panchayat samiti members in 21 districts. Following the withdrawal of candidates, 12,663 candidates are left in the fray for the posts of panchayat samiti members and 1,778 to posts of zila parishad members. Till the last day of withdrawal of nomination papers, 2,336 have been withdrawn for panchayat samiti member posts and 217 withdrawn for zila parishad member posts. Earlier, of the total nominations of 2,767 filed by 2,545 candidates for elections to the posts of zila parishad members, 659 were rejected by the state election commission. After rejection of nomination papers, 2,008 candidates were left in the fray. Meanwhile, 15,011 candidates were left to fight the contest for the posts of panchayat samiti members after rejection of 5142 nomination papers. Earlier, 20,718 nomination papers were filed by 19,077 candidates. There are 4,371 constituencies for panchayat samiti members and 636 constituencies for zila parishad members in 21 districts. The elections will be held in four phases starting from November 23. The second phase will be on November 27, third phase on December 1 and the fourth phase will be on December 5. The counting of votes will be done on December 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/13-elected-unopposed-for-zp-posts-40-for-samitis/articleshow/79180743.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Goa||Claims of 80,000 trees to be cut in Mollem false: CM||PANAJI: Mollem is a protected area and we have no intention of destroying it in any way, said chief minister Pramod Sawant, adding that some are unnecessarily creating a hype around the three infrastructure projects. “As is being projected by some, 80,000 trees are not going to be cut inside the protected area,” he said on Wednesday. “Government takes full responsibility to protect Mollem. People should not misunderstand. Those putting up videos on social media are setting election agenda for themselves. They are saying 80,000 trees will be cut. So many trees will never be cut. We will ensure that number of trees cut are minimum,” Sawant said. He said that only four poles of the Tamnar power project are coming up inside the protected area in Mollem and the rest fall outside the wildlife sanctuary and national park area. Sawant said similarly talks on how to reduce impact of the railway and highway expansion projects on the protected area are also on.  He said Union ministers for railway and highways have both taken cognisance of the protests in Goa and are committed to find a solution to further minimise the environment impact of the railway doubling and highway expansion projects.  Hitting out at the opposition for their protests over the projects, Sawant said that they ‘are setting an agenda for elections’ and ‘will not be convinced as they do not wish to be convinced’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/claims-of-80k-trees-to-be-cut-in-mollem-false-cm/articleshow/79180770.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Use drones to curb crimes: Telangana IT minister to cops||HYDERABAD: Telangana IT minister KT Rama Rao on Wednesday directed senior state police officers to explore the possibility of using drones as the first responders for improvement of women’s security. Speaking at the launch of Telangana State Police Public Safety Integrated Operations Centre & Data Centre in Cyberabad police commissionerate, he said that the moment the SOS button is pressed, the drone should go to the crime scene from the department as first responder and later the police can reach the crime spot at the earliest. He advised the police to use drones in select places after obtaining nod from civil aviation authorities. Recalling the recent incident of Abids constable Babji running to clear traffic to pave way for the movement of an ambulance, the minister asked police, health and other departments to create a system for a traffic-free route. The newly-inaugurated centre is equipped with video walls for real-time monitoring, emergency response systems for dial 100 and Hawk Eye app and a war room. “The facility is developed using distributive technologies such as scalable video platform, big-data driven insights and scalable data lake, computer vision and facial recognition, IoT integration and data correlation, machine learning—recommendation engine, geo-spatial analytics and cyber security,” the state police said in a press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/use-drones-to-curb-crimes-ktr-to-cops/articleshow/79179210.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Trains, flights to be restricted till normalcy is back: G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy on Wednesday said the number of trains and flights would be restricted till the scientists come out with a vaccine for Covid-19. During a Zoom interaction with reporters, he said currently 30% of the flights are operational and only Vande Bharat flights are running between India and other countries. “We are running the flights and trains in consultation with state governments. Till normalcy is restored, flight and train services will be curtailed,” he said. He appealed to the people not to let their guard down since many countries are witnessing a second wave of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trains-flights-to-be-restricted-till-normalcy-is-back-kishan/articleshow/79179238.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Kota civic bodies get deputy mayors||Kota: Sonu Qureshi from Kota North and Pavan Meena from Kota South were elected as deputy mayors on Wednesday. In Kota South, where both BJP and Congress had the support of 36 councillors and 4 independents each, the deputy mayor was elected through the lottery system under Section 84 (4) of Rajasthan Municipality Act 1994, returning officer of Kota South RD Meena said. In Kota North having 70 wards, Congress candidate for deputy mayor Sonu Qureshi received 50 votes against his BJP rival Gynendra Singh who managed only 9 votes as 11 councillors abstained from voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-civic-bodies-get-deputy-mayors/articleshow/79180748.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Delhi||CM Arvind Kejriwal to review key DJB projects every month||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will review the progress of the projects of 24x7 water supply, rainwater harvesting and laying of sewer pipeline around 15th of every month. “The deadlines for these projects have been fixed. DJB officials will periodically inform me about the monthly progress of work,” Kejriwal said at a review meeting of the 24x7 water supply and water augmentation action plan on Wednesday. After Delhi Jal Board officials flagged land problems at several places, Kejriwal assured that he would talk to the lieutenant governor. A new model of rainwater harvesting will be adopted and water from commercial and residential areas will be filtered and put in borewells, he said. Satyendar Jain, chairman of DJB, said the work for laying sewer lines should be coordinated with road construction. “It is often seen that a road is dug up again and again to put sewer lines, causing inconvenience to people,” he said. Jain also claimed that Delhi was still not getting the necessary water from other states. “Delhi supplies 100% of the water it receives,” he said. Delhi is likely to need about 1,500MGD water by 2031. Out of 1,799 colonies, water pipelines have been laid in 1,622, an official said. Water supply to these colonies is expected to start in six months while the rest will be covered by March 2022, he added. Under the water supply line expansion project, 580 unauthorised and authorised colonies of the public-private partnership areas and Sangam Vihar have been included, out of which 517 have been connected. The rest will be done by December 2021, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cm-to-review-key-djb-projects-every-month/articleshow/79179285.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Wales to help Telangana in research and education||HYDERABAD: Government of Wales will help Telangana government improve research, entrepreneurship and innovation at the undergraduate level as part of a bilateral partnership signed between the two governments on Wednesday. As part of a memorandum of understanding (MoU), the Wales government will not only help the Telangana government upgrade its curriculum for commerce and liberal arts but will also facilitate faculty development programmes and student exchange programmes. It’ll also aid in establishing accelerator programmes for incubation considering Hyderabad has emerged as a startup hub in India. “Of the total enrolment at the undergraduate level, almost 40 per cent students pursue commerce and liberal arts in Telangana. The idea is to upgrade the curriculum as per the industry requirements and make students future ready with the help of Wales government,” said Papi Reddy, chairman, Telangana State Council of Higher Education, adding that the idea is to access gaps in higher education in Telangana and fix them by adopting best practices that are implemented in Wales. Following the MoU, the TSCHE will be constituting a committee that will work with faculty members from Wales to develop a curriculum that can enhance employability of students. “We are confident that this MoU will provide impetus to Telangana’s youth who aspire to be a part of a global workforce. Over the next few months, we will be coming out with milestones that can be achieved in next three years,” said Janaka Pushpanathan, director, South India, British Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wales-to-help-t-in-research-and-edu/articleshow/79179247.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||189 cases recorded on Wednesday||Coimbatore: The district recorded 189 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 45,685. With 168 people discharged, the active cases stood at 1,038. The total number of people recovered climbed to 44,065, keeping the recovery rate at 96.4%. However, the district recorded five more deaths, taking the toll to 582.Of the five victims, three were men and two women. The two deaths at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital included a 60-year-old man, who got admitted on October 30, tested positive on October 31 and died on Monday due to bilateral bronchopneumonia, and a 70-year-old diabetic woman, who got admitted on October 26 and died on Monday also due to pneumonia and respiratory distress. The other three deaths that occurred at ESI Hospital on Monday included a 90-year-old man, a 70-year-old man and a 67-year-old woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/189-cases-recorded-on-wednesday/articleshow/79179273.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Lathi charge on Cong workers: State home secy in Kota for probe||Kota: Acting on the administrative inquiry into the lathi charge on Congress workers in Kota, state home secretary NL Meena reached here on Tuesday night and visited the spot on Wednesday morning. Meena was also engaged throughout the day in the recording of statements of the cops, officials present on the spot on Tuesday and the injured party workers undergoing treatment in MBS Hospital of the city. One or two stones pelted were likely to have prompted the use of force, initial inquiry revealed. Two stones were seen being flung at the bus (carrying 40 BJP councillors) in the video and possibly, the bus that carried BJP councillors might have created public anger and the situation possibly led to the lathi charge, home secretary NL Meena said while speaking to the media here on Wednesday. He visited and inspected the spot (where police exercised force leaving the workers injured) earlier in the day and would record statements of police, administrative officials present on the spot and the affected persons, he said adding that he was likely to finish the probe within a day or two and would submit his report. “Who all are guilty (responsible) and who are not, I can’t say right now as the probe is still underway,” he added. The senior state official asked the cops to narrate what circumstances led to the use of force, said circle inspector, present on the spot on Tuesday and whose statements were recorded on Wednesday. Around 10 party workers were injured in lathi charge outside Kota Municipal Corporation building at CAD Circle on Tuesday afternoon in use of force by police after Congress workers allegedly attempted to stop the bus carrying BJP councillors to the main gate for polling and had a face-off with BJP workers. Taking a serious note of the incident, the state government immediately ordered an inquiry and sent home secretary for probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lathi-charge-on-cong-workers-state-home-secy-in-kota-for-probe/articleshow/79180753.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||India||India records 48K fresh Covid cases, over 500 deaths||India on Wednesday saw as many as 48,306 fresh Covid infections across the country, which took the total caseload to 86,84,972. With 548 casualties, the toll reached 1,28,094. This came even as the number of patients who recovered from the disease reached 80,61,900, which translated to a recovery rate of 92.8%. India breached two milestones on Tuesday — of active cases falling below five lakh and recoveries crossing the eight-million mark. The rate at which active cases are falling as well as the growth in the number of patients cured from the virus have slowed down in the country in the last few days. This development coincides with some states like Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Telangana registering a sharper rise in infections compared to the previous week even though the pandemic has slowed down and reached a plateau in many other states. Times ViewThe battle against Covid-19 has left most of us exhausted. And this news would certainly spread good cheer among everyone. But as statistics have repeatedly shown, coronavirus is a stealthy and obdurate opponent. There is no room for complacency in the war against the virus. Safety norms have to be as stringent as ever.While the decline in active cases was rapid between October 22 and 29, taking just eight days to fall from seven lakh to six lakh-mark, it took 12 days when the next milestone was breached and active cases dropped below five lakh on Tuesday. Active cases fell to 4,99,321 on Tuesday and fell further to 4,94,978 on Wednesday. Delhi continued to top the states in daily infections with 8,593 new patients taking the state’s caseload to 4,59,975. It reported 85 fresh casualties, which took the toll to 7,228. Delhi was followed by Kerala, which crossed the five-lakh mark by adding 7,007 fresh cases to its tally. Maharashtra continued to be in the third spot. The state reported 4,907 cases which were higher than the infections on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-records-48k-fresh-covid-cases-over-500-deaths/articleshow/79181756.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Man arrested for cheating investors||Coimbatore: Police on Wednesday arrested a man for cheating investors of Rs 5 crore.The arrested person has been identified as R Shanmugam, a resident of Erode. “He had started an online trading firm in Pollachi last year. His wife and father were partners in the business. They were also in chit fund business. Many people from in and around Coimbatore were attracted by his ‘double your money’ scheme. Ten people had invested Rs 5 crore in the firm and Shanmugam had told them that he had invested their money in the chit fund business that would fetch good returns. But after they failed to receive any money, Dhamodharasamy of Sulur filed a complaint with the district police,” a police officer said. Shanmugam was arrested under Section 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and was remanded in judicial custody. Police are on the lookout for his son S Krishnaraj of Kalapatti and daughter-in-law K Kalyani. “Krishnaraj is a professor at a government college in Pollachi. We raided the houses of the accused and recovered a few documents and also seized a car,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-arrested-for-cheating-investors/articleshow/79179298.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Bronze idol stolen from temple||Coimbatore: Burglars decamped with a bronze idol from a private temple at Vellakoil near Kangeyam in Tirupur district on Tuesday.According to police, the idol of a Goddess was one foot tall and weighed 6kg. It was worth Rs 5,000. The priest, who opened the temple on Tuesday morning, found it missing. Based on his complaint, the Vellakoil police have registered a case. An investigation is on. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bronze-idol-stolen-from-temple/articleshow/79179295.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Congress rallies against farm laws||HYDERABAD: The Congress on Wednesday took out a huge tractor rally, in protest against anti-farmer policies being pursued by the state and central governments, from Madhira in Khammam district. The rally was led by Congress Legislature Party leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka and top leaders of the party. Farmers, along with hundreds of tractors and other vehicles, participated in the rally raising slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre for bringing three anti-farmer laws. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-rallies-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79179301.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Families to hit the road to celebrate Diwali||Coimbatore: With Diwali falling on Saturday and most offices and schools declaring Friday off, many families in the city have decided to drive to nearby hill stations or resorts to make the best use of the long weekend. Pointing to the restrictions on bursting firecrackers and large social and family gatherings, they say there is no point in staying home to “celebrate the festival”.Entrepreneur couple Amritha and Dinesh Kumar from Nav India are heading to a home stay at Top Slip with their two children and their siblings’ families to celebrate Diwali. They plan to spend the festival morning on a two-hour trek. Amritha says, “Living in apartments, we don’t want to stay cooped up for this festive weekend too. We have decided to show our children a new place and a different experience, instead.”Most of the families have chosen destinations that are less than six hours away and opted for a two to three-night stay. Popular destinations include Ooty and Coonoor in the Nilgiris, Kochi and Kumarakom in Kerala and Coorg and Kabini in Karnataka.Anahita Mukherjee, who is travelling to Coorg with her husband for the weekend, says, “Earlier, Diwali was a happening occasion with get-togethers and marathon cards sessions. Now that they are not advisable, there is no point in staying back home.” Meanwhile, for many homestays and hotels, the upcoming weekend would be the busiest one since the lockdown came into force in March. Ritesh Choudhary, general manager of Savoy - IHCL SeleQtions in Ooty, says, “We have hit 90% occupancy. Coimbatore is our second highest source of guests, after Bengaluru.”Except for a room, Coco Lagoon in Pollachi is also full for the weekend.This is despite many hotels charging up to 15% premium for the weekend after seeing the traction. Rooms at such hotels cost anywhere between Rs 8,000 and Rs 13,000, inclusive of taxes, a night. “We see more people wanting to travel now just to take a break in a safe place, giving safety a priority over all other considerations,” says Ritesh.Pointing out they are seeing an exponential increase in people travelling with their pets for vacation, he says, “We are pet friendly with our paw-cation initiative.”There is also demand for small homestays with limited rooms but a lot of open space.Ambereena, who manages Serendipity group of hotels, says, “At least two of our properties - 180 Mc Iver and Ambereena - are full with large families booking three to four rooms in a single property.”Little Earth Group’s destiny property at Avalanche is also sold out. “This is despite us not hosting any special Diwali night or programme this year,” says an executive with the property.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/families-to-hit-the-road-to-celebrate-diwali/articleshow/79179290.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Secunderabad: SCB clears debris, garbage in flood-affected bylanes, roads||SECUNDERABAD: Over 2,000 metric tonnes of garbage, which had piled up on the main roads, bylanes, and along the open nalas and culverts in Secunderabad Cantonment, were removed as part of a special drive launched by the SCB’s health and sanitation wing. Nearly 50 residential colonies in SCB’s ward Nos I, II, VI and VII, were badly affected after water from the major nalas like Hasmathpet nala, Patny nala and Picket nala, entered their colonies. A massive quantity of water hyacinth and unwanted greenery from the lakes piled up in the nalas and obstructed the flow of sewage. In several areas, carcasses of animals were also found in the nalas.  The debris of retaining walls of the nalas, beds, pillows, mattresses and furniture were also found in the colonies. The drive was launched after the floodwater receded in colonies like Patny Compound, Royal Enclave, ICRISAT Colony Phase I and II, Progressive Colony, Malani Enclave, Aravelley Enclave, Sowjanya Colony, Maruthi Colony, Dhanalakshmi Colony and other colonies. “The garbage has been shifted to Jawaharnagar dumpyard. Almost all colonies are now garbage-free. Only a few pockets are left and will be completed in a day or two,” said Secunderabad Cantonment Board senior superintendent (SWM) M Devender .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-clears-debris-garbage-in-flood-affected-bylanes-roads/articleshow/79179312.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Congress accused of ignoring Brahmins||KOTA: Senior Congress leaders in Bundi have accused the party leadership of not seeking their opinion and ignoring the Brahmins in ticket distribution in 23 wards of Bundi zila parishad elections scheduled on November 23. A delegation comprising senior party and Brahmin leaders met PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra on Wednesday in Jaipur and conveyed him of their dissatisfaction. The party’s state chief also reportedly admitted to ‘overseeing of experience and Brahmins in ticket distribution.’ The son of senior Congress leader and Pipalda MLA Ramnarayan Meena and former zila pramukh of Bundi Mahaveer Meena had sought party’s tickets for zila parishad election and had filed nomination papers but their names were found missing from the official list of candidates. The two leaders were assured of party symbol, but the names of other party workers appeared in the official list issued on Tuesday evening, said a party worker. In order to prevent dissidence, Congress did not release the list of its zila parishad candidates in 23 wards of Bundi zila parishad. Expressing anger over ticket distribution, senior Congress leader and former state minister Harimohan Sharma said the party leadership gave tickets to those who played vital role in defeating the party in parliamentary and state assembly elections. Sharma also did not justify denial of party ticket to Shiv Meena, son of Ramnarayan Meena. The party in charge for the zila parishad ticket distribution should not have asked Shiv Meena to file nomination if the leadership had intended to give the party symbol to someone else, he added. “It is unfortunate that for the post of zila pramukh in Bundi, despite being open for general category, no Brahmin or general category candidates were given tickets but an OBC candidate hailing from Gurjar community was nominated by the party,” Harimohan Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-accused-of-ignoring-brahmins/articleshow/79180765.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Year after tragedy, only 83 birds of 7 species seen at dry Sambhar Lake||Jaipur: India’s largest saltwater lake covering around 240-sqkm has recorded only 83 water birds of seven species this season. A year after the country’s first avian tragedy, degraded habitat in absence of water has kept migratory birds away from Sambhar Lake, a wetland deemed to be of ‘international importance’ under the Ramsar Convention.During field monitoring on Tuesday to record the present status of the lake, ecologist TK Roy, who conducts the International Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) every year at the lake in January, observed that a total of seven species of waterbirds including residents and migratory. Roy said, “The lake is approximately 75% dry. Total seven species of water birds were recorded in the entire lake with smaller number of Greater Flamingos. On the periphery of the lake, fresh waterbodies including Narisal, Jhapok in Jaipur Division could be seen as much better wetland habitat with plenty of water and total 35 species of water birds of more than 1,000 in numbers were recorded.The government should take urgent steps to revive the lake.”Roy and his team, which also comprised forest and district administration, observed least number of resident birds this time at the lake. Three resident species recorded at the lake included Black-winged Stilts, Red-watled Lapwing and White-browed Wagtail. Similarly, four species of migratory birds that too were negligible in number included Kentish Plover, Common Redshank, Green Sandpiper and Common Sandpiper. The preliminary report reads, “Sambhar Lake throughout the year is habitat for Greater Flamingo and IUCN Red-listed threatened species Lesser Flamingos. Surprisingly, this time these species were recorded in the least number of scattered smaller flock due to degraded (drying) wetland habitat.”In January, the lake recorded 43,510 birds of 31 species. Experts are apprehensive to witness any bird’s diversity and population in January 2021 when (AWC) census begins. “This year, possibilities are negligible that birds will be recorded in the lake in January.” The lake earned a bad name after the mass deaths of over 23,000 migratory birds due to Avian botulism in 2019. The arrival of migratory birds has almost stopped in the absence of water and deaths have not been recorded this year. Green experts stressed that government should take serious action to revive and conserve the lake. Om Prakash, a local resident and bird conservationists said, “Local villagers on the periphery pump out water from the pockets. This is occurring on a large scale near Kochiya ki dhani. Migratory birds at the lake are coming, but do not stay after witnessing disturbance. Extraction of water should be banned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/year-after-tragedy-only-83-birds-of-7-species-seen-at-dry-sambhar-lake/articleshow/79180754.cms||Ajay Singh
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizamabad bids adieu to soldier martyred in J&K||HYDERABAD: The last rites of sepoy Ryada Maheshwar from Nizamabad who was martyred in Jammu and Kashmir were performed with military honours in his village of Komanpalli in Velpur mandal on Wednesday. A large number of people participated in the funeral procession after which the final rites were held with military and state government honours. Roads and buildings minister V Prashanth Reddy, who attended the last rites, said the family would be given an ex-gratia of Rs 50 lakh, a house site and a government job to a family member of the soldier as announced by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao.  The 26-year-old soldier of 18 Madras Regiment was engaged in anti-terrorist operations in in Jammu and Kashmir on November 8 and got killed. He got married one-and-a-half years ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizamabad-bids-adieu-to-soldier-martyred-in-jk/articleshow/79179326.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||3, including lawyer, arrested for burglary||Coimbatore: The Tirupur city police on Tuesday arrested three men, including an advocate, for stealing gold jewellery and cash from the house of a garment company owner at MS Nagar in the city.The arrested men were identified as advocate S Manoj Kumar, 31, D Annamalai, 30, and T Manikandan, 30, natives of Trichy district. Police recovered 53 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs 3 lakh from them.The victim, Sreenivasan, who returned from his morning walk on November 1, was shocked to find the front door of his house broke open and 87 sovereigns of gold jewellery and Rs 12 lakh kept in a cupboard missing.While going through CCTV footage collected from a nearby building, police noticed a four-wheeler parked in front of the house at the time of the burglary. “Even though the number plate was captured on the camera, a number had worn off. We tried to find the missing number by trial-and-error and identified the owner of the vehicle. We tracked down the vehicle at Kuzhithalai in Karur district,” said a police officer.A police team reached Karur to arrest the accused under sections 454 (house-breaking) and 380 (theft in building) of the Indian Penal Code. They are on the lookout for two more people. “Preliminary investigation revealed that Annamalai was staying near the victim’s house and had informed the advocate about the affluent businessman. The advocate hatched the burglary plan,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-including-lawyer-arrested-for-burglary/articleshow/79179316.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Woman held for killing son||Coimbatore: The Tirupur police on Wednesday arrested a Dharapuram resident and her eldest son for killing her 27-year-old son.The arrested people were identified as N Thamilarasi, 52, of Alangiyam and N Satheesh Kumar, 30. The deceased was identified as N Chinnu. “He was addicted to alcohol and used to fight with his family. Around 5.30pm on Tuesday, Chinnu came home drunk and created a ruckus. When he attacked her, Thamilarasi grabbed a pestle and hit him. Chinnu died of head injuries,” a police officer said.The Alangiyam police sent the body to the Dharapuram government hospital for postmortem.Thamilarasi and Satheesh Kumar were arrested under Section 302 (murder) of IPC and remanded in Dharapuram sub-jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-held-for-killing-son/articleshow/79179324.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||100 snatching and robbery cases solved with arrest of donkey gang in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: The police on Wednesday claimed to have cracked 100 snatchings and robberies with the arrest of seven notorious accused infamous by the name of donkey gang. The accused used to rob people by threatening them with pistols and sharp-edged weapons. The donkey gang was more active in areas around Bahadur Ke Road, Jassian Road, Grain Market, Shimlapuri, Gill Road and Moti Nagar. The arrested have been identified as Lovedeep Singh Deepu of Jhabewal Road, Bhamia, Gagandeep Singh of Faridkot, Deepak Kumar of Shimlapuri, Kulwinder Singh of Gaunsgarh, Amanjot Singh of Bulara, Shiv Kumar of Bhamia Kalan and Vikram Singh of Jamalpur. Division 3 police nabbed them from Transport Nagar following a tip-off. The police have recovered a 7.65 bore pistol with four live cartridges, one dummy pistol, one airgun, four sharp-edged weapons, six motorcycles, one scooter, one internet dongle and seven mobiles from their possession. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said it was a notorious gang of robbers active in the city for long. The accused confessed to have executed approximately 100 snatchings, loots and robberies from June till now. They do not have specific targets, they snatch mobiles from migrant labourers and execute robberies at gunpoint. “Lovedeep is the gang leader. All the gang members have nearly 28 criminal cases against them, including those of robberies, snatchings, thefts, attempt to murder and some under the Arms Act. The accused are drug addicts and were arrested earlier, too, but came out on bail and again started executing crimes,” added Agarwal. Assistant commissioner of police (central) Waryam Singh said the gang was active in different areas of the city. “At night, they used to threaten factory workers at gun or knifepoint and snatch their mobiles and cash. Some of the robberies were executed in daytime too. On October 9, they had robbed a sports bike worth Rs 1.5 lakh at gunpoint from the employee of a realtor in Salem Tabri. On October 6, they had attempted to rob the office of a moneychanger in Kashmir Nagar at gunpoint,” he said. The ACP added that the police were questioning the accused to know from where they purchased the weapons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/100-snatching-and-robbery-cases-solved-with-arrest-of-donkey-gang/articleshow/79174806.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Education department to probe private schools for not paying salaries to employees||DEHRADUN: The state education department has asked its officials to conduct an enquiry regarding complaints against various private schools in Uttarakhand of not paying salaries to their teachers. The directive has been issued to all chief education officers (CEO) to inspect such unethical activities taking place across more than 5,000 private schools located in the state. Meanwhile, the parent’s body has accused several private schools of charging additional fees despite the students using online mode of education. The National Association for Parents and Students Rights (NAPSR) has issued a memorandum regarding this to the district education department. “I have received several complaints from parents that the private schools are forcing them to pay the fees with immediate effect. In one case, a parent has lost his job and was bed-ridden after an accident. Yet, the school barred his child from accessing online classes. The school is asking him to pay the fees, which includes unnecessary charges, in order to get his child enrolled into the school," said Arif Khan, NAPSR’s president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/education-dept-to-probe-pvt-schools-for-not-paying-salaries-to-employees/articleshow/79176995.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Two in CISF uniform rob man of Rs 2.5 crore jewellery||ALWAR: Two persons dressed in CISF uniform robbed a person of jewellery worth Rs 2.5 crore in Alwar’s Shahjahanpur while the victim was coming from Delhi to Jaipur on Tuesday night. According to the complainant, he boarded the bus from Delhi and at Karol Bagh, the accused also got on to the bus. “The victim claimed that he was getting the ornaments in 34 packets to Jaipur for getting them cleaned. When the bus reached close to Shahjahanpur, the accused persons forcibly asked the victim to get off the bus alleging that he was a smuggler. They then took him in another vehicle and thrashed him. They took away the jewellery and left him close to Jaipur,” said a police official. As soon as the complaint was registered, the cops of several police stations started an investigation though no one has been arrested yet. The victim claimed that he worked for an air marshal company in Delhi which he had joined two months back. The firm has an office in Jaipur as well. “We have started the probe but at present it cannot be said if the complainant himself is not involved in the robbery. It cannot be sheer coincidence that the accused picked osn the complainant. They must have had prior knowledge that the valuables were being taken from Delhi to Jaipur. We are looking into the matter from all angles,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-in-cisf-uniform-rob-man-of-rs-2-5-crore-jewellery/articleshow/79180767.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board may increase supply in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: City residents are likely get potable water for an extra 30 minutes soon as all the drinking water sources have enough water to meet the demand. At present, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is supplying potable water for one-and-a-half hour to its consumers in the city and Greater Hyderabad periphery on alternate days. The HMWS&SB transmission wing on Wednesday had convened a meeting with all the general managers of O&M Divisions to work out the modalities. “A decision on the proposal will be taken this week. The senior water board officials have asked us to work out modalities and feasibility on supplies. In fact, the water board has also planned to draw additional water from Godavari, Manjira, Krishna, Himayathsagar and Osmansagar so that the supply timing can be extended,” a HMWS&SB official, who attended the meeting, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-may-increase-supply-in-city/articleshow/79179338.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: With standard operating procedures, schools to learn in-person normalcy||AHMEDABAD: After being closed for about eight months, schools and colleges are set to reopen in the state from November 23 amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. A decision to reopen secondary and higher secondary schools as well as colleges in the state post-Diwali vacation was taken on Wednesday by the state cabinet chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani. Before taking the final decision in the matter, the government held discussions with various stakeholders including department of education, school, college, university administrators and academicians, said education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama. Chudasama said it was not compulsory for students to attend schools physically now and the online mode of education will continue as per the guidelines issued by the Union government. The state will resume classroom studies from Class 9 to Class 12 from November 23. In the case of colleges and universities, reopening will be done in a phased manner, starting with medical, paramedical and postgraduate programmes. For undergraduate courses, the government has decided to resume classroom studies only for final year students initially. The decision comes at a time when many other states have had to revoke similar decisions and again shut down educational institutions after facing a rising number of Covid-19 cases in school students. Chudasama said that the Standard Operating Protocol of the Central government will be strictly adhered to while reopening the schools and colleges in the state. To prevent crowding, schools and colleges have been advised to implement the odd-even formula, wherein half of the students will come to school on odd dates and the remaining of them attend on even dates. “Managements of schools have to take written consent from parents before allowing students in the school campuses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/with-sops-schools-to-learn-in-person-normalcy/articleshow/79179307.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Pune||11-month-old dies as rickshaw tips over||Pune: A 11-month-old baby boy died and three others suffered injuries when a speeding autorickshaw turned on its side while trying to overtake a vehicle in the Katraj ghat section on Monday afternoon. The man driving the autorickshaw, Vikas Jadhav (25), was arrested. He was ferrying his family members to their native place in Bhor from Hadapsar for Diwali celebrations. All the passengers were thrown out of the vehicle as Vikas lost control over the autorickshaw at high speed, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said. Police constable Ranjit Kate lodged a complaint against Vikas. Assistant inspector Mohan Deshmukh of the Bharati Vidyapeeth police said, “The baby boy, Kartik Avinash Parve, died. His mother Gauri, father Avinash and Vikas also suffered minor injuries in the accident.” He said, “The Parves and Jadhavs are relatives. The family members decided to visit their ancestral home at Bhor taluka to celebrate Diwali. Vikas, who works with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), decided to drive the vehicle. Vikas’ brother usually drives the autorickshaw, but he too has a licence to drive it.” Deshmukh said, “Vikas attempted to overtake a vehicle in the ghat section when he lost control over the autorickshaw and it turned on its side at high speed. All the passengers were thrown out of the vehicle, including the boy. The baby suffered head injuries. He was taken to a private hospital at Dhankawdi, where he was declared dead.” The police have registered a case under sections 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 304 (A) [causing death by negligence] of the IPC against Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/11-month-old-dies-as-rickshaw-tips-over/articleshow/79180775.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Army holds war exercise in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: The Indian Army has been conducting a war exercise in the desert area for the last 10 days. To review the exercise, Lieutenant General CP Mohanty, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, visited the forward base area here. The Lieutenant General also reviewed the operational preparedness of the Konark Corps. He visited Jaisalmer Army Military Station and took a briefing from army officers about the area. Defence spokesperson Wing Commander Punit Chadda said, “During his two-day visit to Jaisalmer, the GoC-in-C was briefed by Lieutenant General Anil Puri, General Officer Commanding, Konark Corps, about the ongoing exercise to develop tri-services synergy for integrated war fighting.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-holds-war-exercise-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/79180772.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Man offers to steer car through jam, flees with it||LUDHIANA: A miscreant stole the car of a 63-year-old man near Sherpur chowk on Tuesday evening. The thief approached Naveen Bajaj, a resident of Baloke village, on the pretext of helping him steer his car (a Renault Kwid with registration number PB 36H 8833) through the massive traffic jam. Bajaj said in his police complaint, “I was going to Tajpur Road and got stuck in a traffic jam outside Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital near Sherpur Chowk. As I could not take a U-turn, a man offered to help me.” The man asked Bajaj to come out of the car. “As soon as I alighted, he took to the wheel. He brought the car out of the traffic congestion and sped away with it.” Bajaj raised the alarm and informed the traffic cops deputed near the spot. The Division 6 police have registered a case under Section 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) of the IPC. The cops are scanning the footage of CCTVs installed near the spot to trace the accused and the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-offers-to-steer-car-through-jam-flees-with-it/articleshow/79174814.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Final-year students to attend physical classes||AHMEDABAD: While the government has allowed medical, paramedical and postgraduate students to attend physical classes, in the case of undergraduate courses, including engineering, only final-year students will be allowed to attend classes. The move is to minimize the risk of Covid-19 infection as it will immensely reduce the class strength and help in taking social distancing precautions.  Himanshu Pandya, vice-chancellor of Gujarat University said they are planning to take written consent from parents before allowing the students to attend college. “After careful consideration we have taken the decision to reopen undergraduate level colleges only for final-year students. In case of PG courses, the number students are anyway very less in comparison, so social distancing measures can be taken care of,” said Anju Sharma, principal secretary, higher education. Sudhir Nanavaty, president of Gujarat State Higher Education in Colleges said that when all other activities have slowly opened up, it was time for educational institutions to re-open. “For undergraduate courses, the classroom strength can be reduced to one-third as only final year students are allowed to attend,” Nanavati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/final-year-students-to-attend/articleshow/79179329.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad dentist dies of heart attack weeks after rescue||HYDERABAD: A city-based dentist, Dr Behjat Hussain, who was abducted for ransom, and later rescued by Cyberabad police on October 28 in a dramatic operation, died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday morning. “The dentist was suffering from shock and trauma since he came back and wasn't being able to get over that a family member was behind it. he was in shock,” said a police officer probing the case. While the cops arrested 12 suspects within 24 hours, but the kingpin of the kidnapping racket identified as the brother-in-law of the dentist, is still at large and reportedly hiding in Maharashtra. The kidnappers demanded a ransom of Rs 1 crore but the police foiled the plan. Behjat Hussain suffered a heart attack on Wednesday morning upon which he was rushed to the hospital and later he died. The family members performed his funeral at a local graveyard in Hussaini Alam area in the old city. On October 26, a team of 13 inter-state kidnappers abducted the dentist for ransom from his clinic at Qismatpur village, Bandlaguda Jagir under Rajendra Nagar police station limits and while the victim was being shifted to Bengaluru, a police team from Anantapur in Andhra Pradesh intercepted the car and rescued the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-dentist-dies-of-heart-attack-weeks-after-rescue/articleshow/79179358.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Man who threw acid on girl held in Haridwar||ROORKEE: A 19-year-old man, who allegedly threw acid on a 20-year-old girl on November 2, was held by Pathri police in Haridwar. The police have described the accused as a jilted lover and have added that he committed the crime after the girl rejected his proposal multiple times. According to Haridwar SSP Senthil Avoodai K Raj S, accused Kadir Irfan is a resident of Ghissupura village. He committed the crime when the victim was sleeping in her home at Dhanpura on November 2. “The accused used to visit the victim's house often and had developed one-sided feelings for her. On the day of the crime, the accused proposed to the victim but was rejected by the girl. Subsequently, he brought a bottle of acid and poured the chemical on her face and other parts of the body while she was sleeping,” said the SSP. “Accused Kadir also sustained burns on his fingers while throwing acid on the victim. We have got confirmation from doctors that the cause of Kadir’s injuries is mishandling of acid (by him),” said Sukhpal Singh Man, in-charge of Pathri police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-who-threw-acid-on-girl-held/articleshow/79177002.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Families take bodies of workers||Jodhpur: After an initial standoff between the families of labourers killed in a wall collapse on Tuesday and the administration, the kin finally agreed for post-mortem. Initial reports said six had been killed, however, two critically injured also succumbed later in the hospital. The labourers died when the wall of an under-construction factory collapsed in Basni Industrial Area of the city. Among the dead, two belonged to Banswara and 6 from Barmer district.On Wednesday, relatives of all the eight victims had assembled at MDM Hospital morgue and refused to accept the bodies until their demands were met, which included Rs 25 lakh compensation for each of them and government job for one of their kin.ADM Anjum Tahir Samma said they were told that all these demands will be considered and decided by the state government.“We assured them that all of their demands have been referred to the state government as it only could take a decision. After that, they were convinced and accepted the bodies following the postmortem,” he said. He informed that six injured are admitted to the AIIMS and the condition of two was critical.On the other hand, the industrial association has also come forward with a humane gesture and has decided to provide compensation to the family of all the eight deceased. The state government has already announced an ex-gratia financial aid of Rs 2 lakh from the Chief Minister Relief Fund besides announcing a divisional commissioner-level inquiry into the matter. Meanwhile, the police have initiated investigation into the matter and have detained two persons.ADCP (West) Umesh Ojha said a case had been registered in the matter on Tuesday night against all those who were technically involved in the construction including the civil contractor, shade contractor and the crane operator etc.“We will see in the investigation that who was primarily at fault leading to this fatal collapse of the wall and the shade,” Ojha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/families-take-bodies-of-workers/articleshow/79180776.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||After Dubbak bypoll win, BJP plays Hindutva card||HYDERABAD: In a bid to corner the TRS government and the AIMIM fresh from the Dubbak success, the BJP sought to know as to how much tax is being collected from the Old City while burdening other parts of the city. Ahead of the GHMC elections, the BJP also tried to press home the ‘Hindutva’ card alleging that several Hindu votes had been deleted in the preliminary voter lists published by the State Election Commission (SEC). State party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday demanded that the government release a white paper on tax collected by it in the Old City. Addressing a joint press conference through Zoom along with Union junior minister for home G Kishan Reddy, MPs and key leaders of the party, Sanjay said no power bills, nala and water taxes are collected in the Old City. “Does it not amount to burdening residents of other parts of the city,” he wondered. Claiming that an internal survey done by the party had indicated that the BJP would bag more than 75 wards in the forthcoming GHMC polls, Sanjay alleged that the SEC was acting like politician. He said the civic body elections should be conducted only after the grievances of all the parties on the voter lists are heard and addressed. Earlier, talking to mediapersons at the party office, Sanjay warned that the BJP would not tolerate if efforts are made to denigrate Hindu dharma. Firebrand Nizamabad MP Dharmapuri Arvind, at a press conference earlier in Nizamabad, also alleged that police are always ready to stop people from celebrating Hindu rallies and festivities. Sanjay at another meeting with BC leaders dared chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to appoint a BC leader as a chief minister. Training guns on the state government, Kishan Reddy said though the government receives extra funds from the Centre, it never talks about them. “Instead, the state government makes allegations that Telangana was given a raw deal from teh Centre. The government has still not filed a report on flood damage and crop loss. Because of this delay, the farmers are suffering,” he said. He also said the Union government grants funds for Hyderabad under the ‘safe city’ project. BJP national general secretary BL Santhosh on Wednesday tweeted about the team work of Telangana BJP soon after the Zoom conference was convened with state-level leaders. The leaders said the Dubbak verdict is a lesson for the TRS and claimed that people would support the party in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corportion polls also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/after-dubbak-bypoll-win-bjp-plays-hindutva-card/articleshow/79179372.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Cases per lakh in Ludhiana highest since mid-August||LUDHIANA: With Ludhiana witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases, there is also a consequent increase in the number of positive cases per lakh population, which is now close to 600-mark, according to a government data. The state’s Covid media bulletin released on Tuesday put the cases per lakh in the district at 599.2, highest since August 13, the day when the health department started providing such data in its daily bulletins. Incidentally, the value for Punjab on Tuesday was 499.16. On August 13, the number of cases per lakh population was 246.8, which increased to 437 by August 31 and hit the highest value of 469.8 on September 5, before dropping to 339.1 cases per lakh population the next day. The data suggests that then onwards, the count of cases per lakh saw a consistent rise and reached 405.2 on September 15, 513.3 on September 30 and crossed 550-mark on October 13 when it stood at 552.7, before reaching the latest value. In terms of cases per lakh population, Ludhiana district on Tuesday was at fifth place in the state, with SAS Nagar occupying the number one spot at 789 cases, whereas Jalandhar and Patiala were at number two and three with 719.8 and 698 cases per lakh. Tarn Taran with just 181.4 cases per lakh was at the bottom of the chart. Reacting to the high count of cases per lakh, civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga it is attributable to the large population size of Ludhiana, leading to crowding at public places more than in most other districts of the state. Another health department officer said the high number of tests done every day might also be resulting in detection of more cases, thereby leading to the rise in cases per lakh. Social activists, however, felt that there is a need for stricter implementation of the Covid safety norms, failing which the cases could rise further. “We are witnessing the second surge and things can take a turn for the worse if the safety norms are not enforced strictly on the ground. We can see people having fast food on roadside vends in the evening and shopping in large numbers without following any of the prescribed norms. This could spell trouble for all of us,” said Keemti Rawal, a social activist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cases-per-lakh-in-ludhiana-highest-since-mid-august/articleshow/79174833.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Only green crackers to be sold in 6 major cities of Uttarakhand; bursting allowed for 2 hours||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government, in wake of the National Green Tribunal’s direction on firecrackers issued on November 5, has permitted the sale of only green crackers in the urban local body areas of its six major cities of Dehradun, Haridwar, Haldwani, Rudrapur, Rishikesh and Kashipur. According to the order issued by chief secretary Om Prakash on Wednesday, bursting of green crackers would be permitted in these six cities from 8 pm to 10 pm on Diwali and Gurupurab. On the occasion of Chhath Pooja, people would be allowed to burst crackers from 6 am to 8 am. The state government's decision comes after the NGT ordered that there would be a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers between November 10 and 30 in all cities and towns across the country where the average air quality in November fell under the ‘poor’ and above category. Commenting on the issue, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat requested state residents to minimise the use of firecrackers. “Minimal use of firecrackers will lead to less pollution and be beneficial for the environment and our health,” he said. The CM added that the decision was taken after taking pollution and health aspects into account. It is worth mentioning that green crackers emit around 30% less emission and have less harmful chemicals and are less dangerous for the health and environment. As per the certification of Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, green crackers are sold in different categories. Last year, the NGT had imposed a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) and had also ordered a similar ban in all cities/towns where air quality fell below ‘poor’ and above categories. This year, the ban on firecrackers in the NCR will start from the midnight of November 9 and continue till the midnight of November 30. The tribunal has also directed all states/UTs to initiate drives to contain air pollution from all sources in view of the potential aggravation of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/only-green-crackers-to-be-sold-in-six-major-cities-of-ukhand-bursting-allowed-for-two-hours/articleshow/79177030.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Take lessons from Andhra Pradesh, say doctor||AHMEDABAD: As Gujarat is all set to reopen the schools after Diwali for senior classes, medical experts provide a word of caution for the schools and administration. They pointed at the Andhra Pradesh experience where the schools had opened in the first week of November, and soon a large number of teachers and students had tested positive. Dr Chetan Trivedi, executive board member of Indian Academy of Paediatrics (IAP), said that the second wave of Covid-19 infections is already predicted by the experts in view of the festivities and change in season. “In such a scenario, the onus is on the family and school to ensure that the child doesn’t become a super-spreader. The children don’t show severe symptoms in a majority of the cases, and thus they are not tested. But they can surely become carriers for others,” he said. Dr Pragnesh Vachharajani, secretary of Ahmedabad Family Physicians Association (AFPA), said that it’s going to be very difficult for the schools to ensure the safety norms and mask protocols for school hours. “We are not sure about the timings, but it is difficult to expect school students to wear masks for more than four hours. Would they be maintaining social distancing outside the classrooms? I am not sure,” he said, adding that the AP experience is an indication of what can go wrong and we need to come out with a successful model to open the schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/take-lessons-from-ap-say-docs/articleshow/79179362.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizman arrested for Rs 17.65cr GST fraud||Ludhiana: Tax authorities have arrested a Ludhiana businessman, who had been running 14 firms in his and his family members’ names and was found to be involved in bogus billing amounting to Rs 252 crore to evade GST worth Rs 17.65 crore.His arrest came following a joint operation on Tuesday by three taxation authorities—central GST (CGST) commissionerate, state GST department and directorate general of GST intelligence (DGGI)—who conducted a series of raids on various business entities. The accused was on Wednesday produced before a court, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody.The officials laid their hand on the high-profile businessman, Sahil Jain, using a high-tech Business Intelligence and Fraud Analytics (BIFA) tool, which gave a detailed analysis of his business transactions, including the shady ones.Besides him, three other businessmen were also arrested for indulging in bogus billing to evade tax.Sharing more details, Ludhiana CGST principal commissioner Ashutosh Baranwal said, “The anti-evasion wing of the CGST commissionerate during the course of investigation discovered that Sahil Jain was operating 14 firms either in his name or in the name of his family members and friends. These firms had issued invoices without actual supply of goods worth Rs 252 crore involving a GST of Rs 17.65 crore. Recovery of Rs 1.23 crore has already been made in this case. In his confessional statement, he has accepted the fraud.”On the BIFA tool, Baranwal said it has been developed by GSTN and it provides year-wise graphic details with diagrams and tables of inward and outward supply chains of a business entity in real time. “We can check pan-country supply chain of any business house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizman-arrested-for-rs-17-65cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/79174840.cms||Mohit Behl
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Many parents having jitters||AHMEDABAD: The state government’s decision to restart schools and colleges from November 23 has not gone down well with some parents who fear a further spike in Covid-19 infections during winter. According to the SOP guidelines issued by the state government, schools are to take students for physical classes only after getting written permission of their parents. “We will allow students inside the school campus only after we have written permissions from the parents. Our initial focus is on Class X and Class XII students who have board exams in May,” said Muktak Kapadia, trustee of HB Kapadia School. Getting permission from parents will not be easy though. “We have to sign the consent form for allowing our child to go to school. What if there are some asymptomatic cases? In case a child is infected, who is to be blamed? Government should not rush,” said Manhar Patel, parent of a Class X student. He said that the Covid-19 situation is likely to worsen in the next 10-15 days. Naresh Shah, president of All Gujarat Vali Mandal said that eight states have gone back on their decision to reopen schools after seeing a spike in the number of infections in schoolchildren.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/many-parents-having-jitters/articleshow/79179376.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP led in five of seven mandals in Dubbak constituency||HYDERABAD: Five of seven mandals in the Dubbak assembly constituency gave majority of votes to BJP in the nail-biting contest in the by-election. BJP has secured majority in Dubbak, Mirudoddi, Narsingi, Chegunta, Thoguta mandals, while TRS secured more votes in Daultabad and Rayaprole. Congress, however, failed to secure none of the mandals. Among the mandals, Dubbak has the highest number of urban voters. Though the margin was small, BJP sees it as a good sign for the party’s prospects in the upcoming elections and considers the anti-incumbency factor against the ruling TRS worked in favour of them. According to the voting pattern and mandals-wise votes secured by political parties, in Dubbak mandal, municipality and constituency headquarters, of the nearly 45,000 votes polled, BJP candidate Raghunandan Rao bagged 20,220 votes while his opponent and TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha secured 17,570 votes. Congress candidate Ch Srinivas Reddy managed to get only 3,254 votes. In Thoguta mandal, 8,034 votes were polled in favour of BJP candidate, while TRS got 7,257 votes. In the important mandal, Congress candidate bagged 5,176 votes (highest votes for the party in the seven mandals) as it has more number of villages like Vemulghat, Etigadda Kistapur, Banjarupally and Laxmapur, which were affected by the Mallannasagar reservoir. Congress had earlier conducted various programmes against land acquisition there. Of 25,000 votes polled In Mirudoddi mandal, BJP had secured 10,615 votes, TRS 9,152 and Congress 2,961 votes, while in Chegunta of over 20,000 votes polled, 8,690 votes went in favour of BJP, 7,900 for TRS candidate and 3,147 votes for the Congress candidate. In Narsingi mandal, there was a close fight between the pink party and saffron party where BJP candidate got only 312-vote majority. Official statistics say, BJP secured 2,967 of 6,765 votes polled, the ruling party candidate got 2,555 votes and Congress candidate managed 795 votes. Daultabad mandal gave majority to TRS and a margin of 1,633 votes. Of 19,000 votes polled, Raghunandan Rao had secured 6,098 votes and TRS’ Sujatha 7,731 votes. Here too Congress got over 3,000 votes. In Rayaprole, TRS had bagged 2,171-vote majority over BJP. Of 17,352 votes polled, BJP and TRS candidates secured 5,424 and 7,595 votes respectively. “BJP cleverly chose and focussed on urban mandals and attracted unemployed youth in all the villages. Congress tried to encash on the anti-incumbency factor, but it drew a blank while the anti-government votes went to BJP. In some mandals, local TRS leaders did not work for the party,” a TRS leader from Siddipet district analysed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-led-in-5-of-7-mandals-in-dubbak-constituency/articleshow/79179399.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 12, 2020||Delhi||Explain how you plan to stick to December 31 date on Chandni Chowk: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the AAP government and North Delhi Municipal Corporation to explain how they intended to stick to the deadline of December 31 by which the government claims the project of pedestrianisation of Chandni Chowk would be ready for inauguration. A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad asked all the civic bodies involved in the project to submit the status reports indicating the work pending at their end, respectively. Meanwhile, the court also dismissed a plea by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) seeking permission to ply vehicles to ferry pilgrims to Sis Ganj Sahib Gurudwara. The committee argued that the police prohibited vehicles ferrying senior citizen pilgrims to approach the Gurdwara, causing hardship. The court underlined that once a policy decision has been taken to keep the zone vehicle free, there can’t be any exceptions to the rule and the rule by police will be applicable to all. The bench further directed Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation, set up to oversee the project, to convene a meeting of all stakeholders and work towards timely completion of the project. With the direction, the bench listed the matter for hearing in January next year. Justice Kohli’s bench was hearing a PIL initiated by it on the basis of news reports that the project has been derailed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-explain-how-you-plan-to-stick-to-dec-31-date-on-chandni-chowk/articleshow/79179430.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 12, 2020||Aurangabad||MSEDCL launches consumer outreach drive in rural areas||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has started a consumer outreach drive scheduled to cover around 8,000 villages from Marathwada. Titled as ‘One Village-One Day,’ the drive aims at addressing issues and complaints of consumers from rural areas. Joint managing director of MSEDCL for Aurangabad division Naresh Gite on Wednesday said that special teams have been formed to reach out to rural consumers as part of the drive. “We aim to deliver more consumer-centric administration in the region being a state power utility. All zone-level officers have been instructed on ways to execute the drive and ensure that it turns out to be a mega success,” he said. Ensuring smooth supply of power, periodic maintenance, accurate power billing and speedy redressal of consumer complaints are some of the focus areas of the drive which will cover Aurangabad, Latur and Nanded zones of MSEDCL. MSEDCL authorities said that the drive would also address the issue of power-theft. “Parts of Marathwada have dubious distinction of leading areas in power-theft. Such unethical practices are not only illegal, but also unsafe. The drive would make citizens aware of the issues associated with the power theft,” authorities said. “The drive will make consumers aware about online payment of billing and how to use the toll-free helpline numbers 18002333435 / 18001023435 / 1912,” deputy chief public relations officer of MSEDCL Sunil Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/msedcl-launches-consumer-outreach-drive-in-rural-areas/articleshow/79177055.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||This festival season a damp squib for cracker traders||Ludhiana: This festival season seems to be the toughest for cracker traders, who are ruing record fall in sales even as Diwali nears. With the government pushing for green crackers, businessmen’s investment too has doubled as these cost twice as much as the normal crackers. As the last-ditch effort to attract customers, the traders are offering free home delivery service and introducing offers on social media. On November 6, the sale of crackers started at six designated spots in Ludhiana and two sites in Khanna and Jagraon. Tribhuwan Thapar, a member of the Ludhiana Wholesale Fireworks’ Association, said, “It’s a double blow for cracker traders. On the one hand, they have made massive investment in green crackers, which are very costly as compared with the traditional and Chinese ones, and on the other, duration for bursting crackers has been limited only to two hours on Diwali. Besides, fear of coronavirus is keeping residents from visiting markets. But we are doing our best to cater to our customers and have started home delivery service. Residents can even place their orders through WhatsApp.” Harish Singla, another cracker trader, said, “Over the years, the business of crackers has become non-lucrative. But 2020 has turned out to be the worst year. We are seeing a record drop in the customer footfall. All this has come at a time when our input cost has risen sharply due to several reasons. We were anticipating that this year our sales will shoot up as almost all the companies have introduced green crackers. But reality turned out to be bitter for us.” Chintu Kumar, who has set up his cracker stall at Dana Mandi, Jalandhar Bypass, said, “I have been in this business for many years. This is the first time that even with three days before Diwali there is so little business. With the bursting allowed only for two hours, few customers are turning up. Traders have made massive investment in buying green crackers, paying licence fees, setting up of stalls and hiring staff. If the situation remains the same, we will suffer record losses this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/this-festival-season-a-damp-squib-for-cracker-traders/articleshow/79174846.cms||Mohit Behl
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Hosiery traders from other states becoming targets of snatchers||LUDHIANA: With the hosiery season here, traders from across the country have started visiting Ludhiana. As they bring cash with them, they become easy targets of snatchers and robbers. On the morning of November 6, two men armed with sharp-edged weapons had robbed a trader from Bihar, Naveen Kumar, of Rs 80,000 near Kapoor Hospital Chowk. Every year, during the hosiery season, robbers lie in wait for their prey in the narrow lanes of the Old City markets. For the past two years, the infamous Irani gang has been coming to the city to execute loots. Their modus operandi: they impersonate as cops, stop traders for checking and flee with their cash. Additional deputy commissioner of police-I Deepak Pareek said, “As the festival and hosiery seasons have started, footfall has increased in the Old City markets. The Ludhiana police has already increased patrolling in the area from morning to evening. This is the reason the miscreants targeted the Bihar trader early in the morning, when there were no cops. We have set up checkposts in the area and deputed PCR cops.” “Now, we will ensure patrolling in early morning hours too. Besides, we are getting more CCTVs installed in the markets. Recently, I had met the shopkeepers and the hotel owners and got more CCTVs installed as they help in tracing the accused. In addition, we plan to get hoardings installed in the main markets, spelling out precautions for traders coming from other states. We have also started tracing the habitual offenders and putting them under preventive arrest,” he added. Irani gang In 2018, Irani gang had executed six loots. Impersonating as cops, the gang members would frisk the traders and flee with their cash. Even as the Ludhiana police had nabbed the gang leader, Laalu Khani Irani, from Maharashtra, his accomplices are at large. In September 2019, the gang again returned to the city and robbed a Haryana trader of Rs 2.5 lakh. Even as the police had identified the accused as Mohammad Ali and Baghar Ali of Bhopal, they could not be traced. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal had then announced that a PCR would escort traders carrying more than Rs 5 lakh with them. Be cautious ADCP Deepak Pareek said the traders should avoid carrying much cash as several options are available for online money transfer. But if they have to carry cash, they should keep it in different places and not in one bag. They can keep some cash in the bag, some in a wallet and some in hidden pockets. They should prefer visiting markets during busy hours. Also, they should have the mobile numbers of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hosiery-traders-from-other-states-becoming-targets-of-snatchers/articleshow/79174850.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sweet discounts on mithai, kaju katri 20% cheaper||AHMEDABAD: In Covid times, this is going to be one bitter-sweet Diwali where get-togethers of near and dear ones hallmarked by gorging on choicest mithais may give way to rather low-key celebrations. In such a time, the rare price cut in mithais especially all-time favourite kaju katri, a sweetmeat made of cashew, has taken patrons by surprise. Days ahead of the festival of lights, sweetmeat shops are offering kaju katri at 20-25 percent lower price than last year’s. During Diwali 2019, kaju katri and assorted sweets made of cashew sold anywhere between Rs 1,100 to Rs 1,300 per kg. These are now being sold at a discounted rate of Rs 900 to Rs 1,000 per kg. “We are selling kaju katri at Rs 900 per kg this Diwali which retailed at Rs 1,100 last festive season. Price of cashew has gone down this season prompting us to pass on the benefit to the consumers,” said Vipul Dudhiya, who runs a renowned sweet mart in the city. Manoj Agarwal, who runs a prominent sweetmeat shop in the city said that kaju katri that was sold at Rs1,040 last year is priced at Rs 832 per kg this year. Discounts are being offered to keep the festive spirit alive and kicking,” said Agarwal. Owners of mithai marts said that prices of sweets like mohan-thal, milk-based mithai has also recorded a 10% dip. Kamlesh Kandoi of Ahmedabad Sweetmart Association said, “Corporate orders have shrunk to merely 30% while walk-in sales too is extremely low this season.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sweet-discounts-on-mithai-kaju-katri-20-cheaper/articleshow/79179404.cms||Bharat Yagnik
November 12, 2020||Surat||Leopard accepts her separated cub after 19 days in Mandvi||SURAT: In a rare occurrence, a three-month-old leopard cub was reunited with her mother after 19 days of separation in Mandvi forest range of Surat division. The entire reunion was captured in a trap camera installed by the forest department at the spot. Officials said the cub was lying injured on the road after being hit by some vehicle near Tarsada village under the jurisdiction of Mandvi south forest range on October 18. The forest team rescued the cub and shifted it to a veterinary doctor’s clinic in Mandvi for primary treatment. However, the cub was then taken to veterinary college in Navsari as it had internal injuries. “Our staff made all efforts to ensure that the cub had food and survived. After it recovered, we launched efforts to reunite it with her mother. The leopard was spotted near Tarsadi village. We installed three trap cameras and as many CCTVs around the area and kept a constant watch,” Puneet Nayyar, deputy conservator of forests, Surat division, told TOI. Around five days ago, the cub was finally reunited with her mother on November 6. “We observed that mother came close to the cub but did not take it along initially. But on November 6, she came again there with her another cub and took it with her. This is a rare happening and we are happy to see the cub is now roaming in its rightful place -the forests,” Nayyar added. On an average, six to seven cases of reunion between separated mother and cubs are reported every year. But in earlier cases, the reunion happened within a maximum of six to seven days. This was a rare case where the mother took her cub along after 19 days. According to officials, there are around 37 leopards in Surat district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/leopard-accepts-her-separated-cub-after-19-days-in-mandvi/articleshow/79178023.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||SC: State govts targeting critics, HCs must shield people’s liberty||New Delhi: New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Wednesday expressed concern over the growing number of cases of state governments targeting people who are critical of them and the high courts failing to rise up to the occasion to protect the rights of citizens. While raising questions on arrest of journalist Arnab Goswami in a 2018 abetment of suicide case, a bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee said a clear message needs to be sent to all authorities that there is a Supreme Court to protect the liberty of the people. The bench said there are many such cases of abuse of law in recent times and "we are deeply concerned about it". Referring to a case dealt by it, the bench said that a 29-year old woman, living in Delhi, was summoned by West Bengal Police for criticising the state government for non-enforcement of lockdown norms. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeThe bench also expressed concern that HCs have not been protecting the rights of citizens in such cases and aggrieved people are moving the apex court for relief. It said the constitutional court would be failing in its duty if liberty of people is not protected and a strong message had to be given to all high courts to exercise their jurisdiction. ""If this is what state governments do to people who are to be nailed, we have to send a message to all high courts to exercise their jurisdictions to protect liberty of citizens. We see case after case that HCs are not exercising their jurisdiction to protect people," the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-state-govts-targeting-critics-hcs-must-shield-peoples-liberty/articleshow/79181788.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana witnesses 1,100 new Covid cases||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 1,196 new Covid-19 positive cases and five deaths as the total count rose to 2,53,651. The overall toll went up to 1,390 as 2,34,234 persons have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection and there are 18,027 patients still under medication in the state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-witnesses-1100-new-infections/articleshow/79179443.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro to inform people about waiting time to enter busy stations||NEW DELHI: Serpentine queues of commuters waiting to enter busy Delhi Metro stations like Rajiv Chowk have become a common sight during peak hours since the city’s lifeline reopened in September. Strict crowd regulation inside stations means long wait for commuters to enter busy Metro stations and keeping this in mind, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is going to inform commuters about average waiting time to enter select stations from Wednesday. “In a first, DMRC will provide real-time average waiting time at selected busy stations during morning and evening peak hours, in case the waiting time goes beyond 20 minutes,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Dayal said updates on the average waiting time at ten stations, from 8.30 am to 10.30 am and between 5.30 pm and 7.30 pm, would be posted on official social media pages and handles of DMRC. “This initiative is aimed at helping commuters plan their journey effectively so as to avoid long queues at entry/exit points,” Dayal said. To begin with, the initiative will be carried out at Rajiv Chowk, Central Secretariat, Chandni Chowk, Chawri Bazaar, Patel Chowk, Huda City Centre, Barakhambha Road, JLN Stadium, Saket and Lal Quila Metro stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-to-inform-people-about-waiting-time-to-enter-busy-stns/articleshow/79179485.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Bareilly||Leopard strays into Air Force station, nearby residential areas in Bareilly||BAREIILY: Local residents living near Air Force station in Bareilly were terrified after sighting a leopard straying into the human habitat on Wednesday morning. Forest department was informed and children were advised to stay indoors in morning and evening hours and remain in groups. Earlier, a minor girl was killed by a leopard in Bahedi on September 28. Several video clips of the leopard were being shared by the locals on social media. Divisional Forest Officer (DFO) Bharat Lal said, “We are combing the area and a cage has been placed with bait on the Air Force campus. Joint patrolling will be done with Air Force officials and 10 camera traps will be placed on Thursday.” Sameer Khan, a local, said, “My uncle sighted the leopard at 5 am at his poultry farm. He immediately alerted the residents of the colony. Later, it moved into the restricted area of Indian Air force." Khan added, "This is the first time we have seen any leopard in this area and we are scared as it may attack children or kill our animals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/leopard-strays-into-air-force-station-nearby-residential-areas-in-bareilly/articleshow/79176041.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 12, 2020||Goa||Sawant, Kejriwal spar over pollution||Panaji: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal should worry about the rising pollution in the country’s capital, rather than speaking about protests over three infrastructural projects in Goa. This statement in Goa drew criticism from Kejriwal, who tweeted to Sawant that he wishes to see both Goa and Delhi being pollution-free. “I think no other state has as much pollution as Delhi and so, before worrying about Goa, he should first speak about the pollution in Delhi. Only yesterday, I have returned from Delhi. People there are craving fresh air to breathe. He should also control spread of Corona there. The third wave has begun there,” said Sawant, who made the statement soon after his arrival in Goa after a two-day Delhi visit. This was in reaction to a tweet by Kejriwal on November 9, where he supported protesters in Goa opposing three infrastructural projects that will be coming up in and around a protected forest area at Mollem in South Goa. “Pollution in Delhi is at the highest level in the country. No other place in the country has so much pollution. You can go yourself and see the extent to which pollution there has increased. And so, I want to tell Kejriwalji that he should worry about Delhi and not worry about Goa,” said Sawant at a press briefing. Tagging Sawant, Kejriwal tweeted soonafter, “@PramodPSawant Its not abt Delhi’s pollution vs Goa’s pollution. Both Delhi and Goa are dear to me. We are all one country. We all have to work together to ensure there is no pollution in Delhi and Goa.” In response Sawant tweeted, late on Wednesday, “Dear CM @ArvindKejriwal ji, we are making sure that there is no pollution issue in Goa and our Govt will ensure that our state remains pollution free. I am sure the people of Delhi also want the same in their beautiful state.” On November 9, Kejriwal had tweeted particularly about an overnight protest in Goa against the railway track doubling project, which protesters allege is to increase coal handling at the Mormugao Port Trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-kejriwal-spar-over-pollution/articleshow/79180799.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Nodal officers appointed for GHMC polls, civic chief urges coordination with cops||HYDERABAD: GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar asked for co-ordination between the civic body and police personnel in connection with the arrangement and conduct of the GHMC elections. During a meeting on Wednesday, Kumar asked officials that there should not be any partiality while discharging duties during elections. He said that flying squads must be formed circle wise and static surveillance teams created by the respective circle nodal officers. These teams should be formed immediately and be sent to law department for authorizing of magisterial powers. Similarly, the DMCs and ACPs are to prepare route maps. “Identification of polling stations is almost completed,” he said. He added that identification of distribution and reception centers had already been completed and with the help of police, processes of barricading these centers should commence. The permission for conduct of rallies and meetings will be issued by the deputy commissioners and ACPs concerned, he said. Speaking on the occasion police commissioner Hyderabad Anjani Kumar said the GHMC elections are different when compared to Parliament and assembly Elections. This time ballot paper is being used during GHMC elections and with the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic the polling personal should be more vigilant. The joint police commissioner Tarun Joshi has been appointed as nodal officer, for GHMC elections. “In the next two to three days there will be online training classes to the police personnel,” he said. For Khairtabad Zone DCP, A R Srinivas, Secunderabad Zone Kamlesh, Charminar Zone Gajarao Bhoopal have been appointed as nodal officers. Further, he said due to recent incessant rains, the condition of polling stations have to re-checked, Kumar said Cyberabad police commissioner Sajjanar said a had already been conducted in regard to polls and there are 38 municipal wards under his jurisdiction. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat, GHMC zonal commissioners and others participated in the meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nodal-officers-appointed-for-ghmc-polls-civic-chief-urges-coordination-with-cops/articleshow/79179428.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Need-based purchases, e-commerce hitting retail business||AHMEDABAD: Weakening consumer confidence coupled with the pandemic has hit sentimental festive buying across stores in Ahmedabad, barely a few days ahead of Diwali. Slashing of people’s incomes, uncertainty over job security coupled with apprehensions over stepping out of homes and the continuing onslaught of e-commerce counterparts has hit retailers the worst this Diwali across most segments be it textiles, apparels, electronics and consumer durables, among others. Bhavesh Waria, president, Ahmedabad Electronics Dealers’ Association (AEDA), said, “People are cautious of spending money amid lack of job security and slump in market conditions. With salary growth or bonus not being given, volume of sales be it for electronics or home appliances is taking a major hit. Navratri-Diwali usually accounts for 35% of our annual sale. However, this year, the numbers have declined by at least 50% against last festive season.” Electronics dealers said that most customers are investing in televisions or home appliances during this time, being lured by better discounts. Similar is the case with apparel makers as well, whose business has taken a major hit. “The uptakes for apparels have remained lukewarm. Due to the festive season, the demand is there for traditional wear, however, people come with a limited budget. The sales will be at least 60% down as compared to last year’s Diwali. We expect there will be some movement around the wedding season, as the government has now extended the cap on guests allowed in social gatherings to 200 persons,” said a clothing retailer based in city. Interestingly, people are spending higher in home textiles and home décor items. “After lockdown was eased, the demand for home textiles picked up tremendously. During Diwali, people usually buy bedsheets, curtains, table cloths, rugs and carpets. However, the same demand has remained very strong this time because of work from home as people now spend large part of their time at home and thus prefer to upgrade home furnishings,” said Kirit Patel, president, Shree Panchkuva Kapad Mahajan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/need-based-purchases-e-commerce-hitting-retail-biz/articleshow/79179442.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Distressed over defeat in Dubbak bypolls, TRS worker ends life||HYDERABAD: Distressed over the defeat of TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha in Dubbak constituency, the result of which was declared on Tuesday, a TRS worker allegedly ended his life on the outskirts of his Konaipally village in Siddipet’s Doultabad mandal. Kothinti Swamy (34) allegedly hanged himself from a tree. His body was found by villagers on Wednesday morning. Finance minister T Harish Rao visited Swamy’s family and consoled them. He said Swamy’s children would be provided education in residential schools. He handed over Rs 2 lakh to the family. The minister advised the party workers to take the defeat in a sportive manner and not to take their lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/distressed-over-defeat-trs-worker-ends-life/articleshow/79179409.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||TMREIS celebrates Azad’s birth anniversary||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Minorities Residential Educational Institutions Society (TMREIS) on Wednesday celebrated Maulana Abul Kalam Azad’s birth anniversary virtually. AK Khan, advisor to Telangana government and B Shafiullah, secretary, TMREIS participated in the virtual celebrations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tmreis-celebrates-azads-birth-anniv/articleshow/79179429.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Student turnout nears 50% 10 days after schools reopen in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Nearly 10 days after schools in the state were reopened after a seven-month-long hiatus, the student turnout is gradually improving and nearing the 50 per cent mark. Schools, junior colleges and higher educational institutions, which resumed conventional classes on November 2, had a nearly 40 per cent student turnout on day one. This has now gradually increased to 50 per cent. While 90 per cent of government teachers have been attending schools, the corresponding percentage in private schools has been only 75 per cent, in keeping with the numbers of private schools reopened. However, attendance in junior colleges is low, between 30 to 35 per cent. However, this rate is an improvement compared to the 16 per cent student turnout on November 2. The proportion of lecturers attending junior colleges is almost double at 65 per cent. Student turnout in the degree colleges has been hovering at around 30 to 40%. As physical presence has not been made mandatory for students as per guidelines formulated by the education department, several institutions, particularly the private ones, are availing of the remote learning facility, in adherence to safety protocols for Covid-19. Education minister Adimulapu Suresh said the student turnout has been gradually increasing in schools, particularly in class 10. “About 50 per cent of Class 10 students attended their classes this Monday. Our top priority goes to the safety of the students in the wake of the pandemic. All the Covid-19 guidelines and safety measures such as mask wearing and physical distancing are strictly adhered to in every institution apart from undertaking the Covid-19 pledge from the students in the morning. The education department has been constantly monitoring the situation and alerting the concerned officials,” said Suresh. Educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh shut down their campuses on March 19 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. More than one crore students in the state remained confined to their homes for months. It was only on September 21 that the government allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to go to school, only to clarify doubts they might have. Students of classes 6 to 8 are scheduled to start face-to-face instruction from November 23. Primary sections are scheduled to start classes from December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/student-turnout-nears-50-10-days-after-schools-reopen/articleshow/79178030.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Gold buyers using lockdown savings for Dhanteras’||MUMBAI: The glitter of fairy lights adorning jewellery showrooms reflects an upbeat mood as the five-day festival of Diwali begins on Friday. Goldsmiths are looking forward to optimal sales at Dhanteras despite the lockdown effect and the fact that the yellow metal has scaled an all-time high of Rs 50,000 per 10 gm. Samir Shah of Manubhai Jewellers at LT Road in Borivli, said, “Gold jewellery bookings are at a modest growth QoQ (quarter on quarter) currently at our store. Not only gold buyers, even diamond jewellery buyers are showing a surprising surge in booking to ensure they don’t miss out the auspiciousness of Dhanteras.” Shah makes an interesting observation about why people are choosing to invest in gold despite high prices. “There was a drop in households’ consumption expenditure as a result of the lockdown, which has in fact led to higher savings. Also, there are weddings lined up which had been pushed back due to Covid-19, and those customers are out for an aggressive search of gold and diamond products,” he said. Buying is under way in full swing for the upcoming wedding season, which begins on November 21, said Kumar Jain, vice-chairman of Shri Mumbai Jewellers' Association. He said, “Many marriages are scheduled in the coming weeks. Last year, there were 71 mahurats. This year, there are 103. On Dhanteras 2019, the price of gold was Rs 39,515 per 10 gm. This season it is Rs 10,000 more. But high rates are not an issue for people who want to buy.” In the jewellery hub of Zaveri Bazar, Dhirajlal Bhimji Zaveri. has witnessed an early demand for gold coins or bullion. “Jewellery involves additional cost of making charges, so that is a deterrent for customers who wish to invest. But wedding buyers are opting for chains, rings, pendants and mangalsutra,” said owner Deepak Zaveri. On Wednesday, Shilpi Jewellers in Lokhandwala Complex, Andheri, saw customers arrive to select rings and danglers in the range of Rs 10,000-15,000. Pravin Mirkar, owner of Mirkar Jewellers in Borivli, though, reported few footfalls so far and has his fingers crossed for festival day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gold-buyers-using-lockdown-savings-for-dhanteras/articleshow/79178611.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Graduate voters’ numbers double for 2 MLC seats||HYDERABAD: The number of voters who enrolled for two graduate MLC seats has doubled this time. For Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency, five lakh graduates have enrolled and for Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat, 5.17 lakh voters have enrolled. For these two seats, only 2.3 lakh and 2.5 lakh voters had enrolled in the last elections. The graduates will be allowed to re-enrol or correct their details after the end of this month. The political parties have taken keen interest in enrolling the graduate voters this time. The ruling TRS in a bid to retain the Warangal seat conducted camps to enrol the voters. Sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy is likely to contest the election. TJS president Kodandaram, who has entered the fray from Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda seat, alleged that the TRS is pushing non-graduates also as voters. The BJP is confident of retaining the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/graduate-voters-nos-double-for-2-mlc-seats/articleshow/79179444.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 12, 2020||Amaravati||Student turnout nears 50% 10 days after schools reopen in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Nearly 10 days after schools in the state were reopened after a seven-month-long hiatus, the student turnout is gradually improving and nearing the 50 per cent mark. Schools, junior colleges and higher educational institutions, which resumed conventional classes on November 2, had a nearly 40 per cent student turnout on day one. This has now gradually increased to 50 per cent. While 90 per cent of government teachers have been attending schools, the corresponding percentage in private schools has been only 75 per cent, in keeping with the numbers of private schools reopened. However, attendance in junior colleges is low, between 30 to 35 per cent. However, this rate is an improvement compared to the 16 per cent student turnout on November 2. The proportion of lecturers attending junior colleges is almost double at 65 per cent. Student turnout in the degree colleges has been hovering at around 30 to 40%. As physical presence has not been made mandatory for students as per guidelines formulated by the education department, several institutions, particularly the private ones, are availing of the remote learning facility, in adherence to safety protocols for Covid-19. Education minister Adimulapu Suresh said the student turnout has been gradually increasing in schools, particularly in class 10. “About 50 per cent of Class 10 students attended their classes this Monday. Our top priority goes to the safety of the students in the wake of the pandemic. All the Covid-19 guidelines and safety measures such as mask wearing and physical distancing are strictly adhered to in every institution apart from undertaking the Covid-19 pledge from the students in the morning. The education department has been constantly monitoring the situation and alerting the concerned officials,” said Suresh. Educational institutions in Andhra Pradesh shut down their campuses on March 19 in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases. More than one crore students in the state remained confined to their homes for months. It was only on September 21 that the government allowed students of classes 9 to 12 to go to school, only to clarify doubts they might have. Students of classes 6 to 8 are scheduled to start face-to-face instruction from November 23. Primary sections are scheduled to start classes from December 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/student-turnout-nears-50-10-days-after-schools-reopen/articleshow/79184574.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ‘Operation akarsh’ on as BJP wants to hit a century||HYDERABAD: Emboldened by the success in Dubbak, the BJP is set to get into an aggressive mode by luring grassroots workers and cadres from other parties. The party has come up with a detailed plan as part of ‘operation akarsh’ to strengthen the party ward-wise to ensure better success in the forthcoming GHMC polls. Party this time is aiming to win at least 100 wards of 150 in GHMC. A top BJP leader said some big leaders from other parties are waiting in the wings to join the party. “But, we are keen on roping ward-level and local leaders who maintain good contact with people and slum dwellers,” he told TOI.  “The idea is take five leaders from the TRS if the ruling party takes away one leader from us. Several TRS leaders, especially dissidents, are in touch with us,” he said. Some Congress leaders from Malkajgiri are set to join the party on Thursday. Finetuning its strategy for the GHMC polls, the party leadership is planning community-wise meetings and rallies, especially of marginalised sections, in various parts of Hyderabad. A meeting of OBCs took place on Wednesday. Two such meetings were already conducted in Begumpet in the last few days. The party is also going to make a big issue out of deletion and adding of voters in various wards, a leader said. The party leadership is keen on holding at least three campaign meets in all the wards before the elections. said. While speculation is doing the rounds that Congress star campaigner and actress Vijayashanti will join the BJP after Diwali, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said that no decision was taken on this. “There was no discussion on her joining yet,” he said at the press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/operation-akarsh-on-as-bjp-wants-to-hit-a-century/articleshow/79179452.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad cueists in corona pocket||AHMEDABAD: Dhvaj Haria and Rupesh Shah, both from Ahmedabad, have become prominent names in the last few years in the cue sport, both at national and international levels. They have churned out some incredible victories. Both can easily be called among the best in the field in the state. Ahmedabad, considered to be the nursery and the hub for this sports in India, has given eminent players of the calibre of Satish Mohan, Neelkamal Vakil, Rajkamal Vakil and Geet Sethi in the past – all legends and big names on the international arena. Dhvaj, 27, ranked amongst the top 3 in India in billiards and top 5 snooker, is the most promising of the current lot. Having all the shots in his armour, the talented cueist reached back-to-back finals of the senior national billiards in 2018 and 2019. “This year due to the pandemic, I was unable to play international tournaments in Leeds, London and Melbourne,’’ said a dejected Dhvaj, speaking to TOI. However, the talented youngster has taken the pandemic in his stride. “I have been practising regularly at home and at the Sports Club (following the new safety norms) in the evening. It has also given me an opportunity to practise and learn new skills,” said Dhvaj. “This year, I was supposed to participate at the World Billiards Limited championship and the World Matchplay championship at Leeds in April and the IBSF World Billiards championship in October, but couldn't participate due to the pandemic,’’ said the Arjuna award winner, Rupesh, 47. Ahmedabad’s Sonic Multani, the current national snooker coach, too, feels that apart from established players like Rupesh and Dhvaj, the pandemic has affected the progress of the upcoming players too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/city-cueists-in-corona-pocket/articleshow/79179483.cms||Sanjay Chakhaiyar
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Covid Diwali: More people want houses professionally cleaned in Chennai||CHENNAI: In the run up to Diwali, bookings from users for house cleaning services are up by 30%. Though, house cleaning is a regular practice before Diwali among Indians, service providers say hygiene conscious first-time users who want to safeguard their kids and elderly family members are driving the demand much higher this year. Besides, being holed up inside homes during the pandemic has added to the fatigue, making them seek outsourced services. Thirty-eight-year-old Himanshu Sharma, a resident of Sowcarpet, has availed a full-house deep cleaning a week before Diwali. “It is an annual practice for us to clean and redecorate our home before Diwali. Unlike earlier times, we have opted for professional help for a full-house fumigation and deep clean after the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic,” said Sharma. Home Service startup Urban Company has seen overall bookings up by 30% at an all-time high of 1,15,000 bookings in October, as compared to 80,000 in September, 2020. The company has doubled its cleaning team staff to meet the demand. Its director of marketing Pratik Mukherjee said, “Bookings have jumped 20% in Chennai for November, as compared to October. Bookings from new users have tripled in the past three months.” It expects bookings to touch 1,50,000 mark before mid-November. Another home service provider Housejoy, which has operations in Chennai, Bengaluru and Hyderabad, saw demand for home cleaning service go up by 30-35% in the past two months. Housejoy CEO and founder Sanchit Gaurav said, “We only see this demand going upward in the coming months. There is around 40% overall increase in demand due to Diwali.” The company has plans to enter tier 2 cities such as Mysore, Pune and Vijayawada. For 52-year-old Parimala Murugan, of Besant Nagar, deep cleaning was agonising that she signed up with a service provider. “We were worried about taking care of my father-in-law, who is in his mid-eighties, amid this pandemic. Festive offers have brought down the service charges by a lot.” Service providers added that since the pandemic scare, there are more inquiries for full house cleaning, compared to kitchen/ living space cleaning earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-diwali-more-people-want-houses-professionally-cleaned/articleshow/79179489.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: Traffic diversion, 14 parking slots announced for Dhanteras, Diwali||DEHRADUN: With lakhs of people expected to go shopping on the occasion of Dhanteras, the Dehradun police has announced an extensive traffic diversion plan. The bulk of the people are expected to visit Rajpur Road and Paltan Bazaar, and taking the fact into consideration, a total of 14 parking slots, including major ones at Rangers ground and Pavilion ground, have been made by the police. Paltan Bazaar, Dhamawala, Macchi Bazaar and Pipal Mandi have been made a zero zone for vehicles and only pedestrians will be allowed in these market spaces. Due to heavy traffic on Survey Chowk, the vehicles coming from Raipur Road will be diverted towards the Municipal Road. With heavy traffic on Prince Chowk, Tehsil Chowk and Darshan Lal Chowk, the vehicles coming from Aaraghar will be diverted from CMI hospital towards MKP Chowk. In order to prevent vehicles entering market areas, barricading will be done at locations, including Raja Road, Darshani Gate, Pipal Mandi, Buddha Chowk, Clock Tower and Survey Chowk. A total of 14 parking slots have been identified for two wheelers and four wheelers. The parking spaces have been allotted at different locations, including MDDA Parking Clock Tower, Race Course Road, Janpath Market, Nagar Nigam premises, Rangers Ground and Pavilion Ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traffic-diversion-14-parking-slots-announced-for-dhanteras-diwali/articleshow/79177086.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 12, 2020||Goa||Mormugao Port Trust drops four Sagarmala projects, says not feasible||PANAJI: The Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) has written to the Union shipping ministry on October 13 this year rejecting four projects under Sagaramala, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. “Under Sagarmala, a survey report was prepared of the proposed projects and MPT has written to the shipping ministry that four projects are not feasible. It has said that in no way the project to deepen the channel and get more vessels can be carried out. Development of two numbers of berth and connecting flyer of Indian Navy and Coast Guard at Vasco Bay has also been dropped giving various reasons,” Sawant said. A proposal for central harbour for iron ore and coal terminal also stands rejected, he said. “Multiplex terminal at Betul too has been dropped. From the reasons given it is clear that claims that coal handling will increase at MPT are false,” Sawant further added. The chief minister said the state government is committed to developing only those industries which will not lead to pollution. “In Goa, there is a mentality developing among some to oppose all developmental projects because. People of Goa should understand that we have to get new investments in the state. We do not intend to get any polluting industry to Goa. Of course if people do not want it then we are ready, we listen to the people,” Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpt-drops-four-sagarmala-projects-says-not-feasible/articleshow/79180803.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Family, Army bid farewell to jawan||TIRUPATI: The last rites of Army jawan Ch Praveen Kumar (37) killed in an encounter along the Line of Control (LOC) in Machil sector of Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara district were performed with full military honours at his native village Reddyvaripalle in Irala mandal of Chittoor district on Wednesday. The last rites of the soldier from Chittoor were performed in the presence of Army officers, district and state officials and representatives from various political parties. Deputy chief minister K Narayana Swamy, minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, district collector Narayan Bharat Gupta and other officials were among those who paid their last respects. Earlier, senior Army officials paid floral tributes to Praveen after his mortal remains were brought to the village on Tuesday night. Praveen was given a gun salute at the cremation, while the Army band performed at the last rites. The pyre was lit by Praveen’s five-year-old son. His family and friends bid him an emotional adieu. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/family-army-bid-farewell-to-jawan/articleshow/79178066.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Academics call for more elected members on varsity statutory bodies||Nagpur: After only Shikshan Manch members were nominated to Nagpur University’s statutory bodies, academics have called for amending the Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016. They want more elected members on the bodies to ensure political affiliation is not the sole criteria for appointment to bodies like Management and Academic councils and Senate. The academics said the purpose of increasing nominations in the new legislation was to prevent politics from entering academic circles. However, this end was getting defeated. They called for the return to the old system of having more elected members on statutory bodies to keep a tab on such activities. In a series of articles, TOI had reported how the nomination system was used by the Manch members, along with their political clout at the Centre and state. This allowed them to nominate members from their cadre or those related to its parent organization Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) to all key NU posts. “The democratization of university affairs has to be ultimately brought back. Read the preamble of the university act. It stresses on learning of democratic values by the students as enshrined in the Constitution. NU’s current dispensation is itself bereft of those values. University is a public body and democratization is the hallmark of such bodies. All those provisions which are leading to autocracy must be removed. Else, there will be no accountability,” senior academic Dr Vedprakash Mishra said. Manch coordinator Kalpana Pande didn’t pick up TOI’s calls for her comments. After many complaints over nominations, the Maharashtra government constituted a panel under former UGC chairman Sukhdeo Thorat to amend the new Act. “Efforts should be made to bring back the election system as per old universities’ Act, from where genuine candidates would be selected. The old system used to give proper representation to all stakeholders, unlike the new law,” former management council member Abhijit Wanjari said. Flaying the Manch members for appointing “ineligible” and “inexperienced” candidates to top NU posts, including as deans, senior academic Baban Taywade said such moves made NU laughing stock in academic circles. “The government needs to think seriously on the aspect of how nomination has been grossly misused by an outfit using their clout in the government,” he said. Rajesh Bhoyar stressed that the 1994 Act was a “model” legislation for which stalwarts like former MLC BT Deshmukh had worked hard. “The government has ended democratic system in universities by making vice chancellors more powerful by increasing nominations and reducing elected representatives. It’s completely undemocratic. It wants to have puppets as VCs, who would listen to their diktats blindly and act accordingly. The new Act needs urgent amendment to increase the number of elected representatives,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/academics-call-for-more-elected-members-on-varsity-statutory-bodies/articleshow/79179536.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||Tracheostomy on Soumitra to improve breathing||Kolkata: Actor Soumitra Chatterjee underwent a tracheostomy — that will help improve his respiratory condition — at Belle Vue Clinic on Wednesday. On ventilation for close to a month, the 85-year-old will now be able to breathe more freely and this can help in reviving his dwindling consciousness, according to doctors at the hospital. The octogenarian may also undergo a plasmapheresis for the treatment of his autoimmune disorders. On Wednesday morning, doctors conducted a tracheostomy that involved insertion of a tube through neck to lungs. It will remain connected to the ventilator and carry oxygen directly to the lungs, thus helping his breathing, according to Belle Vue critical care head, Arindam Kar. The procedure was conducted by Dipankar Datta. “We had been contemplating trachesotomy to free up his mouth that was so far used to insert the ventilator tube. This will make him more comfortable and improve his breathing. If he remains stable, we might even take him off ventilation,” said Kar. He added that even though Chhaterjee has been suffering from multiple complications ever since he was admitted on October 6 after testing Covid positive, his oxygen saturation never dropped alarmingly. “Generally, his lung condition remains stable and he is on minimal ventilation support. His liver, haemoglobin and platelet counts, too, remain normal. The infection he had been suffering from has been controlled and he has no fever. We decided to go ahead with the procedure after his family members agreed to plasmapheresis and tracheostomy,” said Kar. Chatterjee’s neurological condition, however, remains unchanged and there has been no improvement in his consciousness level. Doctors believe plasmapheresis can improve his response. It involves filtering out the blood plasma of the patient to extract the autoantibodies and replacing it with fresh plasma. Chatterjee has also been undergoing dialysis every alternate day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tracheostomy-on-soumitra-to-improve-breathing/articleshow/79179516.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Beware of post-Covid pneumonia, say doctors||CHENNAI: Around 15% of those who have recovered from a Covid-19 infection return to the hospital with pneumonia a couple of weeks later, say doctors. “That’s why the convalescent period for Covid-19 is important and the patient needs to be monitored at home for weeks after the treatment,” says Dr K Rajkumar, pulmonologist, Fortis Malar Hospital. “If patients return with a secondary bacterial infection, recovery is difficult because the lung has already been weakened by the coronavirus. Mortality can go as high as 30% in those who have returned with pneumonia,” says Dr Rajkumar. Pneumonia is an infection of the lungs caused by viruses and bacteria. “Most viruses produce pneumonia that is confined to a small part of the lung, but if it extends to a larger part of the lung, then it can cause hypoxia, a condition where the body is deprived of oxygen,” says Dr Raj B Singh, pulmonologist at Apollo Hospitals. The first phase of Covid-19 is virus replication, explains Dr Singh. The second phase of the disease is the immune response. “We have found cortico steroids and anticoagulants (as the blood tends to clot easily at this time) to be effective in this phase.” When the Covid-19 infection is not severe, people can recover fast, says Dr Singh, but two weeks later it can develop into a widespread systemic inflammation or pneumonia, one that can cause damage to the nervous system, liver, and kidney. “This is dangerous and sometimes lethal,” he says. Doctors say they are still unsure as to who is likely to get the post-Covid pneumonia. “People think it is the elderly, or those who are immune-compromised, but it is difficult to predict,” says Dr Rajkumar. Doctors suggest that those who have recovered remain cautious and report even the mildest symptoms, which can include a low grade fever, cough with or without yellowish sputum, fatigue and tightness in the chest. Dr Singh says it is best that those who have recovered from Covid 19 continue to monitor themselves for temperature and oxygen saturation. “Get enough rest and adequate fluids. Do not overexert and be ambitious about getting back to work. Try to exercise only when the strength returns, don’t force it. It can take one to two months for a full recovery.” This is where timely intervention helps, says emergency medicine consultant Dr M Sai Surendar from the Rela Institute and Medical Centre. “We have found that people who seek medical help in the earlier stages of Covid-19 infection are likely to recover better. If they come in when the infection is at a severe level, they are likely to return with pneumonia a few weeks after discharge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/beware-of-post-covid-pneumonia-say-docs/articleshow/79179521.cms||Kamini Mathai
November 12, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Seven districts have less than 1,000 active Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,732 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,47,977. This is the third consecutive day that the state has recorded less than 2,000 cases. The toll, meanwhile, increased to 6,828 as 14 more people succumbed to the virus. As many as 1,761 patients were declared cured. There are currently 20,915 active cases with 8,20,234 cumulative recoveries. The number of active cases is less than 1,000 in seven districts. Kurnool, once a Covid-19 hotbed which has since staged a turnaround in the last two months, has only 285 active cases. Epicentre of the disease East Godavari district reported 344 new infections, followed by Krishna (246), West Godavari (227), Chittoor (198) and Guntur (195). The other eight districts recorded fewer than 100 cases with Prakasam and Kurnool districts posting as low as 24 cases each. Of the 14 deaths, three are from Krishna, two each from Anantapur, Chittoor, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari, and one each from East Godavari, Guntur and Nellore districts. Krishna district touched the 600 casualty mark, while Chittoor crossed 800 deaths. Eight districts have so far witnessed at least 500 deaths related to the pandemic. Andhra Pradesh has so far conducted about 89 lakh Covid-19 tests, including 70,405 people tested for the disease in the last 24 hours. The state’s overall case positivity rate has been on the declining side in tandem with decreasing daily infection numbers. Its mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/seven-dists-have-less-than-1000-active-cases/articleshow/79184566.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Trains on Dehradun-Delhi route cancelled ahead of festive season||DEHRADUN: Due to traffic blocking and the ongoing Gujjar agitation in Rajasthan, the Railways have cancelled some trains on the Dehradun-Delhi route ahead of the festival. Dehradun-New Delhi Shatabdi Express was cancelled from November 12 to 13 and Dehradun-Kathgodam Express on November 13 due to the implementation of two-lane girders by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) between Jwalapur and Ikkar station at the Haridwar-Laksar section. The Mussoorie Express Festival Special was cancelled from November 11 to 21, but the railway authorities did not give any specific reason for its cancellation. Similarly, the Dehradun-Kota Nanda Devi Express was also cancelled on November 11 and 12 due to the ongoing Gujjar agitation in Rajasthan. According to the railway officials, four pairs of trains also got cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/trains-cancelled-ahead-of-festive-season/articleshow/79177103.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Congress challenges mount, fears BJP may walk away with anti-TRS vote||HYDERABAD: After the drubbing in Dubbak, Congress has its task cut out in the GHMC polls as it has two formidable opponents in the form of TRS and BJP to face now. AICC leader Telangana Manickam Tagore, who lost his first election as the in-charge of the party in Telangana, admitted that the challenges before the party have doubled with the BJP emerging as a strong force. Asserting that they would introspect and review the reasons for its losses, Tagore, however, said it was not the Congress vote that had gone to the BJP. “Congress polled about 5,000 less votes than the previous election. It is the TRS vote that was cast in favour of the saffron party. Dubbak is ani-Congress seat as we won only once in the last 30 years but our worry is why did anti-TRS votes not being cast in favour of us,” he said.  Political analysts said Congress would need to do a thorough introspection on why it is failing to connect with the voters in every poll. Despite all its top guns staying back in Dubbak and going to the doorsteps of the voters, Congress slipped to a poor third position as against the second position in 2018 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-challenges-mount-fears-bjp-may-walk-away-with-anti-trs-vote/articleshow/79179491.cms||Roushan Ali
November 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Seven districts have less than 1,000 active Covid-19 cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,732 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,47,977. This is the third consecutive day that the state has recorded less than 2,000 cases. The toll, meanwhile, increased to 6,828 as 14 more people succumbed to the virus. As many as 1,761 patients were declared cured. There are currently 20,915 active cases with 8,20,234 cumulative recoveries. The number of active cases is less than 1,000 in seven districts. Kurnool, once a Covid-19 hotbed which has since staged a turnaround in the last two months, has only 285 active cases. Epicentre of the disease East Godavari district reported 344 new infections, followed by Krishna (246), West Godavari (227), Chittoor (198) and Guntur (195). The other eight districts recorded fewer than 100 cases with Prakasam and Kurnool districts posting as low as 24 cases each. Of the 14 deaths, three are from Krishna, two each from Anantapur, Chittoor, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari, and one each from East Godavari, Guntur and Nellore districts. Krishna district touched the 600 casualty mark, while Chittoor crossed 800 deaths. Eight districts have so far witnessed at least 500 deaths related to the pandemic. Andhra Pradesh has so far conducted about 89 lakh Covid-19 tests, including 70,405 people tested for the disease in the last 24 hours. The state’s overall case positivity rate has been on the declining side in tandem with decreasing daily infection numbers. Its mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/seven-dists-have-less-than-1000-active-cases/articleshow/79178089.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: How meet with wife landed gangster in net||NEW DELHI: The clock had struck three in the morning. Hoping to intercept a crucial call, inspector Vinod Badola, who was a part of the team trailing gangster Hashim Baba, had been wearing headphones all night. Sleep seemed to overpower him, but a beep in his headphones at 3.15am made him jerk upright. The recipient of the call was Hashim’s wife, Zoya, who was using a secret number. On the other side was an acquaintance of the gangster. “Bhai aayenge aapse milne abhi. Message karwaya hai (Boss has sent a message that he’s coming to meet you right now),” said the person. The call was enough to wake the entire New Delhi range of Special Cell. After waiting for months, they had finally got a specific lead. Zoya’s secret number had been obtained through extensive on-ground intelligence after infiltrating Hashim’s core group. The pressure to nab Hashim was immense. On October 1, Delhi Police commissioner SN Shrivastava had given the team two weeks to deliver the gangster. Over the next 15 minutes, ACPs Lalit Mohan Negi and Hriday Bhushan readied a team comprising Badola, sub-inspector Sunder Gautam and others. The dozen-strong team left for northeast Delhi’s Shahdara in five cars and four bikes carrying Glocks and MP5 submachine guns. Given Hashim’s track record of being a trigger-happy criminal, police were certain that a gunfight would ensue in the densely populated locality of Subhash Park. Before the cops could take position, Hashim had gone inside a house to meet his wife. The team surrounded it, but maintained a safe distance. Two spotters climbed a two-storey building and took position, while the others spread out in the area. One way was to approach the building and confine him inside, but this could have led to a hostage situation. The two ACPs then decided to wait and watch. After around two hours, Hashim stepped outside and was asked to surrender, but he whipped out a pistol and opened fire. A policeman had a narrow escape and was saved due to his bulletproof vest. In retaliatory firing, Hashim was shot at and overpowered and then taken to a hospital. Subsequently, senior officers were informed about the arrest. There were still four days left to the two-week deadline given by the commissioner. Watch Delhi Police arrest most wanted criminal Hashim Baba||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/meet-with-wife-lands-gangster-in-net/articleshow/79179558.cms||Raj Shekhar
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||NCP jumps into grads poll fray queering pitch for Cong||Nagpur: The fight for Nagpur graduates’ constituency elections is set to become triangular with NCP deciding to field its own candidate against Abhijeet Wanjari of Congress and Sandip Joshi of BJP. NCP stalwart Praful Patel holds a strong influence in Gondia and Bhandara districts and the party candidate can poll good number of votes in these districts. NCP city president Anil Ahirkar confirmed that the party would field a candidate in the MLC elections. “There have been no party level talks between NCP and Congress so far. Therefore, there is nothing holding us from contesting. A resolution in this regard was passed in our city executive meeting on Wednesday,” he said. On withdrawing the candidate in favour of Wanjari, Ahirkar said, “We will see when talks are held between two parties.” Ahirkar refused to name the NCP candidate saying it would be declared on Thursday. Wanjari was unaware of the development when contacted by TOI. He said he would talk to NCP leaders to know the reason for fielding a candidate against him. A source in NCP told TOI on the condition of anonymity that this was the party’s way of teaching Congress a lesson for the shabby treatment meted out to NCP in Nagpur zilla parishad (ZP). “Congress and NCP had contested the Nagpur ZP elections jointly. However, due to strong anti-incumbency against the BJP government, Congress got 30 seats and an independent joined them thus making it possible for the party to form the government in ZP without our support,” the source said. “Home minister Anil Deshmukh wanted the ZP vice-president’s post for his son Salil. However, dairy development minister Sunil Kedar of Congress, who calls the shots in rural Congress, refused. To rub salt into our wounds, Congress practically poached a NCP ZP member Ujjwala Bodare and made her chairperson of a ZP subject committee. She was not made chairperson with our consent,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ncp-jumps-into-grads-poll-fray-queering-pitch-for-cong/articleshow/79179559.cms||Ashish Roy
November 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Restaurants sell stale food as footfall dips||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the pandemic driving plummeting sales at eateries, instances of sale of stale food are surfacing almost everyday. Officials of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipality Corporation (GVMC) have served notices to a number of eateries found violating food safety norms. “We had served notices to more than 20 eateries and restaurants under our jurisdiction within the last one month. We have sent the collected samples to the laboratory and once we receive the results we are going to take steps against the restaurant owners,” a senior GVMC official told TOI. Officials claimed that serving notices to restaurant owners is not a new phenomenon in Vizag city. However, raids at eateries have so far uncovered cases of safety standards violation in which non-permitted preservatives, colours and other ingredients were used, not sale of stale food. “However, this time we were shocked to find that eateries, including a few well-known restaurants in the city, were selling stale and leftover food. This is quite serious,” the official added. Restaurant owners denied allegations of sale of stale food and claimed that as sales are low, kitchens are using unused ingredients of the previous day. Utmost care is taken to ensure that ingredients are correctly preserved, they said. “First, post-lockdown, sales had considerably dipped. Second, cloud kitchens are mushrooming in the city almost everyday. These kitchens are selling food through online apps at a price which is a little over the production cost. In no way can GVMC officials raid such kitchens. We had to pay the price because we hold valid licences,” T Satyanarayana, president of the Andhra Pradesh Hotels Association told TOI. GVMC officials, however, said raids at eateries will be more frequently held in view of the prevailing situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/restaurants-sell-stale-food-as-footfall-dips/articleshow/79178106.cms||Arpit Basu
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Two suicide recorded in a day in US Nagar||RUDRAPUR: In two separate incidents of suicide, a 23-year-old engineering student and a 28-year-old woman ended their lives at their respective homes in Rudrapur on Wednesday. In the first incident, Deepak Singh, pursuing engineering from a college in Faridabad (Haryana), ended his life by inhaling some poisonous gas at his residence in Janpath enclave in the city. His father Amreek Singh, who works in a factory in Pantnagar industrial area, found him unconscious after he returned from his night shift. Amreek Singh told the police that his son was in the city ever since the lockdown. Police recovered an inhaling device and a suicide note from the room which read that he was fed up of his life but the reason behind the extreme step was not mentioned. The body was sent for postmortem while the inhaling device was sent for forensic examination. In yet another incident which took place in Azad Nagar of Transit Camp area, Anshu Sharma ended her life by hanging herself from the ceiling fan in her bedroom. She was married to Anil Sharma, who works in the Pantnagar industrial area. Sharma told the police that his wife was in depression for the past few years for not being able to bear a child. However, no suicide note was recovered from the spot. Superintendent of police (city) Devendra Peencha said, “We have registered separate cases under section 174 of CrPc and investigation is underway to ascertain the reasons behind the deaths.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-suicide-recorded-in-a-day-in-us-nagar/articleshow/79177112.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress caught in leadership dilemma ahead of GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: Congress is in a dilemma over changing its leadership whether to effect the change ahead of GHMC polls or after the elections are over. AICC secretary in charge of Telangana Manickam Tagore told TOI that the timing of change of leadership assumed importance after the Dubbak debacle and fast approaching GHMC elections. “We will weigh the pros and cons of the timing. I will consult important leaders of the party and wait for a signal from the Congress leadership,” he said. A change of guard in the state Congress is due for over two years after present incumbent N Uttam Kumar Reddy offered to step down following the party’s debacle in the assembly elections in 2018. Uttam had informed the high command in Delhi of his willingness to step down over a year ago when the party lost the Huzurnagar by-election, a seat held by Uttam himself before he was elected as Nalgonda MP. But, party high command has not taken any decision in this regard so far. “One of the main reasons is the party getting busy with elections to various states in north India and Telangana was not a priority with no major elections in sight till 2023. Also, there was no regular president of the party at the national level with Sonia Gandhi acting as an interim president,” said a senior leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-caught-in-leadership-dilemma/articleshow/79179525.cms||Roushan Ali
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Devotees may not be able to visit Tiruvannamalai temple for Deepam fest||CHENNAI: Devotees of Tiruvannamalai Arunachaleswarar Temple might not be permitted to participate in the Karthigai Deepam festival this year as officials said the event would be restricted to the temple premises. The temple administration on Wednesday informed the Madras high court that it is planning to confine the festival activities to the premises of the shrine, without public participation. “The car festival also will not be conducted as we anticipate about five lakh devotees would participate if permitted. For the Deepam festival, every year 20 lakh devotees participate,” advocate Sriram said, representing the administration. “We are organising a meeting with the district administration and a final decision will be taken in a day or two,” he added. Recording the submissions, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemelatha adjourned the hearing to November 18. The issue pertains to a plea moved by Vishva Hindu Parishad to direct the temple authorities to conduct the festival. When the plea came up for hearing, senior advocate A R L Sundaresan representing the petitioner submitted that Karthigai Deepam festival is one of the biggest annual religious congregations conducted in Tamil Nadu. “While so, the temple administration has completely kept the devotees including the residents of the town in dark this year, without any announcement for conducting the festival, which commences on November 17,” Sundaresan said. The petitioner apprehends that the authorities have not arrived at any decision so far only due to the present pandemic situation. But the pandemic should not be allowed to create any vacuum in the belief of millions of people, he added. “On the contrary, the authorities should have made alternate arrangements for the devotees to worship online,” the petitioner said. When the petitioner cited that Puri Jagannath Temple festival in Odisha was conducted with the approval of the Supreme Court, the bench said, “Puri temple festival was permitted because the Odisha government agreed to conduct the festival. Tamil Nadu government has not taken any such decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/devotees-may-not-be-able-to-visit-tiruvannamalai-temple-for-deepam-fest/articleshow/79179566.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||ICH starts nursing college||Kolkata: The Institute of Child Health on Wednesday opened a nursing college on its Park Circus campus while the state is grappling under shortage of nurses. Urban development minister Firhad Hakim, who inaugurated the ICH Faculty of Nursing, said, “I was disappointed with the exodus of nurses from our city. When the doctor, Apurba Ghosh, came up with this idea, I couldn’t have asked for anything more. Everyone who has a child knows Dr Ghosh who treats my grand daughter too.” The nursing college, set up in collaboration with Nirmala Foundation, a trust that runs a nursing college in Kalyani, has 120 seats. Ghosh, director, ICH, said, “As the demand for trained nurses increases, the shortage will continue to rise, leading to a steep depreciation of healthcare services.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ich-starts-nursing-college/articleshow/79179567.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Work of 14 years being undone, says sealing panel||NEW DELHI: Raising an alarm over the desealing drives and a “free for all” atmosphere for violations related to building laws and regulations, the three-member monitoring committee, which was constituted by Supreme Court in 2006 to check illegal constructions and misuse in the city, has submitted a report stating that all their work over the past 14 years was being undone. In its 10-page report, the committee expressed grave concerns over its work coming to a “grinding halt” after Supreme Court passed an order in August stating that its jurisdiction did not extend to residential properties. All actions to restore the confidence of the public in the rule of law have come to a naught and Delhi was going back to pre-2006 days when “adherence to regulations had been given a complete go-by”, it added. Properties were being desealed at will by the three municipal corporations and New Delhi Municipal Council. “Delhi is witnessing frantic activity of desealing of properties having unauthorised construction, misuse and allied illegal activities,” the report noted. Concluding that these developments had “created an undesirable atmosphere of free for all”, the committee stated that it had eroded the confidence of law-abiding citizens in complying with rules and regulations of building activities. It added that its actions since 2006 had brought a change in attitude towards compliance with provisions of Master Plan of Delhi 2021. The committee stated that it was a “mere bystander” to all these irregularities being perpetuated with impunity. Explaining why it came into existence, the report stated that the committee was appointed by Supreme Court on March 24, 2006 to oversee the implementation of law and sealing of offending premises. It had since filed 168 reports to the court. The report went on to explain the reasoning behind its action in Mehrauli on the basis of which Supreme Court gave the order in August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/work-of-14-yrs-being-undone-sealing-panel/articleshow/79179614.cms||Paras Singh
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Four cops involved in sand theft suspended||Nagpur: Four police personnel, including an assistant police sub-inspector attached to Koradi police station, were suspended for alleged involvement in a sand theft case. The action taken by DCP Nilotpal has caused a stir among police personnel. All the cops were deployed in the detective branch (DB). The suspended personnel are ASI Dinesh Singh Thakur, constables Ravi Lonarkar, Suresh Mishra and Vishnu Hede. Two days ago, DCP Nilotpal came to know that stolen sand was being transported in a dumper in Koradi area. He directed the DB squad at Koradi police station to take action against the sand thieves and seize the dumper. However, the police staff helped the accused unload some sand from the dumper. This information was received by DCP Nilotpal, who ordered a preliminary inquiry that revealed the alleged involvement in unloading some quantity of sand from the dumper. After taking a nod from CP Amitesh Kumar, the DCP suspended the four cops on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/four-cops-involved-in-sand-theft-suspended/articleshow/79179562.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||SC gives bail to Goswami, questions need for arrest||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to journalist Arnab Goswami, eight days after he was arrested by the Maharashtra police in a 2018 case of alleged abetment to suicide of an interior designer. Granting an urgent hearing during vacation, a bench of justices D Y Chandrachud and Indira Banerjee raised question on whether there was any need at all to arrest the journalist in the case but made it clear that it would not pass any observation on the validity of the probe against Goswami. The bench said the Bombay HC erred in rejecting the bail application of the journalist and said the accused being arrested in such cases would have wider ramification. It said suicide was committed by the deceased under mental stress and there had to be active encouragement or incitement to prove the case of abetment. "Is there any active incitement in the case. We are dealing with liberty of a person. Is it a case of custodial interrogation? Even if we presume that allegation is true, is it not travesty of justice to deny bail during pendency of trial," the bench observed. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeAfter holding hearings for around four hours, the bench granted relief to Goswami and two other accused-- Nitish Sarda and Parveen Rajesh Singh-- in the case and directed that they be released forthwith from jail on executing a personal bond of Rs 50,000 before the jail superintendent. It also directed them to cooperate with the state police in the "abetment to suicide" probe and not to interfere with the witnesses. Read Also'Special treatment': SCBA chief slams 'selective listing' of Arnab Goswami's pleaNEW DELHI: The Supreme Court Bar Association president on Tuesday wrote a scathing letter to the secretary general of the apex court to protest the "special treatment" accorded to Arnab Goswami, whose plea for bail has been listed for Wednesday. Earlier today, Goswami, who is the editor-in-chief ofAllowing their plea, the bench said, "We are of the considered view that the high court was in error in rejecting the applications for the grant of interim bail. We accordingly order and direct that Arnab Manoranjan Goswami, Feroz Mohammad Shaikh and Neetish Sarda shall be released on interim bail, subject to each of them executing a personal bond in the amount of Rs 50,000 to be executed before the jail superintendent. They are, however, directed to cooperate in the investigation and shall not make any attempt to interfere with the ongoing investigation or with the witnesses." Times ViewThis welcome step is in tune with the Supreme Court’s own earlier rulings that bail should be the norm and jail the exception. The apex court has also raised several other pertinent questions regarding the case, which need to be closely looked into.Goswami approached the SC after the Bombay High Court on Monday refused to grant interim bail to him and two others in the case and asked them to move to the local court for the relief. Read AlsoArnab Goswami seeks pre-arrest bail in second caseA day before his liberty was restored by the Supreme Court, Arnab Goswami also filed for pre-arrest bail before Mumbai sessions court in connection with a case registered by the city police for allegedly resisting arrest and obstruction of public servants from doing their official duty on NovemberThe three accused were arrested by Alibaug police in Maharashtra's Raigad district on November 4 in connection with the suicide of architect-interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by companies of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-gives-bail-to-goswami-questions-need-for-arrest/articleshow/79181814.cms||Amit Anand Choudhary
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||MP to replicate Maha community conservancy model||Nagpur: Madhya Pradesh, which leads to wildlife management and showed the way for ecotourism, will follow the Maharashtra forest department’s successful community nature conservancy (CNC) and buffer tourism model in Tadoba. In 2015, Maharashtra was first to introduce a CNC project in Alizanja near Kolara outside Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) and Gothangaon near Umred-Karhandla wildlife sanctuary. CNC is basically practising ecotourism on private lands by sharing profits between farmers while they continue to remain landowners. From November 8-10, a team of senior officials consisting of field directors of four tiger reserves and territorial officials led by MP forest minister Vijay Shah visited Tadoba and Gothangaon. TATR field director Jitendra Ramgaonkar said, “The MP team was all praise for tourism in the buffer zone where the entire show from 13 entry gates is run by the village eco-development committees (VEDCs). We exchanged ideas on forest management and protection while involving locals.” TATR deputy director (buffer) G Guruprasad said the MP team was impressed by the variety of attractions like cycling, machan sittings, walking trails, etc being offered in the buffer zone. “Last year 22,000 tourists visited TATR buffer and we earned Rs 5 crore by entry fee alone, which is more than revenue of tiger reserves in the state. This apart, stakeholders were the real gainers by earning Rs 12.5 crore from safari and guide fees,” said Guruprasad. “This is really impressive. We too have buffer tourism but footfall is negligible. In Kanha buffer just 1% or 2,500 tourists visited last year. All want to enter the core area. The best part is that buffer tourism in Tadoba is community-driven, generating employment and visitors due to good tiger sightings,” says SK Singh, field director of Kanha tiger reserve. Talking to TOI, Sunil Mehta, pioneer of Cocoon Lodges Pvt Ltd and the one who is promoting CNC in Alizanja and Gothangaon, said, “This is a historic move. In Alizanja we started CNC on six acres of degraded farmland and now farmers are ready to offer 40 acres more. Similarly, in Gothangaon, 39 families offered 105 acres for the project and now another 117 families are ready to offer 450 acres. This was possible as Maharashtra has made it a policy in 2015.” Mehta said the MP team met farmers and was highly impressed with the model, which they want to implement near all their tiger reserves. “Our aim is to turn deprivers as providers by way of CNC. As it is, farmers near parks area are a harried lot due to crop depredation by wildlife. We pay farmers a fixed amount for not farming,” he added. Roheet Karu, chief officer of Gothangaon CNC Cooperative, said, “Only 5% of the farm area is developed into lodges while 95% is grown as forest. The ownership of land remains with the farmer and he also gets to share profits from tourism.” Kanha FD Singh said, “CNC is the best example of co-existence. We will explore replicating this model in areas near tiger reserves. Though in MP there is no policy, it can be designed as forest minister and secretary were present during the visit. We will also need investors.” What It Means? * Professional management of the conservancy allowing wildlife to flourish, preserving the environment, and strengthening the eco-system for generations to come * Seeking to develop a strong working relationship with the community leading to establishment of a model ‘community conservancy’ disseminating increased prosperity to the individual landowner * Secure fund-raising for community initiatives and providing secure lease incomes for landowners * Promoting responsible land use through strict management planning covering tourism development, grazing, and settlement||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mp-to-replicate-maha-community-conservancy-model/articleshow/79179616.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 12, 2020||Goa||Double-tracking will be game-changer for Goa||MARGAO: Countering the charges of the anti-coal brigade, South Western Railway (SWR) officials on Wednesday said that the track doubling work, from Hospet to Vasco was aimed at strengthening the railway network and improving connectivity. SWR additional general manager, P K Mishra, told reporters via video conferencing, that since emphasis was being laid for usage of environment-friendly and non-conventional sources of energy for power generation, the use of coal was gradually reducing. This, he said, reflected in a reduction in coal transported by railways over the last few years. In 2015-16, SWR carried 12 million tonnes of coal which has reduced to nine million tonnes in 2019-20, a reduction of 25% within span of four years, it was informed. SWR deputy general manager and chief public relations officer, E Vijaya, said that the double-tracking project would prove to be a “game-changer” for Goa, “taking development to new heights by giving impetus to trade and enabling easier and faster passenger movement”. Pointing out that the track doubling work will lead to improved connectivity resulting in enhanced arrival of tourists in Goa, Vijaya said, “In 2019, approximately 80 lakh tourists visited Goa, of which around 32 lakh, which is 40 %, travelled by train. It is anticipated that domestic tourism will witness an unprecedented surge post Covid. To facilitate more and more tourists to visit Goa, railway infrastructure shall be equipped to handle more number of trains.” Stating that many intermediate stations along the Hospet-Vasco route, such as Sanvordem-Curchorem, had huge untapped tourist potential, Vijaya said that by extending better rail connectivity to these stations, “the hidden potential can be unlocked giving scope to generating more places of tourist interest, thereby augmenting revenue to the state.” “By providing connectivity from Vasco and Margao to towns such as Collem, Kalay, Sanvordem-Curchorem, the local economy at these places will prosper,” she said. On a query whether measures were being put in place to check pollution levels enroute, Mishra said that the electrification of the double line track – which is also underway - will make the route carbon neutral, leading to zero pollution. As regards concerns about environmental damage, Vijaya said that the second track will be laid without causing any additional impact on the ecosystem. “Destruction of the environment will be minimised during the construction work.” “The vision of “vibrant Goa” with a flourishing economy can be realised only by having a rail network that will take care of transport requirements of tomorrow efficiently, she said. P K Kshatriya, chief project manager, Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd and S K Jha, additional divisional railway manager of the Hubballi division were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/double-tracking-will-be-game-changer-for-goa/articleshow/79180862.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Pulivendula court told to give Vivekananda Reddy murder case files to CBI||VIJAYAWADA: The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Wednesday directed the Pulivendula court to give all details pertaining to Y S Vivekananda Reddy murder case to the CBI. The high court had earlier handed over the investigation of the case to the central agency after hearing petitions moved by the family members of the deceased. Following the court’s direction, the CBI registered a fresh FIR into the murder and started investigation. It has already questioned and examined several witnesses during the course of its investigation. As the special investigation team (SIT) had submitted the case details in the Pulivendula court, the CBI had filed an application seeking the case files. However, the Pulivendula court rejected the application citing they do not have such orders. As the case file submitted by the SIT contains many crucial details and is critical for the probe, the CBI moved the high court seeking directions to handover the case files to them. Taking the plea into consideration, the high court directed the Pulivendula court to give the case files to the CBI. Vivekananada Reddy, the paternal uncle of chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, was found murdered in his home on March 15, 2019. The case has remained as a mystery since then even after the state government formed a SIT to investigate the case. The family members of Viveka had raised apprehensions over the SIT’s investigation and moved the high court seeking to transfer the case to the CBI, which was granted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pulivendula-court-told-to-give-viveka-files-to-cbi/articleshow/79178135.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Smart choice gets medical seats even for modest NEET score||CHENNAI: High scores in NEET may fetch hundreds of students a seat in medical colleges, but those with scores as low as 183 (out of 720) marks have also managed to land a seat in deemed universities, in the first round of online allotments itself. Of the 80,000 seats across medical colleges in India, the committee allots seats for students to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (JIPMER), central universities, 15% seats surrendered by the state-run medical colleges and deemed universities. This year, between October 26 and November 2, students were asked to register their names for the online counselling. This year, when the committee released the allotment on November 5, the cut-off in the general category allotment for students in general/OBC/EWS category for all India quota seats in government colleges was 618 marks compared to 591 marks in 2019. For students in the SC and ST category, cut-off was 521 and 492 this year compared to 485 and 459 in 2019. The lowest cut-off was 115, allotted to an ST student with disability. Under management quota for deemed universities, the cut-off for admission was the lowest to colleges in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, where the annual tuition is the highest. The lowest score that got a seat was a student with 183 marks. The student was allotted a seat in Chennai-based Meenakshi Medical College Hospital and Residential Institution in Enathur. The college charges an annual fee of Rs 22.5 lakh. “Over the last two years, we are seeing low-scoring students making smart choices when they lock seats. When they are sure that their chances of entering medical colleges are low, they opt for deemed universities in the first round itself. Students with high scores either opt for all India quota seats in central or state government-run colleges or wait for the state counselling, where there are greater chances of them getting seats in colleges of choice. Those with low scores have no option but to choose deemed universities in the first round of counselling,” said Manickavel Arumugam, who has been counselling medical aspirants on admissions. A student with 584 marks opted for New Delhi-based Hamdart Institute of Medical Science and Research. Students have time till Saturday to join the colleges. “Students with high scores allotted to deemed universities may opt for round two or wait for state counselling because there is no fine for not joining round 1,” said NEET coach and counsellor Sai Prakash. “But students with low scores have to join now if they want a medical seat this year. Unlike public colleges, cut-off for deemed universities is likely to go up in the second round,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/smart-choice-gets-med-seats-even-for-modest-neet-score/articleshow/79179613.cms||Pushpa Narayan
November 12, 2020||Kolhapur||5 shops sealed for 3 hours by civic body||Kolhapur: Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade on Wednesday said that the 18 teams — deployed for managing crowd, ensuring social distancing and penalising the violators — have been asked to seal the shops for some time where shopkeepers fail to regulate the crowd. Following this, the teams swung into action and five shops were sealed for three hours each on Wednesday. For the past few weeks, malls, shops and markets across the city are witnessing heavy footfall owing to Diwali shopping. The civic body has appointed 18 teams, comprising six members each, for ensuring Covid-19 norms are followed. However, these teams are finding it difficult to control the crowd. “It is the responsibility of the shopkeepers to keep the crowd under control. Only a limited number of employees are to be allowed on the premises. They should also appoint separate staff for managing crowd and ensuring social distancing,” she said. “Gathering of crowd in market places is a cause of worry especially in the wake of the ongoing Covid pandemic. I have directed the teams to fine the shopkeepers for failing to control crowd and if required they can seal the shops for some time,” she added. In the past 10 days, theKMC has fined 5,811 violators for various offences. Fines worth Rs 6.47 lakh have been collected from the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/5-shops-sealed-for-3-hours-by-civic-body/articleshow/79177146.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Aurangabad||AMC, city police exchange demand note for recovering outstanding dues||Aurangabad: Aurangabad Municipal Corporation’s (AMC) estate and anti-encroachment departments have started working to address the issue of recovering outstanding amount from Aurangabad city police along with clearing the dues which the civic body owes to the city police. Authorities said that the amount to be paid by both the parties is running into crores and currently the file has been sent to deputy municipal commissioner Ravindra Nikam for working on it. According to sources, civic body has to recover about Rs 3 crore from city police. It includes property tax, environment tax and rent of properties that have been given out to the city police for years. Civic body had sent a demand note to the city police, following which some amount has been paid by them. But, at the same time, the city police have to recover a whopping Rs 11 crore from the civic body. Former mayor Nandkumar Ghodele told TOI, “AMC has to pay about Rs 11 crore to Aurangabad city police for all the bandobast as well as paid police squads that were deployed with the anti-encroachment squads.” Another official from the civic body said that the issue had cropped up during one of the annual audits of the civic body carried out about a couple of years back. Sources said that initially a police inspector, one sub-inspector and 13 constables were deputed at the civic body. As per the agreement with the city police, civic body would bear all the bandobast expenses, including their salaries. As and when needed, the number of police officers as well as constabulary was increased and decreased from time to time. Civic body’s assistant commissioner Nandkishor Bhambe said that Aurangabad city police have already paid Rs 13 lakh. When contacted, civic body chief Astik Kumar Pandey said that he is not aware of the issue. Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta said that he will have check about it. “And even if there is anything, it is between the two government departments and we will sort it out,” said Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-city-police-exchange-demand-note-for-recovering-outstanding-dues/articleshow/79177150.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 12, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Second round of engine-off drive till November 30||NEW DELHI: Delhi environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said the second phase of ‘Red light on, gaadi off’ campaign would be conducted from November 16 to November 30 in the wake of current pollution levels. The first phase of the campaign, which was launched on October 21, will end on November 15. Thanking people of Delhi for joining the fight against pollution by switching off their vehicles’ engines at traffic lights, Rai said, “Two crore people of Delhi have to contribute and play their part to fight against it. Our small contributions create a big impact.” During the second phase, around 2,500 environmental marshals will be deputed at 100 traffic junctions. Rai said the report on the impact of bio-decomposer solution, which was sprayed by Delhi government on 2,000 acres of land to turn stubble into manure, would be submitted to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday. Talking about anti-dust campaign of Delhi government, Rai said, “Through Green Delhi app, we are being informed that demolition and construction places have shown some negligence. Actions on these have been initiated. We are also receiving complaints of garbage burning from various locations. I want to tell the people of Delhi, especially youth, to keep uploading such complaints on the app so that action can be taken to douse the fire.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/second-round-of-engine-off-drive-till-nov-30/articleshow/79179679.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chennai||10 economically weaker section seats to ESI college caught in Tamil Nadu-Centre row||CHENNAI: Addition of 25 MBBS seats at ESIC Medical College in KK Nagar, on a condition that 10 are supernumerary seats meant for economically weaker section (EWS) among forward castes, is now turning into a quota policy tussle between Tamil Nadu and the Centre. ESIC College, affiliated to the Tamil Dr MGR Medical University, was established in 2011-12 with100 medical seats. In October this year, National Medical Commission increased the college intake from 100 to 125 because the administration agreed to the EWS quota. As of now, the college will have 125 seats of which 19 have been surrendered for the All India Quota (AIQ) pool, which will be managed by the Centre’s director-general of health services. Another 25 seats are meant for the wards of ESI-contributing employees. While the DGHS will allot students for these 44 seats, it is Tamil Nadu’s responsibility to admit students for the 81 remaining seats through single window counselling. However, the state selection committee in Tamil Nadu, which should admit students to the 81 state quota seats, says there will be no EWS category in its seat matrix as the state has no EWS policy. Who, then, will allot 10 EWS seats? While DGHS will allot five seats, the remaining five have to be allotted through Tamil Nadu government’s single window scheme. But state selection committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan said Tamil Nadu has a policy decision not to implement EWS quota. “We don’t have the category in the seat matrix. For the seats surrendered by the college, admission will be done based on merit in NEET and 69% rule of reservation,” he said. ESIC dean Dr Sowmya Sampath refused to comment, but a senior official in the college said the administration had no role in seat allotments. “We have surrendered seats to respective agencies. Allotment has to be done by them,” the official said. Officials on the Medical Counseling Committee say they will not be able to allot more than 5 seats as it would be illegal to increase the EWS share in the respective quotas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/10-ews-seats-to-esi-college-caught-in-state-centre-row/articleshow/79179620.cms||Pushpa Narayan
November 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CMO an underworld den: Ramesh Chennithala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the latest revelations by the Enforcement Directorate in the court, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has lost all moral right to continue in the office, said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. “The statement ED submitted in court is a summary of the underworld dealings happening in the chief minister’s office. As per that, CMO is the epicentre of all corruption in the state. The ED has also confirmed that CMO became a centre of smugglers and fraudsters,” Chennithala told reporters here. He said the allegations levelled by opposition against the government were now confirmed by the ED. “It has already become clear that there was influence from the CMO to release the smuggled gold that had reached the airport. Sivasankar was aware of the corrupt deals behind Life Mission. All secrets behind major projects were leaked by Sivasankar to Swapna Suresh. Projects like Life Mission and K-FON were partnership deals between Sivasankar and Swapna,” alleged Chennithala. He said Sivasankar had leaked information about 28 crucial works out of the 36 works to Swapna with a clear aim of getting commission. “Unitac MD Santhosh Eapen was close to Sivasankar. That is why he was granted contracts under Life Mission and K-FON projects,” he said. The opposition leader alleged that Pinarayi Vijayan while serving as CPM state secretary mooted a resolution in the state secretariat against the then CM V S Achuthanandan branding him as ‘anti-development’. “We are now realising the real cause behind that. VS had blocked the flow of commission to him and party,” he said. According to Chennithala, CPM has started an industry to fetch crores of rupees after commission by misusing power. “Pinarayi Vijayan is the leader and Kodiyeri Balakrishnan is the organiser. Both have secrets to conceal and that is why they support each other. Pinarayi Vijayan is now employing the same tactics of using party as a shield like the way he had dealt with SNC-Lavalin case,” he said. The opposition leader repeated the allegation that there was large-scale corruption behind the procurement of equipment for hi-tech school project. “What I understand is that products that had passed expiry date and could be classified as e-waste were procured on a large scale for the project. It needs to be found who owns the benami company that supplied equipment for the project,” he said. BJP state president K Surendran also termed ED’s report ‘serious’. “If additional private secretary CM Raveendran and political secretary are linked to gold smuggling case, it is certain that CM is also involved in the case. All deals of the CPM and government are known to both,” Surendran said while announcing BJP candidates for the local body polls in Thiruvananthapuram district. Surendran alleged that corruption worth Rs 4,000 crore was committed by the government using Uralunkal labour society. “Raveendran knows all of this. Two more ministers are involved in the gold smuggling scam. If there is an iota of morality left in Pinarayi Vijayan, he should quit immediately,” he said. The ire of people against the government for harbouring anti-national forces will be reflected in the election results, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cmo-an-underworld-den-chennithala/articleshow/79178170.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Shops reduced to ashes in Aurangabad’s Jatwada||Aurangabad: At least four shops were reduced to ashes after a cotton mattress manufacturing unit in the Jatwada area of Aurangabad city caught fire on Wednesday morning. Articles running to the tune of Rs 15 lakh were destroyed. Preliminary probe has indicated that the fire broke out at the mattress manufacturing unit owned by Akbar Khan. Before the shop owners in the area could douse the flames, it had already spread to the neighbouring shops. Police said that articles, including machines, foam material and cotton caught fire and soon started spreading. It was after an alert citizen dialled a call to the fire brigade authorities that several fire tenders were rushed to the spot. By the time fire tenders reached the incident spot, the adjoining National Fabrication shop owned by Syed Aslam Syed Hussain, tea stall owned by Farooqui Abdul Vakil and a chicken shop of Danish Salim Qureshi were reduced to ashes. It took about a couple of hours for the fire tenders to douse the flames. The mattress factory incurred losses of over Rs 13 lakh, the tea stall owner incurred loss of over Rs 50,000 and the chicken shop, too, incurred heavy loss, taking the total losses in this incident to about Rs 15 lakh. Following the incident, police have registered a case of accidental fire and launched a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/shops-reduced-to-ashes-in-aurangabads-jatwada/articleshow/79177144.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Man-eater’ tiger kills youth in Kawal range||HYDERABAD: A suspected man-eater tiger mauled a 20-year-old tribal youth to death in Digida of Khagaznagar forest division near Telangana-Maharashtra border on Wednesday. The victim was identified as Sidam Vignesh, a tribal from Digida village in Kawal tiger corridor. Recently, a man-eater tiger, which killed eight, was tranquillised at Rajura in Maharashtra which is about 84km from Digida as the crow flies. Dahegaon SI V Raghupati told TOI, “Three cattle grazers had gone into the forest. After fishing in Peddavagu rivulet, two went searching for leaves to wrap the fish caught when they saw the tiger attacking Vignesh and dragging him into bushes.” “The two ran to nearby village and informed locals. As a group of villagers came to the location, they spotted the tiger nearby. When they made sounds, the tiger ran away. While they were there the tiger tried to come back thrice to retrieve its kill,” the SI said. “Forest officials took pugmarks from the scene and they confirmed that the killing pattern is that of a tiger. Injuries were found on the neck, butt and abdomen,” the SI added. Wildlife Tranqui Force founder and man-eater expert Nawab Shafath Ali Khan said going by the wounds on the body, the tiger could be a man-eater and a young one. “The butt and hip part is missing, that’s how man-eaters start eating human bodies. It has to be investigated whether the tiger that was caught in Rajura is a man-eater. For better tiger conservation, the man-eaters have to be tackled. Tiger reserves should be fenced to avoid tigers straying into human habitats,” he said. Forest officials confirmed it was a tiger, but said they wouldn’t certify it as a man-eater as there was an NTCA (National Tiger Conservation Authority) protocol to be followed. Officials said this was its first kill and it was too early to declare it a man-eater. They said it was also the first human kill by a tiger in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in the past two decades. Kumaram Bheem Asifabad district in-charge SP V Satyanarayana told TOI, “We had arrested 200 persons, including poachers, who put electric fencing and snares for wildlife in the area. Apart from our efforts, due to good forest growth and better coordination with Maharashtra, tiger population has increased and more than 10 tigers are moving in Asifabad district.” Along Pranahita and Godavari rivers, tigers were moving freely. Several instances of tiger killing livestock in villages have been reported. Instead of hunting, tigers have been getting used to maiming domestic animals. At a meeting with representatives of three states on Tuesday, Telangana principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) R Sobha discussed the issue. “Digida is located eight km from Pranahita river. We verified whether it is the same Rajura man-eater tiger, but we were told it was trapped. Seven weeks ago, a tiger was caught on camera trap in this area. Whether the tiger attacked, is it hungry or is it an accident, foresters are investigating,” an official said. Forest officials began shifting cages and camera traps to the area. Kawal tiger reserve field director CP Vinod Kumar said, “There was no attack on humans in the past two years here. Unless we conduct an investigation and based on post-mortem report we can’t conclude on this (man-eater).” Hyderabad Tiger Conservation Society founder Imran Siddique said: “We should not jump the gun and declare it a man-eater. This will harm tiger conservation.” Police said they had deployed two teams to assist forest officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-eater-tiger-kills-youth-in-kawal-range/articleshow/79181379.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 12, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Military, cops bust recruitment scam||BAREILLY: A joint team of Military Intelligence (MI) and UP Police on Wednesday unearthed a racket-- involving an ex-serviceman, two policemen and five others-- which allegedly helped several youths land jobs in the army on fake documents in the last two years. The investigators suspect that Pakistan’s spy agency ISI or some other anti-national forces may also have sneaked their men into the army using the racket. Police have arrested the retired soldier, one of the policemen and three others so far. At a press conference held in UP’s Shahjahanpur city, in which senior police officers and a representative of the MI were present, the number of those who got jobs in the army through the racket was put at 21. UP Police have also roped in the Intelligence Bureau (IB) as it has started re-verification of all the candidates who made it to the Indian Army starting January 2019 in four districts where the racket was active. DIG of Bareilly range, Rajesh Pandey, told TOI, “I have ordered re-verification of all the successful candidates in Bareilly, Pilibhit, Budaun and Shahjahanpur. We have also asked the IB and other security agencies to join the investigation. I am closely monitoring the case and coordinating with all the agencies.” The accused were arrested from a rented apartment in Banda area, Shahjahanpur. They were later identified as Suresh Som, 55, Hukum Singh, Paramveer Singh, Mukesh Kumar and police constable Manveer Singh. The MI officer from Bareilly said, “Suresh Som was a havildar in 26 Rajput Regiment and retired in February 2010. Our Bareilly unit is thoroughly investigating the case with police. A separate internal investigation is also going on. The possibility of the involvement of anti-national groups like ISI cannot be ruled out as Som had leaked inside information to recruit the candidates on fake documents.” He said that the MI Bareilly is scanning antecedents of 21 candidates as of now. “The numbers can go up after the investigation,” he said. Two other accused, including police constable Moolchand and one Arvind Kumar are on a run, police said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Shahjahanpur, S Anand, said that arrested constable Manveer Singh used to ratify the fake documents of candidates in Shahjahanpur district using his position. The SSP said, “It is a very big scam. Data of 21 candidates, shortlisted in the army through fake documents and showing them as residents of Bareilly division, has been found so far. “We have seized 23 fake stamps of government offices and village heads. Several forged mark-sheets and other fake documents were also recovered from the accused. We are trying to find out the total number of candidates who were recruited through fraudulent means. This is a matter related to national security and no one will be spared. One of the accused constables, Manveer, had accepted a bribe of Rs 52,000 from the accused for the verification of a candidate. The accused were getting huge amounts of money for the recruitment. The involvement of ISI or some other anti-national forces behind this racket cannot be denied," he added. During the press conference, ex-servicemen Som said that he wanted to make quick money to start a career in politics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/military-intel-up-cops-bust-army-recruitment-scam-several-landed-jobs-in-forces-using-fake-ids/articleshow/79176143.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 12, 2020||Visakhapatnam||At 9.2 Celsius, Chintapalle shivers||VISAKHAPATNAM: Chintapalle in Visakhapatnam Agency recorded a minimum temperature of 9.2 degrees Celsius on Wednesday. The Regional Agriculture Research Station (RARS) at Chintapalle in the Agency records the temperature at Chintapalle and calculates the temperature of the surrounding areas of Lammasingi and Tajangi by deducting 1 to 2 degrees Celsius from the temperature recorded at RARS. There is no weather station of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) at Chintapalle, the equipment (Automatic Weather Station) at RARS authenticates temperatures in the region. Associate director of research, RARS, Chintapalle, Dr G Rama Rao said Chintapalle recorded a minimum temperature of 9.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest so far this season on Wednesday. Around ten days ago, the minimum temperature at Chintapalle was 15 degrees Celsius and temperatures have since been sliding everyday for the past week, he added. The present weather condition points to a further dip in mercury levels in December and the season’s lowest temperature may be recorded in the second week of December, Rao added. “Normally, Lammasingi and Tajangi attract a large number of visitors during the winter. Compared to previous years, winter has started a little early this year. Soon, there will be visitors huddling around bonfires during the mornings in Lammasingi,” said K Raghunath, a resident of Lammasingi. Visitors, however, have already started making their way to Lammasingi, Tajangi and Yerravaram waterfalls. Locals added that despite the pandemic, youngsters from Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts have been visiting Lammasingi for the past month, with numbers rising on weekends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/at-9-2-celsius-chintapalle-shivers/articleshow/79178181.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 12, 2020||Bareilly||Bareilly: Two smugglers held with smack worth Rs 1.3 crore||BAREILLY: Two smugglers were arrested in Izzatnagar area of Bareilly with 1.3 kilogram smack — worth Rs 1.3 crore — on Tuesday midnight. The accused were identified as Mufeed Khan and Tasleem, both local residents and are believed to have been involved in smuggling for a few years now The accused were booked under relevant sections of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, said police, adding that they were trying to figure out the drug source and unearth if there is a bigger network operational. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “The accused are involved in smuggling of drugs. We are expecting to get crucial information about the suppliers active in the region. We have also arrested six other drug smugglers with 27 kilograms of Marijuana.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-smugglers-held-with-smack-worth-rs-1-3-crore/articleshow/79176162.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Murder accused who fled Covid-19 centre nabbed||AURANGABAD: Nearly five months after having fled from a Covid-19 centre in Aurangabad, an under-trial murder accused has finally been nabbed by the city police. The accused, who was on the run since June 7, was nabbed from the Mujeeb Colony area of the city where he had come to meet his family. The man has been identified as Akram Khan (27), a resident of Ohar in the Jatwada area of the city. He is one of the key accused in the infamous Sher Khan murder case that rocked the city in March 2018. The trap was jointly laid by a team led by Begumpura police inspector Sachin Sanap and members of the special squad led by assistant inspector Rahul Rode. Since being arrested, Akram has been behind bars as his earlier attempts to bag bail were turned down. After testing positive for Covid-19, Akram, along with other inmates, was shifted to Kila-E-Arak-based Covid care centre. Akran, along with another inmate, broke open the window grills of the room he was lodged in at the first floor and fled away. Taking cognizance of the incident, prison policemen deployed at the Covid care centre were suspended while an offence was registered against the suspect duos for fleeing. The other accomplice was nabbed within days on the run while Akram managed to evade arrest till the wee hours Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/murder-accused-who-fled-covid-19-centre-nabbed/articleshow/79177154.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolhapur||1 death, 33 cases in Kolhapur district||Kolhapur: One death and 33 new cases of Covid-19 were reported across Kolhapur district on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 688. “As many as 40 people recovered and were discharged from the hospital on Wednesday. The total number of cases reported across the district till date is 48,613, out of which 1,660 have succumbed to the contagion and 46,265 people have been treated,” a health official said, adding that Kolhapur city is still reporting cases in double digits — 18 on Wednesday. Time-limit on crackers District collector Daulat Desai on Wednesday issued an order stating that people are allowed to burn firecrackers only for two hours — from 7 to 9pm. For the rest of the day only ‘green crackers’ are allowed to be burnt. In the order, Desai has stated that there will total ban on the sale of pollution-causing firecrackers and appealed to the people to refrain from burning firecrackers as it may impact the health of people who have recovered from Covid as they may develop breathing complications due to smoke. “The responsibility of implementing order will be of the local civic bodies. The ban will be in place from November 13 to November 16. People who develop breathing issues should immediately approach the post-Covid centre started at the CPR hospital. Recently, Kolhapur Municipal Corporation has also started such a centre at Shahu Smarak Bhavan,” Desai said. Sangli reports 53 cases Sangli district reported one death and 53 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the number of active cases to 673. As many as 108 patients were also discharged from various hospital on the same day. The total number of cases in the district has reached to 45,913, out of which 1,671 have succumbed to infection and 43,569 have been treated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1-death-33-cases-in-kolhapur-district/articleshow/79177159.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kochi||NBW issued against UAE consulate ex-staffer Khaled||Kochi: Additional chief judicial magistrate (economic offences) court on Thursday issued a non-bailable warrant (NBW) against Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, the former finance head of the UAE consulate who hails from Egypt, after customs arraigned him as respondent in a case relating to illegal export of currency. Khaled is the third respondent in the case after Sarith P S (R1) and Swapna Suresh (R2). With the NBW getting successfully issued, customs can now approach the Interpol through the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to extradite Shoukry who is suspected to be in Egypt. The case pertains Shoukry taking out $1,90,000 (equivalent to approximately Rs 1.3 crore) to Cairo via Oman from Trivandrum International Airport. It was also stated that the currency was concealed in his handbag. This was revealed in a statement given by gold smuggling case accused Suresh, who further stated that she and Sarith had also accompanied Shoukry till Oman and further they travelled to Dubai. The main purpose of their trip to Dubai via Oman was to facilitate Shoukry’s hassle-free clearance at Thiruvananthapuram airport to cross the security check, customs had said in their occurrence report. Earlier, the court had raised doubts over whether the ex-consulate staffer enjoyed any diplomatic immunity. Later on, customs had produced documents including a no-objection certificate —issued by the ministry of external affairs in June 2017 for the facilitation of visa to Shoukry— which specifically stated that he was a ‘locally-recruited foreign employee who had no privilege and immunity’. Customs also suspect that former principal secretary M Sivasankar was also aware of the currency smuggling. As part of their probe into the currency smuggling, customs had asked Sivasankar to produce documents relating to his travels as they suspect that he had traveled to the UAE around the same time as the currency smuggling. Customs still terms Sivasankar as a person of interest in the case and he is yet to be arraigned as a respondent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/nbw-issued-against-uae-consulate-ex-staffer-khaled/articleshow/79178198.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Special squad seizes gutka worth Rs 4 lakh||Aurangabad: Special squad of Aurangabad city police arrested two people while illegally transporting banned gutka worth Rs 4 lakh in the wee hours of Wednesday. The other three suspects, who were tailing the vehicle carrying the banned product, allegedly tried running over the police after they tried to intercept the suspects. Police said that it was following a specific tip-off received by commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta, a trap was laid near railway tracks in the Maliwada area of the city. Accordingly, a pick-up vehicle carrying illicit gutka was intercepted. Police team led by assistant inspector Rahul Rode arrested driver Moin Shaikh (19) and cleaner Mushtaq Shaikh (21) of Sajapur and initiated the process of seizing the banned product. Around the same time, police learnt that those owning the gutka were tailing the vehicle and accordingly a car with three suspects identified as Wasim Patel, Raju Patel and Sohel Shaikh was also intercepted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/special-squad-seizes-gutka-worth-rs-4-lakh/articleshow/79177161.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman thrashed for attending boss’s b’day party||AHMEDABAD: A woman, 25, from Rajkot, on Tuesday filed a complaint of domestic violence against her husband and in-laws alleging that they thrashed her frequently over petty issues which included attending her boss’s birthday party. In her FIR, the woman, who works with an IT firm, states that she married a man from the Memnagar area of the city in December 2018, after which she started staying with him and her in-laws. She said that she was working with an Information Technology firm in the Ahmedabad where her employer invited her to his birthday party on February 17, 2020. “As I returned late from my boss’s birthday party, my mother-in-law began fighting with me and then provoked my husband who thrashed me over this issue,” she said. At that time, they pushed her out from their house and she went to her father’s place on Jamnagar road in Rajkot. After a week, her husband came there to take her along with him and she had to strike a compromise in the case. She further said that she lost her job due to lockdown which did not go well with her in-laws and husband who beat her up for not working. “In end of March, I had lost my job due to lockdown but my in-laws nor my husband understood the situation. And kept on alleging that I left my job because of my laziness. She said that they taunted her and fought with her for not working due to which she had to leave her husband’s home,” said the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-thrashed-for-attending-bosss-bday-party/articleshow/79179641.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Post-Covid syndrome sufferers advised telemedicine facility||Aurangabad: The health authorities have appealed to the cured Covid-19 patients to take help of the government-run telemedicine service for treatment of the post-Covid syndrome. Aurangabad district civil surgeon Sundar Kulkarni on Wednesday said around 794 citizens from the district have obtained the benefit of telemedicine service so far. “While we have been running a special OPD for citizens with post-Covid syndrome, telemedicine is also an effective option for cured patients. It can minimize crowding at the state-run health institution, which is advisable during the pandemic. Besides, it can save time and energy of patients,” he said. Kulkarni said the post-Covid syndrome in cured patients has been showing a range of symptoms including some of serious nature. “Right from fatigue and muscle pain to complex health issues such as difficulty in breathing, the coronavirus is troubling cured patients in the form of post-Covid syndrome. The less serious health issues can be addressed through telemedicine,” he said. Stating that post-Covid syndrome can trouble a section of cured patients for up to two-and-a-half months post the recovery, health authorities said a protein-rich diet and yoga can alleviate related issues to some extent. “Post-Covid syndrome is still a topic of research and study for global health experts. The treatment protocols are evolving for the syndrome,” Kulkarni said. The government, in May, had introduced a daily telemedicine facility in the form of virtual OPD to reach out to patients who require consultation for normal fever, cough, cold and other ailments during the current pandemic. Health authorities said patients, in need of the medical consultation, can visit the government website and register for the telemedicine facility on the portal ‘eSanjeevaniOPD’. Following the registration, an OTP is generated to verify the phone number of the person registering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/post-covid-syndrome-sufferers-advised-telemedicine-facility/articleshow/79177165.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid deaths touch 1,108 in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The number of Covid-related deaths in Aurangabad district has reached 1,108 by Tuesday even as the health authorities have appealed to citizens to take extra precautions during Diwali festival and the ongoing winter season. Amid the declining number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the district, the total number of confirmed patients has reached 41,212. The municipal limits of Aurangabad and rural areas of the district together reported 72 new cases on Tuesday. While 39,431 people have recovered from the contagion, 673 are currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-deaths-touch-1108-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79177172.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Brace for the chill, mercury to drop further in Nashik||Nashik: The minimum temperature of Nashik city continued to drop for the ninth consecutive day on Wednesday. The mercury touched 10.6 degrees celsius, which is a departure of 4 degrees from the normal. The maximum temperature of the city was 27.8 degrees celsius, a departure of three degrees. In the past nine days, the minimum temperature of the city has declined by 7.7 degrees. Last year, the lowest minimum temperature in November was recorded at 13.8 degrees celsius. Sources in the India Meteorological Department said the city will witness clear skies and the minimum temperature is likely to drop further to 10 degrees celsius in next two days. The temperature will remain low till November 17. The minimum temperature in Niphad — the grape-growing belt of the district — dropped to 9 degrees celsius on Wednesday, against 10 degrees celsius on Tuesday. The maximum and minimum temperatures in Malegaon town reported a departure of three degrees from normal on Wednesday. IMD sources said the minimum temperature in Malegaon is expected to drop to 12 degrees celsius in next two days. Jalgaon, another north Maharashtra city, had a minimum temperature of 11.6 degrees celsius, with a departure of 4 degrees. The maximum temperature here was 30.7 degrees celsius, a departure of 3 degrees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/brace-for-the-chill-mercury-to-drop-further-in-nashik/articleshow/79177164.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||Metro services increase to 190||Kolkata: Metro Railway added 38 services along the north-south line from Wednesday, apprehending a rise in the number of commuters as local trains resumed services after a seven-and-a-half-month hiatus. But even as the carrier was expecting to cross 1-lakh ridership, the passenger count clocked 98,089, barely 2,000 short of the milestone.On Wednesday, 25% of the services were increased, assuming that more people would take the Metro because of the resumption of suburban services. The number of daily trains was up from 152 to 190. Most of the added trains started from Dum Dum that shares its premises with the railway station. The authorities have been looking forward to touching the 1-lakh figure ever since the graded resumption on September 14. Sanjay Chatterjee, who has been appointed by the state government to develop the link, from where e-passes are generated, said, “From the day’s trend, we assumed that the one lakh mark wouldn’t be achieved on Wednesday even as 25% more services were added. The number of e-passes booked was around 1.4 lakh. There’s usually a 45,000 gap between passes booked and actual ridership. So, we had guessed around 98,000 passengers.”But the authorities are confident that the added services would be utilized to the hilt and ridership would go up to 1.5 lakh in the next one or two weeks. “Several of those, who took the Metro, are from the suburbs. They travel by local trains till Dum Dum and then take the Metro to reach their various destinations in the city,” said an official. Additional Metro officials and RPF personnel were deployed at Dum Dum that recorded till November 2 71,000 footfalls against 20 lakh footfalls in pre-pandemic times. Only smart cards are used to board a Metro as no tokens are issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-services-increase-to-190/articleshow/79179642.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 12, 2020||Agra||Agra: Farmers block highway, lock power sub-stations in rural areas||AGRA: Farmers staged massive protest in Firozabad on Wednesday against inadequate power supply and lack of water in canals which is causing them much inconvenience while irrigating the fields. Farmers, protesting under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU), blocked the Tundla-Etah highway. They also locked down at least three power sub-stations in the rural areas. The police had to implement a route diversion plan after the farmers blocked the highway. It was only after the assurance of senior officials that the farmers ended their protest after around 3pm. BKU state president Yogesh Pratap Singh said, “With poor monsoon this year, farmers were largely dependent on tube wells for irrigation of their fields. We want the state government to ensure at least 18 hours of power supply for operating tube wells in rural areas. Besides, adequate water supply should be there in canals. We will also lock down the head office of the power distribution company in Agra if the state of power supply does not improve.” BKU state vice president Dhirendra Pal Singh said, “The authorities have assured to provide power supply from irrigation feeders for at least 15 hours per day. They will provide 18 hours after consulting the state government and making the required arrangements. We have decided to wait for 15 days. In case the authorities fail to fulfill their promise, then we will launch an indefinite strike.” Sub-divisional magistrate Rajesh Kumar said, “The electricity department officials were called on the protest site. They were asked to ensure at least 15 hours of uninterrupted power supply for proper irrigation of the fields. Required availability of water in canals will be ensured by the end of November. Irrigation department officials have been asked to complete the ongoing cleaning of canals within the next two weeks.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-block-highway-lock-power-sub-stations-in-rural-areas/articleshow/79177174.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Congress tells CM to pass resolution against coal in Goa||PANAJI: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat said on Wednesday that the state legislative assembly must be convened immediately so that a unanimous resolution can be passed to cap the import and transportation of coal in Goa through Mormugao Port Trust. Reacting to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s assurance that the Centre and Goa will cap the coal being handled by JSW’s South West Port Ltd, Adani Mormugao Port Terminal Pvt. Ltd and Vedanta at Vasco, Kamat said that Sawant should walk the talk by accepting Congress’ demand. “Let Sawant accept my demand for convening an immediate assembly session, and let us pass a resolution on capping of coal handling at Mormugao port,” Kamat said. “Let all 40 MLAs walk the talk to protect the identity of Goa and its environment.” Agitations against coal handling and transportation, as well as SWR’s double-tracking project, have grown over the past few months, prompting Sawant to dash to New Delhi for a meeting with the Union ports minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-tells-cm-to-pass-resolution-against-coal/articleshow/79180887.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Average onion price falls as farmers rush to clear stock||NASHIK: The average wholesale price of onions fell by Rs 400 to Rs 3,600 per quintal on the last working day on Wednesday at Lasalgaon APMC —- the country’s largest wholesale onion market — before the week-long holiday beginning from Thursday on account of Diwali. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices recorded on Wednesday were Rs 900 per quintal and Rs 4,899 per quintal respectively. Around 12,000 quintal of onions were auctioned. The average wholesale price of onions has declined by Rs 1,000 per quintal in the last two days. The average wholesale price was recorded at Rs 4,600 per quintal on Monday and Rs 4,000 per quintal on Tuesday. The drop in average wholesale onion price is likely to reflect in retail markets in a day or two and may decline further. Currently, onions are being sold at Rs 60 per kg in the retail market and may even drop to Rs 45-50 per kg in the next two days. According to APMC officials, the supply of onions doubled from 6,000 quintal to 12,000 quintal per day during the last two days which led to a drop in supply. “Farmers, who had stock of summer onions, tried to clear their stock in the last two days ahead of the week long holiday on account of Diwali. Around 25,000 quintal of onions were auctioned on Tuesday and Wednesday,” said APMC officials. Officials expect the supply of fresh kharif onions to increase after the market reopens right after Diwali. The average wholesale onion price may drop further below Rs 3,000 per quintal within a week after the market reopens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/average-onion-price-falls-as-farmers-rush-to-clear-stock/articleshow/79177181.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||City-based IBM working with 50% staff vacancies: RTI query||Nagpur: The Indian Bureau of Mines (IBM), like several other central government organisations, is facing a massive staff shortage. Out of 1,477 posts in city-headquartered organisation, only 748 are filled up while 729, or nearly 50%, are vacant. Established in 1948, IBM is engaged in promotion of conservation and scientific development of mineral resources and protection of environment in mines other than coal, petroleum & natural gas, atomic minerals and minor minerals. A reply to RTI queries of activist Sanjay Thul by IBM’s assistant administrative officer PP Deshpande, also the central publicity and information officer (CPIO), further informed that 72% of ‘Group A’ posts are also vacant due to late recruitment. When TOI contacted IBM senior official, YG Kale, on reasons behind such large scale vacancies, he refused to answer stating that he was in a meeting. According to Thul, even the top post of controller general has been vacant since over two years from May 1, 2018. Moreover, no one would become eligible for this top post till 2026, he claimed. “The entire organisation is being managed with stop gap arrangements. The charge is looked after additional secretary or by joint secretary, instead of a permanent incumbent. All this is leading to non-filling up of vacancies that are increasing each year,” he said. Out of 729 vacancies, 120 posts reserved for SC, 44 for ST and 128 in OBC category are vacant. In ‘Group A’ 131 posts have not been not filled up out of 459 sanctioned ones, in ‘Group B’, 143 out of 249 are vacant, in ‘Group B’ gazetted officers, 155 out of 243, and in ‘Group C’ 319 out of 516 aren’t filled up, the RTI reply by Deshpande mentioned. “The massive vacancies are adversely affecting the working of organisation. It is also putting burden on remaining staff, as they have to do extra work,” Thul told TOI. # Sanctioned & filled up posts at IBM: Group------------- Sanctioned ------------ Filled ---------- SC------ST--------OBC A------------------- 459---------------------131-------------- 16------09--------- 32 B------------------- 249---------------------143-------------- 17------08--------- 14 B (Non-Gztd) ---- 253---------------------155-------------- 20------06--------- 25 C------------------- 516---------------------319-------------- 67------21--------- 57 Total-------------- 1,477---------------------748-------------- 120------44--------- 128||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-based-ibm-working-with-50-staff-vacancies-rti-query/articleshow/79179648.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 12, 2020||Aurangabad||‘Wall of Humanity’ in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: To bridge the gap between the needy and generous citizens ahead of Diwali, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has come up with the ‘Wall of Humanity’ initiative as part of the Love Aurangabad campaign. Citizens have been encouraged to donate new, old or unused household items — including clothes, shoes, toys, books and furniture — and leave them at the walls identified by the civic body in nine zones. Those in need can then take the donated items without having to beg for them. On November 12, several Wall(s) of Humanity will be set up at the AMC head office in Town Hall; spot near Uday Xerox in Khokadpura; Shahgunj Chaman premises; Roshan Gate; Bhaji Mandi in N-11; opposite SBOA school, Mayur park; Kala Ganpati mandir in N-1; community centre at Kamgar Chowk, N-2; Reliance Mall at Garkheda; D-Mart at Shahnurwadi; Peer Bazaar at Kamgar Chowk in Osmanpura and Gopal t-circle at Kranti Chowk. Head of AMC solid waste management department Nandkishor Bhombe has requested people to wholeheartedly participate in the activity and make the event a success.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/wall-of-humanity-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79177180.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Three of a family shot dead in Chennai, cops suspect domestic dispute||CHENNAI: Three members of a family were found shot dead from point-blank range in a suspected family dispute at Sowcarpet on Wednesday evening, police said. The deceased, identified as Dali Chand, 74, his wife Pushpa Bai, 70, and their son Sheetal, 42, from Jawal in Rajasthan, were staying on the first floor of a three-storey apartment complex on Vinayaga Maestri Street. The murder came to light after Dali Chand’s daughter Pinki, who lives with her family in the neighbourhood, rang up her father around 8pm. As there was no response, Pinki rushed to her parents’ home and found them dead in their bedroom. After she raised an alarm, her neighbours alerted police, and a team from the Elephant Gate police station rushed to the spot. Police said Dali Chand bore a bullet wound on the chin, while Pushpa Bai and Sheetal were shot in the head. Preliminary inquiries revealed Sheetal married Jayamala of Pune and the couple have two daughters aged 13 and 11. Due to a domestic dispute, Jayamala separated from Sheetal and went to her parents’ house with her two daughters. Sheetal filed a divorce case in a family court in Chennai. According to police, Jayamala’s family members were demanding Rs 1 crore from Sheetal’s family. Special teams to trace assailants using CCTV cam footageJayamala’s brothers Vikas and Kailash often visited Dali Chand’s house and demanded money. Some of his neighbours told investigating officers that they recently saw Vikas and Kailash arguing with the Chand family. Police suspect the role of Vikash and Kailash in the triple murder. They have formed special teams to trace the assailants with the help of CCTV camera sourced from the neighbourhood. Police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, north Chennai additional commissioner A Arun and joint commissioner V Balakrishnan visited the spot. A team of fingerprint and forensic experts were pressed into service. The bodies were sent to the Government General Hospital for postmortem. Dali Chand, who was running a finance firm in the city for more than 50 years, had also financed a few Kollywood movies, police said. Further probe is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-of-a-family-shot-dead-in-city-cops-suspect-domestic-dispute/articleshow/79179650.cms||Selvaraj A
November 12, 2020||Kochi||Government fears exposure of graft: Ramesh Chennithala in HC||KOCHI: State government’s decision to stop audit of local bodies was challenged before the Kerala high court by opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. He alleged that it is to prevent LIFE Mission-model corruption in many local bodies from coming to light. An order stopping the audit of local bodies was issued on September 4 citing the reason that guidelines for the same was not received from the central government. However, the petition contended that the guidelines were issued on June 1 this year. A copy of the guidelines was produced in court. In the petition filed through advocate T Asaf Ali, it is alleged that state government is “very particular” that audit of accounts of LSGIs are postponed until local body elections and elections to the legislative assembly are over. It is due to the fear that rampant corruption in various poverty-alleviation and development programmes would come to light, the petition said, while citing that CBI is investigating LIFE Mission scam. The petition stated, “The petitioner verily believes that audit postponement is with an intention to cover up LIFE Mission and other similar mega corruption cases reported in various LSGIs in the state, and if no audit of accounts is done in the LSGIs, it would result in chaotic situations paving the way for large-scale institutional corruptions and also to cover up malpractices indulged by officials and political leaderships in LSGIs.” An order to begin auditing is sought by the petitioner at admission stage, whereas declaring the order to stop the audit as null and void is sought as final prayer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-fears-exposure-of-graft-ramesh-in-hc/articleshow/79178235.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Metro services increase to 190||KOLKATA: Metro Railway added 38 services along the north-south line from Wednesday, apprehending a rise in the number of commuters as local trains resumed services after a seven-and-a-half-month hiatus. But even as the carrier was expecting to cross 1-lakh ridership, the passenger count clocked 98,089, barely 2,000 short of the milestone. On Wednesday, 25% of the services were increased, assuming that more people would take the Metro because of the resumption of suburban services. The number of daily trains was up from 152 to 190. Most of the added trains started from Dum Dum that shares its premises with the railway station. The authorities have been looking forward to touching the 1-lakh figure ever since the graded resumption on September 14. Sanjay Chatterjee, who has been appointed by the state government to develop the link, from where e-passes are generated, said, “From the day’s trend, we assumed that the one lakh mark wouldn’t be achieved on Wednesday even as 25% more services were added. The number of e-passes booked was around 1.4 lakh. There’s usually a 45,000 gap between passes booked and actual ridership. So, we had guessed around 98,000 passengers.” But the authorities are confident that the added services would be utilized to the hilt and ridership would go up to 1.5 lakh in the next one or two weeks. “Several of those, who took the Metro, are from the suburbs. They travel by local trains till Dum Dum and then take the Metro to reach their various destinations in the city,” said an official. Additional Metro officials and RPF personnel were deployed at Dum Dum that recorded till November 2 71,000 footfalls against 20 lakh footfalls in pre-pandemic times. Only smart cards are used to board a Metro as no tokens are issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/metro-services-increase-to-190/articleshow/79179653.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Retired Gujarat HC judge is RERA appellate tribunal chairman||GANDHINAGAR: The state government on Wednesday appointed a retired Gujarat high court judge, Justice R D Kothari, as the chairman of the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) appellate tribunal. Real estate developers were demanding the formation of the tribunal as several of their cases rejected by the RERA were pending undecided since its inception. The government also appointed government officer Mehul Gandhi as the judicial officer in the RERA tribunal and Ajay Das Mehrotra as the technical/administrative member. The chairman and the member will have fixed five-year terms. The RERA Act has the provision of an appellate tribunal. However, since the adoption of the RERA Act in Gujarat, the state government had not appointed anyone to head the tribunal. According to the government order, the tribunal will hear all grievances raised against the RERA. If developers are aggrieved by the orders of the RERA and the RERA tribunal, they can approach the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/retd-hc-judge-is-rera-appellate-tribunal-chairman/articleshow/79179645.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolhapur||2 traders fined Rs 5k each in Kolhapur for using plastic bags||Kolhapur: Two traders from the Lakshmipuri area of Kolhapur city were fined Rs 5,000 each for dispensing plastic carry bags. The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has deployed five teams led by health inspectors to make surprise visits to shops and check for plastic usage by traders, seize the bags if found and levy fines on violators. Divisional health inspector Nikhil Padalkar said, “We are now going to raid the suppliers of plastic materials. We are tracing the source of plastic carry bags. The use of plastic bags has been increased in the city during the festival period. We are soon going to launch an awareness drive for citizens to discourage them from using plastic bags.” Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has asked the teams to look for of plastic bags and seize the banned material from them. However, most suppliers have their storehouses outside the city and the KMC has no jurisdiction to act against them in such areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-traders-fined-rs-5k-each-in-kolhapur-for-using-plastic-bags/articleshow/79177182.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Man held for kidnapping Solapur boy||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: The Solapur police have arrested a man for allegedly kidnapping a six-year-old boy and demanding ransom of Rs six lakh for his release. The boy was safely handed over to his parents after the arrest of the suspect. The Vijapur Naka police swung into action after the boy’s father Deepak Shivaji Kale lodged a complaint that his son, Yash, was missing on Monday evening. Yash had stepped out of the house but did not return till late in the night. Later, Deepak received a call on his phone from an unidentified number demanding Rs six lakh for Yash’s safe return. Deepak immediately approached the police and lodged a complaint. Police traced the caller with the help of the cell phone. They also checked CCTV footage of the area from where Yash went missing. Through the registration number of a motorcycle used by the suspect, the police picked up Sagar Krishnappa Gaikwad from one of his relative’s house. Police said that Gaikwad and Yash’s family used to stay in the same locality till a few days back. Gaikwad was aware that Yash’s father had saved some amount to purchase a land plot. Gaikwad was arrested with the help of technical staff from police. He has been remanded in police custody for four days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-kidnapping-solapur-boy/articleshow/79177187.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Markets in Vijayawada deserted as Covid-19 dampens festive shopping||VIJAYAWADA: There may be only a few days left for Diwali but markets and stalls selling festival merchandise in the city wore a deserted look with customers hesitant to venture out for shopping. City-based potters have procured stocks of lamps, ranging from Rs 5 to Rs 600, from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat, but with Covid-19 cases continuing to rise, rued that the number of buyers were few and far between. “The sale of diyas usually starts after the Dasara festival. We have procured a variety of stocks anticipating moderate sales but we had a very poor response from the public this year,” they said. Around 150 stalls selling clay lamps have been set up so far at busy junctions and marketplaces. “Buyers are afraid of shopping in huge crowds,” said K Narayanamma, who sells earthen lamps at Sunnapubatti centre in the city, adding, “We will end up making losses if this continues. We will offer huge discounts on lamps so that we can clear out our stocks.” The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) has allocated only 45 stalls for sale of fireworks at Swaraj Maidan. Space will be maintained between shops and officials deployed to ensure that physical distance norms are not violated. The civic body has directed street vendors to maintain a gap between stalls and prevent buyers from forming crowds. Meanwhile, authorities of the health wing have suggested that locals not come out onto the streets unless there is an emergency. “Covid-19 cases are increasing in the city. One should wear masks and maintain physical distance while going out for festival shopping. It is better to avoid shopping at congested stalls,” said Dr Lakshmi Kanth, a city-based physician.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/markets-deserted-as-covid-19-dampens-festive-shopping/articleshow/79178208.cms||Venu Lanka
November 12, 2020||India||Uddhav’s wife had bought land from Naik, says Kirit Somaiya||MUMBAI: BJP leader Kirit Somaiya sought to introduce a new twist in the Anvay Naik suicide abetment case by asking whether the state government’s “targeting” of Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami was linked to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Shiv Sena leader Ravindra Waikar’s wives buying property from the deceased. “I have documents which show that Rashmi Thackeray and Manisha Waikar jointly bought land near Revdanda in Murud from Anvay Naik and his wife and daughter. There are at least nine 7/12 extracts of such deals. There should be an inquiry into the deals. Why was this not revealed earlier when the case has become so prominent?” he asked. He added, “There is a doubt created in the public mind about whether these land deals are the reason behind the speed with which the Maharashtra government is investigating Arnab Goswami and the way it is targeting and torturing him.” Sena MLA Waikar, who was former minister of state for housing, hit back, saying the land was purchased legally and transparently by Ms Thackeray and Ms Waikar. “The purchase has been declared to the Election Commission and the Income Tax department both by me and the Chief Minister. Does the law ban the purchase of land?” he asked. “Does Kirit Somaiya mean to say that just because this land was purchased, there should be no investigation into the suicide abetment charges against Goswami? Whether Anvay Naik’s land was purchased is not relevant. What is important is the abetment to suicide case,” Waikar said. He also pointed out that there was no law barring the joint purchase of land by two people. Somaiya said he had details about one piece of land purchased by Ms Thackeray and Ms Waikar on March 21, 2014 which was worth Rs 2.2 crore. “What are the financial ties between the Thackeray and Waikar families? Why was the land bought jointly and how many such deals are there? Are they deals or is it a scam?” he alleged. He attached four pages of land revenue records on his Twitter account amounting to roughly 1.5 acres of agricultural land in Korlai village in Raigad’s Murud district. The land mentioned is both unirrigated and fallow farm land. While the first holder is the Naik family, the names of Rashmi Thackeray and Manisha Waikar are listed next on the properties. The Chief Minister’s election affidavit does mention multiple survey numbers of agricultural land owned by his wife in Murud’s Korlai area. Ravindra Waikar’s election affidavit also mentions the purchase of agricultural land in the same location by his wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uddhavs-wife-had-bought-land-from-naik-says-kirit/articleshow/79181847.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Full-grown tree cut for construction activity||Nagpur: There seems to be no end to illegal tree felling for construction activities in the city. In the latest case, a full-grown tree was cut in Shivaji Nagar, allegedly for an under-construction multi-storey building. The illegal activity was brought to the fore by Yashwant Fadnis , a retired engineering consultant, who while passing by the area on Tuesday, noticed a few men cutting the tree branches. On enquiring, he learnt that they don’t have the mandatory permission from the garden department of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Acting on his tip-off, members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation rushed to the spot and managed to stop the labourers. “Though 80-90% of the branches were cut, we did save the main stem. The tree will hopefully not die,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of the NGO. A team from NMC’s garden department also reached the spot and conducted the panchanma. Officials are likely to issue notice to the builder. Greens have demanded strict action against offenders. Some days back, hundreds of trees were chopped off near Bada Tajbagh for construction of a building. Activists alleged that apart from just issuing notices, strict action is not taken against illegal tree fellers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/full-grown-tree-cut-for-construction-activity/articleshow/79178716.cms||Manka Behl
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Holkar bridge gets smart sensors to avert mishaps||Nashik: For the first time, sensors have been installed on the British-era Ahilyabai Holkar bridge, also known as the Victoria bridge, in Nashik city to keep a tab on the status of the structure to prevent mishaps. The Ahilyabai Holkar bridge is one of the oldest bridges constructed across the Godavari river around 120 years ago. As part of the bridge surveillance project, the command and control office set by the smart city cell will get inputs from the censors even in case of the slightest damage to the bridge structure. The officials had decided to start this project following an incident around three years back, when people were washed away following the collapse of a bridge across the Savitri river near Mahad in Raigad district. After that incident, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had undertaken a structural audit of the Holkar bridge and it was found to be stable. However, since thousands of vehicles use the bridge every day, the smart city cell decided to come up with this project as it did not want to take any chances. This bridge connects the busy old city areas of Panchavati and Raviwar Karanja. “We have installed the sensors on the Ahilyabai Holkar bridge under the smart bridge surveillance system. This is part of the safety measures taken following the collapse of a bridge across the Savitri river near Mahad, on the Mumbai-Goa highway,” said Prakash Thavil, the CEO of Nashik Municipal Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (NMSCDCL). “We have also installed sirens on both the sides of the bridge. The siren sound can be heard up to 1 km away. The sensors will send alerts in case a crack develops on the structure. Any untoward incident can be avoided due to the sensors. Vehicular traffic from both the sides of the bridge can be immediately stopped once the sensors sound an alarm,” said Thavil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/holkar-bridge-gets-smart-sensors-to-avert-mishaps/articleshow/79177195.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Illegal construction by gangster razed by civic body||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation and Zone VII police demolished 29,800 square feet of illegal construction belonging to Nazir Vora, a lieutenant of slain gangster Abdul Latif Shaikh. The construction was called Zoya Residence and had both commercial and residential units. The building was in the Juhapura area of the Maktampura ward. AMC officials said the construction had come up in Town Planning Scheme 83 and had 14 shops and 10 residential units over a cellar, ground floor and five other floors. DCP Zone VII Premsukh Delu, who has taken over the task of demolishing illegal structures put up by Vora, said he had demolished another building put up illegally by Vora with a market value of Rs 3 crore on Wednesday. Delu said some 100 police personnel including seven sub-inspectors, four inspectors and one assistant commissioner of police were deployed there till civic body staff razed the entire building, in Teachers’ Colony in Maktampura. The removal of illegal buildings and encroachments by Vora is on schedule since Delu took charge around two months now. Police sources said Delu first identified illegal buildings built by Vora and other anti-social elements in Juhapura and then got civic body officers to take up a demolition drive. He had earlier demolished various buildings after which several illegal constructions were demolished by their owners. As a part of its drive against encroachments, the AMC has so far razed illegal construction on 7.34 lakh square feet and removed encroachments from 8,900 square metres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/illegal-construction-by-gangster-razed-by-civic-body/articleshow/79178807.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara reports 141 Covid-19 cases, 5 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Satara district on Tuesday reported as many as 141 Covid-19 patients with Phaltana and Koregaon witnessing most of the cases. Koregaon tehsil recorded 23 new cases, which included 11 cases from Rahimatpur, while Phaltan tehsil added 24 new patients. According to an official from the health department, Satara tehsil reported 17 new cases, including 15 from Satara town. “A total of 10 people from Khatav tehsil tested positive, while in Maan 11 new cases,were reported. Wai and Jawli reported eight and five cases, respectively. Khandala tehsil reported eight cases, including five from Lonand,” he said. “Satara district has so far recorded 48,296 positive cases and 43,874 of them have been discharged. As many as 1,626 people have succumbed to the contagion, while the number of active patients being treated in various hospitals across the district is 2,796 ,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-reports-141-cases-5-deaths/articleshow/79177197.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Alliance University ex-chancellor denied bail 2nd time in murder case||BENGALURU: A city civil and sessions court has denied bail on health grounds to Sudhir Angur, prime accused in the murder of former Alliance University vice-chancellor Ayyappa Dore. Dore, 53, was found dead at HMT Grounds in RT Nagar on October 16, 2019. Angur, 57, who was then chancellor of the university, was arrested on October 17 last year and named the first accused in the case. Sudhir moved his bail petition on health grounds before the 55th additional city civil and sessions court recently. It’s the second time the same court has refused to grant him bail since his arrest. On February 4, he had approached the court with a plea but was denied bail during the last week of April. Later, he approached the high court, which also dismissed his bail petition. In his second bail application to the sessions court, Sudhir contended he is suffering from heart and nerve-related diseases and needs bail to get treatment in specialised hospitals. But the court rejected his plea on November 6 and opined he can get treatment from Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research and Nimhans. The prosecution’s case was that Sudhir had a dispute with his brother Madhukar Angur over university affairs. As Dore was working in Madhukar’s favour, Sudhir planned to eliminate him with the help of contract killers. Sudhir’s counsel contended that the doctor at Central Prison has issued a report on October 10 that he’s suffering from pain in his neck, left upper limb and left side of the chest. He had also opined that further consultation and evaluation by cardiologists of Jayadeva institute and neurologists of Nimhans is necessary. Based on the report, Sudhir sought bail on health grounds. His counsel had contended that as both hospitals mentioned by the prison doctor also treat Covid-19 patients, there are chances of Sudhir also being infected if he is taken there. The court observed that Jayadeva institute and Nimhans are recognised hospitals for providing treatment for heart diseases and neurological problems, respectively. Addressing the apprehensions of the accused’s counsel, the court said separate wards are created for Covid-19 patients. “The question of granting bail to provide special treatment in any specialised hospital arises only when Jayadeva and Nimhans doctors express their opinion that the accused cannot be treated adequately in their hospitals and they have no required facilities,” noted judge SR Manikya, adding the two hospitals are known for their effective and sophisticated care. “Under such circumstances, I am of the opinion that the accused can be treated in the said hospitals for his diseases,” the judge stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/alliance-university-ex-chancellor-denied-bail-2nd-time-in-murder-case/articleshow/79178371.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Pandemic alters beauty routines, many switch to natural products||BENGALURU: Tanuja R, a homemaker, decided sometime in June that she would no longer use any harsh chemicals as part of her beauty routine. “I used to think I lead a healthy lifestyle but the pandemic made me re-evaluate my choices. I realised that not just what we eat, but even our cosmetics and house-cleaning products make a difference,” she says. Tanuja has gone from seven cosmetic products to three natural and chemical-free ones. “From shikakai for my hair to handmade soaps which I got from a friend and neem oil, I am trying to steer clear of all chemicals,” she says. Nagesh Kumar, a student, says the SARS-COV2 virus put the spotlight on health and immunity. “We were second-guessing what we ate, how we stayed fit and what we used. My family and I realised that choosing natural, herbal products would be better than surrounding ourselves with unnecessary chemicals,” he says, adding: “I discovered a natural brand, Juicy Chemistry, and have been looking for other similar ones. I now check the ingredient list and details of every product I use.” Quratulain, another student, says spending the lockdown with her grandmom opened her eyes to simpler times. “The Covid fear made us eat healthy. I also felt that skin absorbs a lot of what we apply and decided to go completely organic,” she says. The 23-year-old who suffers from polycystic ovary syndrome says she is not taking a chance with her health any more. “I read somewhere that plastic makes PCOS worse, so I am choosing brands that are plastic-free, organic and cruelty-free,” she adds. Mahima Dissoria, founder of Soap Square, which specialises in natural, handmade and eco-friendly products, told TOI people have indeed become conscious about making green choices. “There is a great demand for plastic-free packaging and other green practices,” she says. Delhi-based Soap Square, launched in 2015, extended its operations across India during the pandemic in April. “We have been getting orders from all over the country. The pandemic forced us to go online and we have seen 10 times growth since then,” she says. Vegan products Desiree Pereira, co-founder of Disguise Cosmetics, a vegan, cruelty-free make-up brand, says in the beginning of the pandemic, people began looking for vegan products when they found out about the origin of Covid-19 in meat markets of China. She says the trend of people buying from Indian brands is growing. “We ensure that no one makes a compromise while choosing local brands over the conventional options,” she adds. ‘Ancient wisdom, modern science’ Sonia Dhawan, founder of Granny Gregs which specialises in natural therapeutics and remedies (lip balms, insect repellants, headache balms etc.), says she has observed a 100% growth in demand for her products during the pandemic. “We use ancient wisdom and modern science to develop our products with ingredients comprising herbs, salts, essential oils, vegetable oils, beeswax, mango butter and cocoa butter,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pandemic-alters-beauty-routines-many-switch-to-natural-products/articleshow/79178238.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Mysuru||Have little knowledge about green crackers: Health minister||MYSURU: Nearly a week after chief minister BS Yediyurappa made a U-turn allowing the sale and use of green firecrackers during Deepavali, health and medical education minister K Sudhakar on Wednesday pleaded ignorance about such eco-friendly crackers. “There is nothing like green firecrackers. I have very little knowledge about their availability and usage,” Sudhakar told reporters. Sudhakar’s statement is being attributed to some right-wing organisations’ opposition to the curbs imposed on Hindu festivals. Some organisations had even objected when the government had decided to ban public celebration of Ganesh Chaturthi due to Covid-19, following which the decision was reversed. It now seems Yediyurappa’s decision to allow people to burst only green crackers has not gone down well with some of his partymen. When Yediyurappa announced the ban before retracting it, Sudhakar had defended the CM’s decision saying the proposal to ban firecrackers follows advice of the Covid-19 technical advisory committee. “The smoke generated by bursting crackers will have a negative impact on people’s health, especially those who have recovered from Covid-19. The committee highlighted this too,” he had said. Party sources said there are concerns over the availability of green firecrackers since the announcement was made just a week before the festival. According to Council for Scientific and Industrial Research, green crackers are those which emit 30-35% less emission, apart from having less harmful chemicals. They don’t contain banned chemicals such as lithium, arsenic, barium and lead, and emit 125 decibels of sound compared to 160 decibels emitted by conventional crackers. In October 2018, the Supreme Court allowed bursting of low-emission crackers relaxing the complete ban issued in 2017. Such crackers were developed by scientists at CSIR-NEERI as per the court’s directions and they had even signed agreements with more than 200 companies to manufacture the crackers and make them available for sale. But sources said production of such crackers this time has taken a beating due to the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/have-little-knowledge-about-green-crackers-health-min/articleshow/79178268.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Be liberal with funds for farmers: Andhra CM Jagan Mohan Reddy||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Wednesday requested the Centre to be liberal in extending financial support to farmers as they have been badly hit by the recent floods. The CM interacted with members of the central inter-ministerial team at his Tadepalli camp office after the team’s visit to the flood-hit districts of Guntur, Krishna, East Godavari and West Godavari during the last two days. The team also toured Anantapur district to assess the damage to groundnut crop. Jagan requested the central team to recommend for relaxation of fair average quality (FAQ) for purchase of damaged paddy and groundnut. He told committee members that loss to infrastructure was also huge. Besides damage to roads, several irrigation projects too were damaged. The loss to electricity department was also big and has to be restored at the earliest, the CM told them. Earlier during the day, the chief minister listed the welfare schemes rolled out by the government for minorities in the state while speaking to representatives of Christian and Muslim communities from his Tadepalli camp office on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Moulana Abul Kalam Azad, India’s first eduction minister. Jagan said his government has spent Rs 3,428 crore for welfare of minorities during the last 17 months. He said his party has four MLAs and two MLCs belonging to Muslim community which never happened in the state in the past. Paying rich tributes to Moulana Azad, he said it was Azad who introduced national educational institutions, central universities and institutions of excellence besides the University Grants Commission to promote literacy, knowledge and excellence. Referring to the suicide case of auto driver Abdul Salam along with his family members at Nandyal in Kurnool district, the CM said action has been taken against the accused police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/be-liberal-with-funds-for-farmers-jagan/articleshow/79178164.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Bareilly||Rampur: History sheeter arrested with 1kg charas & gun||RAMPUR: Wanted history sheeter Shafeque alias Gatua was arrested on Wednesday from Tanda tehsil. Charas weighing 1.1 kg was recovered from him. According to police officials, Shafaque had earlier been booked under charges of robbery and murder in Delhi-NCR. Circle Officer (Suar) Dharam Singh said, “Shafeque alias Gatua is among the district’s top 10 criminals. He was arrested from near the eidgah in Tanda, and 1.1 kg charas and a .315 caliber country-made shotgun was recovered from his possession, along with three live cartridges.” Shafeque alias Gatua was arrested under sections 8 and 20 of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, along with relevant sections of the Arms Act. The press release issued by the office of Rampur SP Shagun Gautam stated that there are 17 criminal cases involving heinous offenses have been registered against Shafeque at Delhi, Moradabad, Sambhal and Rampur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/history-sheeter-arrested-with-1kg-charas-gun/articleshow/79177203.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Road accidents dip in Karnataka, but share in national count up||BENGALURU: The number of road accidents in Karnataka reduced by at least 1,000 in 2019 compared to the previous year, but the state’s share in the total count of accidents in the country increased marginally, data released by the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) reveals. From 2017, the state has consistently reduced the number of road accidents. At 40,658, accidents in 2019 dipped by 1,049 or 2.5% from 41,707 in 2018. In 2018, accidents had reduced by 1.9%, while the dip in 2017 was 4.1%. However, compared to 8.9% in 2018, Karnataka’s share in the total number of accidents reported across India stood at 9.1% in 2019. Overall, the total accidents in the country dipped to 4.4 lakh in 2019 from 4.6 lakh the previous year. In 2019, Karnataka ranked fifth, an improvement of one position from 2018. Tamil Nadu (57,228), Madhya Pradesh (50,669), Uttar Pradesh (42,572) and Kerala (41,111) reported more cases than in comparison. In the last five years — 2015 to 2019 — the state has reported more than 2.1 lakh road accidents, which is roughly about 9% of the 23.6 lakh reported nationally. Tamil Nadu had the most cases with 3.2 lakh accidents, followed by Madhya Pradesh (2.6 lakh), and Karnataka stood in third position. Uttar Pradesh and Kerala stood in the fourth and fifth spots. During the same time, 54,546 people died in accidents on Karnataka roads, of which 10,958 were reported in 2019, which was 32 less than the previous year. In the said five years, 2016 saw the most deaths (11,133) and 2019 the fewest. In 2018, the number of deaths had actually increased (compared to the previous year) by 381.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/road-accidents-dip-in-ktaka-but-share-in-national-count-up/articleshow/79178227.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Two youths attempt to end life after losing cricket bet in Guntur, one dies||VIJAYAWADA: Upset over losing money in cricket betting, two youths attempted to end their lives by consuming pesticide near a railway track in Guntur’s Bellamkonda on Monday afternoon. Of the two, 22-year-old Ura Suresh from Talluru village died while receiving treatment while 21-year-old Ura Komaraiah from Budaga Jangala Colony is said to be critical. According to Bellamkonda police, before attempting to end their lives, the two recorded a selfie video and sent it to their family and friends. The incident came to light on Wednesday after the video had gone viral across social media. Police said that the two were found unconscious near the railway track from where they were rushed to Sattenapalli area hospital. Police said that they could not find the bottle of pesticide at the spot and suspect it had been consumed before the two reached there. In the video, both acknowledged that they had incurred heavy losses betting on IPL matches. Cops said they had paid Rs 30,000 to betting organisers but still owed another Rs 80,000. Fearing harassment from bookies, they sought forgiveness from their families before attempting suicide. A case under CrPC section 174 has been registered. Betting and losing money on cricket matches has led to suicides over the past few years with three similar incidents reported only from Vijayawada last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/two-youths-attempt-to-end-life-after-losing-cricket-bet-one-dies/articleshow/79178205.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Whistles make a comeback as crowds surge at stations||KOLKATA: The only whistles that citizens have woken up to for a while have been those blown by security guards and municipal garbage collectors. But on Wednesday, when suburban train services resumed, neighbourhoods around railway stations, like Ballygunge, Lake Gardens, Dhakuria and Rabindra Sarobar, woke up to the shrill noise of whistles as Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel attempted to maintain order at the stations. While Kolkata Police seldom uses whistles nowadays, RPF does so, mainly to draw the attention of people at stations. Regular Metro commuters would have been familiar with the whistles used by the RPF to stop people from getting too close to the platform edge when the trains arrive. Other Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel, like those of the Central Reserve Police Force, also carry whistles when engaged in law-and-order duty. “When maintaining order, a whistle is very important. When people in a crowd hear it, they get attentive and it gets easier to communicate with them. In the armed forces, whistles are still used during training. In the railways, whistles continue to be used extensively. At night, whistles blown by those patrolling the tracks inform motormen and loco pilots that all is well along a particular stretch. The drivers are used to the sound of whistles that can be heard over the noise the train makes. On Wednesday, the RPF personnel were maintaining queues and enforcing social distancing by using whistles,” a railway official said. Whistles were first used as a mode of communication by the Chinese to alert people of Mongol raids. Egyptians are also known to have used whistles for the same purpose. The police in England replaced their rattles with whistles in the late 1880s. “Both the police and military used whistles extensively till other modes of communication came into being. JCOs still use whistles during training,” a military officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/whistles-make-a-comeback-as-crowds-surge-at-stations/articleshow/79179675.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 12, 2020||Agra||Cop’s murder in Agra: NHRC directs UP DGP to extend benefits to constable’s family||AGRA: The National Human Right Commission (NHRC) has directed UP Police to extend all the benefits, as per the service rules, to the family of a 24-year-old constable who was allegedly crushed to death under the wheels of a tractor in Agra’s Kheragarh while trying to stop goons from smuggling illegally mined sand from Rajasthan to UP. Constable Sonu Chaudhary, who had joined the police force in 2018, was killed on duty three days ago. The accused tractor driver and his accomplices also opened fire on the police party and escaped under the cover of morning fog. The NHRC’s directions were issued after a complaint was filed by a Ghaziabad resident, Vishnu Kumar Gupta, seeking commission’s intervention for payment of compensation to the family of the victim and other necessary action in the matter. In his complaint, Gupta urged the commission to issue directions to UP government’s chief secretary and DGP to provide a job in police to one of the family members of the deceased constable, a compensation of Rs 50lakh and ensure that investigations, monitored by ADG Agra zone, are carried out by a special team within a time frame.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cops-murder-in-agra-nhrc-directs-up-dgp-to-extend-benefits-to-constables-family/articleshow/79177220.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Pune||Many flyers prefer to fly from Mumbai now to skirt hassles||PUNE: Working professional Kamal Sahoo will travel to Bhubaneswar for work right after Diwali. He decided against flying from the Lohegaon airport. Instead, he booked a direct flight to the capital of Odisha from Mumbai. “I don’t want to take a risk. Many flyers are facing hassles because the flight movement at the Pune airport has been restricted to 12 hours. I have been following the social media posts of passengers and checking the websites of travel portals as well as airlines. They are still showing bookings can be made for late evening and night flights. Amid this confusion, I decided to travel to Mumbai by road and board a flight from there,” Sahoo told TOI. Sahoo’s decision is not a case in isolation. Many city flyers are skirting the Pune airport now for flying out. A lady doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said, “I saw my friend’s direct flight to Jaipur turning into a connecting flight suddenly. I plan to travel to Chennai on November 25 for a marriage ceremony and I don’t want to take the of risk of flying from here. Hence, I have booked a ticket from Mumbai. Travelling from Pune to Mumbai will cost me around Rs2,500 in a cab. But it’s better than experiencing hassles while travelling.” Kailash Satpute, planning to visit Nagpur, said he had decided to travel by road. “I just don’t want problems. Bookings are still open on the websites of travel portals and airlines for the evening flights. Why is it so?” he asked. Queries were sent to the travel portals, including MakeMyTrip, Goibibo and EaseMyTrip. But none of them responded till going to press. A senior official of one of the portals, requesting anonymity, said they had uploaded information as received from the airlines. “How can we be blamed for this? We are bound by contract to upload the information we receive from the airlines. If passengers are facing hassles, it is nothing but the callousness on the airlines’ part,” the representative said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-flyers-prefer-to-fly-from-mumbai-now-to-skirt-hassles/articleshow/79179655.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 12, 2020||Surat||Surat: Bogus invoice scam of Rs 46 crore unearthed||SURAT: The Central Goods and Service Tax’s (CGST) Surat branch has detected a case of fraudulent passing of input tax credit (ITC) of a city-based firm into sales and service, using bogus invoices and bills, to the tune of Rs 46.85 crore on Wednesday. Acting on an intelligence input, the sleuths raided Shree Laxmi Sales and Service whose owners had declared that they were dealing in embroidery and motifs. The e-way bill data analysis found they did not receive any supply. The investigation also revealed that the firm had passed on fraudulent ITC to the tune of Rs 46.85 crore by issuing bogus invoices without paying any GST for their outward supply and without filing GSTR 3B returns. The ITC has been passed to various tax payers registered in West Bengal, Orrisa, Telangana and Maharashtra. Officials said that the CGST authorities having jurisdiction over taxpayers having availed fake ITC have been requested to take necessary action to recover the amount equivalent to fake ITC availed by the firms to safeguard revenue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bogus-invoice-scam-of-rs-46cr-unearthed/articleshow/79179137.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik gets 1st instalment of govt aid for farmers||Nashik: The Nashik district has received the first instalment of aid that is to be given to farmers who have suffered crop loss due to heavy rainfall as well as people who have lost their homes (partially or fully) and livestock. The district has received a grant of Rs 111.59 crore, out of the total demand of Rs 244 crore, Nashik resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doifode said. The officer said the remaining Rs 133 crore too will be granted soon and the same would also be transferred to the farmers’ accounts. The aid received by the district administration includes Rs 75.92 crore from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) constituted under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. Besides the SDRF aid — of Rs 6,800 per hectare for regular crops and Rs 18,000 per hectare for multiple-year crops — the state government has, from its coffers, announced additional compensation of Rs 3,200 per hectare for regular crops and Rs 7,000 per hectare for multi-year crops. “Aid of Rs 10,000 per hectare for regular crops and Rs 25,000 per hectare for multi-year crops for eligible farmers, limited up to two hectares of land, has arrived and the same will be transferred to the beneficiaries’ accounts immediately,” the officer said. In effect, the district has received Rs 75.92 crore for regular crops and Rs 35.14 crore for the multi-year crops. The government has also provided Rs 12 lakh for the people whose homes were washed away, and Rs 28.5 lakh has been given for people who have lost livestock. The Nashik division, as a whole, has received Rs 226.8 crore for farmers — Rs 152.4 crore for regular crops and Rs 71 crore for multi-year crops. Aid of Rs 1.74 crore has been given for people who have lost their homes and Rs 64.4 lakh for those who lost their cattle. In the division, Ahmednagar district has received Rs 75.2 crore, followed by Jalgaon (Rs 19.5 crore), Dhule (Rs 10.9 crore) and Nandurbar (Rs 9.5 crore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-gets-1st-instalment-of-govt-aid-for-farmers/articleshow/79177221.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Bizman arrested for Rs 17.65 crore GST fraud||LUDHIANA: Tax authorities have arrested a Ludhiana businessman, who had been running 14 firms in his and his family members’ names and was found to be involved in bogus billing amounting to Rs 252 crore to evade GST worth Rs 17.65 crore. His arrest came following a joint operation on Tuesday by three taxation authorities—central GST (CGST) commissionerate, state GST department and directorate general of GST intelligence (DGGI)—who conducted a series of raids on various business entities. The accused was on Wednesday produced before a court, which sent him to 14-day judicial custody. The officials laid their hand on the high-profile businessman, Sahil Jain, using a high-tech Business Intelligence and Fraud Analytics (BIFA) tool, which gave a detailed analysis of his business transactions, including the shady ones. Besides him, three other businessmen were also arrested for indulging in bogus billing to evade tax.  Ludhiana CGST principal commissioner Ashutosh Baranwal said, “The anti-evasion wing of the CGST commissionerate during the course of investigation discovered that Sahil Jain was operating 14 firms either in his name or in the name of his family members and friends. These firms had issued invoices without actual supply of goods worth Rs 252 crore involving a GST of Rs 17.65 crore. Recovery of Rs 1.23 crore has already been made in this case. In his confessional statement, he has accepted the fraud.” On the BIFA tool, Baranwal said it has been developed by GSTN and it provides year-wise graphic details with diagrams and tables of inward and outward supply chains of a business entity in real time. “We can check pan-country supply chain of any business house,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizman-arrested-for-rs-17-65cr-gst-fraud/articleshow/79179682.cms||Mohit Behl
November 12, 2020||Kochi||Bineesh Kodiyeri sent to prison, bail hearing next week||BENGALURU: Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPM Kerala state committee secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, was sent to Central Prison, Bengaluru on Wednesday evening after a special court remanded him in judicial custody till Nov 25. Bineesh was arrested by enforcement directorate (ED) sleuths in a money laundering case and the agency will quiz his driver and close aides in Kerala. Earlier in the afternoon, ED escorted him to the special court complex after his 14-day custodial interrogation ended. Bineesh is accused of financing his aide Mohammed Anoop (38) with over Rs 5.2 crore. Mohammed was arrested by NCB for drug peddling in Bengaluru on Aug 22. He and his accomplice Rijesh Ravindran (37), also a Bineesh aide, who were booked under the NDPS Act are in a Bengaluru prison. While Bineesh’s lawyers sought bail, ED Bengaluru unit vehemently opposed it. ED’s special public prosecutor stated that the suspect is a politically-influential person and would try to tamper with evidence and could influence witnesses in the case. ED also cited pending investigation and the possibility of him fleeing the country. Driver, aide to be quizzed ED stated that Bineesh’s driver Ani Kuttan had made cash deposits on the latter’s behalf from his bank account into Mohammed’s account. But, Bineesh told ED that he had only given Rs 7 lakh and the agency wants to question Ani. Therefore if Bineesh is released on bail he could influence him, the public prosecutor told in court. The agency added that Bineesh’s aide Arun S was also involved in high-value transactions which need to be probed. Investigators are also in the process of forensically examining the digital evidence gathered from gadgets seized from Bineesh’s Thiruvananthapuram home and also from Mohammed’s devices seized by NCB. ED team is in the process of probing Bineesh’s shell companies including one registered in Bengaluru and the rest in Kerala with some of it not having a registered bank account. Bineesh’s bail application will now be heard on Nov 18. ‘Conspiracy afoot to sabotage cases’ Idukki: KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran alleged that conspiracy was afoot in Delhi to sabotage the gold smuggling case and narcotics case. Addressing the media at Thodupuzha, he alleged that BJP state president going to Delhi was the ‘proof’ and if the case against Bineesh Kodiyeri fails, BJP would be reason why it happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bineesh-sent-to-prison-bail-hearing-next-week/articleshow/79178289.cms||Petlee Peter
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||80% private buses return to Kolkata roads||KOLKATA: Suburban train services have led to nearly 80% of private buses coming back to the city roads, easing the dispersal of train passengers. Autos also played a major role in ferrying passengers to and from stations like Ballygunge, Jadavpur, Park Circus, Majerhat and Tollygunge. The stations also had a large number of cabs at the exits. “Many buses on our route had to stop plying because of lack of passengers. A majority of them came back on Wednesday,” said Syed Azaruddin, an operator of KB15, which originates at Santragachhi station. WBTC, the state transport undertaking, also ran its optimum routes with the resumption of suburban train services on Wednesday. “Buses on routes linked to stations suffered a crisis during the withdrawal of suburban train services,” said Joint Council of Bus Syndicates secretary Tapan Banerjee. The traffic cops, however, were a relieved lot. According to estimates, within the first four hours of resumption of suburban train services, there was a 25% decrease in number of bikes on BT Road, CR Avenue and Howrah Bridge. Bicycles decreased by half. However, there were traffic snarls in pockets of Kolkata due to the high number of buses and autos on the roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/80-pvt-buses-return-to-roads/articleshow/79179684.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Farmers’ arrest: Andhra HC censures police, lower court||VIJAYAWADA: The high court on Wednesday found fault with the police and also the lower court which rejected bail for capital region farmers arrested under the SC-ST Act. While granting bail, the court directed the Guntur (rural) SP for arresting the farmers, the Mangalagiri additional junior civil judge for sending them in remand, and Guntur fourth additional sessions special judge for rejecting the farmers’ bail pleas, to file reports within two weeks. The high court further said that the police did not follow Supreme Court guidelines while arresting the accused. The court which sent the accused in remand also did not take the facts into consideration, it noted. On October 23, police booked cases against seven farmers on charges of attacking people supporting the government’s proposed three capitals move and abusing them with their caste, at Tallayapalem village. Five of the seven arrested farmers are SCs. The high court asked how cops booked cases under the SC-ST Act against SCs, despite the complainant not mentioning any abuse in the name of caste and even filing an affidavit before the court. Arresting persons without a valid reason is nothing but trampling of personal liberty and fundamental rights and the police do not have such powers, the high court observed. The court also pointed out that based on the report, it appears that the police booked cases under the SC-ST Act with the knowledge that the accused also belonged to SC. When the complainant himself filed an affidavit before the court stating that no caste abuse was made, why didn’t the lower court not take the same into consideration while rejecting their bail pleas, Justice Lalitha asked, adding that the courts cannot send accused in remand mechanically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/farmers-arrest-hc-censures-police-lower-court/articleshow/79178258.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 12, 2020||India||India & Nepal in touch for border talks this month||NEW DELHI: India remains in touch with Nepal for a meeting of the boundary working group (BWG) later this month, official sources said. While the two sides are also discussing a proposal for a visit by foreign secretary Harsh Shringla to Nepal soon, sources said there was no final decision on the issue yet. India has consistently maintained, following Nepal’s decision to issue a new map showing Indian territories in it, that Kathmandu has to create the right conditions for a foreign-secretary level dialogue. Indian Army Chief General M M Naravane did visit Nepal earlier this month. Nepal has also proposed dates for a meeting of the BWG later in November. The meeting is important to take stock of the situation in areas where the border is settled. The Kalapani dispute is unlikely to figure in the BWG meeting. As officials said, BWG is a sectoral, technical mechanism led by survey departments of the two countries and its mandate is to carry out boundary field work in areas where mutually agreed strip map is already prepared. India has been upset with Nepal’s decision to unilaterally issue a new map and for rushing through its validation process in parliament in complete disregard for Indian sentiments. Nepal, however, says it has been seeking talks between the foreign secretaries since November last year, after India issued its own new political map necessitated by the reorganisation of Jammu and Kashmir. If the foreign secretary does visit Nepal, the two sides will have an opportunity to discuss the Kalapani dispute for the first time since the border row erupted late last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-nepal-in-touch-for-border-talks-this-month/articleshow/79181849.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Dal Khalsa writes to PM: Open Kartarpur corridor||CHANDIGARH: The radical Sikh outfit Dal Khalsa has written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, urging him to reopen the Kartarpur corridor prior to the Parkash Purab of Guru Nanak Dev on November 30, so that pilgrims could cross over to Pakistan to pay obeisance at the historic Sikh shrine. In an e-mail to the Prime Minister, Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwar Pal Singh has mentioned that the Pakistan government had already opened the gurdwara to devotees and the Indian Prime Minister needed to reciprocate Pakistan to allow Sikhs have direct access to the shrine via Kartarpur corridor. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dal-khalsa-writes-to-pm-open-kartarpur-corridor/articleshow/79179689.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Amritsar||31 artists attend SGPC paintings workshop||AMRITSAR: As many as 31 artists, including non-Sikhs, made paintings depicting the illustrious history of the formation of SGPC during a workshop held at Bhai Gurdas Hall to mark the 100 foundation day of the Sikh body being celebrated on November 15. “History of the formation of SGPC is full of sacrifices and so are the achievements of SGPC” said SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal while talking to media persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/31-artists-attend-sgpc-paintings-workshop/articleshow/79179700.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Now, shop and eat out till midnight||AHMEDABAD: With the festive fever taking hold of the city, the AMC has decided to allow shops and other establishments situated on 27 road stretches to stay open till midnight. These stretches are mainly in Jodhpur, Sarkhej, Bopal, Bodakdev, Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Vejalpur, and Gota wards in the North West Zone and South West Zone of the city. In the last week of September, the AMC had decided that shops and establishments, except pharmacies, on the 27 stretches would close at 10pm. The stricture came after warnings and appeals were issued to youths to follow social distancing rules and wear masks while venturing out. A senior official said that Wednesday’s decision was taken to prevent crowding at shops in evenings in the run-up to the Diwali festival. Officials said that a meeting was held to settle the matter. It was chaired by Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary who heads the anti-Covid mission in Ahmedabad. In the meeting, it was decided to give more time to people to shop. The officials said the relaxation means that even restaurants and eating joints can remain open till midnight. Hoteliers and restaurateurs have welcomed the decision. Dilip Thakkar, a city-based restaurateur, said: “Every restaurant is compelled to stop taking in guests after 9.15pm in order to completely shut down at 10pm.” Thakkar added: “The extension will be greatly beneficial to the industry as people who return home late after work can also enjoy a meal at a restaurant now.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/now-shop-and-eat-out-till-midnight/articleshow/79179683.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: One-Time Settlement scheme for power consumers from December 1||PANAJI: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday said that One-Time Settlement (OTS) scheme, 2020, will be started for power consumers from December 1. The scheme will be notified soon and people should take benefit of it, Cabral said. We expect to recover Rs 90 crore through the scheme, he said. The minister said that consumers who do not opt for the OTS scheme will face disconnection of supply. The state cabinet had approved One-Time Settlement scheme, 2020, to give relief to power consumers to pay outstanding bills with the full or part waiver of the delay payment charges (DPC). The scheme will be open for one month from the date of notification. The first One-Time Settlement Scheme was launched in 2008 to recover large accumulated arrears in the PWD and electricity department. The OTS scheme, 2020, is proposed on similar lines to recover outstanding revenue from temporary or permanently disconnected/RCC consumers and also for active consumers of the electricity department. The cabinet note approved waiving off DPC that is 100% waiver for two installments, 80% for three installments, 60% for four installments, 40% for five installments and 20% for six installments. It stated that one of the reasons for the large number of defaulting consumers is the accumulation of arrears on account of 2% DPC. Despite all efforts being undertaken by the department for recovery of dues, there is a huge amount of arrears piled up against the consumers whose installations have been temporarily or permanently disconnected/ RCC cases, which at present amount to Rs 56.19 crore up to March 31, 2020, and accumulated arrears of the existing connections which are yet to be disconnected amount to Rs 137.92 crore up to September 30, 2019. The scheme will be applicable to all the categories of consumers whose installations are temporarily or permanently disconnected as on March 31, 2020, for non-payment of outstanding arrears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ots-scheme-for-power-consumers-from-dec-1/articleshow/79160351.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chandigarh||2 wanted criminals held in Sirsa||CHANDIGARH: Haryana police have arrested two persons wanted in a case of opening fire in Sirsa district. Police also recovered three illegal pistols and 12 cartridges from them. On Wednesday, a state police spokesperson said accused, arrested in separate incidents, were identified as: Amandeep alias Khalnayak and Rakesh alias Chotu, both from Sirsa district. The accused were wanted for opening fire near the Maruti temple in Sirsa town on September 2. The duo and their accomplices had shot at Vishal and his friends. A case filed was registered against them at Sirsa police station and they were on the run since then. Preliminary probe reveals that Amandeep was previously involved in six criminal cases, including attempt to murder, loot, and under the Arms Act and NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-wanted-criminals-held-in-sirsa/articleshow/79179685.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: SIT formed to probe Ganeshnagar blast||AHMEDABAD: Nearly a week after 12 workers including five women were killed and nine injured in multiple explosions at a chemical processing unit in Ganeshnagar on the Piplaj-Pirana Road in the Narol area, the city police have formed a special investigation team (SIT) to conduct a probe in the incident. Sources said that deputy commissioner of police, zone-7, Premsukh Delu, will monitor the investigation until its final outcome. Confirming this development, Delu said that independent MLA from Vadgam Jignesh Mevani suggested his name and he will be doing supervision of the case which will be probed by ACP Milap Patel. An office order from the city police commissioner’s office reads, “DCP, zone-6, AM Munia has been detected with Covid-19 and therefore DCP, zone-7, Premsukh Delu will hold additional charge of zone-6 (under which Narol area falls).” “Due to this, the case (Ganeshnagar blast tragedy) will be investigated under the supervision of DCP, zone-7, Premsukh Delu,” adds the order. Mevani, who has been sitting on Dharna along with deceased’s family members, demanded before the city police commissioner Sanjay Srivastav that the investigation should be conducted by Delu. Mevani also demanded a compensation of Rs 20 lakh which is yet to be considered. The incident took place on November 4 when multiple blasts took toll of 12 lives. People living within 5km of the incident herd the blasts which sounded like powerful bombs. Owner of the chemical unit Hetal Sutaria along with two other men — owner of industrial units Nanu Bharwad and Pradeep alias Boota Bharwad were booked for culpable homicide charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sit-formed-to-probe-ganeshnagar-blast/articleshow/79179708.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Patna||Youth hanged to death in Katihar village||PATNA: An 18-year-old Ranjeet Kumar Muni was thrashed and hanged from a tree allegedly by the family members of a girl with whom he had love affair. The incident took place between 1am and 2am on the outskirts of village Gopalpatti under Falka police station area in Katihar on Wednesday, SHO Sunil Kumar Mandal said. Mandal said the body was spotted by villagers in the morning. “Ranjeet was thrashed mercilessly before being killed. He had injury marks of sticks and rods all over the body. After thrashing, the accused persons had hanged him to death from a tree,” he said. Mandal said that Ranjeet’s father Dinesh Muni has lodged an FIR against three persons with whom he had enmity but their involvement in the case could not be ascertained yet. Mandal said preliminary investigation revealed that Ranjeet had an affair with a girl from Gopalpatti village for the last six to seven months. “Police came to know that the girl’s family members had thrashed Ranjeet mercilessly before hanging him from a tree by using a plastic rope,” he said. The SHO said body was handed over to the family after postmortem and raids were on to nab the suspected family members of the girl. They were evading arrest, he said. The SHO said Ranjeet had food with his family at around Tuesday midnight after which he went out of his home. He said the family members told police that they didn’t know when Ranjeet went out of the house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girlfriends-kin-hang-katihar-youth-to-death/articleshow/79179704.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Can investigate Guntur PS attack if court directs: NIA||VIJAYAWADA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) told the high court on Wednesday that the case pertaining to the attack on Old Guntur police station does not come under the scheduled crimes entrusted to it. The HC had earlier issued notices to CBI and NIA in a PIL challenging withdrawal of cases on the persons involved in the attack. The high court wondered that when the CBI, which was formed under the Delhi Police Act, can investigate cases as per the directions of the courts, why can’t the NIA do the same. The counsel for NIA clarified that they do not have any problem investigating a case if the court gives a direction. The CBI also filed an affidavit in the case. Earlier, the high court suspended a GO issued by the state government withdrawing prosecution against the persons involved in the attack on Old Guntur police station. The incident took place in 2018 when hundreds of protestors ransacked the police station, burnt vehicles and pelted stones on police personnel. Protesters gathered at the police station demanding justice after a minor girl was sexually molested. The government, on February 2, issued a GO withdrawing prosecution against the accused. The high court took a serious objection over the language used in the GO which mentioned the religion of the accused. A PIL was moved challenging the GO, alleging that case was withdrawn without taking the facts into account, adding that withdrawing prosecution in such cases will set a bad precedent. The high court then asked the petitioners to make the CBI and the NIA as respondents in the case following which the investigation agencies filed their reply before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/can-investigate-guntur-ps-attack-if-court-directs-nia/articleshow/79178305.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Three firms bid for Porur-Poonamallee metro||CHENNAI: Three companies or consortia have shown interest in constructing an elevated metrorail line between Porur junction and Poonamallee bypass, a route earlier planned to be linked through monorail, covering 8km. The stretch is part of 26.09km corridor-4 from Lighthouse to Poonamallee, which will link the city's core localities such as Mylapore, T Nagar, Vadapalani with the developing IT area in Porur and far flung suburbs in Poonamallee. Construction for a portion of the 119km phase-2 will begin in early 2021. Sources said it was revealed that three companies or consortia Hindustan Construction Company Ltd- KEC International (HCC-KEC) JV, Larsen & Toubro Ltd and NCC Ltd have submitted tenders for constructing the line when CMRL opened technical bids on Tuesday. Officials said the financial bid will be opened in a month or two after technically qualified bidders are selected and the lowest bidder among them may bag the contract. The contractor is expected to construct the line with nine elevated stations and a maintenance depot at Poonamallee within three years, officials said. Corridor-4, which is also called the orbital corridor as it connects the rest of the corridors of both phase-1 and 2, cuts across city’s central localities starting from Lighthouse to link Porur junction and Poonamallee bypass. The nine stations between Porur junction and Poonamallee include Chennai bypass crossing, Ramachandra Hospital, Iyyappanthangal bus depot, Kattupakkam, Kumananchavadi, Karayanchavadi, Mullai Thottam, Poonamallee bus terminus and Poonamallee bypass. While AIIB has agreed to fund a 16-km stretch from Meenakshi College to Poonamallee bypass, it was reported in June 2020 that ADB began evaluation to fund a 10km line from Lighthouse to Meenakshi College. As of 2012, Porur-Poonamallee stretch was part of a monorail project from Kathipara to Poonamallee in a ‘Y’ shaped alignment, including an arm from Porur to Vadapalani and Velachery to Vandalur. CMRL conducted a study on the passenger flow which revealed high traffic density between Porur and Poonamallee that could be catered only by metro rail. Subsequently, corridor-4 of phase 2 from Lighthouse to CMBT was extended up to Poonamllee bypass following nod from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/3-firms-bid-for-porur-poonamallee-metro/articleshow/79179740.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Half of Covid fatalities in Karnataka had BP, 36% were diabetic||BENGALURU: About 49% of those who died of Covid-19 in Karnataka suffered hypertension, while 36% had diabetes. Of the 11,430 Covid fatalities recorded in the state till Tuesday, 5,572 had hypertension and 4,167 were diabetic, data released by the health and family welfare department shows. Doctors say non-communicable diseases are increasing the threat posed by communicable diseases like Covid pneumonia. For example on November 10 alone, 11 of the 20 patients who died of Covid-19 had hypertension and 10 had diabetes, which aggravated their Covid-19 pneumonia. And thanks to the pandemic, pneumonia is back in focus on the world stage. Pneumonia, an inflammation of lung tissue, follows an infection. Covid pneumonia is the second stage of a SARS-CoV2 infection and it flares up in patients who have diabetes or hypertension, which alter their immune response. “In 502 people, cardiovascular-related comorbidities were seen. However, it’s not unique. One person may have more than one comorbidity,” said Dr Arundhati Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, Karnataka. Dr CN Manjunath, director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, said, “Hypertension leads to impaired relaxation of the heart. The pressure on pulmonary circulation is high. Many with hypertension would also have an enlarged heart. When pressure builds on the right side of the heart, it can lead to disproportionate hypoxia or fall in blood saturation level. This has a cascading effect on the body and enhances viral multiplication.” Doctors say, that among diabetics, they have noticed a slight alteration in immune mechanisms which leaves them at higher risk of cytokine storm and blood clotting. Dr Prasanna Kumar T, pulmonologist, Ramaiah hospital, says people with poor glycemic control (high blood sugar) must be careful because of their impaired immunity. “Diabetes is a risk factor for any infection,” Dr Prasanna said. “Those with blunted immune response because of diabetes will have a long battle against SARS-Cov-2.” While Type 2 diabetes is common among elderly people, they are the ones who are most vulnerable to the Covid infection as well. “Coagulation of blood clotting mechanisms is deranged in diabetics,” says Dr Vasunethra Kasargod, consultant chest physician, Vikram Hospital. “Cytokine storm is primarily because of variations in immune mechanisms. He said that with Covid, diabetes also goes out of control, which is a vicious cycle and predisposes patients to severe infection. “Pneumonia implies infection of the lungs and it can be caused by various organisms including viruses, bacteria, fungi and protozoans,” says Dr Vasunethra. “The most common route of infection is inhalation. Thanks to the pandemic, pneumonia is back in focus as SARS-CoV-2 is causing Covid pneumonia in a majority of cases requiring hospitalization.” Immune-compromised individuals like diabetics and those suffering hypertension, chronic kidney and cardiovascular disease are more susceptible to Covid-19 pneumonia. Hence keeping these diseases under control is necessary to prevent pneumonia, he said. Dr Satyanarayana Mysore, HOD, pulmonology, Manipal Hospitals, said those with hypertension and diabetes who contract Covid can beat the disease if they seek treatment early. “Delay in presentation to hospitals can add to the risk factor. We have seen a 91-year-old with diabetes and Covid pneumonia recovering well only because the patient sought treatment early,” said Dr Mysore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/half-of-covid-fatalities-in-karnataka-had-bp-36-were-diabetic/articleshow/79178306.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||VM Sudheeran, Baby ask Congress to introspect||T’PURAM: Congress should do a sincere introspection after the setback it suffered in the Bihar assembly poll and byelections held in other states, said former KPCC chief VM Sudheeran. “Corrective steps need to be undertaken by Congress leadership,” he said in a statement. “We should go back to the economic policies framed by Jawaharlal Nehru and Indira Gandhi. The criteria for selecting candidates and party office-bearers should be merit and public acceptance. Party’s style of functioning needs to be redefined so that the trust of people can be earned,” he said. Sudheeran asked the leadership to initiate steps to widen mass base of the party and lead the fight against fascist forces led by BJP. CPM politburo member MA Baby too said that bourgeois opposition parties should do an introspection in the wake of Bihar debacle. “It is disappointing to see that anti-people party BJP couldn’t be defeated despite its internal fights. It was clear that people of Bihar longed for a change. But, neither RJD nor Congress could provide an effective leadership to bring that change. The only silver line in this poll is that Left parties could win overwhelming support as they had raised the burning issues faced by common people,” he said in a Facebook post. He said opposition parties should understand that by adopting conventional means, the serious threat from RSS can’t be addressed. “It is foolishness to think that by not taking a strong stand against communalism or not raising burning issues faced by the common man Congress can win the confidence of the electorate,” Baby said. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the reason for the electoral debacle in Bihar was the split in secular forces. “This once again reminds us for the need to unite all secular forces in our fight against BJP,” he said during a news conference. Referring to political situation in Kerala, Chennithala alleged that CPM was trying to glorify BJP. “People of Kerala know BJP and the efforts of CM and CPM secretary to glorify BJP here won’t sell,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sudheeran-baby-ask-congress-to-introspect/articleshow/79178316.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Loan shark threatens to kill hospital owner, kin||AHMEDABAD: The wife of the owner of a SG Road hospital on Wednesday filed a complaint with Sola police against a moneylender who allegedly barged into her house and threatened to kill her entire family.  Aruna Jani, 54, a resident of Divine Bungalows on Science City Road, said in her FIR that her husband, Sureshkumar Jani, had taken Rs 80 lakh from a moneylender, Bharat Desai. The loan was taken at 5% monthly interest about one-and-a-half-years ago. Due to the lockdown, Jani could not pay interest for four months. According to the FIR, Jani is the owner of Global Multi-specialty Hospital on SG Road. Aruna Jani stated in her FIR that Desai had barged into her house on Wednesday afternoon when she was alone at home. Her husband was in Navrangpura; her son Dhruv, 34, lives with his wife and child at Sundarvan Epitome in Satellite. Desai asked for Jani. When she told Desai that Jani was not at home, Desai left in a huff. At around 8.30pm on the same day, Desai again stormed into her house and straightaway came into the kitchen where she was working. Desai began abusing her family members. Desai yelled, demanding to know why Jani and Dhruv did not respond to his phone calls. Desai alleged that Jani was hiding in the house. Desai then locked the house and began threatening to kill the entire Jani family. When Desai moved out of the kitchen, Aruna Jani locked the door from inside and called the police control room. After a while, a team of Sola police reached her home and registered a complaint. Inspector J P Jadeja of Sola police said that Desai was caught and booked under the charges of criminal trespass and intimidation. The provisions of the Gujarat Money-Lenders Act were also invoked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/loan-shark-threatens-tokill-hospital-owner-kin/articleshow/79179738.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Agra||Row over Krishna Janmabhoomi: Priests’ body, social organisation become party to Mathura temple-mosque case||AGRA: A week before the Mathura district court is to hear a suit to remove a 17th-century mosque adjacent to the birthplace of Lord Krishna, an all-India body of priests and a social organisation on Wednesday filed pleas to become a party to the case. In two applications in the court of district judge, the Akhil Bharatiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha and Mathur Chaturvedi Parishad condemned the petition for the removal of the Shahi Idgah mosque built within the Katra Keshav Dev temple, arguing that the issue can create “communal disturbance in the town”. The earlier petition was filed in September on behalf of child deity Bhagwan Shri Krishna Virajman through the “next friend” Ranjana Agnihotri, a Lucknow-based lawyer, and five others. It claimed that the mosque located within the 13.37-acre premises of the temple was built at the birthplace of Lord Krishna and sought its removal. The plea was dismissed in a lower court after which the petitioners moved the district court against the order last month. The appeal was admitted in the court of district judge Sadhna Rani Thakur who posted the matter for hearing on November 18. The two new pleas have also been scheduled for hearing on the same day by the court. The pleas have argued that the sensitivity of the matter needs to be understood since the issue can spoil the “communal harmony of Mathura town”. Talking to the media on Wednesday, president of Akhil Bharatiya Tirth Purohit Mahasabha Mahesh Pathak said, “We don’t want anyone to disrupt the peaceful atmosphere of the city and this matter is unnecessarily being raised after the Ram Janmabhoomi issue. All community members have been happily staying together here.” He added that people want development and employment generation rather than a mandir-mosque issue. “We want the status quo to remain. Additional land can be acquired for expansion of the temple premises,” he said. The application by the priests’ body also stated that the claim of ownership of the land in the previous petition was not in accordance with the Place of Worship Act, 1991— which provides for maintaining the “religious character” of holy structures, as it existed on August 15, 1947. “Eidgah mosque is 300 years old. Hence this claim should be dismissed,” it read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/row-over-krishna-janmabhoomi-priests-body-social-org-become-party-to-mathura-temple-mosque-case/articleshow/79177295.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 12, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Over Rs 50 lakh stock damaged as fire guts warehouse||VIJAYAWADA: A major fire gutted a warehouse situated inside the premises of the old Prasad theater near Milk Project area in Chittinagar on Tuesday night. After the fire was reported in the warehouse at around 11.30 pm, two fire tenders carrying 25 firefighters from Kothapet rushed to the spot and managed to partially douse the flames in the warehouse, which was being used to stock tiles, sanitaryware, iron cots, welding materials and wooden switchboards. When their efforts proved insufficient, they mobilised three more fire tenders from Autonagar and Ajit Singh Nagar. It took over three hours to completely douse the flames. District fire officer M Srinivasa Reddy said they suspect electrical short circuit may have caused the fire. Though there were no casualties, the property damage is estimated to be over Rs 50 lakh as almost the entire stock has been gutted. Two Town police too reached the spot and conducted an inquiry into the incident. An accidental fire case has been registered and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/over-rs-50-lakh-stock-damaged-as-fire-guts-warehouse/articleshow/79178324.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Diwali vacation cancelled for all medical teachers||AHMEDABAD: The state government on Wednesday cancelled the Diwali vacation for Class I and II employees of all medical colleges in the state due to the Covid-19 situation. BJ Medical College had already cancelled the vacation. The Medical Teachers Association requested the state health department to grant Diwali vacations to doctor-teachers because they have been working tirelessly for more than seven months and need a break now. A meeting was convened on Wednesday involving the deans of all medical institutes across the state and they discussed how Covid-19 and non-Covid services would continue unhampered during Diwali times. The decision to cancel the vacation was conveyed to the heads of all institutes and they have been asked to remain prepared for round-the-clock health services. Even after BJ Medical College decided not to take the vacation during the festive season, the cancer research institute affiliated with the college situated on the Civil Hospital campus announced its vacation in two phases, according to the schedule of Gujarat University. Ultimately, the vacation of the cancer hospital was also cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diwali-vacation-cancelled-for-all-medical-teachers/articleshow/79179760.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Agra||Gurugram woman among three killed on Yamuna Expressway||AGRA: Three people, including a 28-year-old woman resident of Gurugram, were killed and five others injured when the car they were travelling in on their way to Nepal rammed into a tractor-trolley near milestone 137 on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura’s Baldeo area on Tuesday night. Station house officer of Baldeo police station SK Tomar said it seemed the driver dozed off at the wheels and the uncontrolled vehicle crashed into the tractor-trolley around 2 am. The woman — Pawan Kumari Pandey, a resident of DLF Phase IV in Gurugram — used to work as a maid and was on her way to Nepal to bring her ailing father to Delhi for treatment, said police. Pawan Kumari’s two friends — Mamta and Prakash Lambichane — were, however, admitted to a hospital with serious injuries.The trio had hired a taxi to Nepal, Pawan Kumari’s fiancé Ram Prasad Pandey told TOI. They got engaged 10 years ago, but had been delaying marriage due to family circumstances, added Prasad, who reached Mathura after getting information from police. Prasad broke down as he saw his fiancée’s body, but he could not identify other victims, said police. “We have so far established the identity of four travellers, including the driver and have been working to ascertain the identity of others too,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/gurugram-woman-among-three-killed-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/79177345.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||Tirupati staffer sends porn link to devotee, dismissed||TIRUPATI: Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams on Wednesday dismissed an employee working for Sri Venkateswara Bhakti channel (SVBC), following an internal inquiry that confirmed he sent a porn link to a devotee, instead of religious material. The incident came to light after the devotee, who received the porn link from the official email handle of SVBC, lodged a complaint with TTD top brass. An inquiry was ordered. According to an official statement, an employee of the channel allegedly sent the porn link to a Hyderabad-based devotee. The staffer, who has access to the official e-mail of a particular programme on SVBC, was reportedly in a highly inebriated state when he emailed the porn link to the devotee. The temple body, which engaged the services of IT experts from its vigilance and security wing, was even more shocked when it was found that nearly 30 staffers of SVBC regularly watched TV serials and porn sites on office computers during office hours. When the inquiry officials checked the search history of SVBC office computers, links to several pornographic websites were noticed. The inquiry team, which has already seized the office computers, is in the process of compiling a preliminary report for submission to SVBC and TTD managements for action against the guilty. In January actor-turned politician Prudhvi Raj resigned from the chairmanship of SVBC after an audio clip of his ‘intimate’ talks with a woman staffer of the channel went viral. Following Prudhvi Raj’s episode, the temple body revamped the SVBC board and appointed additional EO A V Dharma Reddy as the channel’s managing director. The official statement said a team of 25 software engineers carried out computer security audit in SVBC and a cyber cell team has been constituted. “During vigilance inquiry it was found that a few more employees are also involved in such wilful, indecent conduct. If proved guilty, action will be initiated on them too,” the statement said. It added that all computers in SVBC will henceforth function under the supervision of TTD’s IT wing and each computer will be allotted a password. It has also been decided to bring SVBC under the supervisory control of TTD vigilance||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tirupati-staffer-sends-porn-link-to-devotee-dismissed/articleshow/79181856.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 12, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Yogi Adityanath chooses ‘One District-One Product’ items for Diwali gift||LUCKNOW: Taking the lead to promote ‘Vocal for Local’ and ‘One District-One Product’ this Diwali, chief minister Yogi Adityanath will gift specially curated gift baskets containing the best of UP’s crafts and produce to the President, Prime Minister and Union ministers. The CM had recently appealed to people to gift locally made goods on Diwali to help local business. Setting an example, his Diwali gift will include one ODOP product from 13 districts. “The basket will have terracotta Ganesh and Lakshmi idols and diyas for Diwali puja and will showcase UP’s best and most famous products to inform people about UP’s crafts and specialities,” said a senior official. The basket will contain terracotta idols and diya from Gorakhpur, kalanamak rice from Siddharthnagar, a silk stole from Varanasi, a chikan kurta from Lucknow, jaggery from Muzaffarnagar, a wooden pen stand from Saharanpur, ittar from Kannauj, amla products of Pratapgarh, zari zardozi of Chandauli, a brass bowl from Moradabad and a moonj basket from Prayagraj. “It will be a package of unmatched gifts in terms of variety and quality and its packaging will beat that of multinational companies,” a senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-chooses-odop-items-for-diwali-gift/articleshow/79180948.cms||---
November 12, 2020||---||NDA govt headed by Nitish Kumar to make Bihar self-reliant: Narendra Modi||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday reiterated that CM Nitish Kumar will lead the fourth NDA government in Bihar to fulfil the developmental aspirations of people befitting with their desires in the 21st century. “For building atmanirbhar Bihar, the fourth NDA government will be formed under the leadership of Nitish Kumar alone to implement all the NDA resolutions,” PM said while addressing the people of various states at the thanksgiving function organized at the BJP headquarters in Delhi. Modi cleared any confusion in this regard a day after the results of the 2020 assembly elections were announced by the Election Commission, giving 125 seats to the four NDA partners in the 243-member House. The NDA governments were formed under the leadership of Nitish in November 2005, 2010 and July 2017. Earlier in the day, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) indicated that the government formation, in all likelihood, will take place after Diwali on November 14. Incidentally, this has also been the stand of JD(U). “Top leaders of the BJP and JD(U) are in touch with each other. They are discussing how to proceed and make a formal claim before the governor for government formation. Initially, all NDA allies will convene a meeting of their legislators. After that, a joint meeting of MLAs of all the four NDA allies will be convened,” JD(U) national general secretary K C Tyagi told TOI over phone. “The oath taking ceremony, it seems, will take place after Diwali,” Tyagi said and added, “Top NDA leaders will finalize the date for the joint meeting.” “BJP’s central parliamentary board and CM Nitish Kumar will decide on government formation,” SuMo said on Wednesday. In the Bihar NDA, BJP has emerged as the largest party with 74 wins, while JD(U) headed by Nitish has secured only 43 seats. “The numbers are immaterial. Before going to the polls, it was not known which party will win how many seats. But that Nitish will head the NDA government had been decided before the polls,” SuMo said. He said it would be premature to say which part will have how many ministers. “It will also be decided by the BJP’s central leadership and Nitish. Moreover, it is never that all the ministers are included at one go,” SuMo said. Even the matters like who among the central BJP leaders will be invited to participate in the swearing-in function will be decided later. Accordingly, the state BJP leaders were not in position to disclose if PM Modi, Amit Shah or party chief J P Nadda will attend the oath taking ceremony. At this stage, the state cabinet secretariat department had not been alerted or asked about making preparations for the oath taking ceremony, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-govt-headed-by-nitish-to-make-bihar-self-reliant-namo/articleshow/79182698.cms||Abhay Singh
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Sudden Covid spike in rural areas worries district admin||Nashik: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases being reported from the rural areas of Nashik district suddenly shot up to a three-digit figure on Wednesday, putting the health administration on its toes to find out the cause behind the infection spread. As many as 107 new cases of the infection were registered on Wednesday compared to 39 cases reported a day earlier. “The rural areas of the district have been registering around 50 patients per day on an average since October 31. The nymber of cases suddenly shot up to 107 today (Wednesday),” said a senior officer from Nashik zilla parishad.“There are certain pockets in Niphad and Sinnar talukas that have reflected a marginal rise in the numbers of cases. The cause of the surge in the cases is being ascertained to figure out the ways and means to contain the spread of the disease,” said health officials from Nashik zilla parishad.As on Wednesday, there were 1,029 active cases in the rural areas of the district compared to 764 active cases on November 6. This indicates that fresh cases have increased by 35% in a matter of four days.The senior officer pointed out that the number of fresh cases increased as peoplemay have come back to their hometown for Diwali and during inspection, may have tested positive for the contagion. “Whatever the reasons, we would go to the depth to find out the cause and even conduct contact tracing and tracking to curb the spread of the infection,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sudden-covid-spike-in-rural-areas-worries-district-admin/articleshow/79177351.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Will share more things later: BJP Kerala vice-president Sobha Surendran||KOZHIKODE: BJP state vice-president Sobha Surendran, who recently came out against the state leadership, met Mizoram governor and former party state president, P S Sreedharan Pillai at his residence on Wednesday. Addressing the media after her meeting, Sobha termed her visit a courtesy call. She added that she had many things to share with the media which she would do at an appropriate time. Responding to questions, Sobha said she was not disheartened by the alleged attempts to portray her as a person who aspired for ‘positions’. “I joined BJP when there was not even a panchayat member for the party in Kerala. If I had joined the organization seeking positions, then I would not have continued for 33 years undertaking activities in various spheres,” she said. Sobha had openly criticized the state leadership recently and told the media that she had been sidelined. A group of leaders in Kerala, led by Sobha, had recently written to the central leadership expressing their dissatisfaction with the state leadership led by K Surendran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/will-share-more-things-later-sobha/articleshow/79178338.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Patna||NDA govt headed by Nitish Kumar to make Bihar self-reliant: Narendra Modi||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday reiterated that CM Nitish Kumar will lead the fourth NDA government in Bihar to fulfil the developmental aspirations of people befitting with their desires in the 21st century. “For building atmanirbhar Bihar, the fourth NDA government will be formed under the leadership of Nitish Kumar alone to implement all the NDA resolutions,” PM said while addressing the people of various states at the thanksgiving function organized at the BJP headquarters in Delhi. Modi cleared any confusion in this regard a day after the results of the 2020 assembly elections were announced by the Election Commission, giving 125 seats to the four NDA partners in the 243-member House. The NDA governments were formed under the leadership of Nitish in November 2005, 2010 and July 2017. Earlier in the day, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) indicated that the government formation, in all likelihood, will take place after Diwali on November 14. Incidentally, this has also been the stand of JD(U). “Top leaders of the BJP and JD(U) are in touch with each other. They are discussing how to proceed and make a formal claim before the governor for government formation. Initially, all NDA allies will convene a meeting of their legislators. After that, a joint meeting of MLAs of all the four NDA allies will be convened,” JD(U) national general secretary K C Tyagi told TOI over phone. “The oath taking ceremony, it seems, will take place after Diwali,” Tyagi said and added, “Top NDA leaders will finalize the date for the joint meeting.” “BJP’s central parliamentary board and CM Nitish Kumar will decide on government formation,” SuMo said on Wednesday. In the Bihar NDA, BJP has emerged as the largest party with 74 wins, while JD(U) headed by Nitish has secured only 43 seats. “The numbers are immaterial. Before going to the polls, it was not known which party will win how many seats. But that Nitish will head the NDA government had been decided before the polls,” SuMo said. He said it would be premature to say which part will have how many ministers. “It will also be decided by the BJP’s central leadership and Nitish. Moreover, it is never that all the ministers are included at one go,” SuMo said. Even the matters like who among the central BJP leaders will be invited to participate in the swearing-in function will be decided later. Accordingly, the state BJP leaders were not in position to disclose if PM Modi, Amit Shah or party chief J P Nadda will attend the oath taking ceremony. At this stage, the state cabinet secretariat department had not been alerted or asked about making preparations for the oath taking ceremony, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-govt-headed-by-nitish-to-make-bihar-self-reliant-namo/articleshow/79179765.cms||Abhay Singh
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Vendors hopeful of getting customers as Diwali nears||Nashik: The sale of firecrackers has remained relatively low this year due to the Covid-19 outbreak and the restrictions imposed by the local administration on burning of crackers. However, vendors are still hopeful and expect customers to drop by to buy firecrackers from Friday. Vandan Karanjkar, a vendor, said that the enthusiasm of buying firecrackers was missing this time. “Usually, people stock up firecrackers a week prior to Diwali. This year, the sales are hardly equivalent to 20% of the total volume sold every year during the same period,” said Karanjkar. .Even the people who throng to the markets from about a week ago have either not been to the market areas or bought fewer firecrackers. “I usually burst crackers worth Rs 5,000 and more but this year, I have spent only Rs 1,200 on crackers,” said Sailesh Sharma, a businessman from Gangapur Road.Sanjay Nirbhavane, an employee of a private company, said that he was going to burst crackers as usual and had already bought stuff worth Rs 9,000—more than what he had spent last year. “Diwali comes only once a year,” he said. Jayaprakash Jategaonkar, an office-bearer of the Nashik district firecrackers vendors’ association, said, “If Yamuna river became cleaner than ever and even air pollution was low in Delhi during the lockdown, it implies that industries and automobiles cause more pollution than burning of firecrackers. This year, we will see good business in the last two days especially because holidays begin from Thursday,” said Jategaonkar. “I am optimistic of making good business and the government will earn good revenue from the sale of firecrackers this year as well. We will, however, urge people to exercise caution if Covid-19 patients are in their neighbourhoods,” said Jategaonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vendors-hopeful-of-getting-customers-as-diwali-nears/articleshow/79177381.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Regular classes only for final-year Bengaluru varsity students from November 17||BENGALURU: Bangalore University has directed all its affiliate colleges to resume regular classes only for final-year students from next week. First and second-year students will have to wait for a few more days — perhaps a month — before joining their seniors on campus. Until then, colleges have been asked to continue with online classes. In a meeting on Wednesday with principals of all colleges affiliated to the varsity, vice-chancellor KR Venugopal said first and second-year students can be brought in after 15-30 days depending on the situation. "Let us first stabilise final- year students," he said after the meeting. "They will have practical classes in batches in the initial days. We will continue with online classes for first and second-year students and bring them in after 15-30 days. We have discussed issues of space in classrooms and labs." The meeting was held to brief principals on standard operating procedures to be followed once colleges reopen on November 17. The VC said students should not be compelled to attend regular classes and must be given the option of attending online or regular classes. However, college principals raised concerns and pointed out that conducting both online and regular classes simultaneously will be a massive challenge. "It’s going to burden teachers," said a principal. "We have to conduct classes in batches to ensure social distancing is maintained. This means imparting the same lessons twice or thrice. Along with that, teachers have to send recorded videos. It’s going to be very taxing." However, Venugopal was unfazed. "The best way is to live stream the classes if you have the facility," he reportedly told the gathering. "Otherwise you have to record and send lessons. No student can be left out... It will be extra work for lecturers, but these are extraordinary times and we have to work harder." He went on to add, "There are no specific timings colleges have to adhere to. They can start classes as early as 7am and take extra hours in the evening as classes will be conducted in batches." He suggested some part of the syllabus has to be assigned as homework so that portions can be quickly covered. As part of Covid safety measures, students have to bring their own food and water and a class leader should be appointed to ensure Covid protocols are followed in classes. Each college has to set up a task force. In case a student or teacher tests positive for the virus, the classroom will be shut for a day during which it will be santised. Teachers have to use face masks and shields. There is no plan to reduce students’ fees at the moment. On the other hand, if students are unable to pay exam fees, managements have to chip in, the VC said. The university also made it clear that it’s not in a position to reduce affiliation fees for colleges because of a fund crunch. Colleges also have to mandatorily set up yoga centres and staff have been asked to ensure the mental wellbeing of students. The last date for admissions can be extended, Venugopal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/regular-classes-only-for-final-year-bluru-varsity-students-from-nov-17/articleshow/79178340.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Man, whose family was found hanging, kills self||KOZHIKODE: Binesh Sreedharan, 38, of Muthupurath house near Thudimutti, whose four-member family was found hanging in their rented house at Nettikulam in Malappuram on Sunday, allegedly committed suicide on Wednesday. Sreedharan’s wife Rehna (35) and three sons were found hanging inside their house. Sreedharan was found hanging from a rubber tree near his ancestral house at Thudimutti in the wee hours of Wednesday. He stayed in his brother’s house since two days and had gone missing from midnight. His relatives began searching and found his body on Wednesday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/man-whose-family-was-found-hanging-kills-self/articleshow/79178352.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Chhath devotees divided over venue, but all say no to crackers, loud music||KOLKATA: Some Chhath devotees near Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar are ready to perform the rituals at alternative sites following the Calcutta High Court order, prohibiting pujas at the two lakes. But another section remained rigid on the divine right to perform the rituals exactly where they had done in other years. But both groups with distinctly divergent views made a common resolution: they would not burst crackers, play loud music or organise processions this year. On Tuesday, the Calcutta High Court had said the NGT order, banning Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar — passed two years ago and upheld this year — must be implemented “in totality”, unless the Supreme Court ordered otherwise. It also included Subhas Sarobar in the ban ambit. The SC is slated to hear a petition filed by KMDA — custodian of both the lakes — over the NGT order on November 16. KMDA has said it will make arrangements at 44 water bodies this year, up from barely a dozen last year. A day after the order, sane voices emerged from the very locality that had stormed Rabindra Sarobar last year on Chhath. “Whatever action the court or government is taking is for our good. If the SC allows us to perform the puja at the Lake, we will go there. But if they ask us to head elsewhere, we will head to Doi ghat or Babughat and follow all guidelines,” said Santosh Rai, an auto driver, who lives in a slum on Pratapaditya Road. Others, too, said they were open to performing Chhath at venues that are clean. But another section remains defiant. “No one can stop us from entering the Lake and perform the puja. We have planned how and when to enter the Lake. But there will be no processions, crackers or loud music. We have been told to maintain decency and head to the Lake and perform the puja peacefully,” said Shambhu Singh, a resident of Matalibagan slum in Chetla. Many who perform Chhath rituals at the Lake live in Matalibagan, Gobindopur and Panchanantala. Kadapara resident and taxi driver Rakesh Yadav has decided to go to Subhas Sarobar but said they would not burst crackers or play loud music. “Chhath is our biggest festival. The authorities will have to let us offer the prayer at Subhas Sarobar. But we will also follow the rules,” he said. Green activists appreciated the devotees resolve to shun crackers and loud music but felt they should respect the need to preserve the two lakes’ ecology . Mani Prasad Singh, president of Bihari Samaj, said all eyes were now on Monday’s SC hearing. “We want to do Chhath in a pious manner at all places, including the Lake and Subhas Sarobar”. There is also problems with the court limiting two persons a family,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chhath-devotees-divided-over-venue-but-all-say-no-to-crackers-loud-music/articleshow/79179795.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 12, 2020||India||Anti-Maha CM posts: Man held thrice in 17 days||MUMBAI: Nagpur resident Sameet Thakkar, who allegedly posted offensive messages on social media against CM Uddhav Thackeray and his minister-son Aaditya, was arrested by BKC cyber police on Tuesday. This is Thakkar’s third arrest in 17 days. Previously, he was arrested by Nagpur police and VP Road police in Mumbai for the same offence. Thakkar has around 63,000 followers on Twitter and has mentioned in his bio that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is among his followers. The latest FIR with BKC cyber police was filed on a complaint by Dharmendra Mishra, a lawyer attached with Shiv Sena. Eight other netizens have also been named in this FIR, but only Thakkar has been arrested so far. “We took Thakkar into custody after he was granted bail in the case lodged by VP Marg police,” said an officer. The complaint against Thakkar at VP Road police station was also lodged by Mishra. The first complaint was lodged in Nagpur’s Sitabuldi police station by Sena party worker Nitin Tiwari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/anti-maha-cm-posts-man-held-thrice-in-17-days/articleshow/79181857.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||JU to admit postgraduate students on 80-20 formula||Kolkata: Admissions to both science and arts postgraduate courses at Jadavpur University will be done on a 80-20 formula, as proposed by the state government. The formula will applicable for both the morning and evening PG courses. Under the 80-20 formula, 80% of PG seats in a department will be kept for students who have done their graduation from JU and the rest 20% will be for candidates from other universities. “There will be no cross-disciplinary admission this year,” said a senior JU official. Earlier, students from multiple disciplines could do Masters in subjects, which held entrance tests, including English, comparative literature and film studies. “In comparative literature and film studies, in absence of a written entrance exam, teachers have proposed to hold group discussions as no other college offers these courses in the UG level,” another official added. “We will start application process soon,” said the JU official. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-to-admit-postgraduate-students-on-80-20-formula/articleshow/79179851.cms||---
November 12, 2020||---||Mothers and sisters are our biggest support base, says PM Narendra Modi||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday said “women, sisters, daughters and women power” had become the “silent bank” of the BJP in the last six years of his being at the helm. Modi also thanked people of Bihar and other states for their support to the NDA in the state elections and byelections, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. Noting that the 2020 Bihar assembly elections were ‘sabse khaas (most special)’, he said the eyes of people across the country were glued on TV screens, as the results of the Bihar elections were being discussed by persons concerned. “They were keenly discussing the issue called silent voters in the context of the Bihar elections,” PM said. “The echo of the silent voters has begun to be heard. The BJP has now come to have such a bank of silent voters that comprises women, sisters, daughters and women power. The BJP has now this greatest group of silent voters. It is because this party alone is dedicated to improving the standard of their life and living,” Modi said, and also recalled the women-centric initiatives and welfare measures his government has taken. As to the reason behind the “clear majority” given to the NDA by the people, despite the obstacles posed by the opposition, the PM said, “It is rooted in his government’s basic mantra ‘sabka sath, sabka vikas, sabka vikas’.” Pointing to the large turnout of people despite the coronavirus fear, Modi said, “It has once again proved as to why Bihar is called the land of democracy. They have also proved that you are not only ‘prakhar (sharp)’ but also ‘jaagrook (alert underlined by awareness)’.” Modi said BJP is distinctively different from other parties, which are largely in the mould of “parivar vadi party” or “family party”. Nitish thanks PM, people A day after Bihar election results, CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday thanked PM Narendra Modi for his cooperation. “Janata Malik Hai (Public are the masters). I bow before the public for giving the NDA a majority in Bihar polls. I thank PM Narendra Modi for the cooperation I have been getting from him,” Nitish tweeted in Hindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/mothers-and-sisters-are-our-biggest-support-base-says-pm/articleshow/79182696.cms||Abhay Singh
November 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Apply for vacant Plus One seats today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The students who could not secure any Plus One seats despite applying in various allotments, can apply for seats in the declared vacancy on Thursday. Those who have already secured seats or those who have availed their relieving certificates after joining a seat or those who have failed to report despite securing a seat cannot apply. The existing vacancies will be opened at 9am on the website www.hscap.kerala.gov.in on Thursday. Those wishing should apply using the candidate login through the link “apply for vacant seats”. After taking into consideration all the valid applications received till 5pm, the final rank list will be published on the website at 9am on Friday.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/apply-for-vacant-plus-one-seats-today/articleshow/79178370.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Patna||Mothers and sisters are our biggest support base, says PM Narendra Modi||PATNA: PM Narendra Modi on Wednesday said “women, sisters, daughters and women power” had become the “silent bank” of the BJP in the last six years of his being at the helm. Modi also thanked people of Bihar and other states for their support to the NDA in the state elections and byelections, the results of which were declared on Tuesday. Noting that the 2020 Bihar assembly elections were ‘sabse khaas (most special)’, he said the eyes of people across the country were glued on TV screens, as the results of the Bihar elections were being discussed by persons concerned. “They were keenly discussing the issue called silent voters in the context of the Bihar elections,” PM said. “The echo of the silent voters has begun to be heard. The BJP has now come to have such a bank of silent voters that comprises women, sisters, daughters and women power. The BJP has now this greatest group of silent voters. It is because this party alone is dedicated to improving the standard of their life and living,” Modi said, and also recalled the women-centric initiatives and welfare measures his government has taken. As to the reason behind the “clear majority” given to the NDA by the people, despite the obstacles posed by the opposition, the PM said, “It is rooted in his government’s basic mantra ‘sabka sath, sabka vikas, sabka vikas’.” Pointing to the large turnout of people despite the coronavirus fear, Modi said, “It has once again proved as to why Bihar is called the land of democracy. They have also proved that you are not only ‘prakhar (sharp)’ but also ‘jaagrook (alert underlined by awareness)’.” Modi said BJP is distinctively different from other parties, which are largely in the mould of “parivar vadi party” or “family party”. Nitish thanks PM, people A day after Bihar election results, CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday thanked PM Narendra Modi for his cooperation. “Janata Malik Hai (Public are the masters). I bow before the public for giving the NDA a majority in Bihar polls. I thank PM Narendra Modi for the cooperation I have been getting from him,” Nitish tweeted in Hindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mothers-and-sisters-are-our-biggest-support-base-says-pm/articleshow/79179822.cms||Abhay Singh
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Daily average case-count of nCoV cases falls to 148 in Nov||Nashik: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases has significantly dropped in November when compared to the number of cases reported in the previous two months. According to the civic officials, the number of cases reported per day between November 1 and 10 did not exceed 148, and that has been the lowest daily case tally so far since June. There had been a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in September. The city was reporting over 850 new cases per day on average in September. The number dropped to 339 cases per day in October. “We constantly increased the tracing and testing of Covid suspects and provided them timely treatment. We also increased up to 30 to 32 risk contacts of each Covid-19 patient in the last four months. We also conducted surveys to find suspects in the containment zones right from the beginning,” said officials from Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC).“The cases had increased in September as we had increased the testing of Covid-19 suspects. We conducted over 3,000 tests in September, including 2,000 antigen tests. The rise in the number of tests led to a rise in the number of patients, said officials.“We had also conducted a health check up as part of the state government’s ‘My Family My Responsibility’ programme in the second half of September in which over 18 lakh citizens were examined and 700 Covid-19 patients identified,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/daily-average-case-count-of-ncov-cases-falls-to-148-in-nov/articleshow/79177413.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 12, 2020||Vadodara||Four held from Ahmedabad for dealing in stolen electronic goods||VADODARA: Four persons were arrested by Vadodara rural police from Ahmedabad on Wednesday for selling and buying stolen electronic appliances worth Rs 32 lakh. The goods which were meant to be delivered in Rajkot. Cops from Vadodara Taluka police station nabbed Sabu Alex Christian, Shabbir Ali Tharadara, Mohammed Ali Dabra and Shahnawaz Malek. The driver of the truck Rajesh Yadav, who was transporting the appliances, had unloaded 62 LED televisions, 85 air-conditioners (ACs) and five washing machines at a godown in Narol owned by Christian. Yadav had come in contact with Christian through a man named Sarfaraz. Later Christian had started retail sale of these appliances from his godown. Christian was arrested after his name was revealed by Tharadara, a restaurant owner in Narol. He had bought an LED television for his restaurant from Christian for which he too was arrested. During interrogation, Christian told police that he had sold ACs to two AC repairers –Dabra and Malek. The duo was lured by Christian’s offer of selling them the ACs at a low price so that they can sell them further for profit. Cops seized 30 ACs from the accused. “In all we have seized ACs and LED televisions worth Rs 11.5 lakh. We suspect that they may have sold the remaining appliances to other retail customers at low price,” said senior sub-inspector Jaideep Sarvaiya of Vadodara Taluka police station. Police are, however, yet to nab the kingpin Yadav and his friend Sarfaraz. The appliances were sent from Maharashtra for delivery in Surat and Rajkot on January 26. After delivering some appliances in Surat, Yadav unloaded the remaining stock in Ahmedabad and fled after abandoning the truck near Dumad on Vadodara-Ahmedabad expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-held-from-ahmedabad-for-dealing-in-stolen-electronic-goods/articleshow/79178387.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Mysuru||University of Mysuru to begin physical classes from Tuesday||MYSURU: With the government directing varsities to commence classes following a directive from the University Grants Commission, University of Mysuru is all set to start classes for postgraduate and final year students starting Tuesday. Varsities have to adopt a two-pronged approach to hold classes as PG students have to be given options— they can either attend physical classes or opt for online. Students willing to attend physical classes have to submit a letter signed by their parents. Physical classes’ option is only for PG students. RT-PCR test report is compulsory for students willing to attend physical classes. Colleges and teachers have been directed to develop online learning modules like video lectures, power point presentations, E-notes, E-books, audio books and practice question upload them on the web portal of colleges and varsities. Social networking platforms like Telegram and WhatsApp and email may be used to share all learning materials well in advance to facilitate the learning process. Confirming the government order, varsity registrar R Shivappa told TOI that the government in an order has stated that it has decided to start classes in all varsities in the state— private universities, government, technical, diploma, aided and unaided colleges from November 17. A meeting with chairpersons of the PG departments, directors of PG centres and principals of colleges was held to discuss strategies for classes beginning from Tuesday. “We also discussed the infrastructure availability. Various suggestions have come up during the meetings. We will be coming up with a detailed plan to start classes for PG and under graduates,” the registrar explained. According to the UCG guidelines, a copy of which is with TOI, varsities have to start holding physical classes for post graduate students and final year students from November 17. Students have been given the option to attend classes either online or offline, but for those willing to attend physical classes must procure parents’ permission. Lab experiments and project works may be conducted in different shifts. Physical classes must be conducted every day. Depending on availability of classrooms and number of students, time table must be prepared at the local level and classes must be carried out by strictly following covid guidelines issued by health department. Students attending classes will be allowed to stay in hostels located on the campuses or outside the campus, states the guideline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/uom-to-begin-physical-classes-from-tuesday/articleshow/79177422.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 12, 2020||India||BJP fumes over yatra barrier, slams ADMK||CHENNAI: After the AIADMK government made its intention clear against its ally BJP carrying out ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ and listed out violations to the Madras high court to justify its decision to deny permission, members of the BJP state unit have sharpened their attack against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and his cabinet colleagues. BJP state general secretary K T Raghavan lashed out at AIADMK and raised queries as to what action had been taken by authorities when large number of AIADMK cadres turned out for Palaniswami’s visits to various districts and at the functions organised by state ministers and party functionaries during the pandemic. He said if cases had to be registered against those who were attracting crowds, the first case should have been registered against Palaniswami himself, for violation of Covid-19 norms, especially during the CM’s recent visit to Tirupathi. State police owed an explanation, he said. He also sought to know whether the ruling party and the principal opposition, DMK, had a secret pact to deny any leeway to BJP to grow in the state. It is quite unusual of Raghavan to hit out in such strong terms as he is known as a moderate voice in the national party. A member of the party core committee said the state would see “more fireworks” during the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ in the days to come. BJP state president L Murugan has paused the yatra for now owing to Deewali. He is likely to resume it on November 17. Posting Raghavan’s views on its official twitter handle, BJP wondered, “Why this illegitimate relationship (between the two Dravidian majors)?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-fumes-over-yatra-barrier-slams-admk/articleshow/79181860.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
November 12, 2020||Patna||Bihar sets an example with peaceful polls||PATNA: Former chief election commissioner, the late T N Seshan, must be smiling down on Bihar on his death anniversary on Tuesday, the counting day (November 10), for taking forward the task he had initiated in the state in 1995 — to hold a free, fair and peaceful election. It was Seshan who allowed the poor common man mostly deprived of his right to exercise franchise in Bihar where elections were synonymous with killings, booth capturing, rigging and violence before 1995. The land once known for being the leading light of peace and democracy conducted the 2020 assembly elections and declared the results on Tuesday in an unprecedented peaceful manner despite Covid and many other challenges. Former Patna College principal Nawal Kishore Chaudhary attributed it to good governance and the curative and preventive measures by the Election Commission (EC). “Earlier, it was only a section of people who disrupted the poll process and indulged in violence and rigging, because the governance had collapsed. With time, real-time reporting of any event by an alert media, deployment of paramilitary forces, strong EC monitoring of the bureaucracy and fear of punishment for any wrongdoing acted as a deterrent,” Chaudhary told TOI on Wednesday. The retired professor of economics also believed that the Bihar society evolved fast, and the zamindari mindset changed. “Earlier, even the bureaucrats danced to the tune of their political masters. Now, the political immunity is minimal during elections, thanks to the EC’s pro-active role. Overall, where there is a will, there is a way,” he said. Education and the high aspirations of young people also contribute to peaceful and fair polls, feels assistant professor at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Abhijit Ghosh. “People of Bihar have shown to the rest of the country how to honour the spirit of democracy even during the Covid pandemic. Things were different till early 2000. Now, people in Bihar are more educated and the youth more tech-savvy with high aspirations to do well and contribute to making a better society,” Ghosh said. Even PM Narendra Modi said Bihar had taught the world a lesson on how to make a strong democracy. “Aaj Bihar ne duniya ko phir bataya hai ki loktantra ko majboot kaise kiya jata hai…(today, Bihar has taught the world again how democracy can be strengthened),” Modi tweeted after the Bihar election results on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-sets-an-example-with-peaceful-polls/articleshow/79179909.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 12, 2020||---||Bihar sets an example with peaceful polls||PATNA: Former chief election commissioner, the late T N Seshan, must be smiling down on Bihar on his death anniversary on Tuesday, the counting day (November 10), for taking forward the task he had initiated in the state in 1995 — to hold a free, fair and peaceful election. It was Seshan who allowed the poor common man mostly deprived of his right to exercise franchise in Bihar where elections were synonymous with killings, booth capturing, rigging and violence before 1995. The land once known for being the leading light of peace and democracy conducted the 2020 assembly elections and declared the results on Tuesday in an unprecedented peaceful manner despite Covid and many other challenges. Former Patna College principal Nawal Kishore Chaudhary attributed it to good governance and the curative and preventive measures by the Election Commission (EC). “Earlier, it was only a section of people who disrupted the poll process and indulged in violence and rigging, because the governance had collapsed. With time, real-time reporting of any event by an alert media, deployment of paramilitary forces, strong EC monitoring of the bureaucracy and fear of punishment for any wrongdoing acted as a deterrent,” Chaudhary told TOI on Wednesday. The retired professor of economics also believed that the Bihar society evolved fast, and the zamindari mindset changed. “Earlier, even the bureaucrats danced to the tune of their political masters. Now, the political immunity is minimal during elections, thanks to the EC’s pro-active role. Overall, where there is a will, there is a way,” he said. Education and the high aspirations of young people also contribute to peaceful and fair polls, feels assistant professor at A N Sinha Institute of Social Studies, Abhijit Ghosh. “People of Bihar have shown to the rest of the country how to honour the spirit of democracy even during the Covid pandemic. Things were different till early 2000. Now, people in Bihar are more educated and the youth more tech-savvy with high aspirations to do well and contribute to making a better society,” Ghosh said. Even PM Narendra Modi said Bihar had taught the world a lesson on how to make a strong democracy. “Aaj Bihar ne duniya ko phir bataya hai ki loktantra ko majboot kaise kiya jata hai…(today, Bihar has taught the world again how democracy can be strengthened),” Modi tweeted after the Bihar election results on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-sets-an-example-with-peaceful-polls/articleshow/79182694.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 12, 2020||Pune||PMPML eyes defence land to set up bus depot||PUNE: The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) is eyeing an 11-acre plot of the defence estate office (DEO) for parking buses and setting up a basic depot, a senior official of the transport utility said. “Quite a few buses have to be parked by the roadside or near big bus stops due to space constraints at present. Around 250-300 buses need proper space for parking. The PMPML is talking to the DEO in this connection,” the official said. The transport utility’s chairman-cum-managing director, Rajendra Jagtap, told TOI that the plan was to get a plot along the Pune-Mumbai Highway on a long lease of 30 years. “We have contacted the Khadki Cantonment Board in this connection. Discussions are under way. We are sure that the details will be finalized by December and we should be getting the plot by the end of January. The buses parked at different places, including near the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) office, can be then shifted to the plot after some infrastructural works,” the senior official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-eyes-defence-land-to-set-up-bus-depot/articleshow/79179863.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 12, 2020||Kolkata||CNI-run schools to showcase service||KOLKATA: CNI-run schools have drawn up a list of free-ships and the money foregone for it. The schools have traditionally been giving free-ships to needy students since pre-Covid days. Schools run by other churches and Christian denominations, too, have prepared similar lists. All the non-CNI Christian schools have come under West Bengal Association for Christian Schools to appeal as a body in the Supreme Court. These lists will be submitted to the Association to add muscle to the appeal and prove how stretched they are, said secretary Moloy D’Costa. The CNI list has details of 11 schools. La Martiniere for Boys and Girls had 350 “free” students now and Rs 2 crore a year was waived, said secretary Supriyo Dhar. At St Thomas’ Kidderpore, 200 students study free and Rs 65 lakh was waived, St Paul’s Mission has 90 free scholars, Scottish Church 70 , Pratt Memorial 60 and St Thomas’ Howrah 50. “For CNI, it’s a tradition to educate the underprivileged. But the pandemic has aggravated the scene with financial outstanding from other categories,” said Bishop Paritosh Canning, head of CNI in Kolkata. The Archdiocese of Kolkata-run seven schools in Kolkata and Howrah had 20% free students, said Fr Joy Cyprian. At Loreto schools, at least 30% kids study free. At Don Bosco Park Circus, 200 students were offered freeships, said Fr Bikash Mondal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/schools-to-showcase-service/articleshow/79179934.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 12, 2020||Pune||FDA draws 141 food samples, seizes substandard stock worth over Rs 81L||Pune: Officials of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) drew more than 141 samples of edible oil, sweets, khoya and other milk products to check for adulteration ahead of Diwali. The officials also seized substandard edible oil, ghee, sweets and various other ingredients, including rava and maida, used in making Diwali snacks worth Rs81.83 lakh on the suspicion of adulteration during various surprise raids conducted in the Pune district in the last two months.  The samples have been sent to the government-designated laboratory for testing. “We shall take action against the errant establishments as soon as we get the test reports,” said Dilip Sangat, assistant commissioner (food), FDA, Pune. The officials drew the highest 36 samples of edible oil, followed by sweets (24 samples), farsan (3), khoya (3), ghee (6), rava (3), maida (6) and other miscellaneous food items (60). “We have intensified surveillance to curb cases of food adulteration during Diwali by starting to draw samples of mainly milk, milk products and ingredients primarily used to make Diwali snacks,” said Shivaji Desai, joint commissioner (food), FDA, Pune, after assuming charge of the office on Wednesday. On the shelf-life of sweets, officials said the consumers should eat the khoya and milk-made sweets immediately as storage may cause bacterial growth and health issues. “It is advisable to avoid eating khoya products during festivals as the adulteration starts several days in advance,” said Sanjay Patil, the vice-president of the state chapter of the IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fda-draws-141-food-samples-seizes-substandard-stock-worth-over-rs-81l/articleshow/79179887.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Cotton farmers in north Maha make hay as demand from ginning units goes up||Nashik: Cotton farmers in north Maharashtra are getting attractive prices for their produce from the ginning units in the region.If owners of the ginning units in the region are to be believed, farmers are getting around Rs 5,200 per quintal for good quality raw cotton. “The average price of good quality raw cotton is around Rs 4,700 per quintal. As the demand for cotton bales from spinning mills and textile companies is on the rise, the farmers are fetching good rates,” the president of Khandesh Gin/Press Owners & Traders Development Association, Pradeep Jain, told TOI.There are about 150 ginning units spread over Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar districts which process raw cotton to make cotton bales and sell them to different spinning mills, textile companies etc. Some of them are also into export of cotton bales.Jain said during the Covid-19 outbreak, owners of the gin units did not have much business as there was no demand from the buyers. This also had an impact on the cotton farmers who could hardly find an outlet for selling their produce.“Things have started improving in the last one month. The demand for cotton bales is steadily rising due to which we are buying raw cotton from the farmers,” said Jain.The ginning units in the region produce about 20 lakh bales of cotton between October to September. This season, the gin owners in the region have so far been able to sell over 1.5 lakh bales.According to Anand Wani, a cotton farmer from Jalgaon, farmers are expecting a better price for their produce. “The prices that we are now getting is satisfactory,” he said. According to some gin unit owners, the price of cotton would increase in the domestic market if the rate of the commodity meant for export also swells.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cotton-farmers-in-north-maha-make-hay-as-demand-from-ginning-units-goes-up/articleshow/79177432.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 12, 2020||Meerut||UP govt school teachers to feed details of course completion in ‘learning passbook’||MEERUT: Just like banks, Uttar Pradesh government school teachers will now have to feed details of the course completion in ‘learning passbook’ to update the authorities for providing educational material to the students. The learning passbook will act like a digital diary that will help authorities keep a tab on the progress of courses in government schools. “All activities on the Diksha app will have to be submitted on the education department portal every week. The learning passbook will be used to keep a check on the education being imparted by the teachers and also help check lapses in the process of online education,” said Vijay Kiran Anand, managing director, education, UP. The move came two days after TOI reported that just one in ten students at primary and upper primary government schools have downloaded the Diksha app launched by NCERT in 2017. The education system across India is heavily dependent on the app, especially after the pandemic forced classrooms to shut down. While schools in UP have started reopening schools, it is only for the students appearing in the upcoming boards, while others remained dependent on remote learning. Yet, only 11% of government school students — many of whom from disadvantaged sections — in the state have downloaded the app, which has detailed lessons in the forms of videos and texts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/just-like-banks-up-govt-schoolteachers-to-feed-details-of-course-completion-in-learning-passbook/articleshow/79176349.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 12, 2020||Bengaluru||Demand for medical oxygen has dropped by 50% in Karnataka||BENGALURU: The demand for medical oxygen, required to treat critical Covid-19 patients, has halved in the state, thanks to a decline in infections. From 500 metric tonnes in September, the daily demand has fallen to 200-250 metric tonnes. As per records with the health and family welfare department, the state consumed 271 metric tonnes of medical oxygen on November 5 and consumption fell to 173 metric tonnes the next day. The state used 242 metric tonnes on November 7. The highest demand is being reported from Bengaluru hospitals. “With the number of cases falling, consumption of oxygen has seen a decline. As of today, there are 869 patients in ICUs who need oxygen besides those who are on high flow nasal oxygen in wards,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner. The surge in demand in September and October had necessitated regulations on use and caps on price and transportation charges. But hospitals say demand could increase if there is another surge in infections and their contract with suppliers will have to continue. With a second wave anticipated, the current decline in consumption is being seen as temporary relief. “But unlike the previous surge, we are better equipped to handle a second wave. Supply has more or less been streamlined,” said a doctor heading a private hospital with 70 Covid beds. The National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority had on September 26 capped the price of liquid oxygen at Rs 15.22 per cubic metre. The state government had on October 28, capped transportation costs at Rs 35 to Rs 60 per km based on the volume being ferried. However, private hospitals say billing for the month of October is still on and they are yet find out if suppliers are adhering to transport cost cap.  Meanwhile, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Associations wrote to the chief secretary last week demanding vacant Covid-19 beds be freed to treat non-Covid patients. Most private hospitals have reserved 50% of their beds for Covid-19 patients referred by the state, but now that demand has crashed, they want the beds freed to treat other patients. Alternately, it asked the government to make 25% payment for vacant beds. “We met the health minister and department officials, but no order has been passed. Orally we have been told vacant beds can be used for non-Covid purposes, but it’s difficult to implement,” said Dr Prasanna HM, president-elect, PHANA. However, senior officials say, “With a second surge expected, there won’t be any relaxation in the rule. We need to be prepared. At present, beds will have to be stay reserved for Covid patients.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/demand-for-medical-oxygen-has-dropped-by-50-in-karnataka/articleshow/79178373.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 12, 2020||Meerut||Ahead of Diwali, FSDA collects 17 samples from sweet shops in Meerut||MEERUT: Keeping a close eye on festive sweets ahead of Diwali, the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA) department took 17 suspected samples from various sweet shops in Meerut on Wednesday. This comes as a part of the week-long anti-adulteration drive. They seized 80 litres of suspected adulterated mustard oil. “As many as 17 suspected samples were collected from various sweet shops, along with 80 litres of mustard oil worth Rs 12,000, 43 litres of soyabean oil worth Rs 5,000, 30 kg white 'rasgulla' and 5 kg of Bengali sweets,” Archana Dheeran, designated officer of FSDA, said. The samples of suspected food items will be sent to the laboratory in Lucknow, so that no tampering is done. "Once the report is out, we will take action against those who are found to be selling adulterated food," Dheeran said. “One improvement notice has also been served and the establishment will remain shut until the said improvement takes place,” Dheeran added. Earlier, too, the department has collected suspected adulterated samples.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ahead-of-diwali-fsda-collects17-samples-from-sweet-shops/articleshow/79176364.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 12, 2020||Pune||Power usage on the rise after unlock measures||Pune: Power consumption in Pune zone has increased after the unlock phases started. According to the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited’s (MSEDCL) data, power consumption had dipped to 870 million units in April, this year compared to 1,428 million units in April 2019. The power consumption was now finally catching up with last year’s levels with the demand rising to 1,103 million units in September, this year. In September 2019, the power consumption was 1,147 million units. An official from the MSEDCL said, “The MSEDCL has lost out on at least Rs2,000 crore because of the lockdown and unused power. If that is not all, the pending dues worth Rs1,800 crore of the consumers was still a matter of concern. We are now calling each and every consumer with pending power bill dues of over Rs5,000.” The official said the power distribution company had never witnessed this sort of a situation, where the power was available, but the consumption had gone down. The official added that there was a silver lining now that after the unlock phases started, industries were starting work at full force and the power demand was back. The Pune zone includes Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, Junnar, Ambegaon, Maval, Khed, Mulshi, and Velhe talukas. The major commercial power demand was from the areas including Chakan, Bhosari, Hinjewadi, Hadapsar, Shivne, among others. Prashant Girbane, director general of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture , said, “Industries suffered a great deal in the initial phases of lockdown. However, the situation is improving with each passing day. In our survey of around 200 companies, around 30% companies have already started operating with 100% workforce.” He added that compared to 2019, the production in October had reached 72% and the employees deployed were 77%. Dilip Batwal, secretary of Federation of Chakan Industries, said automobile companies in Chakan had resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/power-usage-on-the-rise-after-unlock-measures/articleshow/79179904.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 12, 2020||Nashik||Nashik city’s bus project deferred to January 2021||NASHIK: Anticipating a second wave of Covid-19 infection in the city right after Diwali, the civic administration has deferred the Nashik city bus project, The administration plans to roll out the buses by January next year. Initially, the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) had plans to start the city bus service from April 1 this year, but the plan did not fructify due to the Covid-19 outbreak in March. Later, the civic body planned on launching the city bus service during Diwali but now, that too has been put on hold till January next year. Municipal commissioner Kailash Jadhav visited the proposed sites of the bus depots at Tapovan in Panchavati area and Sinnar phata in Nashik Road on Wednesday. He also visited the MSRTC bus terminal at Nimani in Panchavati area and another terminal on Nashik Road. Jadhav instructed the civic officials to speed up all the pending works related to the city bus service. “If the second wave of Covid-19 does not hit the city, we will roll out the buses in January. We have plans to start a trial run in the first half of the month and launch the project on January 26,” said Jadhav. “Initially, we will start city bus service on select routes with 50 buses in the first phase. The number of buses will be increased after gauging the response of the citizens residents,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-citys-bus-project-deferred-to-january-2021/articleshow/79177458.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 12, 2020||Pune||A theatre experiment takes stories from stage to screen||Pune: The upstart Pune theatre group Aajkal concluded its three-day online mini-theatre festival titled Storiyaan on Wednesday. The 18 performances that were part of the festival will be re-broadcast on the group’s social media feed later this month.The three-day show was entirely ticketed, with hundreds of viewers tuning in online to watch the solo acts of dramatic reading of plays and texts, coupled with some tropes of theatre, including inflections in voice as well as character’s costumes being assumed. A similar venture was attempted by the Mumbai-based youth theatre platform Thespo through its initiative titled Thespo Tapri over the past month with multiple ticketed shows.The stories were told in English, Hindi, and Marathi. While some were original texts by the performers themselves, others had been written by Indian authors in these three, or other, languages. Some of the texts were also adapted from translated works of writers such as Anton Chekhov.The performers also tuned in from all parts of the country, including emerging names in the youth theatre industry in India. They came from the bigger cities such as Pune, Mumbai, and Kolkata, while other performers also came from smaller towns and cities, such as Latur and Sangli, according to the organizers.“We will broadcast the shows again from November 20 to 22 on the Facebook page of Aajkal so that people can catch up on them if they missed it in this window,” said Aditya Pawar, part of the Aajkal collective, now running for about two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/a-theatre-experiment-takes-stories-from-stage-to-screen/articleshow/79179919.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metropolitan Transport Corporation MD held in Rs 2 crore job scam case||CHENNAI: Officials of the Central Crime Branch on Wednesday arrested K Ganesan, managing director, Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC), Chennai, in an alleged Rs 2-crore job fraud case involving former transport minister V Senthil Balaji. The officer was remanded in judicial custody till November 25. According to a complaint filed in 2015, the then transport minister K Senthil Balaji and a few others had cheated 81 people of nearly Rs 2 crore between 2014 and 2015 by promising them government jobs. The CCB started investigation in November last year after the Madras high court ordered a probe. Ganesan arrested on charges of cheating, criminal intimidation. Senthil Balaji, who was AIADMK minister, had joined the DMK and is currently the party’s Aravakurichi MLA. After police searched 17 places in January, Senthil Balaji got an anticipatory bail in February. In September, police raided the houses of K Ganesan in Anna Nagar West, and houses belonging to Senthil Balaji in Mandaveli and a few others in Karur and Madurai. K Ganesan, who was working in Coimbatore, was transferred to Chennai as deputy manager (commercial) and was later given additional charge as deputy manager (personnel). Later, he was promoted as general manager and worked in Villupuram before he came back to Chennai as MD in 2019. On Wednesday, he was arrested on charges of IPC sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 506 (i) (criminal intimidation).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mtc-md-held-in-rs-2cr-job-scam-case/articleshow/79179897.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vadodara||Fraudsters create fake Facebook account of Gotri police inspector||VADODARA: Cyber frauds have now begun targeting the police department as well. A fake Facebook account was made in the name of Gotri police inspector, Sunil Chaudhari. The fraudster has been contacting the friends of Chaudhari and asking for money. In the last two months, both BJP and Congress leaders have been targeted by the fraudsters in similar manner. Chaudhari learnt about the fake account after his friend living in Jamnagar contacted him on Tuesday. The fraudster, who opened a fake account in the name of Chaudhari, had messaged the cop’s friend and asked for money. Chaudhari immediately posted a message on his FB wall stating that his account has been hacked. He urged people not to accept friends request from the fake account and also not send money to anyone. After Chaudhari posted the message on his FB account, some from his friends list also commented that they were contacted by the fraudster. Chaudhari, though, is yet to file a formal complaint with the cybercrime police station. Five days ago senior Congress leader, Narendra Rawat had filed a police complaint stating that someone had created an FB account in his name. Rawat said that the fraudster has been demanding money from his friends using the fake account. BJP MLA Seema Mohile had on October 5 written to the cybercrime cell after she learnt several fake accounts were made in her name and the impersonator was adding her friends online. Some people had also made fake account of another BJP MLA Manisha Vakil’s husband. The gang impersonates some well-known person and demands money from his or her friends. Once the money is transferred, the impersonator closes the social media account and disappears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fraudsters-create-fake-fb-account-of-gotri-pi/articleshow/79178449.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chandigarh||NSUI, ISO call out Hry move to hike MBBS fee to 10L a year||Chandigarh: The National Students Union of India (NSUI), students wing of the Congress, and INLD Students Organisation (ISO) criticised Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy, Dushyant Chautala, over the state government’s move to hike MBBS fee to nearly Rs10 lakh a year. ISO media incharge Vikash Kinha said instead of promoting medical education, Haryana government was going to increase MBBS fee to as as much as charged by private institutes. “The decision to hike the fee manifold will serve to distance students from middle class families from medicaleducation. It should be rolled back immediatedly,” he said. Meanwhile, NSUI also hit out at the government’s move to reserve 75% private sector jobs for locals, saying that no big industry had shown in the state over the past six year because of what it called the government’s “anti-industry policies”. Haryana NSUI president Divyanshu Budhiraja said meritorious students would not be able to fulfill the dream of doing MBBS under BJP-JJP coalition’s misrule. “Students will now be forced to pay a fee of 10 lakh per annum. It was Rs 50,000 earlier and even then higher than in other states,” he said. Budhiraja called the government’s move to reserve 75% private sector jobs for locals as a blatent lie. “Many private industries have migrated to other states. The government also has no policy to promote investment, Hence, how would they generate employment and who would avail it?” said Budhiraja. There is no clarity of any kind in policy as whether it is applicable to the existing industries as well. And, as of now, there is no such roadmap for new industries and one can imagine the state of affairs with the recent ranking of Haryana in ease of doing business, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nsui-iso-call-out-hry-move-to-hike-mbbs-fee-to-10l-a-year/articleshow/79173162.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Meerut||UP family wakes up to find 2 bags full of currency notes on roof||MEERUT: To their utter surprise, a family in Uttar Pradesh found two bags full of currency notes and jewellery on the roof of their house on Wednesday morning. It all happened in Meerut's Mission Compound area where a theft worth Rs 40 lakh had taken place a day ago. Soon after, police were informed. "The total cash counted was around Rs 14 lakh apart from jewellery. The jewellery assessment is yet to be done," Dinesh Baghel, in-charge of Sadar police station, said. A theft had taken place at the house of one Pawan Singhal, a businessman who deals in mattresses, a day ago. Varun Sharma, Singhal's neighbour and on whose roof the bags were found, said, "I saw the two bags in the morning and there were full of currency notes inside. I thought about the theft, but decided to inform the police. It is quite possible the thief left it on our roof to take it away later." According to police sources, the needle of suspicion is on one Raju Nepali, a domestic help, who worked at the businessman's house until two years ago, and left thereafter. Nepali returned recently after his long disappearance. While the male members of the family were at their Abulane shop, the women were out shopping. He was familiar to the household, so the guards did not stop him. After stealing the valuables, he moved out which was captured on CCTV. The thief even shared a part of his loot with the guard who caught his act. Cops later recovered the jewellery. The guard is in police custody now. Singhal, however, did not disclose the total count of his valuables. In a police statement, he stated, "I will make a list of all my belongings and then file a formal complaint." Other family sources said it was worth Rs 40 lakh. Watch Meerut: Family finds two bags full of currency notes, jewellery on the roof of their house||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-family-wakes-up-to-find-2-bags-fullof-currency-notes-jewellery-on-the-roof/articleshow/79176398.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 12, 2020||Bhopal||Cong begins defeat analysis, review meeting after Diwali||Bhopal: A day after Congress’s defeat in the state bypolls, PCC chief Kamal Nath called a meeting of sitting and the nine newly-elected MLAs, party candidates who lost the bypolls and district presidents on Wednesday. After three hours of meeting on Wednesday evening, former LoP Ajay Singh said, “Winning and losing is a continuous process in politics. But defeat should not demoralise us. Congress party will overcome and fight again.” Former Union minister Suresh Pachauri, who also attended the meeting said, “The bypoll results are very surprising. We did not get the number of seats we were expecting to win. What are the reasons for the defeat needs to be thoroughly reviewed.” Former chief minister Kamal Nath asked all the losing candidates to cite reasons for their defeat in the 19 seats that went to ruling BJP. “Today, was not the review meeting of the bypoll results,” said Hemant Katare, the party’s losing candidate from Mehgaon. “We have been asked to give the reasons for the defeat either in writing or even verbally. The review meeting will take place after Diwali,” he said. Former minister Brijendra Singh Rathod who was in-charge of several seats in Morena district said, “After the review meetings, we will know the exact reasons for the defeat. But there is no doubt that BJP used money power to win the bypolls in Madhya Pradesh.” Most candidates levelled allegations against BJP and alleged that the party used government machinery, administration and money power to capture votes. Premchand Guddu, the Congress candidate from Sanwer who lost to BJP’s Tulsiram Silawat said, “We need to return to ballot papers. All elections should be conducted through ballots. In Sanwer, angry villagers would not permit entry of Silawat in their hamlets. How did he win those villages?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cong-begins-defeat-analysis-review-meeting-after-diwali/articleshow/79178435.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Pune||Additional PMC staffers for poll work||Pune: The civic administration has appointed additional staffers for its election department to handle various administrative work pertaining to municipal polls expected in February 2022. The staffers will primarily be engaged in updating election-related records and information, disseminate instructions and poll items received from the state government among the civic departments. They will also coordinate the data maintenance work. Three employees were initially allotted for the election branch. However, more staffers would be deployed in a phased manner in accordance with the requirements, an official said. “We are starting with the preparations to avoid any last-minute rush. The steps are being taken as per the instructions from the State Election Commission. The additional staffers will help complete the works within the deadline,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/additional-pmc-staffers-for-poll-work/articleshow/79179926.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Compensation for land acquisition two decades ago sparks row||VADODARA: Awarding handsome compensation for land acquired by a civic body or government would otherwise be considered a good gesture, but in Vadodara a major row has erupted as the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) has taken up a proposal to pay compensation as per present policies for an acquisition done two decades ago. The acquisition for an 18m road in the Danteshwar area of the city was done 20 years ago. A man had lost around 2,878 sq m land in the road line. While there was no controversy regarding the matter till recently, the man sought compensation as per the present policy. According to the Land Acquisition Act, 2013 the civic body will have to pay twice the price mentioned in the government almanac of land rates to thee man. This amounts to a whopping Rs 5.46crore. Against this, land losers earlier have been given much lesser compensation in 2007 and 2009. In 2017, the VMC had also decided to prefer giving transferable floor-space index in lieu of acquired land. Sources said that the issue was first brought to the standing committee in December last year, but was sent back without being included in the agenda as it was not found fit even for consideration. After hectic lobbying it was brought back in the agenda earlier this year. Since then it has been included in the agenda on three occasions. On each occasion, it has been deferred without taking a decision on it. According to insiders, top BJP politicians in the city also showed interest in the matter and there were opinions both for and against the issue. The issue was also raked up by the Congress that said that if one person was being given such a benefit, all those who lost land after 1990 should be compensated at the same rate. Sources said that the issue reached even the chief minister who also holds the urban development portfolio. The issue has been put in the cold storage now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/compensation-for-land-acquisition-two-decades-ago-sparks-row/articleshow/79178559.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fringe areas more prone to vehicle thefts, reveals study||PUNE: Housing societies in the fringe areas falling under the jurisdiction of the Hadapsar, Chatushrungi and Sinhagad Road police stations, besides Ahmednagar Road, are more vulnerable to vehicle thefts, a study of 708 such cases between January and October has shown. “A rapid growth of new housing societies and market places in these areas, inadequate security, multiple public amenities on busy thoroughfares like Ahmednagar Road and vast police jurisdictions are some of the factors that make the fringe areas prone to vehicle thefts,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh, who commissioned the study, said. “Keeping the study findings in mind, we have decided to have two special teams to detect vehicle theft cases,” he said, adding, “Apart from detection, the teams will also develop measures to avert vehicle thefts.” Each special squad will have an inspector, a sub-inspector and about 10 constables. A majority of vehicles were stolen from the parking lots of societies as compared to roads and other public spaces, the study revealed. A total of 1,225 vehicle thefts were reported during between January and October last year. “In 2019, police registered 1,441 vehicle thefts. Of these, 552 cases have been solved,” Singh said. The study includes thefts of all sorts of vehicles, like twoand three-wheelers. “Of the 708 cases till October this year, we have solved 221,” he said. The study revealed that 295 vehicles were stolen from public roads, 335 from the parking lots of housing societies and the remaining from the public spaces like parking areas of religious places, markets and others. “About 44% vehicles were reported stolen from the parking spaces of the residential premises,” Singh said. Another trend that emerged in the study is that most vehicles were stolen on Wednesdays (112 vehicles), followed by the other weekdays and weekends, Singh said. “It has been found that a maximum number of vehicles were reported stolen between 6pm and 9pm, while very few were reported between 6am and 9am,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/housing-societies-in-fringe-areas-more-vulnerable-to-vehicle-thefts-cops/articleshow/79179941.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 12, 2020||Pune||PCB gives go-ahead for Fashion Street stalls to reopen from today||PUNE: The general body of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has resolved in favour of allowing the reopening of stalls located at the Fashion Street from 9am to 7pm and at the Kumbhar Bawadi market area from 7am to 2pm from Thursday. Both these marketplaces had to be shut down in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak earlier this year. Amit Kumar, chief executive officer (CEO) of the cantonment board, told TOI on Wednesday, “We have discussed the issue at hand in detail at the meeting and all the board members agreed to reopen both the markets, albeit in a restricted manner. The internal civil area committee, which is headed by the vice-president of the board, will assess the market situation for the next one month before submitting it’s report to the board. The cantonment board will then discuss it further.” The board also intends to form a street vendor committee as per the guidelines mentioned in the Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood and Regulation of Street Vending) Act, 2014, over the coming days in order to consider the future of the Fashion Street market, said the cantonment board CEO. “This street vendor committee be headed by the chief executive officer of the board as per the provisions mentioned in the Street Vendors Act. It will consider the final future of the market,” Kumar explained. The board will impose a fine worth Rs1,000 from those who violate the deadline that has been passed by the PCB, said Kumar. Meanwhile, advocate MV Akolkar, who is the president of the MG Road Pathari Association, said, “We will allow only 448 vendors, who have an authorized licence, to operate at the market, in keeping with proper guidelines related to preventing the spread of Covid-19. Our vendors will make sanitisers available and maintain social distancing while attending to customers at the market.” “The closure of the market since the lockdown had caused financial problems for the vendors. The board’s decision of reopening it is like a new lease of life for them,” Akolkar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-gives-go-ahead-for-fashion-street-stalls-to-reopen-from-today/articleshow/79179943.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Walkers, traders miffed at MG Road hawkers||PUNE: The increasing number of illegal vendors along M G Road, especially between Bata Chowk and Hotel Aurora Towers, has become a cause for concerns for traders, local residents and customers alike. The residents said the number of vendors has been multiplying ever since the Covid-induced lockdown eased. Peter D’Cruz, a resident of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) limits, said, “The number of street vendors has doubled over the past few days causing much inconvenience for the pedestrians and affecting traffic movement. At spots like both sides of Aurora Towers junction and outside Wonderland, the vendors have taken over the roads and pavements. This is a major problem for the pedestrians and the motorists.” Pune Camp Merchants Association president Cawas Pundole the vendors had been creating a lot of problems and the situation was only deteriorating. “The customers cannot enter the shop since these hawkers have taken over the pavements. Not only they sit along the pavements, but they also keep shouting to attract customers,” he said. “If the traders say anything to the vendors, they start fighting. Their attitude is like they own the space and the traders are encroaching upon it. We pay income tax, Goods and Services Tax and Cantonment taxes. But they obstruct the ways to our shops. People prefer to visit malls because of the nuisance caused by the vendors,” he said. Siddharth Parmar, a student, said, “It is becoming difficult to walk on the pavement. The vendors have taken over the pavements. With customers crowding around them, there’s almost no space left for the pedestrians. My mother and I were forced to walk on the carriageway, along with the moving vehicles, due to this. If the authorities cannot move the vendors, they should widen the pavements to fit both the pedestrians and the hawkers.” D’Cruz and several traders said the PCB’s nuisance squad, entrusted with the task of evicting the illegal hawkers, “has been ineffective in putting an end to the menace”. D’Cruz said, “The vendors know when the nuisance squad leaves from Golibar Maidan and they disappear into the bylanes.” Pundole said, “As soon as the vehicle moves away, the vendors come out again.” Speaking on the issue, PCB chief executive officer Amit Kumar said the nuisance squad has been taking “routine action” against the illegal vendors on MG Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/walkers-traders-miffed-at-mg-road-hawkers/articleshow/79179963.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 12, 2020||Bhopal||I put up a brave fight: Imarti||Bhopal: A day after her surprising defeat in the bypoll from Dabra assembly seat at the hands of Congress candidate Suresh Raje, BJP leader Imarti Devi said that she is happy because Congress party led by Kamal Nath lost the battle. The former minister also said that she knew her seat was a traditional Congress bastion and she succeeded to put up a challenge with the help of BJP workers. “Who said I am defeated? I won the election and I am very much happy with the poll results. The day Nath had made insulting remarks against me, I wished that his face was blackened. Now, he has been defeated and I am elated,” Imarti Devi told the media in Gwalior on Wednesday. A staunch supporter of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, Imarti Devi dominated headlines throughout the poll campaign in Madhya Pradesh after Nath referred to her as an ‘item’ during a poll rally in Dabra last month. Nath’s remark triggered a major political war between Congress and BJP as videos of Imarti Devi crying after the comment went viral on social media. Imarti Devi said, “I had been praying for a long time and finally we formed the government with full majority. Nath needs to wash his face”. BJP won 19 of the 28 seats and attained a full majority in the 229-member House. Imarti Devi lost by 7,633 votes. It is learnt that Scindia would find out the reasons behind her defeat in Dabra. Imarti Devi recalled that after quitting Congress, she had discussed with the BJP leadership that she will find it difficult to win the Dabra seat since it has always been a traditional Congress bastion. “I had told the BJP leadership after joining the party that it would be difficult for BJP to win Dabra. Still, I tried my best and converted half of the Congress votes into BJP’s favour,” Imarti Devi said. “It could be my mistake that despite my party winning the bypolls with flying colours, I failed to meet the expectations of my voters,” she added. The BJP leader further said that her mentor Scindia, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and minister Narottam Mishra were supporting her. Even the chief minister's wife Sadhna Singh called and consoled her. “I am still capable to help the public for the development and welfare of Dabra constituency. A common worker of the ruling party holds enough sway to get works done in the entire region. I am very happy to be a part of the majority government. We will complete three years and Imarti Devi will remain in active politics and serve BJP,” she said. “Dabra’s development will continue. During the Congress rule, MLAs were helpless and could not even install a hand-pump,” Imarti Devi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/i-put-up-a-brave-fight-imarti/articleshow/79178479.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Agra||61 test Covid-19 positive in Agra, district tally 7,934||AGRA: At least 61 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 7,934. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and two of the district hospital. Also, a 65-year-old man died while undergoing treatment at the SNMC. The Pratpura locality resident was suffering from diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and other medical conditions. According to the health department, the Covid patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 153 deaths of Covid patients have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid sample positivity rate in the district is 2.66% and the fatality rate is 1.93%. Moreover, 102 Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 7,934 cases reported in the district, 7,224 [91.05%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district increased from 554 on Tuesday, to 557 on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/61-test-covid-19-ve-in-agra-district-tally-7934/articleshow/79177491.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Effective RBD plasma in high demand but lack of donation poses hurdle||Nagpur: With physicians finding receptor binding domain (RBD) plasma highly effective in viremic phase (first 8-10 days) of Covid infection, the demand for the strong anti-viral therapy has steadily shot up. The district still has over 1,000 mild, moderate and severe Covid patients, who are in urgent need of RBD plasma, which is showing impressive results. Yet, public and private blood banks are unable to harvest enough plasma stock mainly because of lack of enthusiasm in eligible recovered Covid patients. This has led to relatives running pillar to post to find donors, as blood banks are insisting on RBD plasma bag for donor beside the regular fee. “I was willing to pay more instead of bringing a donor. But the blood bank didn’t accept and took an assurance to bring it a donor later,” said a man whose elderly father needed RBD plasma. RBD plasma seems to be a scarce resource as not all recovered Covid patients qualify for donation. Even after meeting the criteria, such as being free of any lifestyle diseases, and other comorbidities, a donor needs to carry greater than 640 antibody titer to be effective. Yet, in entire Central India, city-based Lifeline Blood Bank is the only facility to conduct an RBD test before harvesting convalescent plasma. Lifeline’s medical director Dr Harish Warbhe told TOI that he has over 15 storage centres in the region where the daily demand for RBD plasma has gone up to 100 bags per day. “We had conducted some camps to harvest RBD plasma. I am trying to hold more camps. Now, I feel social and religious organizations too must come forward to convince community members to donate plasma,” he said. Dr Warbhe said in the United States, the use of RBD plasma has significantly gone up while WHO’s studies on new anti-viral drugs are not encouraging. In India, centres at Pune, Mumbai and other big cities too are gradually shifting to conducting RBD testing before harvesting plasma using different techniques. Surprisingly, the government’s platina therapy project — dubbed the world’s largest convalescent plasma trial — is still following the traditional blind therapy without carrying out RBD tests. “US-FDA approved world’s first RBD-antibody testing kit on July 31 this year. We had called those in the second week of August at Lifeline and started India’s first RBD Plasma Bank on September 6. We get high RBD-antibody level only in 2-4 out of 10 recovered Covid patients. This explains the inefficacy, and variable results of old, traditional blind plasma therapy,” Dr Warbhe said. Dr Warbhe said our immune system produces multiple antibodies against coronavirus but not all are protective. “The RBD-antibody is protective as it prevents the entry of virus inside the human cell and clears or kills the virus,” he said. He said if given in first 8 to 10 days (viremic phase), the viral load comes down to zero in 24 hours. “Hence, this new, scientific and rational RBD-plasma therapy has become the first line of therapy for saving lives of Covid patients,” Dr Warbhe said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/effective-rbd-plasma-in-high-demand-but-lack-of-donation-poses-hurdle/articleshow/79178517.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra: Wary parents worry about contagion spread in schools||PUNE: To send or not to send is the dilemma all parents of students in standards IX to XII are facing. Their associations are unhappy with the state government’s decision to reopen schools for these classes after Diwali. Most parents felt that the schools must not open till the vaccine for Covid-19 is out. They said students, despite all warnings and sensitisation, will not adhere to social distancing and other safety protocols when they are with friends and out of teachers’ sight. Anubha Sahai, president of Indiawide Parents’ Association, said the state government has given orders for reopening of schools, but has washed its hands off from any responsibility of bearing the consequences. “By asking the schools to ensure that all the guidelines are followed, the government has shrugged off its responsibility and placed it on schools’ managements. On the other hand, by making parents sign the consent form or undertaking, schools are saying that if there is mass spread of the virus, they would not be responsible. Nobody wants to take responsibility and students are becoming the targets,” Sahai said. Sachin Gawali, a Dombivli parent, has questioned the motive behind opening schools in the cities where even with a 50% students’ strength, the numbers would be in multiples of hundreds. “How will they control students from keeping close contact with each other? How will they manage the lunch breaks and after school hours? This is becoming an experiment with children. Why don’t they open the legislative assembly first before they reopen schools?” he said. Another parent said the schools should not open at least 28 days from Diwali or preferably till January 15. “Festivals are when people come together and these events become superspreaders. Diwali is here, followed by Christmas and then New Year. Already, the malls and shopping areas are crowded. If schools reopen immediately after Diwali, it may lead to a spurt in cases,” she said. Abhishek Jain, a member of a parents’ association from Nagpur, said, “Other than safety, schools will ask parents for the entire year’s fees. The uniform fees or development fees, which were probably not taken by some schools, will now be recovered. An additional amount citing extra cost for sanitisation may be sought.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wary-parents-worry-about-contagion-spread-in-schools/articleshow/79179973.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 12, 2020||Bengaluru||For work on Covid, Hubballi doctor features in US documentary||BENGALURU: A 38-year-old Hubballi doctor is making a mark for himself in the US, by being involved not only in path-breaking research to treat Covid-19 patients but also featuring in a documentary on the work of Indian doctors around the virus. Dr Shreedhar Kulkarni, MD, an Assistant Professor, at Louisiana State University, has been featured in a documentary ‘A Pandemic: Away From The Motherland (2020)’ made by Hollywood film-maker, writer and producer – Sweta Rai. The documentary, which focuses on six Indian doctors serving away from their homelands, describes their journeys and their parents’ struggles back home. Besides Dr Kulkarni, Dr Uma Madhusudana, an alumnus of JSS Medical College in Mysuru is the other doctor from Karnataka featuring in the documentary. “It was indeed a testing time. My in-laws were visiting us for six weeks but were stranded here for six months, while my parents in Hubballi were constantly worried about our safety in the US. Both my wife and I are in the same field and we were worried that we would bring in Covid to her aged parents,” he explains. His parents stay in Akshaya Park in Hubbali, while his two sisters are married and live close by. Dr Kulkarni journey started from Janata English School, Kalghatgi in 1998 where he secured 20th rank in SSLC. He got a CET ranking 413 and moved to Hubballi for MBBS. “I graduated as the best outgoing medical student and class valedictorian from KIMS, Hubli in 2006. I moved to Harvard in 2008, where I worked as a research assistant for about 2 years. Then I moved to Springfield, Illinois where I did my residency (postgraduate, equivalent to MD in India) training in combined Internal Medicine-Psychiatry from 2011-2016 at Southern Illinois University,” he said adding that it is a unique speciality and there are only about a dozen such residency training programs in the entire US. Dr Kulkarni has been working at Louisiana State University (LSU) Health Sciences Center, Shreveport as an Assistant Professor of Medicine since February 2018 and was recently also named the Director of Point of Care Ultrasound Curriculum (POCUS) for Internal Medicine residents at LSU.  Dr Kulkarni, whose father worked in the education department and mother is a homemaker, says his journey from Hubbali to Harvard and then to Louisiana was all about perseverance. “Coming from a Kannada medium school, I had to battle my self-confidence issues and other factors,” Dr Kulkarni says, adding that now his colleagues and friends seek his help to rework their CVs and other writings in English.  However, what is remarkable is his work in a research study called “DAS-181” which is aimed at treating patients with severe COVID-19 infection using a novel inhaled medication. Dr Kulkarni has been one of the investigators of the “Lung Safe” clinical trial which is a very large research study of its kind, assessing patients with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) among ICU patients. “The purpose of this study is to explore the frequency, death rate and causes of ARDS among ICU patients in 50 countries across 5 continents,” he says. The LUNG SAFE investigators group has published several major research articles which have been adopted by international clinical practice guidelines on the treatment of ARDS. From his work on Covid patients, Dr Kulkarni says he has learnt that breathing issues are the most alarming symptom. “People need not panic but make sure they follow all the safety guidelines and wear a mask at all times,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/for-work-on-covid-hubballi-doc-features-in-us-documentary/articleshow/79178534.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Amritsar||Denial of permission unfair: All-India farm front writes to Delhi cops again||BATHINDA: After Delhi Police denied permission to farm organisations for protests on November 26-27, the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC), an apex body of more than 200 farmer organisations from 20 states, on Thursday again wrote to the force’s commissioner to seek permission for the assembly of farmers from across the country at Jantar Mantar. Police have cited a ban on gatherings/large congregations till November 30 to control spread of Covid-19 as the reason for refusing permission. In the letter to the commissioner, AIKSCC has cited instances of big gatherings, including political ones by Delhi and Punjab chief ministers, which happened in Delhi in recent past. It has assured the police of adhering to all protocols. It has been mentioned in the letter by AIKSCC convener VM Singh that in November 2017 and November 2018, similar peaceful gatherings of farmers had been organised by AIKSCC on Parliament Street in complete adherence to guidelines and in coordination with police, without any untoward incidents. Despite orders of permission denial, numerous protest gatherings have been held at Jantar Mantar in September and October 2020, including protests in which Delhi chief minister has himself participated, and MPs and MLAs of parties have also held protests. The nation has been in unlock mode since July 1, 2020, and, progressively, all forms of gatherings have been allowed. “Even Parliament of India has opened for the monsoon session in September 2020. The highest form of political activity, elections, have just been concluded in eight states, under supervision of Election Commission of India and with participation of police forces of the concerned states,” said V M Singh. The farm body described the denial of permission as illegal, illogical and without due application of mind. “It is unjust and unfair to prevent farmers from airing their grievances in peaceful and democratic manner. This is a serious matter of life and death and survival of millions of citizens in this country. The use of technicality to prevent them from gathering to air their grievances will be counter-productive, in addition to being discriminatory,” read the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/denial-of-permission-unfair-all-india-farm-front-writes-to-delhi-cops-again/articleshow/79179968.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Protesters seek people’s support||JANDIALA: Following the decision of the core committee of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC), the farmers and labourers’ body on Wednesday took to the streets to urge people to observe ‘black Diwali’ to show their resentment against the new agriculture laws. The activists of KMSC visited markets to urge shopkeepers to display black flags. They also visited local bus stand and Amritsar Bar Association, seeking support of legal eagles in their agitation. Their volunteers also put up black flags on some of the lawyers’ chambers, few buses and shops. Claiming to have immense support from small shopkeepers, businessmen, lawyers, drivers and teachers, state general secretary of KMSC Sarwan Singh Pandher said if the Centre had resumed the services of freight trains, the situation would have been much better. “Rail tracks are clear, farmers are not sitting on rail tracks anymore and want goods train to ply, but it appears as if the Centre has its own reasons behind not resuming the services of goods trains,” he said. Asserting that their agitation has entered 49th day, another farmer leader Gurbachan Singh Chaba said as farm laws would impact everyone in the society especially the service class, middle and lower middle-class people, they should support the farmers in their agitation. Asked about their decision to attend a meeting with a Central minister scheduled for November 13 in New Delhi, KMSC’s Ranjit Singh Kalerbala said, “We will hold a meeting at Tarn Taran on Wednesday evening to discuss about the invitation and the prevalent situation and then we will take a decision.” However, Kalerbala said the farmers were in no mood to relent since the issue was of their survival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/protesters-seek-peoples-support/articleshow/79180001.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 12, 2020||Hubballi||For work on Covid, Hubballi doctor features in US documentary||BENGALURU: A 38-year-old Hubballi doctor is making a mark for himself in the US, by being involved not only in path-breaking research to treat Covid-19 patients but also featuring in a documentary on the work of Indian doctors around the virus. Dr Shreedhar Kulkarni, MD, an Assistant Professor, at Louisiana State University, has been featured in a documentary ‘A Pandemic: Away From The Motherland (2020)’ made by Hollywood film-maker, writer and producer – Sweta Rai. The documentary, which focuses on six Indian doctors serving away from their homelands, describes their journeys and their parents’ struggles back home. Besides Dr Kulkarni, Dr Uma Madhusudana, an alumnus of JSS Medical College in Mysuru is the other doctor from Karnataka featuring in the documentary. “It was indeed a testing time. My in-laws were visiting us for six weeks but were stranded here for six months, while my parents in Hubballi were constantly worried about our safety in the US. Both my wife and I are in the same field and we were worried that we would bring in Covid to her aged parents,” he explains. His parents stay in Akshaya Park in Hubbali, while his two sisters are married and live close by. Dr Kulkarni journey started from Janata English School, Kalghatgi in 1998 where he secured 20th rank in SSLC. He got a CET ranking 413 and moved to Hubballi for MBBS. “I graduated as the best outgoing medical student and class valedictorian from KIMS, Hubli in 2006. I moved to Harvard in 2008, where I worked as a research assistant for about 2 years. Then I moved to Springfield, Illinois where I did my residency (postgraduate, equivalent to MD in India) training in combined Internal Medicine-Psychiatry from 2011-2016 at Southern Illinois University,” he said adding that it is a unique speciality and there are only about a dozen such residency training programs in the entire US. Dr Kulkarni has been working at Louisiana State University (LSU) Health Sciences Center, Shreveport as an Assistant Professor of Medicine since February 2018 and was recently also named the Director of Point of Care Ultrasound Curriculum (POCUS) for Internal Medicine residents at LSU.  Dr Kulkarni, whose father worked in the education department and mother is a homemaker, says his journey from Hubbali to Harvard and then to Louisiana was all about perseverance. “Coming from a Kannada medium school, I had to battle my self-confidence issues and other factors,” Dr Kulkarni says, adding that now his colleagues and friends seek his help to rework their CVs and other writings in English.  However, what is remarkable is his work in a research study called “DAS-181” which is aimed at treating patients with severe COVID-19 infection using a novel inhaled medication. Dr Kulkarni has been one of the investigators of the “Lung Safe” clinical trial which is a very large research study of its kind, assessing patients with Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS) among ICU patients. “The purpose of this study is to explore the frequency, death rate and causes of ARDS among ICU patients in 50 countries across 5 continents,” he says. The LUNG SAFE investigators group has published several major research articles which have been adopted by international clinical practice guidelines on the treatment of ARDS. From his work on Covid patients, Dr Kulkarni says he has learnt that breathing issues are the most alarming symptom. “People need not panic but make sure they follow all the safety guidelines and wear a mask at all times,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/for-work-on-covid-hubballi-doc-features-in-us-documentary/articleshow/79186094.cms||---
November 12, 2020||---||NDA changed course after lacklustre first phase||NEW DELHI: Taking note that the NDA alliance had not done well in first phase of Bihar polls, the party’s campaign managers worked strenuously to look into grey areas in their electioneering and planned damage control which saw Prime Minister Narendra Modi adopt a more aggressive note towards the RJD-led Mahagathbandhan with a sharp focus on "jungle raj ka yuvraj". Modi reminded voters that "two other yuvraj (princelings)" had toured UP seeking support against the BJP. One of them, he said, had come to Bihar as well and was working with the new leader of the RJD. While Modi launched a counter offensive to the Mahagathbandhan's jobs-migrant plank, other senior leaders including home minister Amit Shah and party president J P Nadda focused on better coordination among the allies. In the first phase of polling on October 28 for 71 seats, the NDA suffered as the alliance won only 22 seats and the Mahagathbandhan bagged 46. However, the NDA put up a strong fight in the next two phases. The alliance won 54 of 94 seats which went to polls on November 3 and consolidated its lead by winning 52 of 78 seats on November 7. Allies JD(U), HAM and VIP leaders were part of internal meetings where even RSS representatives were in attendance. Such coordination meetings were multiplied after the first phase as alliance leaders had realised that poor coordination was taking a toll on their performance. BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi and JD(U)'s RCP Singh had to make specific attempts to ensure differences among the cadre didn’t dent their prospects and visited regions where local leaders had made remarks causing damage to the alliance. BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal said coordination among the NDA partners could have been better, although he denied it was the reason for the razor-thin majority they ended up with. “We organised coordination meetings at the block level. We planned visits of senior leaders and also the campaign strategy. But it was not like 2010 when every decision used to be in unison,” Jaiswal told TOI. He said the alliance leaders ensured that coordination meetings happened during senior leaders’ visits too. Jaiswal said coordination among the allies improved after the first phase, which changed the equation in favour of the NDA. JD(U) general secretary K C Tyagi said coordination among the NDA partners played a vital role in clearing confusion caused by "baseless statements" made by LJP leader Chirag Paswan. “Chirag Paswan has proved to be the biggest enemy of the NDA. Had he not fielded candidates, even RJD’s Tejashwi Yadav and Tej Pratap Yadav would have lost the polls. The JD(U) could have won over 80 seats,” Tyagi said. Though questions were raised why NDA was talking about “jungle raj” when Nitish Kumar had been in charge for 15 years, BJP leaders including party president J P Nadda, defence minister Rajnath Singh and UP CM Yogi Adityanath highlighted the poor law and order under “Lalu-Rabri” and said today’s youth must know how Nitish rescued the state from chaos. They cited absence of Lalu and Rabri from RJD posters as testimony of the wariness in current party leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-changed-course-after-lacklustre-first-phase/articleshow/79181879.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 12, 2020||Bhopal||883 new cases take state corona tally to 1,79,951||Bhopal: As many as 883 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. Count of infections has risen to 1,79,951. With 13 deaths, the statewide toll for Covid-19 has risen to 3,055. A total 691 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of recoveries to 1,68,568. Four Covid-19 patients died in Indore, two succumbed to the infection in Bhopal. Gwalior, Khargone, Ujjain, Dhar, Jhabua, Harda and Umaria. At 176, Bhopal reported the highest number of fresh cases in the state in the day, followed by Indore with 128 infections. Gwalior reporter 91 cases and Jabalpur 36. The number of cases in Indore rose to 34,970, including 703 fatalities, while Bhopal’s caseload stood at 26,765 with 494 deaths. Jabalpur and Gwalior have so far recorded 1,31,43 and 12,999 infections, respectively. Bhopal now has 1,764 active cases and Indore 1,722. With 25,419 samples being tested in the state in the last 24 hours, the overall number of tests rose to 32.27 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/883-new-cases-take-state-corona-tally-to-179951/articleshow/79178539.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Gorewada safari to starts from Friday||Nagpur: Eight months after the Gorewada jungle safari was closed for tourists due to coronavirus, tourists will once again be able to enjoy the jungle drive as the park reopens from November 13. Gorewada has decided not to allow children below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years for safari. Only four persons per vehicle will be allowed. This is against directions from PCCF (wildlife), who had relaxed the conditions by allowing six of a family including children and senior citizens. In Gorewada, as there are only 4 Gypsys available, private vehicles are allowed. Most private vehicle have a capacity of five persons. If the norm of four tourists is followed then only four people and not five will be able to enter the park as guides will be mandatory. The park has also banned night safari, which was allowed earlier. The safari will remain open in the morning (6am to 10am) and evening (2.30pm to 6pm). “We have got requisite permission from the district collector, who is also the chief of District Disaster Management Authority. Hence, safari has been opened as per the existing protocol. Therefore, children and senior citizens have been barred,” said Pramod Panchbhai, divisional manager, FDCM. Visitors can also opt for online bookings from the mahaecotourism.gov.in website. Per vehicle safari charges are Rs550, including Rs200 towards guide fee and Rs350 as entry fee. For online bookings, it would cost Rs520. The park management has made arrangements to follow Covid-19 distancing norms. Thermal scanning will be done for every tourist and wearing masks and face shields is mandatory for guides and drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gorewada-safari-to-starts-from-friday/articleshow/79178556.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Amritsar||Women, youth roped in for agriculture agitations in Punjab||BATHINDA: Farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has said it would be reaching Delhi to protest against the newly enacted farm laws on November 26-27, even as the national capital’s police force has refused them permission for it. BKU has started preparations for the protests and has also roped in women and youths. Women will protest and take out marches in villages in various districts of Malwa region for three days, from November 21 to 23. Youngsters will hold mashal (torch) marches in the same villages on these days. The decision was taken in a state-level meeting of the organisation held in Bathinda on Wednesday. It was also decided to hold protests against Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government on November 18, demanding withdrawal of Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Act, 2017, and cancel agriculture land tenancy resolutions. Union president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the organisation had decided to involve women and youth to intensify protests. He added women and youths had been supplorting the protests, but their support now would be unprecedented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/women-youth-roped-in-for-agri-agitations-in-pb/articleshow/79180027.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab seeks Rs 1,000 crore from Nabard for co-op boost||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government on Wednesday sought Rs 1,000 crore from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (Nabard) for giving fillip to the cooperative institutions in the state. Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said the assistance was sought under under the special liquidity facility (SLF) and long term rural credit fund (LTRCF) to Punjab Agricultural Development Bank (PADB) during his meeting with Nabard chairman Govinda Rajulu Chintala in Mumbai. The minister said he apprised Nabard chairman about the financial constraints being faced by the PADBs. A strong case was made out for giving SLF and to provide 100% refinance under LTRCF to PADB through a presentation, he added. Randhawa claimed that the chairman had assured to provide maximum help to the PADB. Chintala agreed that other proposals relating to revival of financially stressed PADBs would also be considered, the minister said. The minister also requested loans for setting up cooperative sugar mills in Batala and Gurdaspur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-seeksrs-1k-cr-from-nabard-for-co-op-boost/articleshow/79180008.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||‘Allegations about poll malpractices shocking’||Wishing Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar for the electoral victory in his state and Tejaswi Yadav for securing high number of seats, DMK president M K Stalin said the allegations about election malpractices were shocking.In a statement issued on Wednesday, Stalin said the Bihar elections conducted by the Election Commission of India amidst the pandemic have shown light on the strength of Indian democracy. At the same time, he said, the complaints by Mahagathbandhan of electoral malpractices in the elections were “shocking.”“Every citizen of the country expects elections to be held in a free and fair manner. All stakeholders should realise that only if those expectations are met fully, the future of democracy in our country would be reaffirmed,’’ he said.He congratulated Nitish Kumar for the poll success on behalf of DMK. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/allegations-about-poll-malpractices-shocking/articleshow/79180052.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Civic body seals building on Dr Rajendra Prasad Road||Coimbatore: The city corporation has sealed a multi-storeyed building that housed commercial establishments and a clinic for violating building rules.According to a statement issued by the civic body, the building on Dr Rajendra Prasad Road had a clinic functioning on the third floor, while permission was granted only for residential purposes and shops. On the stilt, which was meant for vehicle parking, enclosures were raised and used as commercial establishments. Additional structures were also built in the building without obtaining due permission.The civic body had issued a notice to the building owners on September 28 and they were given 30 days to rectify the deviations. Since the owner failed to oblige, a second notice was issued granting three days’ time and a third notice was issued on November 5 giving 24 hours to set right the anomalies. Since the owner failed to carry out the necessary corrections, the building was sealed on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/civic-body-seals-building-on-dr-rajendra-prasad-road/articleshow/79180040.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: Liquid O2 facility at AIIMS emergency block begins||BHOPAL: AIIMSBhopal director, Dr Sarman Singh, recently inaugurated the Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) supply facility at the AIIMS Bhopal trauma and emergency medicine block. The LMO facility would drastically reduce the dependence on portable oxygen cylinders at the premier hospital. The LMO plant would cater to the emergency unit which was dependant on jumbo oxygen cylinders. This facility will not only ensure an uninterrupted supply, but will also facilitate expansion of the ICU in the trauma and emergency unit, said Dr Singh. He expressed satisfaction that the new facility would improve of patient care services at AIIMS hospital. “AIIMS Bhopal is on the right path as an institute for delivering the very best healthcare to the people in central India,” said Dr Singh. Besides providing care to critical Covid-19 patients, the hospital is also catering to non-Covid-19 patients. Services and bed strength have increased at an exponential pace during the pandemic, said AIIMS Bhopal hospital superintendent, Dr Manisha Shrivastava. AIIMS Bhopal would soon operate in its full capacity of 960 beds. A burns unit for the emergency care of patients has also begun. The facility with two-beds is well-equipped with a dedicated burn operation theatre as a support service for emergency care at AIIMS Bhopal. The specialised burns centre is as per guidelines of the National Program for Prevention and Management of Burn Injuries (NPPMBI). The ward is equipped with facilities for intensive monitoring and ventilator support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/liquid-o2-facility-at-aiims-emergency-block-begins/articleshow/79178564.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: MSU to ‘reluctantly’ follow state govt’s decision||VADODARA: M S University will “reluctantly” follow state government’s decision of reopening university campuses from November 23. Professor Parimal Vyas, MSU vice-chancellor (VC), said that the university will study the guidelines and the SOP that the state government will issue regarding reopening of the campus, a decision which was taken by the state cabinet on Wednesday. “There are practical difficulties at each level. I had already expressed our reluctance in reopening the university campus during a recent meeting of all stakeholders . I believe that the decision regarding reopening the campus should be left with the universities,” said Vyas. He said that while the university will phase-wise start final year classes of post-graduate (PG) and under-graduate (UG) students based on instructions of the state government, the question of starting first and second year classes does not arise. “While we can start with final year PG classes, we cannot start PG classes in commerce faculty where the strength of students is very high,” he said. Vyas further said that in the current situation reopening the hostel campus fully, too, is not possible. “As per the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC), sharing of rooms will not be allowed. The guidelines state that there should isolation facilities. We simply do not have enough infrastructure where we can provide separate rooms to each student,” said Vyas. It is worth mentioning here that even in normal course when the university accommodates 4,500 students in 16 boys and girls hostel buildings of Halls of Residence on sharing basis, there are complaints of space crunch. “How do we provide one room to one student,” said Vyas, adding that currently 40-50 research scholars of Faculty of Science and Faculty of Technology and Engineering have been granted permission to stay in the hostels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msu-to-reluctantly-follow-state-govts-decision/articleshow/79178590.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Amritsar||3,000 more farm fires, Punjab stubble burning cases close to 70,000||BATHINDA: With close to 3,000 stubble burning events in the 24 hours up to Wednesday evening, the total count of farm fires in Punjab so far this year reached 69,323. With the state just 52 days into crop residue burning season, the figure is expected to rise further and could be close to the highest-ever record of 82,000 cases, recorded in 2016. Bathinda, with 450 burning events, had the higehst number of cases. It was followed by 338 in Fazilka, 331 in Moga, 311 in Sangrur, 295 in Muktsar, 262 in Mansa, 234 in Barnala, 220 in Faridkot, 182 in Ferozepur, 143 in Ludhiana, and 100 in Patiala. Pathankot and SAS Nagar were the only districts with no burning cases, whereas SBS Nagar recorded only one case. Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur and Amritsar recorded only two burning events each, Rupnagar recorded three, Kapurthala seven, Tarn Taran recorded 40, Jalandhar 36, and Fatehgarh Sahib recorded 12 cases. Till November 10 in 2019, the state had recorded just 50,423. The figure was 42,025 and 42,126 in the corresponding period in 2017 and 2018, respectively. In 2016, this figure was 76,045.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/3k-more-farm-fires-pb-stubble-burning-cases-close-to-70k/articleshow/79180048.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Pregnant woman made to wait for hours at hospital||KURUKSHETRA: An eight-month pregnant woman travelling from Shimla to Delhi, from where she was to board a train for her home state, Jharkhand, had an agonising time as she had to wait for medical care for almost 12 hours. Travelling in a taxi along with her husband, sister-in-law and daughter, she suffered acute pain near Ambala around 12.30 am on Wednesday. The taxi driver drove them to a private hospital on the way, but the family took her to Shahabad civil hospital as they found it too expensive. From Shahabad, she was referred to the civil hospital in Kurukshetra and taken there in an ambulance. “I accompanied them to the hospital. There was no doctor on emergency duty in Kurukshetra and the woman kept suffering in pain,” the driver said. She was given to share a bed in the labour room at LNJP civil hospital, Thanesar, around noon, said her husband Duryodhan Gop of Sikoi village in Gumla district of Jharkhand and works as a carpenter in Shimla. “When we reached the hospital at night, the staff said that there is no senior medical officer available at this moment and that the doctor will come in the morning.” LNJP civil hospital resident medical officer Dr S S Arora said, “The woman was admitted and the family advised to cancel their travel plan. The concerned gynecologist has started her treatment and hopefully, she will be discharged after delivery soon. She is under treatment and care now.” Regarding absence of a doctor in emergency services, he said, “There was a doctor on emergency duty but we only have one doctor for labour room, who works round the clock. That doctor was not present in the night.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pregnant-woman-made-to-wait-for-hours-at-hospital/articleshow/79180038.cms||Jaskaran Singh
November 12, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Two accused of gang rape arrested on transfer warrant||AHMEDABAD: Crime branch sleuths on Tuesday arrested builder Pragnesh Patel alias Pragnesh Gota, a resident of Hare Shanti Bungalows in Gota and Jeetendra Goswami, a resident of Reva Apartments in Vasna, on a transfer warrant from Ahmedabad Central Jail, where they were lodged in a land-grabbing case. Both of them, along with two others, were accused of gang rape by a 23-year-old woman from Rajkot. She said they had promised her a job after she lost hers due to the pandemic. Crime branch officials said the other accused, Jaimin Patel of Bopal and Pragnesh Patel’s wife Neelam, had allegedly threatened the girl and had taken her passport away. Crime branch officials said they have formed a team to nab the other accused who are on the run. According to the complaint lodged by the rape survivor at the Women’s police station (West), the accused on the pretext of giving her a job took her to hotels in Udaipur, Abu, Mandvi, Gandhidham and gang-raped her multiple times. The rape surviror alleged that the accused had taken compromising photos of her and then blackmailed her. Assistant commissioner of police, crime branch D P Chudasama said the investigation has been handed over to Inspector J N Chavda of crime branch. “The accused will be taken the places where the girl has alleged that she was raped to gather evidence such as CCTV footage and hotel registers,” said Chavda. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-accused-of-gang-rape-arrested-on-transfer-warrant/articleshow/79178882.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Bhopal||Temperature nosedives ahead of Diwali, Bhopal’s coldest night of season at 12°C||BHOPAL: The day as well as the night temperature in Bhopal on Wednesday was the lowest of the season so far. It was an indication of spine chilling cold that lies ahead. In parts of the state, temperature has already dipped below the ten degrees mark and the dip is likely to continue in the coming days. Officials of the meteorological department, Bhopal circle, said there is no system or moisture incursion in the state. Dry cold winds are blowing over the state due to which the temperature is going down. A similar trend would continue for the next two days. There was a possibility of western disturbance impacting the state after November 13 that may lead to clouding in the day, officials added. Day temperature in Bhopal on Wednesday was recorded at 27.8 degrees Celsius, 2.5 degrees less than normal mark while night temperature in city was recorded at 12.0 degrees Celsius, four degrees less than the normal. Both the day as well as the night temperature was the lowest of the season so far. Wind direction in the city was northerly and average wind speed was 10 km per hour. Lowest temperature in the state was recorded at nine degrees Celsius in Chhindwara, Raisen and Mandla. In the forecast for Bhopal on Thursday, the Met officials said there would be clear sky and dry weather will prevail in the city. Day and night temperature would be respectively at 29 degrees Celsius and 12 degrees Celsius while average wind speed will be 14 kmph.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/temp-nosedives-ahead-of-diwali-seasons-coldest-night-in-city-at-12/articleshow/79178547.cms||---
November 12, 2020||---||JD(U) wins Hilsa seat by just 12 votes||PATNA: JD(U) has won the Hilsa assembly seat in Bihar by just 12 votes, as per the Election Commission website. Rival RJD has contested the result. As per the results updated on the EC website late Tuesday night, JD(U)’s Krishnamurari Sharan alias Prem Mukhiya has polled 61,848 votes, while his nearest rival Atri Muni alias Shakti Singh Yadav of RJD has got 61,836. “The returning officer had declared Shakti Singh the winner by 547 votes. Then the returning officer receives a call from the CM’s residence and the officer says Singh has lost by 13 votes due to postal ballots being cancelled,” RJD had earlier alleged. The EC has, however, denied it was under pressure from anybody. As per EC’s data, Sharan got 232 postal votes while Singh received 233.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/jdu-wins-hilsa-seat-by-just-12-votes/articleshow/79181890.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris adds 13 new Covid cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded 13 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the lowest in recent times, taking its tally to 7,013. Of the 246 active cases, at least ten people are currently admitted at government facilities in Coimbatore while three are being treated in private hospitals in the city.While 27 people have been kept in home quarantine, the remaining active cases are being treated at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides two Covid centres in Ooty.Of the new 13 cases, Gudalur reported four cases while the remaining cases were reported from other blocks in the hill district.According to a health official, the positivity rate of Covid-19 in the Nilgiris has drastically come down recently. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-adds-13-new-covid-cases/articleshow/79180083.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Stalin slams bid to hold offline counselling for medical seats in state||DMK president M K Stalin on Wednesday demanded the state government to stick to online counselling for medical admission this year too.In a statement, Stalin condemned the state government’s move to hold offline counselling and said it was not advisable to do away with online counselling in the wake of Covid-19 threat.Offline counselling, he said, would pose several hardships to students and their parents. “It’s not known if the health minister or chief minister has thought about the problems posed by offline counselling and whether it was practically possible since Covid precautionary measures have tobe ensured.”Pointing out that it was very dangerous to hold direct counselling when the threat of second wave of Covid was looming large, Stalin said, “All seats, including those under 7.5 % quota for government school students, should be filled through online counselling.”There are 3,650 MBBS seats across 26 government medical colleges, 100 seats in government dental colleges. These are in addition to the seats in private colleges. “It is important to hold the counselling without giving room for any discrepancies,” the DMK chief said alleging the counselling conducted last year was riddled with malpractices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/stalin-slams-bid-to-hold-offline-counselling-for-medical-seats-in-state/articleshow/79180070.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Ropar drug arrests yield 5 more arms||PATIALA: A few days after arresting five inter-state weapon and drug smugglers, Ropar police claimed to have recovered five more illegal weapons on interrogation of the accused. Twelve weapons have been recovered so far. Police said two more persons, including a gangster lodged inside Patiala jail, were nominated in the case. Police said the gang used to operate through social media and had involved an NRI as a mediator who used to make calls from his WhatsApp number for deals. On November 5, Ropar police claimed to have recovered seven illegal pistols along with 21 live cartridges of .32 bore pistol from the five arrested accused. Besides, the police also recovered 606g of intoxicant powder from these accused. The police said all these accused used to bring illegal pistols from Madhya Pradesh via different routes. “On November 9, we have brought gangster Tejinder Singh Teja on a production warrant from Patiala jail and interrogated all the accused after which they disclosed the modus operandi of smuggling illegal weapons. Some of the weapons they had purchased in order to take revenge from a rival gang. In this case, we have also nominated an accused who is residing in Australia,” said Ropar SSP Akhil Chaudhary. He said gang members have allegedly supplied illegal weapons across Punjab and Himachal Pradesh. He said the team under SP (detective) Ajinder Singh, Ropar DSP (detective) Varinderjit Singh and narcotic cell in-charge inspector Amarbir Singh on a tip-off carried out checking at Sri Anandpur Sahib on November 5 to nab the inter-state gang members involved in illegal smuggling of drugs and weapons in Ropar district. The police initially nabbed two persons and interrogated them following which further raids were carried out to nab their accomplices. The police have identified the accused as Neeraj Kumar of Anandpur Sahib, Rampal alias Bunty Lubana of Nurpur Bedi, Akshay Kumar alia Abbu of Bilaspur in Himachal Pradesh, Sumit alias Shubam and accused Rahul of Nangal in Ropar. According to the police Neeraj was booked in seven cases under sections of murder, attempt to murder, rioting, criminal conspiracy, and sections of Arms Act at different police stations in Ropar district while accused Rampal was booked in six separate cases for supplying illegal liquor and drugs and under sections of rioting, voluntary causing hurt, attempt to murder and sections of Arms Act. Accused Sumit was booked for voluntary causing hurt and rioting. The accused gangster T S Teja was booked in 24 separate cases including murder and attempt to murder and in Ludhiana robbery case in which he looted 2.1 kg gold in January this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ropar-drug-arrests-yield-5-more-arms/articleshow/79180064.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Environmentalist on a mission to protect city’s waterbodies bags national award||Coimbatore: The jal shakti ministry has conferred the best water warrior award for south zone on R Manikandan, an environmentalist from the district.This was the second edition of national water awards. The state had bagged the water warrior award for the south zone in the first edition too when it was conferred on Anna University professor Sakthinathan Ganapathy Pandian.Manikandan and his organization Kovai Kulangal Padhukaapu Amaippu, which was started in 2017, are today household names in the city. Best known for his organization’s efforts to revive the Vellalore tank, which had not received water for the past 12 years, and clean other tank bunds of plastic garbage, not many people know Manikandan was involved in water conservation and restoration of waterbodies since his student days.A resident of Kurichi, Manikandan recalls the times when they hadn’t any access to drinking water. “We had to walk 10km once in 15 days to collect water from the main tank. When panchayat said it did not have money to lay a pipeline to bring water closer to our houses, we collected Rs 75 from every household and gave that to officials to lay the pipeline.”Manikandan says the turning point was when a well in their locality went dry in 1999. “We found that a stream from Kurichi Kulam, which fed the well, had gone dry. There was a damaged check dam across it. We petitioned the collector to repair the check dam as that would help recharge groundwater and fill the well. We got that done. That was when I knew we could make a difference and the government will work with us.”After the jallikattu movement in January 2017, Manikandan and his friends decided to mobilize volunteers using social media to clean waterbodies. “We cleaned lake bunds of plastic and household garbage during weekends. We have removed around 113 tonnes plastic waste so far.”Manikandan and team have also created a Miyawaki forest with 7,500 saplings in and around the Vellalore tank. “We have distributed 10,000 samplings and 5,000 medicinal trees to the public so far.”Manikandan says his organization’s biggest achievements were restoration of blocked or damaged water canals and getting the government to work with them. “The canal bringing water to the Vellalore tank was filled with sludge. Once we began cleaning, the government also pitched in. We also helped remove encroachments around the canal.”Now, the water warrior focusses mainly on keeping canals, including Kuniamuthur canal which takes water to four tanks, Vellalore lake canal and Kunnathur lake canal at Annur, free of any blocks. “We are also working on cleaning Vellachi Kuttai near Theethipalayam, Makaliamman Kuttai near Chennanur and ponds at Devarayapuram. None of these would be possible without hundreds of volunteers who come out every weekend, people who donate money to rent earthmovers for desilting and cleaning, and the government that encourage and cooperate with our initiatives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/environmentalist-on-a-mission-to-protect-citys-waterbodies-bags-national-award/articleshow/79180079.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Students who won medals in nat’l school games rewarded||Udhagamandalam: Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya distributed Rs 10.5 lakh to six students who won medals in the 64th national school games that was organized by the School Games Federation of India.She said chief minister Edappadi K Palanisamy had on October 28 announced encouragement prizes for the winners in the national school games.Sairam, district physical education inspector, said six students from the Nilgiris had taken part in the 64th national school games in 2018-19 and won medals.While M Vivin Richard from St Joseph’s Higher Secondary School at Coonoor won gold medal in 400-metre running under 19 category, C Vrithviraj and R Sandhya from Vishwa Shanthi Matriculation School at Kotagiri bagged gold in taekwondo under 14 category.The remaining three - G Nimisha, B Arularasi (under 17 category) and M Bhavadharani (under 14 category), from the Vishwa Shanthi Matriculation School - won silver in taekwondo.While the gold medalists received Rs 2 lakh, the silver medalists got Rs 1.5 lakh as encouragement prize from the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/students-who-won-medals-in-natl-school-games-rewarded/articleshow/79180085.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chandigarh||Former MLA Brij Lal Goyal passes away||PATIALA: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh and Patiala MP Preneet Kaur on Wednesday mourned the demise of former Congress MLA Brij Lal Goyal (82), who breathed his last here on Tuesday after a brief illness. The CM called Goyal a disciplined soldier of the party, who tirelessly worked for the overall development of the district. Goyal was elected MLA from Rajpura in 1972 and was chairman of Punsup and Punjab Pashudhan Vikas Board. He is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-mla-brij-lal-goyal-passes-away/articleshow/79180081.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat: Parents’ body oppose govt’s decision to reopen schools, colleges||VADODARA: Parents association have opposed the state government’s decision to reopen schools and colleges from November 23. The Vadodara Parents Association (VPA) while condemning the decision said that it will organise protest programmes against the hasty decision. “Most of the schools are not having basic safety measures like a fire-fighting equipment in place. How will these schools follow SOP for reopening?” questioned VPA office-bearers. On government’s directive that students should be taken to nearest primary health centre (PHC), if they develop any symptoms, the association questioned whether the PHC are equipped to handle such situations when large hospitals are struggling. The Akhil Gujarat Wali Mahasangh, Vadodara on the other hand said that schools should not be reopened till there is mass access to a vaccine for the virus. “We have an assorted mix of age groups of people at home and some of them, especially the elderly, would be more vulnerable to coronavirus than the others. Children may be asymptomatic, but we don’t want elders in the house to pick up something because a child went to school,” it said, adding that as long as there is no vaccination, schools should remain closed even if it stretches to one or two academic year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/parents-body-oppose-govts-decision-to-reopen-schools-colleges/articleshow/79178624.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kochi||Worried Jacobite members gather outside church||Kochi: Tension gripped Kothamangalam on Wednesday night following a rumour that the district administration was planning to take over the church from the Jacobite faction. Ignoring Covid restrictions, hundreds of Jacobite members gathered outside the church to resist possible police action. Sources said parishioners and Jacobite members in general became a worried lot after the high court pulled up Ernakulam collector on Tuesday for not implementing a nearly-year-old directive to take over the church and hand it over to the vicar of the Orthodox faction. The church premises witnessed dramatic scenes on Wednesday. A Jacobite priest, Fr Basil Kottikan, tied himself to the huge stone cross in the courtyard of the church to demonstrate his protest. A parishioner, on condition of anonymity, said that they were aware of Covid-19 crisis, but were helpless as they would rather die than surrender their church. “Defending the church has become a routine and we have been doing it for a long time now. We staged a series of protests, including hunger strikes. We even re-enacted the Coonan Cross Oath at Kothamangalam Church. We are confident of defending our church even today,” said the parishioner. Ernakulam collector is learnt to have held a meeting with the top-level police and revenue officials to discuss the matter of taking over the church. Meanwhile, Matha Maithri Samrakshana Samiti, a locally-formed organization to maintain religious harmony in Kothamangalam, declared a hartal in the region on Thursday. Shops are likely to remain closed and buses will not conduct service in the region, source said. “It is a church with which we have a strong emotional connection. It is the final resting place of Saint Yeldo Mar Baselios. We don’t want to create a law and order issue but people are quite emotional. There has been no communication from the police about their plan of action,” said Fr Jose Parathuvayalil, the Jacobite vicar of the parish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/worried-jacobite-members-gather-outside-church/articleshow/79178642.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Salem corpn pays contractors, keeps employees waiting||Salem: Fund-starved Salem Municipal Corporation (SMC) is struggling to pay salaries to its employees and officials.P Lakshmanan, president, Salem Corporation Engineering Employees’ Association, says, “We were expecting the SMC to release our salary for October before Diwali. But the finance department has refused to pay us, citing fund crunch.” Talking to TOI, he said the SMC used to pay the salary only after 10th of every month.The SMC has around 3,000 employees, of them 1,000 in the engineering division alone. They are paid from the water, building tax collected from the public.According to the employees, the SMC had been facing fund scarcity for the past few months and attributed the situation to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Many people failed to pay their tax during the period.”The situation, however, seems to be improving with people staring to pay taxes from October. “We had collected Rs 50 crore in October and the amount was used to pay contractors for the works they carried out in the corporation areas,” Lakshmanan said. In the first 10 days of November, the SMC has collected Rs 2 crore. While the employees hoped the amount would be used to pay their salaries, it was used to settle the dues of four contractors.K C Venkatachalam, retired assistant commissioner of SMC, says, “The SMC paid the contractors instead of paying our salary. The employees have been informed that they would be paid only after November 20.” He is also president of Salem Divisional Corporation and Municipalities Pensioners’ Association.The SMC employees lamented they don’t have money to meet their Diwali expenses. “We don’t have money to buy clothes and other materials,” Venkatachalam said.When contacted, Ramesh Babu, assistant commissioner of accounts, said they had issued Rs 10,000 per employee as festival advance. “We paid the advance amount on Tuesday evening. We will release the salary once we get sufficient funds.”The employees TOI talked to, however, denied receiving the payment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/salem-corpn-pays-contractors-keeps-employees-waiting/articleshow/79180111.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Coimbatore||Tea garden workers hold hunger strike||Udhagamandalam: As many as 500 Tamil Nadu Tea Plantation Corporation (Tantea) workers on Wednesday conducted a hunger strike at Pandalur in the Nilgiris demanding 20% bonus for the festival season.While the government has sanctioned 10% bonus, the workers, organised by DMK and labour unions, demanded more as Tantea earned over Rs 10 crore surplus revenue in the last four months.However, according to a Tantea official, the surplus revenue is not considered as profit. “It will be utilized to meet terminal benefits to the employees and workers on priority basis,” he said.Gudalur DMK MLA M Thiravidamani said he had written a letter to the chief minister seeking his intervention for 20% bonus. “As there was no response from the government, we organized the hunger strike condemning the government’s inaction,” he said.A group of workers also submitted a memorandum in this regard to the managing director of Tantea at the head office in Coonoor. They had conducted a day-long strike on November 6.Tantea employs 5,000 workers, including 250 office staff. It owns 4,100 hectares of tea garden, including 900 hectares in Coimbatore district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tea-garden-workers-hold-hunger-strike/articleshow/79180098.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Two arrested for anti-France posters in old city||VADODARA: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Wednesday arrested two persons for hanging banners slamming France and its president Emmanuel Macron, in Machchipith and Nawabwada areas of the old city. The banners also urged people to boycott French products. One of the arrested person, Asif Sheik is a history-sheeter who has cases of murder, attempt to murder, jumping parole and Arms Act registered against him. Along with him, DCB arrested Shabbir Hussain Sheikh, a resident of Tandalja. Officials said that earlier this month, the duo had put up banners with an intention to forment communal disturbance in the old city and provoke the minority community members. Several French brand names were printed on the banner which read that the country had incurred losses worth Rs 2,800 crore within a day of boycott by Muslims. Posters of the Frech president were also pasted on the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-arrested-for-anti-france-posters-in-old-city/articleshow/79178680.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kozhikode||Questioning of MLA continues on second day||KOZHIKODE: Enforcement Directorate’s interrogation of IUML state secretary KM Shaji, MLA, continued for the second consecutive day on Wednesday. The MLA from Azhikode was asked to reappear before the agency after a 14-hour marathon questioning on Tuesday. ED is investigating the case related to an allegation that the MLA had received Rs 25 lakh as bribe for sanctioning more Plus One seats at Azhikode Higher Secondary School. It is learnt that the agency is enquiring about the source of his funds during the assembly elections. Shaji was elected from a CPM stronghold defeating MV Nikesh Kumar, the son of the CMP leader MV Raghavan. The interrogation that began on Tuesday morning had ended at 11.45pm. Shaji, who emerged from ED office, had told reporters that the process was ‘cordial’. He said he had furnished all documents related to his wealth as directed by ED in its notice. “I have been asked to reappear on Wednesday as the agency had more questions,” he said. When asked about the vigilance case against him, Shaji said ED probe and the vigilance investigation were different. “ED is a responsible agency and I have reacted to its questions in a responsible way,” he said. “Unlike politically motivated cases, ED has certain doubts and I am duty bound to clarify them. It is up to the agency to decide if they are satisfied with the clarification or not,” Shaji said. He said he is expecting more vigilance cases against him as part of a political vendetta. It is learnt that Shaji explained to ED the sources from which he marshalled money to build the house in Kozhikode. He reportedly told the agency that a portion of the amount was given from his wife’s family and the rest came from selling two cars. He said he had investment in a jewellery shop in Wayanad which was withdrawn after he became people’s representative. Statements of the IUML leaders KP Majeed and TT Ismail and Shaji’s wife Asha were recorded before interrogating Shaji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/questioning-of-mla-continues-on-second-day/articleshow/79178674.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Business||Tata Steel board to take call on Euro biz||Mumbai: Tata Steel’s board of directors will weigh strategic options for the company’s beleaguered European business at a meeting on Friday, said people in the know. The unit has run into rough weather due to diminished steel demand, oversupply in the European market and Tata Steel’s failed attempt to seal a JV deal with German conglomerate Thyssenkrupp. Tying up with a European peer is expected to help Tata Steel curtail losses at this unit. At present, the Indian steelmaker is in talks with Sweden’s SSAB, and if the deal materialises, it could take some weight off Tata Steel, which is facing a Rs 1.2-lakh-crore debt. Tata Steel has written down over 2-billion-pound losses on the European unit, which it acquired for 6.2 billion pounds in 2007. The business, formerly known as Corus and whose buyout was the largest overseas acquisition by an Indian company, has been more in the red than in black since the deal. Tata Steel’s search for a solution to this business comes amid the European market’s attempts to adjust and restructure after the Coronavirus outbreak worsened the demand-supply imbalances. Among the renewed activities, Liberty Steel, owned by Ludhiana-born, British businessman Sanjeev Gupta, has made an offer to acquire Thyssenkrupp’s steel business, which is Europe’s second biggest in terms of sales. In 2017, Thyssenkrupp had inked an agreement with Tata Steel to combine their European operations but the deal was blocked by the region’s anti-trust regulator last year on concerns that the joint venture would push prices up and reduce competition. At Tata Steel’s annual shareholder meeting this August, investors voiced their anger and concern over the future of the European unit, especially the UK plants which are making absolutely no money. The European unit posted an operational loss of Rs 626 crore in Q1FY21, following which Tata Steel expressed doubts over the British arm’s ability to carry on with the operations. Tata Steel chairman N Chandrasekaran had then informed harried shareholders that the company was striving to find a “sustainable and structural solution” for the European unit even as it continued to engage with European and UK governments for financial support. Despite its overseas struggle (Tata Steel is also looking to divest interests in its Southeast Asian business), the steelmaker has splurged Rs 75,000 crore in India to ramp up capacities through acquisitions and greenfield expansions. When Tata Steel acquired Corus, the European unit’s capacity was 20 million tons as against 6 million tons of its buyer. A decade and three years later, the capacity of the European business is less than 10 million tons while that of Tata Steel has gone up to over 17 million tons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tata-steel-board-to-take-call-on-euro-biz/articleshow/79181055.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: Coal handling will drop, MPT to look at other sectors, says Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday that coal handling at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) won’t be increased “at any cost”. He added that a plan would soon be chalked out to significantly reduce the quantity from the 14-15 million tonnes the port handled in 2017. Sawant also said the port would diversify into pharma export and the tourism sector. “Coal handling will surely not exceed 14-15 million tonnes, and will drop significantly below that,” Sawant said. “We will now see how we can put the port to other uses. Currently, pharma exports go from Goa to JNPT (Navi Mumbai), and from there, they are exported further. I spoke to Union ports and shipping minister (Mansukh) Mandaviya about getting those mother vessels to Goa. Discussions are also in progress on how MPT berths can be used for tourism.” Sawant, who was on a two-day visit to New Delhi this week, said that Mandaviya would visit Goa within a month. When here, he is likely to review MPT’s functioning and “come out with how much we will drop the coal handling”, the CM said. “There is scope to use MPT for handling of fertilisers, pharma products, pig iron, cast iron, and glass fibre, rather than coal,” Sawant said. “MPT has also prepared guidelines on how to use it (its berths) for tourism. The port is in the process of developing a state-of-the-art international and domestic cruise terminal, with allied facilities like Ro-Ro ferry services and a shopping arcade. This will add to the economic development of the state.” He also said that MPT has been asked to take up the tourism project at the earliest, by reducing coal cargo. “Many are trying to paint a picture as though I have brought in more coal after I took over as CM from March 2019,” Sawant said. “Coal handling has been done here since 1947. The maximum coal handled was 14 million tonnes in 2017. Current coal handling at MPT is 9-10 million tonnes. If iron ore handling resumes, coal handling will drop to 3-4 million tonne a year. Once there is a permanent solution to mining, there won’t even be space to handle coal.” He also said that claims that up to 130 million tonnes of coal will eventually be brought to Goa are false. “Mandaviya has promised that coal handling will not exceed 14 million tonnes,” he said. “The infrastructure coming up is for the state, and not for coal.” He also said his government has to “remove the misunderstanding” in the minds of the people. Meanwhile, reacting to BJP Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha, who hit out at him on Tuesday, Sawant said he has “explained the facts of the issue” to her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/coal-handling-will-drop-port-will-diversify-to-other-sectors-cm/articleshow/79180182.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kochi||Body exhumed after five years||ALAPPUZHA: A team led by Chengannur revenue divisional officer (RDO) G Ushakumari on Wednesday exhumed the body of a 34-year-old man, who died around five years ago, for conducting postmortem. The body of Mohammad Mustafa, a native of Thrikkunnapuzha, was exhumed after his wife and a relative complained of a mystery behind his death. His body was exhumed from the graveyard of Varavukadu Juma Masjid at 10am. RDO G Ushakumari said the body was exhumed based on a high court order to exhume the body and conduct the autopsy. “The postmortem was conducted by a team led by police surgeons. We will take further action based on the autopsy report,” said inspector of police Dileesh Kumar T. “His bones and soil were collected for chemical examination and hair and teeth were also collected for DNA examination. Forensic team also collected evidence. The examinations were completed by 12.30pm and parts of the body were again buried,” the police said. It was on November 15, 2015, Mustafa died and then family members told people that he died of cardiac arrest. Following it, his body was buried without conducting legal and medical examinations. But his wife and one of his relatives later told police that there was a mystery surrounding his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/body-exhumed-after-five-years/articleshow/79178693.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Shift marina from Nauxi, people don’t want it: Michael Lobo||PANAJI: Supporting the ongoing agitation against the Rs 350 crore marina at Nauxi, Curca, ports minister Michael Lobo said that a committee can be formed to identify an alternate location for the project. Lobo along with St Andre MLA Francis Silveira met CM Pramod Sawant and asked him to hear out the locals who have opposed the marina on the grounds that the project will destroy the livelihoods of the fishermen. “A group with the local MLA and ministers and officers of the government can be formed to find an alternate site,” said Lobo. Asked if he supports the idea of a marina coming up in Calangute constituency, Lobo said he has no problem. “We will welcome the marina in our constituency, if there is the right space and the panchayat agrees. Local body has to be taken into confidence, locals have to be taken into confidence and fishermen have to be taken into confidence. Then it can come anywhere,” Lobo said. An ideal location for a marina is a natural harbour protected from storms and rough seas, preferably not directly exposed to the sea. MPT has signed 30-year lease deeds on two properties on the Zuari riverfront. Around 1 lakh sqm at Nauxi-Curca has been leased out to Kargwal Construction Pvt Ltd and a similar area at Sancoale has been leased to Yacht Haven (Goa) Pvt Ltd of Umaji Chowgule. Locals and environmental activists are concerned that dredging of the river bed, construction activity for setting up the marinas and activities like refuelling and vessel repairs will irreparably affect the livelihoods of hundreds of traditional fishermen in the Zuari. Environmentalists said that pleasure craft tend to be carriers of invasive species in their ballast water. “I have told CM that we have to stand with the people. Projects that people want we must bring in and those projects that they don’t want we must oppose. I am with the people of Nauxi,” Lobo said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shift-marina-from-nauxi-people-dont-want-it-lobo/articleshow/79180212.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Unsegregated waste: Margao shop owner told to pay fine||Margao: Hardening its stance against those failing to provide segregated waste to door-to-door garbage collection workers, chief officer of Margao Municipal Council Agnelo Fernandes on Wednesday issued a notice to a shop owner at Aquem for paying a fine for dumping large quantity of unsegregated waste outside his shop. After he was informed by garbage collection workers about the incident, Fernandes directed them not to lift the waste until the shopowner paid the fine. Fernandes urged people to give only segregated waste as “otherwise it defeats the very purpose of door-to-door garbage collection.” Stating that efforts will be made to rid the city of plastic waste, Fernandes has also urged shopkeepers not to provide plastic carry bags below 50 microns to their customers and to instead use cloth bags, non-plastic items and containers for packaging, gifts, parcels etc. “These plastic items litter the streets, block the drains and when burnt release toxic chemicals and contaminate the air,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unsegregated-waste-margao-shop-owner-told-to-pay-fine/articleshow/79180213.cms||---
November 12, 2020||India||‘Man who set master’s house on fire’||PATNA: Party workers like to recount how LJP founder Ram Vilas Paswan’s decision to join NDA ahead of the 2014 Lok Sabha polls was influenced by son Chirag, who had just joined politics after an unsuccessful stint in Bollywood. The account may suffer a degree of exaggeration as the senior Paswan would likely have done the math before allying with a Modi-led BJP. But the tale lingered and when Chirag began charting his own course ahead of the Bihar polls, his decision was seen as a bold move blessed by his father in tweets posted when he was in hospital. Chirag succeeded in demonstrating that he could cut into NDA’s vote, but failed to emerge the pivot he hoped to. The 6% vote share has translated into just one seat. With neither side needing him, Chirag must hope to remain in NDA to be on the right side of the power equation. From acting to politics, followed by the expected rise as LJP boss in 2019, the 37-year-old had a relatively smooth journey till his life was rocked by the death of his father on October 8, weeks before the polls. When his film career ended after his debut movie ‘Mile Naa Mile Hum’, he could lean on his father to step into politics. But now, Chirag finds himself at the threshold of a long political career with fresh pitfalls. His uncle Pashupati Paras has reportedly not been happy about LJP’s anti-Nitish Kumar stance, a tension that will sharpen if the JD(U) leader does become CM again. Though Ram Vilas’s relationship with Nitish had not been cordial since the February 2005 assembly election, it will be a matter of conjecture what his final call may have been ahead of the Bihar polls. Chirag has repeatedly said he was not against PM Narendra Modi and would remain loyal and faithful. BJP has not been amused with his antics though his image as Dalit leader Paswan’s successor provides a political utility. Paras, LJP MP from Hajipur, said, “It was part of a well-crafted strategy to fight the election on our own.” He, however, admitted that candidates were fielded on seats mostly being contested by JD(U). But in trying to unseat Nitish to settle a personal score, the LJP chief had also risked NDA’s poll prospects in the state. “In the process, he has virtually set his master’s house on fire,” said a senior BJP functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/man-who-set-masters-house-on-fire/articleshow/79181894.cms||Ramashankar
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Almost 1,000 schools to reopen in dist, many more to follow||Nagpur: Almost a thousand schools are set to reopen from November 23 in Nagpur district, according to the local education department. District education officer Chintaman Vanjari claimed that around 900-odd schools under zilla parishad, private aided and unaided category will reopen after Diwali vacations. Apart from this, a state level association told TOI that almost 4,000 of their member-schools in various districts have decided to restart physically after Diwali vacations. Vanjari said, “All government guidelines about safety will be complied with. Within a few days, my office will be issuing orders to all schools in the district regarding the same.” When asked about aided schools’ stand for funds to cover sanitization expenses, Vanjari said, “All issues will be sorted out.” Dipendra Lokhande, education officer (Chandrapur district), said “In our district, there are around 20 ZP schools with Std IX and above. We will reopen them after consulting with parents.” Dharmanand Meshram, block education officer in Gadhchiroli district, said, “We will be reopening all our schools which have Std IX and above. My teachers have already started preparing lesson plans and timetable for the same.” Tribal schools have a major presence in Nagpur region and they too have got the green signal from the government. Sandip Rathod, who is currently waiting to handover charge as additional tribal commissioner (Nagpur) to his successor, said, “We have over 200 ashramshalas run either directly by the government or through aided private institutions under Nagpur region. Once the reopening order comes from the tribal department, we will act on it.” Kendriya Vidyalayas (KVs) too have got the nod to reopen from their apex decision making body, KV Sanghatan (KVS). In a letter issued on Wednesday, KVS deputy commissioner NR Murali said all the KVs in Maharashtra must ensure strict compliance with safety guidelines. Almost 4,000 schools across the state under Independent English Schools Association (IESA) banner will reopen in the last week of November. Its president Rajendra Dayma, said “We have discussed it internally and across districts our members will reopen their schools We will start communication with parents through WhatsApp groups and SMS about our plans and they can decide whether or not to send their wards.” He added that initial fears will ultimately give way to ‘reasoning’. Dayma said, “I am sure for the first two weeks parents will be reluctant. But once they are convinced about the safety precautions being taken and also get feedback from other students, they will change their mind. We expect almost all students to come back by December end.” Sachin Kalbande, president of RTE Foundation, a Nagpur-based association of budget schools which is keen to reopen schools, said, “We want to reopen but need some specific guidelines from the local department. This relates to legal liability arising out of a student or teacher getting infected and also about class strength to be called back. In the meantime, we will start informing parents about our decision to reopen.” City’s private CBSE schools have, however, decided to adopt a wait-and-watch policy. Director of a multi-branch CBSE school said, “We have not taken a decision because government’s GR was issued on Tuesday. Also, Diwali vacations are going on, so I think it will be only later in the month that we can start formulating a plan.” City school to lodge plaint over fake reopening message A well-known CBSE school in the city said it will approach police following a fake social media message about its reopening started making rounds. The WhatsApp message contained a link in which the reader was asked to click for more details. Upon clicking the link, a message popped up declaring the entire thing to be a prank. As the message kept on circulating, the school decided to step in as many parents could potentially consider it to be true if they did not click on the link. The school has also sent a message to thousands of its parents confirming that no reopening date has been fixed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/almost-1000-schools-to-reopen-in-dist-many-more-to-follow/articleshow/79178707.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Sathankulam case: Nine accused cops produced before Madurai CJM||Madurai: The CBI on Wednesday produced the nine suspended accused cops who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks, before the Madurai chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court for committal proceedings.All the nine policemen - inspector Sridhar, SIs Balakrishnan, Raghu Ganesh, head constables S Murugan, A Samadurai, constables M Muthuraja, S Chelladurai, X Thomas Francis and S Vailmuthu who were lodged at the Madurai Central Prison, were produced before the Madurai CJM T P Vadivelu.After they were produced, huge bundles of the copies of the final report were served to all the accused. The case was adjourned to December 12 for further hearing. Subsequently, the policemen were lodged back at the Madurai prison.Since special sub-inspector Paldurai who was arrested in the case died on account of Covid-19, CBI had filed a final report against nine accused cops before the CJM court on September 25.The decision comes after a special bench of the Madras high court held that the Madurai CJM would commit the case to Madurai principal district court for trial. The court also said that after committal the court can proceed in accordance with law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sathankulam-case-nine-accused-cops-produced-before-madurai-cjm/articleshow/79180245.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 12, 2020||Goa||CCP resolves to set up plant at Bainguinim||PANAJI: Amid attempts to derail the setting up of a solid waste management facility at Bainguinim, the Corporation of the City of Panaji on Wednesday took a resolution that the plant would come up in the same place. The land was acquired in 2008 to set up the plant. This was handed over to Goa Waste Management Corporation in 2017. After a public hearing, environment clearance was obtained for the long-pending plant. Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik recently asked the government to do a rethink on the location of the facility stating that the place was wrong. Old Goa residents called on him and the chief minister opposing the plant and stating that it is coming up in the vicinity of heritage sites. To this mayor Uday Madkaikar said the state capital receives a floating population which is double its resident population and is struggling to handle waste with no plant of its own. He appealed to Naik not to bring in obstacles when the project has reached the final stages. At the corporation meeting it was also resolved to give house tax numbers for the purpose of garbage collection only to those houses with no house numbers. “There are many houses where the corporation is collecting garbage but from whom no fees are received. These house tax numbers will be only be for the purpose of garbage collection. The residents will not be able to claim any legality for it,” he said. The issue was raised by corporator Pundalik Naik. The corporation stated that implementation of the plastic ban was slow in the city and would be stepped up with the aim of achieving a plastic free city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-resolves-to-set-up-plant-at-bainguinim/articleshow/79180240.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Alert RPF cop saves man’s life on station||VADODARA: An alert Railway Protection Force (RPF) constable saved a man who had slipped and got trapped between the platform and train at the Dahod railway station late on Tuesday night. The constable Babu Rathod was on duty at the railway station on Tuesday night. He saw that a 50-year-old passenger who was about to board the train slipped into the space between the platform and the Bandra-Amritsar special train. The man would have slipped further and his life would have been in danger if he had fell on the tracks or hit some part of the coach of the moving train. But Rathod caught the man and ran with the train to ensure that he did not slip further. The guard of the train too heard the commotion and stopped the train. The constable pulled out the man safely and made him board the train. The passenger was unhurt and travelled to Ratlam in the same train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/alert-rpf-cop-saves-mans-life-on-station/articleshow/79178759.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF candidate at Karode Girija died after a tree fell on her||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A candidate who was on campaigning for upcoming local body polls died after a tree fell over her in Thiruvananthapuram on Wednesday. Girijakumari, 37, of Uchakkada near Karode is the deceased. The mishap occurred when she was doing door-to-door visits with her husband, Binu. She was the UDF candidate in Puthiya Uchakkada ward under Karode grama panchayat. She was also the Kudumbashree Community Development Society (CDS) chairperson in the panchayat. Pozhiyoor police officials said Girijakumari and Binu had been visiting residences in the ward from morning onwards on their motorcycle. The mishap occurred around 11.30am while they were in a narrow byroad at Pulluvatti. Some workers were engaged in chopping down a tree which stood on a nearby private property. Though the workers had tethered the tree with a rope to prevent it from falling to the road, the tree fell towards the road, despite their best efforts. The trunk of the tree fell over Girijakumari, inflicting serious injuries on her head. Binu escaped unhurt. Though she was taken to a hospital nearby, the doctors declared her dead on arrival. Besides husband, Girijakumari leaves behind two daughters. Girijakumari’s body has been shifted to the morgue. A Covid-screening test and postmortem will be conducted on Thursday following which the body will be handed over to the family for funeral.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udf-candidate-at-karode-girija-died-after-a-tree-fell-on-her/articleshow/79178704.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Ahead of Diwali, products made from cow dung recording good sale||DEHRADUN: In the run-up to Diwali, several city residents are buying local products — including diyas (earthen lamps), Swastik cups, incense sticks, idols of Goddess and Lord Ganesh, among others — that have been made using cow dung. These products not only support local craftsmen but are also eco-friendly and devoid of any harmful colours. A city-based couple, Ashu Arora and his wife Milli Kaur, who are involved in the making of these products, came up with the idea of using cow dung as a base for decorative products, during the coronavirus-induced lockdown, picking up the knowledge on how make these products from YouTube videos. “We started making these diyas in May. At present, the entire work is being carried out by women and girls from weak financial backgrounds. Our team makes around 1,000-to-10,000 diyas a day. So far, we have made one lakh diyas and several other products. We are selling these diyas at a very minimal price starting from Rs 3 onwards,” said Arora. He added that they had received a good response as “people are increasingly boycotting Chinese goods this time.” Aafiya, a class eighth student, working on the initiative, said that it has helped her earn extra money. “It will help me be self-sufficient in future,” she added. Another social organisation Rashtriya Kamdhenu Aayog (RKA) has also been encouraging the making and sale of products made from cow dung in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ahead-of-diwali-products-made-from-cow-dung-recording-good-sale/articleshow/79176581.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
November 12, 2020||Goa||Goa: NDA ally GFP calls for non-BJP grouping, Congress rebuffs it||PANAJI: Goa Forward Party, a member of the NDA, urged Congress on Wednesday to learn from the Bihar assembly elections and consider a pre-poll alliance against BJP for the 2022 assembly elections in Goa, a move that Congress rejected outright due to a “trust deficit” between the two parties. GFP president Vijai Sardesai, who was a deputy chief minister in the BJP government before he was dropped from the cabinet by chief minister Pramod Sawant over a year ago, suggested Congress remains a vital player for the coming assembly elections in the coastal state. Sardesai said like-minded parties, such as Congress, should sit across the table and decide seat-sharing agreements based on “proportionate strength in each assembly constituency”. He attributed RJD’s failure to form the government in Bihar to Congress’s insistence on contesting 70 constituencies instead of 50 seats. “What has happened in Bihar, is a lesson for all of us in Goa. I am not saying that Congress is irrelevant, but Congress has to be realistic,” Sardesai said. Though GFP remains a part of the NDA, the regional party has led a vocal and bitter campaign in Goa against the BJP government. Rebuffing GFP’s calls for an alliance for the 2022 state assembly elections, Congress on Wednesday said that the regional party’s ties with the NDA and its track record in the 2017 state elections create a trust deficit that has yet to be bridged. State Congress president Girish Chodankar said that it would be “absurd” for Congress to enter into a pre-poll alliance with GFP, which was part of the BJP government in Goa from 2017 to 2019. “How can Congress make an alliance with BJP Parivar and NDA partners,” said Chodankar. “It is absurd. There is a trust deficit… why is he (Sardesai) not coming out, is Goa Forward afraid that they will land in jail. Let’s assume that we make an alliance and then in the next elections if BJP needs four or five MLAs, then GFP may go again after being blackmailed,” said Chodankar In the 2017 assembly polls, despite emerging as the single largest party, Congress failed to form the government. The rebellion by 13 Congress MLAs, who joined BJP was a further blow for the party and Chodankar said that for now the party’s sole focus is to earn back people’s trust. GFP which won three seats on anti-BJP plank joined the Manohar Parrikar -led government in 2017. “Right now, our challenge is to win people back and we need to prove that we have changed. We are trying to win back the trust of the people,” said Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nda-ally-gfp-calls-for-non-bjp-grouping-cong-rebuffs-it/articleshow/79180233.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Panaji: Mayor grilled over casino licences||PANAJI: The mayor of the Corporation of the City of Panaji was grilled by corporators over the flip-flop in decisions on renewal of trade licences for the offices of offshore casinos and the SOPs for Narkasur. Corporator Menino D’Cruz criticised the corporation for taking a stand and then changing it. He referred to the restriction in height for narkasur effigies. The corporation, he said, was not firm on its decisions, adding that it had stated it wouldn’t renew trade licences of offshore casino offices but has now decided to do so. Corporator Vaidehi Naik asked why corporators were told to sign declarations last year stating their wards were open defecation-free when toilets are yet to be built. She also questioned the city being proclaimed as garbage-free when there was waste around. Mayor Uday Madkaikar said that work on construction of toilets is under way. He was also grilled on the huge amount spent on hiring an earth mover to remove burnt garbage from the site behind Heera Petrol pump last year after a fire. Madkaikar said a decision on rehabilitation of food carts whose licences were suspended would be taken in December. Harlarnkar said it was not fair to suspend their licences and deprive them of their livelihood for so many months. Corporator Soraya Pinto Makhija said they should not be moved back into Don Bosco square because it was not a hawker’s zone. When she asked about abandoned vehicles, Madkaikar said they would be shifted to Bainguinim but gave no time assurance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mayor-grilled-over-casino-licences/articleshow/79180273.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Covid-positive persons can cast vote at booths in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Persons with Covid-19 and those in quarantine can cast votes at their respective booths for the upcoming local-body elections. The state cabinet on Wednesday cleared an amendment to the ordinance already promulgated to facilitate persons – who are unable to avail the postal-ballot facility -- to walk in and vote with necessary precautions during the last hour of the vote. The necessary amendment has been introduced to the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and Kerala Municipality Act. The existing rule prescribes 7am to 6pm as polling time. As per the new amendment, 5pm to 6pm will be scheduled for those in quarantine and who are Covid-19 positive. A previous revision to the legislation had ensured their access to postal ballots. However, as per state election commission guidelines they will have to provide an application before the returning officer to avail postal ballots. Furthermore, these ballots would have to be returned at least two days before polling day. However, it will be virtually impossible for those testing positive during this period to apply for postal ballots and return them within the prescribed time period. As a result they would have been denied the opportunity to cast votes. The state cabinet’s decision opens up an additional avenue for such persons to exercise their franchise. The cabinet has directed the health and local self-government departments to chart out an action plan to provide transportation facilities for these people to reach polling booths. Election officials will also be provided adequate safety equipment during this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/covid-positive-persons-can-cast-vote-at-booths/articleshow/79178721.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||CCP to exempt trade fees during lockdown||PANAJI: The corporation of the city of Panaji (CCP) at its first corporation meeting after the lockdown, in principle decided to exempt all commercial establishments from trade and licence fees for four months during the lockdown. “We have decided not to charge Panaji shopkeepers and hotels this fee for April, May, June and July. This exemption will be applicable to all commercial licences except casinos,” mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “We will take a final decision at the next corporation meeting. We have to calculate the number of shops and check who has paid. We cannot refund them the fees, but we will adjust the exemption amount in their fees for the next financial year,” Madkaikar said. CCP also passed a resolution to grant exemption to the pay parking contractor for 45 days during the lockdown period where vehicles were practically off the road. The corporation decided to refund around Rs 6 lakh for the 45-day period during the official lockdown after the contractor requested for a rebate. The corporation had signed a three-year pay parking agreement of Rs 1.6 crore in February after a long hiatus, but the lockdown soon came into force. To prevent the corporation from getting cheated like it did with a previous contractor, CCP received 36 post dated cheques of Rs 4.5 lakh (for each month) as well as a bank guarantee of Rs 96 lakh. The second phase of pay parking is underway, which when complete will ensure that 70% of the parking in the city is paid parking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-to-exempt-trade-fees-during-lockdown/articleshow/79180248.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Pune||Mother, premature twins survive acute Covid attack in Pune||PUNE: Doctors were puzzled when Pooja’s (name changed) second throat swab tested negative. She was pregnant with twins. And during admission, she was already hypoxic with severe pneumonia. A chest CT scan showed 60% lung involvement. Her doctors at Jehangir hospital wanted to administer remdesivir, but the negative test was holding them back. However, all changed when the husband finally disclosed she had had contact with her Covid-positive mother and grandmother. Pooja went on to deliver the twins on September 28, becoming Jehangir’s first case of extremely premature delivery by a Covid-infected mother. Incidentally, despite severe Covid symptoms, the children too tested negative. Doctors said the case has presented key learnings. “Severe Covid infection means the virus has reached the lower respiratory tract. So a swab from the nose and throat — parts of the upper respiratory tract — is likely to miss SARS-CoV-2 presence,” said Jehangir’s senior gynaecologist Vandana Khanijo. Pooja delivered a boy and a girl through a caesarean section at 28 weeks. Khanijo said the decision to quickly go ahead with the caesarean was made because Pooja also needed invasive ventilation. Her condition was complicated further by an enlarged uterus, which even in healthy pregnant women, can put stress on the lungs during delivery, doctors said. The twins were born weighing 1.13 kg and 940 grams. Both were quickly put on ventilator support and administered surfactant, a drug to mature their lungs. But the girl was hit hard. She had Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, acute renal failure, high inflammatory markers, a heart anomaly and pulmonary edema. She also showed signs of Covid-induced organ dysfunction with evidence of the cytokine storm (an abnormal immune response seen in Covid patients), despite testing negative. “But she was off ventilator within five days and is now on minimum oxygen. She will be able to breathe on her own in a couple of days,” said Jehangir’s neonatologist and pediatric intensivist Sagar Lad. The boy, meanwhile, needed a ventilator for three days. He was finally discharged on November 6. Doctors said the twins had won against huge odds. “We have had babies born as early as 25 weeks. But this case was challenging as there was Covid involved,” said neonatologist Anshu Sethi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mother-premature-twins-survive-acute-covid-attack/articleshow/79180254.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Unicef, edu ministry to inculcate ‘Corona Responsive Behaviour’ in school kids||Nagpur: Just as ‘washing hands’ is now second nature to majority of children due to Covid-19 pandemic, the ministry of education (MOE) wants to mainstream similar ideas to help after school reopening. In partnership with Unicef, MOE has released a series of informational, educational and communication (IEC) materials to develop Corona Responsive Behaviour (CRB). In a letter to state education secretaries, MOE officials said developing CRB among schoolchildren is crucial to keep them safe. LS Changsan, joint secretary (Institutions), wrote, “Till now, non-opening of schools has kept children safe. However, opening of schools, which is inevitable, if not carefully nurtured in terms of a new code of conduct and rigorous protocol, could reverse all gains that the government’s calibrated handling of Covid-19 has so far yielded.” For this, IEC in the form of posters, wall paintings, animation film for gram panchayats and social media creatives are being provided to all states. Changsan’s letter to education secretaries went on to say, “I would like to request you to disseminate the IEC materials among teachers, staff and students and also make arrangements for proper display of the posters and paintings in schools.” The messages in IEC material focus on telling children that in Covid-19 times they must not share food, water etc with their peers. Also, schoolchildren are being urged to resort to ‘namaste’ while greeting friends as an added precaution. In Maharashtra, schools and junior colleges have been given permission to reopen after November 23. This will however apply only to Std IX-XII and children can attend school only after parents’ written consent. Though online classes will continue, those attending offline will have to take extra precautions. SOPs for school reopening had been issued a few months ago by the state, and it seems that not much will change in that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/unicef-edu-ministry-to-inculcate-corona-responsive-behaviour-in-school-kids/articleshow/79178763.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||PWD scraps Rs40cr tenders as winter session shifted||Nagpur: Division number 1 of Public Works Department (PWD) has scrapped all tenders related to works for winter session of state legislature as it has been shifted to Mumbai from Nagpur. The total cost of these tenders was above Rs40 crore. Executive engineer Janardhan Bhanuse told TOI that though tenders were floated, not a single work order was issued. “On learning about chances of the session getting shifted, I immediately decided to withhold the issuing of work orders till Diwali. We have not incurred an expenditure of a single penny for the session,” he said. Several tenders were bagged by contractors by quoting 40% to 50% below the estimate. PWD officials were surprised over such low quotations which caused apprehensions about quality of work. The works that were bagged at very low rates included repair and colouring of Raj Bhavan, maintenance work of Raj Bhavan, repair and maintenance of Sarpanch Bhavan, repair and maintenance of Darbar Hall, police commissioner office, Raj Bhavan servant quarters and repair of Raj Bhavan sewer line etc. Meanwhile, Nagpur West MLA Vikas Thakre has written to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray thanking him for shifting the winter session to Mumbai, “thus saving Rs50 crore that were slated to be spent in Nagpur”. He has urged the CM to allocate this amount for battling Covid-19 in Vidarbha. Thakre said that this amount should now be spent on infrastructure upgrade of government hospitals in Vidarbha. “Indian Council of Medical Research has expressed the possibility of second wave of Covid-19 in Vidarbha. Hence, there is an urgent need for the medical infrastructure to be upgraded. Due to Diwali there is chance of the disease spreading among large number of people,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pwd-scraps-rs40cr-tenders-as-winter-session-shifted/articleshow/79178726.cms||Ashish Roy
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Remove vulgar movie teaser from social media: HC||Madurai: Teasers with obscenity and vulgarity would not only corrupt the younger minds but also result in increase in offences against women and children, the Madras high court has said while directing the central and state governments to remove the teaser of the movie “Irandam Kuththu” from social media. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigations seeking to restrain the release of the movie as the teaser and its posters are obscene in nature. The petitioners stated that the movie was said to be the sequel of the movie “Iruttu Arayil Murattu Kuththu” which was released in 2018. The dialogues in the movie had affected the modesty of women. A division bench of justice N Kirubakaran and justice B Pugalendhi observed that the movie propagates vulgarity and obscenity without any morality. “We cannot forget the fact that there is a steep increase in the offences against women and children. If these vulgar contents are available in social media, then it will definitely spoil the younger minds,” observed the judges. Though the petitioners had sought to restrain the release of the movie, the judges observed that this court could not act as a super censor board. They said the assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri appearing for the central government had brought to the notice of the court that the censor board had certified the movie as ‘A’ rated by making 32 cuts. The judges observed that no one except the members of the censor board had viewed the movie and the court could not take a decision on restraining the release without viewing it. The judges observed that after reading the dialogues in the teaser, the court is prima facie of the opinion that they are obscene and vulgar in nature as per provisions of the Cinematograph Act, 1952. The judges observed that the trailer can have the censored portion of the movie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/remove-vulgar-movie-teaser-from-social-media-hc/articleshow/79180272.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 12, 2020||Nagpur||Sitabuldi main road declared no vehicle zone from 4pm-10pm||Nagpur: With a view to de-congest Sitabuldi, deputy commissioner of police traffic Sarang Awad has marked Sitabuldi main road as ‘no parking and no vehicle zone’ from 4pm to 10pm daily. The move was initiated to de-congest the city’s most favourite shopping destination in view of the coronavirus scare. However, shopkeepers criticized the decision and pointed out that instead of taking action against illegal hawkers, the enforcement agency has made the Sitabuldi traders scapegoat. The action seems to have been taken after a picture of Sitabuldi main road went viral on Sunday on social media and newspapers. Though traffic police implemented the decision and started diverting vehicles coming towards Sitabuldi main road including Variety Square, it failed to identify parking space for shoppers in the small lanes interconnecting the main road. Awad’s notification stated that Diwali festival will be celebrated on November 14 and being a commercial hub of Central India, shoppers from the city as well as neighbouring towns visit the city especially the Sitabuldi market. This leads to a huge rush of both shoppers and vehicles in the area and causes chaos during the festive period. Empowering relevant sections of the motor vehicle act, the DCP restricted both movement and parking of vehicles on this stretch — Sitabuldi main road including Hanuman Gali to Variety Square, Modi number one, two and three. Diversion for vehicles using this stretch have been made to Jhansi Rani Square to Panchsheel Square to Mehadiya Square (Dhantoli) or Rahate Colony road, Jhansi Rani Square to Variety Square to Morris College T-point and Manas Square road. This notification will be imposed from November 9 to 18 from 4pm to 10pm, stated the notification. The traffic police have appealed shoppers to park their vehicles in parking places available near Yeshwant Stadium, Netaji Market, Soni Galli, NIT Plaza or at private parking lots available at many places in Sitabuldi area. The notification received severe criticism from the Sitabuldi traders. “As hawkers go unpunished, they are occupying more area and eating up parking space,” said office-bearers of Sitabuldi Merchant Association. Instead of taking action against hawkers and shifting them elsewhere, the authorities are making the shopkeepers a scapegoat, said Parag Thakkar, a shopkeeper. Diwali is a festival time and many people are stepping out after almost 8 months to shop, said the office-bearers. Due to less parking space, customers face inconvenience and shopkeepers are losing their clients. People looking to enter the main road are diverted to other roads. In the absence of parking alternatives, how can shoppers be disallowed on this road, asked some shopkeepers. Due to the pandemic, shopkeepers have suffered the most for the last 8 months and now when they were expecting better times this action has caused them huge losses. Every shopkeeper invests a lot before the season in anticipation of good business. We urge the authorities to revoke the order. The shopkeepers who follow Covid guidelines are suffering and hawkers who don’t follow them are doing business freely, the shopkeepers said. During festivals the authorities should allow hawkers to do business from 7am to 12 noon only so that both parties can do business. Due to the current barricading and loss of business, shopkeepers are feeling harassed. “We have always cooperated with the authorities and we hope they understand our issues and revoke the ban on vehicular entry on the main road,” said Thakkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sitabuldi-main-road-declared-no-vehicle-zone-from-4pm-10pm/articleshow/79178784.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 12, 2020||Pune||PMC shuts 4 more care hubs after decrease in infections||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recently shut four Covid Care Centres and isolation facilities following a drop in the number of cases.The four facilities include two of the bigger centres that were operational at the Balewadi sports complex and at the Vimannagar SRA project.Both facilities collectively had over 4,000 beds and were functional for over the last four months. The facilities collectively treated over 14,000 patients. However, since last month, there was a drop in new admissions at both facilities, which prompted the civic administration to close down operations. The other two centres from Sinhagad Road and Kondhwa were closed in the last few days. Both centres were set up on campuses of educational institutes. Officials from the civic administration said the facilities were closed in a phased manner in the last few days. However, provisions were in place to restart them in case of increase in Covid-19 cases. The employees deployed at these centres have now been told to rejoin their respective departments. A PMC official said, The PMC has shut around 15 Covid Care Centres in the last one-and-a-half month because of drop in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-shuts-4-more-care-hubs-after-decrease-in-infections/articleshow/79180311.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||CS issues order on clearing files||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With the model code of conduct coming into effect, the state chief secretary (CS) has issued a directive on the protocol to be followed for disposing of files during the local-body election period. Instead of sending all files to the state election commission, for its concurrence, department secretaries have been asked to scrutinize all files and transfer only such files that need immediate disposal or that which do not come under the code’s purview. A screening committee, headed by the CS, has been formed to finalize files to be sent to the poll panel. The committee also comprises additional chief secretary (finance) and principal secretary (general administration). Department secretaries will first examine files. After identifying matters of governance or policies that need immediate redressal, but do not come under the code, they must send related files to the screening committee. If secretaries find special cases, which would require relaxation of the poll code, such files can also be forwarded to the committee, citing reasons. Meanwhile, the general administration department has imposed restrictions in allotting rooms in government guest houses in the wake of the code. All those holding cabinet rank, MLAs, MPs, former MPs and MLAs, representatives of local bodies, chairpersons of boards and corporations, and all those holding public offices other than government servants will have to bear the entire amount of the room rent while staying at government guest houses and other government facilities. Rooms can only be provided for 48 hours. Political leaders with ‘Z’ category security cover should also be provided rooms at government facilities. No government facilities or spaces should be utilized for any kind of election campaigning, meetings or media conferences. Government vehicles should not be provided for any purpose other than government duty. Those on election duty should be given priority when providing rooms in government facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cs-issues-order-on-clearing-files/articleshow/79178775.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Kochi||Kerala HC slams panel, but refuses to interfere in quota||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Wednesday dismissed a total of 87 petitions which alleged that wards or divisions were included in the list of reserved constituencies for the third successive time. Justice P B Suresh Kumar dismissed the petitions, regarding 87 constituencies in the upcoming local-body polls, which sought benefit of a recent judgment which held that reserving a seat beyond two elections is against the scheme of the Constitution, under Articles 243D and 243T, and against provisions of Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and Kerala Municipality Act. The court declined to extend the benefit of the earlier judgment to petitioners as doing so would result in interrupting or delaying the elections that are scheduled to begin from December 8. Nominations of candidates are to be submitted from November 12 onwards and there is no time for the court to complete adjudication, it said, while citing Supreme Court decisions that barred courts from interfering if it would result in interrupt, obstruct, or protract the election in any manner. However, the court said the state election commission should have implemented the court’s earlier judgment in all cases applicable, instead of forcing candidates and others to approach the HC. “In a case of this nature, it was expected would have been prudent for the election commission to give effect to the judgment, wherever allocations were made otherwise than in accordance with the judgment. Instead, it is seen that even when similar writ petitions were pending before this court, the Election Commission chose to announce the election which is already delayed, and started opposing similar writ petitions on technical grounds,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-slams-panel-but-refuses-to-interfere-in-quota/articleshow/79178801.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||‘PWD contract staff to be paid before Diwali’||Bicholim: Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh, a workers’ union, said that chief minister Pramod Sawant has assured that the pending salaries of PWD contract workers from Bicholim, including the meter readers, would be paid before Diwali. The PWD contract workers in Bicholim and Sakhali, have not been paid their salaries since the last five months. Despite the workers repeatedly pointing out to their deteriorating financial condition and demanding that their salaries be paid, no action had been initiated by the government. The contract workers then met chief of Bhartiya Mazdoor Sangh Goa Pradesh Krishna Pal and highlighted their woes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pwd-contract-staff-to-be-paid-before-diwali/articleshow/79180317.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Pune||At 533, day’s tally rises to five-day high in PMR||PUNE: As many as 817 patients recovered in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday as compared to 533 new cases — the highest single-day tally in the last five days. Besides, 16 more patients succumbed to coronavirus-related complications in the region in the last 24 hours, taking its toll to 8,122. The PMC limits continued to report more recoveries than new cases even on Wednesday. The PCMC areas, however, recorded less recoveries (105) as against new infections (125). In the rural areas, 332 patients were discharged as against addition of 191 patients. Among the deceased, as many as eight succumbed to Covid-19 in the PMC limits, six in the rural areas and two in the PCMC limits. Of the total deaths in PMR, about 55% have been recorded in the PMC limits, while 25% in the rural and cantonment areas and 20% in the PCMC limits. PMR’s active caseload on Wednesday dropped further to 9,715, including 4,096 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals and 5,619 in home isolation. The PMC had 4,300 patients in home quarantine on Wednesday, which was the highest in the region, followed by the PCMC limits (730) and the rural areas (569). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that about 6,573 samples were tested in the region on Wednesday, pushing total testing to 14.86 lakh. The PMC conducted 2,676 tests, while the rural areas and the PCMC limits reported 2,152 and 1,745 tests, respectively, in the last 24 hours. When it comes to total tests, the PMC limits top other areas in PMR with 7.61 lakh tests, followed by 4.24 tests in the PCMC limits. The region’s total recoveries reached 3.11 lakh on Wednesday, while positive caseload soared past 3.29 lakh. Health experts have warned people against letting their guard down in the festive season and abide by the social distancing norms when stepping out to shop. “People should also ensure that they wear mask when going out,” a health worker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-533-days-tally-rises-to-five-day-high-in-pmr/articleshow/79180284.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 12, 2020||Goa||Government should stand with people opposing projects: Michael Lobo||PANAJI: The state government should stand by locals who are opposing the mega infrastructure projects that are coming up in environmentally sensitive locations, said ports minister Michael Lobo on Wednesday. Lobo, who met chief minister Pramod Sawant, said that the state government should take decisions in the interest of Goa and its people. “We are come to power in the larger interest of the people. The 10 congress MLAs who have joined the government have come to get their work done and so that people can be happy,” said Lobo. The minister said that Sawant will will take an appropriate decision on the coal issue and the other concerns raised by locals at an appropriate time. “The decision will be in the interest of Goa. Coal can be unloaded at Mangalore and taken. There is disturbance for the locals because of the pollution so coal should not be unloaded here,” said Lobo. The ports minister blamed the opposition for trying to gain political mileage through the ongoing agitations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lobo-govt-should-stand-with-people-opposing-projects/articleshow/79180293.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Spl teams ensured no Covid +ve cop lost life: DGP||Saligao: Not a single police officer who has tested positive for Covid-19 has lost his life, DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena said on Wednesday at Mapusa. He said this is because teams under SPs were put in place to monitor health of such personnel. Meena also interacted with associations of jewellers in Mapusa over security issues. Meena was visiting Mapusa police station on Wednesday. Also present were police inspector of Mapusa police station Tushar Lotlikar and others. Speaking further Meena said police had done a commendable job during the pandemic and have proven to be successful warriors in line with the medical health professionals. The DGP also interacted with the Mapusa Merchants Association and the Jewellers Association. During the interaction, merchants demanded an increase in police patrolling and also the installation of CCTV cameras in the market. The DGP said that the police had done a commendable job during the pandemic and have proven to be successful warriors in line with the medical health professionals against Covid-19||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spl-teams-ensured-no-covid-ve-cop-lost-life-dgp/articleshow/79180331.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Madurai||HC hopes govt would take a good decision on schools||Madurai: The government on Wednesday informed the Madras high court that most parents have expressed their opinion that they are against the reopening of schools and colleges in the state.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi orally observed: “Since schools and colleges were reopened in several states, many students and teachers are infected with Covid-19. The second wave of Covid-19 spread is seen in many countries. Since several people are infected with Covid-19, it would cause difficulties if the children get infected. The state government would take a good decision in this regard.”The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by L Ramprasath, a resident of Theni district who challenged the press release issued by the government and sought not to reopen schools, colleges and educational institutions till the lockdown is completely lifted. He stated that since it would be difficult for maintaining norms such as social distancing, reopening of educational institutions would result in the spread of Covid-19.The special government pleader informed that in order to take a decision with regard to reopening of schools, meetings were organised across the state in order to get the opinion of the parents in this regard. She further informed that most parents were against the reopening.The case was adjourned to November 20 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-hopes-govt-would-take-a-good-decision-on-schools/articleshow/79180323.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Pune||Maharashtra govt waits for Centre’s ‘Covin’ app to log details of priority vaccine receivers||PUNE: State authorities are waiting for a mobile app called ‘Covin’ — to be released by the Centre — into which they are to feed details of frontline beneficiaries of the Covid-19 vaccine. State officials said districts will have to start uploading data on health workers from both private and public hospitals in their jurisdiction once the app is made available next week. Each healthcare worker will be tracked for vaccine dose, repeat dose and vaccine schedule through the app. The state has distributed an Excel-based template to medical facilities. Distribution and monitoring of vaccine stocks and storage will take place through the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN). Dr Archana Patil, director of health services, said 92% of the data-collection work has been completed in the government sector. In the private sector, about 60% of the work is currently over. “We should be finishing up with the government sector data within the week. And the private sector work should be over by the month’s end,” Patil said. Currently, the state health department does not have collated data from each district on the total number of beneficiaries. “But we will get a clearer picture of the number of beneficiaries we have proposed once all the data has been entered into the Covin app,” a state health department official said. The Centre has also reviewed the state’s cold storage facilities for the vaccines. Maharashtra is set to get six walk-in coolers, two walk-in freezers, 150 ice-lined refrigerators and 100 deep freezers from the Centre. “The ice-lined refrigerators are expected next week while the rest are expected in December,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/govt-waits-for-centres-covin-app-to-log-details-of-priority-vaccine-receivers/articleshow/79180347.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 12, 2020||Pune||Rush increases at GPO to send faral, other goodies to kin living abroad||PUNE: Travelling overseas for Diwali during the pandemic could be unsafe, tedious and expensive but for some NRI’s hampers filled with festive goodies are en route. People have been queuing up outside the General Post Office (GPO) in Camp with packets of faral in hand to parcel off to their loved ones living abroad. Gautam Bansode, a parent waiting in line, said, “My son is studying in Germany and we are sending him faral made at home. He is looking forward to the chakli and ladoos made by his mother that are his favourite. We are sending him some extra so he can share with his friends and celebrate. This is his first Diwali away from the family and it has been even more stressful due to the pandemic.” Chinmay Patil, another customer at the GPO, said, “We have a lot of family abroad, who want faral and dry snacks during Diwali and we send it every year. My daughter is married and lives with her family in London. This year, we are sending faral to more people as they have requested, even some relatives in Russia. We do not make everything at home, some stuff like bhakarwadi was bought from popular city stores.” Assistant postmaster general RS Gaikwad shared that the most popular destinations for the couriers include US, UK, Germany and Canada. “There is a huge Indian population in Russia. Many children go there for higher education and their parents sending them parcels through our service. Diwali is peak time when people send faral parcels abroad and within India. This year, the number of customers sending Diwali faral parcels have increased by 25-30% as many have not been able to travel themselves,” he added. Pooja Dopariani, a first-time customer at the GPO, said, “I’m sending a parcel to Canada for my brother and sister-in-law. We have packed it in sealed plastic packets and we will have to submit it to the counter for packing. Though they charge extra for packing, it is safer and better to get it done here itself to avoid damage to the parcel.” Customers can send dry food items from 1kg to 20 kgs via the service. The pricing depends on the parcel weight and size as well as the distance of its destination. Kamlesh Baid, a regular customer, said, “The best thing about sending it via the GPO is that the charges are much cheaper than private courier services and you can track the package. I have used it to send clothes and documents but this is the first time I am sending edible items to my sister, cousins, and extended family in Frankfurt, Germany.” Maneka Sharma, who was sending festive snacks for her children, said, “My son is working and my daughter is doing her Masters in Alberta, Canada. My sisters also live there so I am sending lots of faral for all of them. There are many Indian shops there where you can get all these snacks but there’s something special about receiving a parcel from home with all your favourite stuff. It gives them that festive feeling and they look forward to it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rush-increases-at-gpo-to-send-faral-other-goodies-to-kin-living-abroad/articleshow/79180321.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bookies arrested for betting on IPL final||JAIPUR: The state’s Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) on Wednesday conducted raids at three locations in Jaipur and one in Suratgarh where half-a-dozen bookies, who were betting on final IPL, were arrested. Cash, laptops and mobiles were seized from the accused. Two locations at Karni Vihar here were raided and seven persons arrested. A total of Rs 8.5 lakh was seized from them along with three laptops and over 30 mobiles among other things. In Adarsh Nagar, one bookie was arrested and Rs 1.9 lakh seized along with six mobile phones and a laptop. In Sriganganagar’s Suratgarh, cops arrested one person who was betting on the final match. In all the cases, ATS had information about the suspected bookies and local police was informed about the same who arrested the bookies. Ten days ago, police had arrested six bookies who were betting on IPL matches. Cash amounting to Rs 74,000 and account diaries mentioning crores of rupees were recovered from them. Out of the six accused, four were from West Bengal, one from Jaipur and one from Haryana. Last month, six bookies were arrested in Sez police station area in a raid conducted by the Anti-Terrorism Squad. During the IPL season in UAE, Rajasthan police regularly arrested alleged bookies. In a major action against them last month, the ATS had simultaneously raided five locations in three states and arrested seven bookies from Cyberabad in Telangana while the remaining from Jaipur. Usually, the accused were involved in betting in a layered manner. They keep noting down all the calls for bets. Most of the bets are passed on to the person sitting at a higher level for which they get a commission. There are a few websites on which they keep monitoring the rates of bets. The settlement is done through hawala transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bookies-arrested-for-betting-on-ipl-fina/articleshow/79180352.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Vadodara||Gujarat electricity corporation gets new Managing Director||VADODARA: M Prasanna Kumar has taken over as Managing Director of Gujarat State Electricity Corporation Ltd (GSECL), a generation arm of state-owned Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd (GUVNL). Prior to joining GSCEL, he was heading vertical of NTPC (corporate fuel management) as executive director. He is gold medallist in Mechanical Engineering from Nagarjuna University and also an MBA in operations management, marketing management, financial management and human resources management. He is also a fellow of The Institute of Engineers (I) and has presented and published a number of technical and managerial papers in national and international conferences and journals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/state-electricity-corporation-gets-new-md/articleshow/79178797.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Pune||Woman’s leg fractures after bus hits her||Pune: A 46-year-old pedestrian suffered a fracture in her leg after a speeding private bus hit her at Vimannagar Chowk on Pune-Ahmednagar Road around 6.30am on Monday. Police said the victim, Jayashree Chavan from Wagholi, was a security guard in a college. She was crossing the busy junction after getting down from an autorickshaw when the bus heading to Ranjangaon from Yerwada hit her. Investigation officer Sandesh Shevale from the Airport police said on Wednesday, “The bus driver and passengers rushed Chavan to a private hospital. The driver told the police during the questioning that the bus ran over the woman’s leg when he tried to save a two-wheeler rider.” Chavan lodged an FIR against the bus driver on Tuesday. Shevale said, “We have served a notice under Section 41 (1) of the Criminal Procedure Code on the driver, asking him to join the police in investigations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/womans-leg-fractures-after-bus-hits-her/articleshow/79180380.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Surat||Surat Municipal Corporation to prepare biodiversity register||SURAT: Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has called up citizens to voluntarily contribute their knowledge on flora and fauna of the city in its project to prepare the first-ever People’s Biodiversity Register (PBR). SMC has constituted a biodiversity management committee (BMC) for documentation of biodiversity. “The initiative is a citizens’ driven with a participatory approach in getting data that will help us prepare a plan for urban biodiversity conservation,” said Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner. “The register will contain comprehensive information on flora and fauna of the city. In order to conserve urban biodiversity, we first need to identify and document it,’‘ said Puneet Nayyar, deputy conservator of forests, Surat division and a member of the committee. The information on the flora and fauna will be gathered from locals through online, offline and published information on the subject. Snehal Patel, founder of Nature Club Surat, added, “The primary data collected through PBR will help SMC in understanding the status of the city's biodiversity and its management in the future. We have also submitted a checklist of flora and fauna of Gaviar lake.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smc-to-prepare-biodiversity-register/articleshow/79178876.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Reserved seats land poll panel in the soup||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state election commission, which has been forced to redraw reserved wards in some local bodies following a recent high court order, could find itself in the same bind in future. The commission had completed the delimitation process for reserved wards as per relevant sections of the Kerala municipality and panchayat raj acts. However, petitions were filed questioning some reserved wards. For instance, in Kalady panchayat a ward reserved for women this year, and again in 2010, was a scheduled caste (SC) seat in the intervening election of 2015. The poll panel had earmarked seven general seats and one ward which was reserved for SCs in 2015 for women this year and naturally one ward became a seat reserved for women. EC chose the remaining seats by drawing lots out of reserved seats of the 2015 election and it ensured that no constituency was reserved successively for any category. The court, however, interfered by citing that the commission had treated seats reserved for SCs and STs in 2015 at par with general seats of the same year and earmarked the same for women candidates this year around. It cited a previous dictum that only general seats of the previous election can be reserved seats in fresh elections. EC was directed to allot reserved wards by rotation through drawing of lots, excluding wards which were reserved twice successively. Sources said it was the confusion over interpretation of successive reservation which led to redrawing of lots. A ward which was reserved for women in one election was reserved for SC category in next election and the poll panel did reservation of wards in 2020 by holding the ground that successive reservation of a seat for different categories is not prohibited. With the commission having to redo the process in some local bodies, an additional ward had to be taken for drawing of lots. In future, this will result in confusion regarding interpretation of successive reservation and norms to be followed. “Either the law will have to be amended or else the order will be followed. The next option is challenging the order, however, time being crucial, this is unlikely,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/reserved-seats-land-poll-panel-in-the-soup/articleshow/79178848.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 12, 2020||Madurai||HC dismisses reinstatement plea of ex-woman cop in bigamy case||Madurai: Madras high court has observed that police forces play a pivotal role in maintaining orderliness in society and hence morale and character of police personnel as well as public servants are not only important but necessary for the performance of public duties in an effective manner.The court made the observations while hearing a petition seeking reinstatement in service by a woman police constable, who married a policeman while his first wife was alive. Based on the complaint of his first wife, disciplinary proceedings were initiated against the petitioner, Sujitha, and subsequently removed from service on charges of bigamous marriage in 2013. She was working as police constable in ‘G’ Company as high court security in Chennai when she married Christhudoss. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that utmost discipline and devotion to duty in uniformed services and in public services are of paramount importance. If a policeman commits a misconduct or an offence against a woman, then he will not be in a position to deal with the crimes against women as well as the society.Quoting the proverb, “When character is lost, everything is lost”, the judge observed that one cannot brush aside the point that personal life would have an impact on the performance of the official duties of public servants. Though there may be different opinions, the fact remains that personal life and public life are interconnected to a large extent while dealing with the society at large and at the time of performing public duties.When bigamous marriage is an offence under Indian Penal Code as well as the Police Conduct Rules, contracting a second marriage even with the consent of the first wife cannot be a ground to seek exoneration from the Conduct Rules or from the offence of bigamous marriage, observed the judge.The judge noted that though the petitioner pleaded that she was not aware of the first marriage, the said ignorance of fact was not mentioned during the inquiry proceedings. Saying the punishment of removal from service undoubtedly is an appropriate punishment inflicted on her, the court dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-reinstatement-plea-of-ex-woman-cop-in-bigamy-case/articleshow/79180376.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 12, 2020||Goa||Law fraternity tells Cabral to withdraw statements||Panaji: All advocate forums and associations in the state are seeking an unconditional withdrawal of the defamatory statements allegedly made by law minister Nilesh Cabral regarding advocates overcharging their clients. The associations condemned his statement against them with regard to charging fees for conveyance and registration of deeds and documents. Cabral had alleged at a press conference that lawyers in Goa are overcharging their clients. He threatened to “simplify the procedures so much that advocates will not be required anymore”. The associations welcomed Cabral’s suggestion of simplifying procedures. However, the forums stated that the minister has no qualifications for deciding what the minimum charges of the lawyers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/law-fraternity-tells-cabral-to-withdraw-statements/articleshow/79180393.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Pune||Puneites shiver in unusual November chill of 10.6°C||PUNE: Koregaon Park resident Shruti Gaikwad had to slip into her warmest wear during the early morning walk on Wednesday with the city’s minimum temperature plunging unusually low to 10.6ºC, almost five notches below normal. The city’s day temperature also dropped below normal to 29.6ºC due to the ongoing chill. India Meteorological Department (IMD) officials said isolated areas in the northern parts of the state recorded near-cold wave conditions on Wednesday. Among the areas were Pune, Nashik (10.6ºC), Parbhani, Gondia and Chandrapur. Parbhani was the coolest location in the state at 9.9ºC, followed by Shivajinagar and Nashik. Pune’s minimum temperature on Wednesday was also one of the lowest November minimums in the past decade. Parbhani, at 9.9ºC, and Shivajinagar were the coolest spots in Maharashtra, with the minimum temperatures being lower than some cities in the north Indian plains such as Jalandhar, Patiala, Chandigarh and New Delhi. In fact, Pune, Lohegaon, Kolhapur, Malegaon, Nashik and Satara witnessed a drop in day temperatures as well, as the mercury dipped below 30ºC, between 27ºC and 29ºC. Gaikwad, a working professional, said, “Winter in Pune seems to have set in very early this time, unlike the past few years. This November seems too cold in comparison to what we experienced last November.” Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD-Pune, told TOI, “The minimum temperatures have significantly dropped in some parts, including Maharashtra, of the country. A western disturbance recently passed the western Himalayan region, causing a drop in the minimums. Another western disturbance may affect the western Himalayan region from November 13-15, which will arrest further fall in theminimums. The easterly wind flow is expected to strengthen over the state during the next few days, which is likely to arrest the dipping temperature trend” He said, “Negative departures in minimums are significant in some pockets of the state, but they still do not fulfil the ‘cold wave’ criteria. We have thus termed the situation as ‘near cold wave’ in parts of the state. The typical criteria for declaring ‘cold wave’ conditions in a region involves the actual minimum temperature dipping low enough to be equal to or below 10ºC and the departure being -4.5ºC to -6.4ºC in at least two locations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneites-shiver-in-unusual-november-chill-of-10-6c/articleshow/79180358.cms||Neha Madaan
November 12, 2020||Goa||‘Complaints against law professor to distract public’||PANAJI: Prominent professionals and civil society members have petitioned governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari over the FIR registered against assistant professor Shilpa Singh who teaches at V M Salgaocar College of Law. They have said that the complaints against Singh are politically-motivated to distract the public from the economic and other challenges the state is facing. Seeking round-the-clock security for Singh in the petition, one of the signatories professor Rahul Tripathi at Goa University’s political science department said that students are considering taking shifts to provide vigil outside Singh’s house. Singh was booked after a Ponda-resident Rajiv Jha took objection to her alleged anti-Hindu and one anti-Muslim post on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/plaints-against-law-prof-to-distract-public/articleshow/79180365.cms||---
November 12, 2020||---||LJP vitiated atmosphere, cheated NDA, says BJP||PATNA/NEW DELHI: Hours after LJP chief Chirag Paswan claimed he was successful in his aim to ensure BJP emerged stronger in Bihar, the saffron party’s in-charge of the state Bhupender Yadav hit back and said LJP kept lying to create confusion and NDA was cheated by the regional outfit. In an interview to news agency PTI, Yadav said JD(U) contested well, but it also paid the price for the confusion created by LJP. He said the regional party had lost credibility. “LJP vitiated the atmosphere which it should not have done. It was also a part of NDA. The party also enjoyed a ministerial berth and reaped benefits from the alliance in Lok Sabha pols,” he added. Yadav said there were question marks about LJP’s politics. “LJP has chosen its own path and in a way, it cheated NDA. People of Bihar have conveyed to them their importance in state politics,” he added. Bihar deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi said LJP not only hurt the chances of JD(U) but also impacted the prospects of NDA in many seats. A senior JD(U) member said: “It’s not clear whether Chirag’s decision to field candidates against JD(U) was his own or he did it at someone’s behest. The answer lies in the next expansion of the Union Cabinet.” Earlier in the day, Chirag told reporters that he fought to keep Nitish Kumar away from the CM’s post. “I respect the mandate the people have given us. The party’s performance has been very good in several seats. We lost by small margins in a few seats.” The second time MP from Jamui said his aim was to ensure BJP emerged stronger in the state and his party had that impact. He maintained that LJP would not support Kumar. “We will continue supporting PM Modi at the Centre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljp-vitiated-atmosphere-cheated-nda-says-bjp/articleshow/79181902.cms||Ramashankar
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Welfare board for fireworks workers to be established in TN||Madurai: A welfare board for the unorganised match and fireworks industry workers would be established in Tamil Nadu, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Wednesday. The CM said it was the intention of the state government that the fireworks industry should function continuously.The chief minister said more than four lakh fireworks and match industry workers would benefit from the welfare board. He said the state government had written to the chief ministers of other states urging them to lift the ban on fireworks. Palaniswami was in Virudhunagar to conduct a review meeting on the Covid-19 control measures in the district. Answering a question on the ban on BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra, he said that religious meetings were banned now and action would be taken against anyone who violated the law.To another question, he said that DMK president M K Stalin was indulging in cheap politics by making allegations against the government over the death of agriculture minister R Doraikkanu. “The minister was admitted to the same hospital where former chief minister M Karunanidhi was admitted, so, does he mean to say that there is suspicion in his death too?’’ he asked. “He is speaking inhumanely and even slandering the doctors and their profession through his allegations,” Palaniswami said and added that people would teach him a lesson. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/welfare-board-for-fireworks-workers-to-be-established-in-tn/articleshow/79180402.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Australian frigate docks at Mormugao port for naval drill||PANAJI: Ahead of the second phase of the Malabar naval exercise, which is scheduled from November 17 in the Arabian sea, the Australian naval frigate HMAS Ballarat sailed into Goa on Tuesday. The mega exercises with the navies of the US, Japan and Australia, member nations of the Quad or Quadrilateral coalition, will see the Indian Navy’s air craft carrier INS Vikramaditya. “Australian navy ship HMAS Ballarat, a frigate, made a port call at Mormugao Port,” said the Indian Navy in a statement. “The ship was received by officers from headquarters of Goa Naval Area and the defence advisor at the Australian High Commission in India.” The Malabar exercise started in 1992 as a bilateral drill between the Indian Navy and the US Navy in the Indian Ocean. Japan became a permanent member of the exercise in 2015. Australia, which dropped out of the Quad in 2008, was re-invited by India in 2020 amidst the Indo-China standoff in Ladkah. The US is in favour of the Quad as a measure to check China’s growing assertiveness and military influence in the Indo-Pacific region. HMAS Ballarat also holds additional significance for the Indian Navy, particularly Goa, as the Australian frigate was deployed to search for naval commander Abhilash Tomy whose yacht was damaged in a storm approximately 1800 nautical miles off the Western Australian coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/australian-frigate-docks-at-mormugao-port-for-naval-drill/articleshow/79180407.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: CTR cancels holidays of field staff to prevent poaching of owls before Diwali||NAINITAL: In the wake of Uttarakhand forest department sounding a red alert to protect owls from poaching by occultists ahead of Diwali, the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) has now cancelled holidays of its field staff till November 15 and increased patrolling of the reserve, especially at night. “The poaching of owls for rituals by occultists is at its highest during Diwali and therefore, we have decided to increase patrolling across the reserve in order to protect the owls in the reserve,” said Rahul, director, Corbett Tiger Reserve (who uses only his first name). According to Hindu mythology, an owl is one of the vaahan (vehicle) of the goddess of prosperity, Lakshmi, and in certain occult practices, ritual sacrifice of owls is done in order to appease the goddess. The bird is also poached for its bones, claws, skulls, feathers, meat and blood, which are then used in talismans, black magic and traditional medicine. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) has identified Uttarakhand as one of the growing hotbeds for illegal owl trade. While there is no credible data as to how many owls are hunted and neither has there been a census of the birds done, ornithologist Satish Pande, founder of Pune-based Ela Foundation — that is involved in nature education and conservation of birds — estimated during the World Owl Conference held in November last year that the number of owls being poached across the country would be upwards of 17,000 every year. Several owl species are placed in the threatened or endangered list of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Of the over 30 owl species found in India, one falls under Schedule I of the Wildlife Proection Act, 1972 while the rest are under Schedule IV. The trade of owls in the country is also prohibited under the Act. Speaking to TOI, Abrar Ahmed, an ornithologist and author of a report titled ‘Imperiled Custodians of the Night’, a study on the illegal trade, trapping and use of owls in India published by wildlife trade monitoring NGO, TRAFFIC, almost a decade ago, said that at least half of the owl species found in India are in the live bird trade market. “Of these, the larger species with false ear tufts are the most in demand since they are believed to possess ‘magical powers’. The prices of these owls range from around several thousand rupees to even lakhs,” he said, adding that “as far as poaching of owls is concerned, not much has changed over the years since I published my study.” “In fact now, the trade is more underground and the prices have gone up. Therefore, there is urgent need to prevent poaching by generating awareness at the grassroots in all the locations that owls are found,” Ahmed said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ctr-cancels-holidays-of-field-staff-to-prevent-poaching-of-owls-before-diwali/articleshow/79175572.cms||Prashant Jha
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Covid cases drop below 200 in southern districts; sharp dip in central TN too||Madurai/Trichy: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the 10 southern districts of the state has come below 200 for the first time in more than four-and-a-half-months on Wednesday as the region reported 186 cases and two deaths. The casualties were recorded one each in Virudhunagar and Kanyakumari. The central region also saw a sharp dip in the number of fresh cases as the eight districts reported 206 cases taking the tally to 67,976.Among the fresh cases, Madurai (39) recorded the highest in the south, while nine other districts recorded less than 30 cases each. Ramanathapuram recorded two cases, the lowest in the region, followed by Virudhunagar (13), Tenkasi (13), Theni (14), Tuticorin (14), Dindigul (17), Sivagangai (24), Tirunelveli (25) and Kanyakumari (25). Active cases that had been climbing in the region over the last four days marginally dropped on Wednesday.In the central region, fresh cases saw a sharp dip in Thanjavur as it reported 41 cases only, while it was 67 on Tuesday. There was not much difference in the number of fresh cases in other districts in the last two days.However, the active cases show a slight spike as the count touched 1,858, while the number was 1,851 on Tuesday. So far, the number of recovery is 65,232 in the region.According to the state bulletin, three people died of Covid-related issues on Wednesday taking the toll to 886. The deaths were reported in Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Trichy. They include a 30-year-old woman from Tiruvarur and a 45-year-old man from Pudukottai.The woman tested positive for Covid-19 on November 8. She was admitted to the government medical college hospital in Tiruvarur with fibroid complicating pregnancy on October 29. The reasons stated for her death were Covid pneumonia, post LSCS D10, acute respiratory distress syndrome, multilobar consolidation (non-resolving pneumonia), complicated pyothorax and septic shock.The 45-year old man who died on November 8 at the government medical college hospital had no comorbidities. Admitted on November 7, he tested positive on November 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-cases-drop-below-200-in-southern-districts-sharp-dip-in-central-tn-too/articleshow/79180412.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||‘Explore new mining areas & increase revenue’||Jaipur. Mines and petroleum department principal secretary Ajitabh Sharma has asked officials to explore new mining areas and make a detailed action plan. He called for scientific mining of the mineral wealth of the state to increase employment opportunities and generate more revenue. He said the interests of small lease holders would also be taken care of in the new mining policy as the state gets more revenue with more employment opportunities from small lease holders. Sharma was reviewing the work of the department in Jaipur on Wednesday. Director mines KB Pandya, deputy secretary Neetu Barupal and officials of the mines headquarters Udaipur and Jaipur participated at the meeting. He said despite Covid, the overall revenue generated was only Rs 9 crore less compared to last year. He added that the department earned Rs 105 crore more revenue in October this year compared to last year. He said last year’s revenue till October was Rs 2,325 crore, while the revenue in this corresponding period this year is Rs 2,316 crore despite lockdown. Sharma said according to a rough estimate, 82 types of minerals reserves were found in the state, of which 57 types are being mined. The mining sector provides direct employment to 6-8 lakh people while 22-25 lakh people are getting indirect employment, he added. Sharma directed the officials to take strict action against illegal mining and to take drastic measures like lodging FIRs against illegal mining. He called for bringing transparency in departmental functioning and promoting e-governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/explore-new-mining-areas-increase-revenue/articleshow/79180420.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Pune||Pune: Duo used victim’s debit card an hour after abandoning her, say cops||PUNE: The duo abducting a woman IT professional from Salunke Vihar on Tuesday used her debit card to withdraw Rs 2,000 from an ATM on Boat Club Road barely an hour after robbing and abandoning her on the NIBM Road, police investigations revealed. “I had only that much amount left in this account and I did not block my card on advice from the police as they wanted to track the two men,” the victim told TOI on Wednesday. The police have established that after the ATM withdrawal, the duo purchased a gold chain from a jewellery showroom on Boat Club Road before proceeding to Hinjewadi, from where they hired a cab for Mumbai. The cab suffered a breakdown at Khandala and they got into another vehicle, the police said. “We have gathered vital CCTV footage and witness evidence in establishing the duo’s trail so far and are continuing with technical investigation. After the crime, the duo first proceeded to Wanowrie. From there, they reached Boat Club Road. Later, they took an autorickshaw to reach Hinjewadi,” a senior police officer said. The woman has identified one of the suspects as Rajesh Singh, known to her father through a common friend. He was teaching her driving for the past few days. Deputy commissioner of police (Zone V) Namrata Patil said, “I inspected the crime scene on Wednesday. The investigation is on track. We have launched a hunt for the suspects.” Patil’s counterpart from the crime branch, Bachchan Singh, said, “Our Unit-V is conducting a parallel probe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-used-victims-debit-card-an-hour-after-abandoning-her-cops/articleshow/79180403.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 12, 2020||Madurai||At least 15 dalit presidents faced atrocities during lockdown: NGO||Madurai: They were denied the right to hoist the national flag at government events, prevented from sitting on the panchayat president’s chair, stopped from entering panchayat office, from performing their duties and hurled casteist abuse. Listing out the various harassments faced by 15 dalit panchayat presidents in the state during the lockdown, the NGO Evidence said there were even instances of dalit panchayat chiefs being threatened against writing their name on the name board while one of them was even forced to dig pits to bury the dead.“These 15 incidents are those that have been reported and where a case has been registered. But harassments that have not come to light are manifold. It is shocking that the accused in only one of the 15 instances has been arrested while others are roaming about freely,” said A Kathir, executive director of Evidence that conducted a field study and prepared a report on these incidents.Stating that 26.4% of rural local body positions in the state are reserved for dalits and ST communities, he said the state government should conduct a survey to find out if these representatives are able to function independently without hindrances. Dalit panchayat presidents and ward members in general positions that are not reserved should also be covered in it.“The government should also release a white paper report on the detailed survey,” Kathir added saying they were silently suffering, unable to raise their voice. In their recommendations to the government to end such atrocities, he said those causing hindrances to them should be identified and proceeded against. Amendment should be made to the Panchayat Raj Act that only dalit vice-presidents and officials should be appointed in reserve panchayats.Action should be taken against those causing hindrances to dalit and ST elected representatives under The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015. Evidence also insisted on imparting training to dalit elected representatives on social justice, governance and development works. Grievance meets exclusively for them should be chaired by the district collector to weed out the problems faced by them, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/at-least-15-dalit-presidents-faced-atrocities-during-lockdown-ngo/articleshow/79180419.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Stalin surviving without job: CM||Tuticorin: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Wednesday launched a blistering attack on DMK president M K Stalin, questioning the ‘occupation’ of the leader of the opposition. He was reacting to reporters’ questions on Stalin calling him a fake farmer. “What is his (Stalin’s) occupation?” he asked and accused Stalin of “surviving without an occupation.” He asked how Stalin could differentiate between a fake and original farmer without any knowledge of farming. “But farming is my first occupation. I am a farmer since childhood and people of my locality know it. They know I worked hard. I don’t need Stalin’s certificate to prove to be a farmer,” he said. The CM said his background as a farmer helped him come up with the Cauvery-Gundar, Mettur excess water and Athikadavu-Avinashi schemes, kudimaramathu project as well as efforts to fulfil the water requirements of Chennai city by getting 10 TMC water from Krishna river. He had held talks with the Kerala CM for a solution on the longpending water issues between the two states. All these had contributed to the state bagging a national award for water management in India. But what measures did Stalin take for water management when DMK was in power, he asked. Palaniswami also held Stalin “100 per cent” responsible for the police firing at protesters during the anti-Sterlite protests and called him a liar for blaming the AIADMK government for the firing. Meanwhile, #GobackEPS was trending at the fourth place in India on Twitter over various incidents in Tuticorin — killing of 13 people in police firing on anti-Sterlite protesters, Sathankulam custodial murders and murder of a man by an AIADMK functionary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalin-surviving-without-job-cm/articleshow/79180452.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||14 cases of dengue reported from Ludhiana district||LUDHIANA: Fourteen cases of dengue were reported from various areas of Ludhiana district on Wednesday. Giving details, civil surgeon, Ludhiana, Dr Rajesh Kumar Bagga while briefing about the latest situation on dengue said that 14 dengue patients were reported on Wednesday and with this the total number of dengue cases in the district had increased to 1,897. “The total number of suspected dengue patients in the outer district is 491, out of which 408 are dengue positive. The total number of suspected dengue patients in other parts of the state is 56, out of which 48 are dengue positive. Thus, a total of 2,444 suspected dengue patients have been reported, out of which 1,802 dengue positive cases have been reported,” health department officials said. “On Wednesday, teams of the health department visited Samrat Colony, Kot Mangal Singh, Rishi Nagar, Joshi Nagar, Chandra Nagar, Mahavir Jain Colony, Sarabha Nagar, Santokh Nagar, Maligunj Chowk, Sundar Nagar, Islamganj and Pink Vihar Colony to check for dengue larvae. These were found in Rishi Nagar and Joshi Nagar, which were destroyed on the spot by applying larvicide by the teams,” they further said. They added that on Wednesday, these teams visited 1,029 houses, out of which larvae were found in two houses and teams checked 2,155 containers, out of which two containers were found carrying dengue mosquito larvae. The health department officials said that the teams distributed health education pamphlets, posters on dengue, chikungunya, malaria and their prevention. They added that till date these teams had visited 1,08,591 houses, out of which larvae were found in 974 houses. The officials said that till date teams had checked 1,71,482 containers, out of which 1,048 containers had been found with dengue mosquito larvae. They added that till date, a list of 531 positive containers had been sent to the municipal corporation for issuing challans. The civil surgeon appealed to the people not to allow stagnant water in coolers, containers, fridges tray, pots and tyres on the roofs, etc. He advised the people to wear clothes that cover the body completely and use mosquito repellent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/14-cases-of-dengue-reported-from-ludh-dist/articleshow/79174512.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||Baljinder Singh Jindu booked for hurting religious sentiments||LUDHIANA: Baljinder Singh Jindu, who came into limelight for the controversy over Guru Nanak Modikhama (a medical store), has again landed in a controversy by allegedly passing remarks on ‘Shani’ deity. Earlier in August also, Jindu had been booked for passing remarks on certain Hindu gods. He was arrested at that time and later on was released on bail. The complaint, this time, has been lodged by Arvinder Walia of Chandar Nagar with the division number 8 police, following which a case has been registered. In his complaint to the police, Walia stated that the accused, Baljinder Singh Jindu, in a video on his Facebook page had spoken ill words against ‘Shani’ deity, which had hurt the religious feelings of the Hindu community. He has also used abusive words for the deity, which is unacceptable, he added. Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at police station, division number 8, said that the police had received the video in which the accused could be seen speaking ill words against ‘Shani’ deity. The accused will soon be arrested, he added. Jindu, manager at Guru Nanak Modikhana, Civil Lines, had come into limelight in June, when he had uploaded a video allegedly highlighting the profits being earned by pharmacists. In his video, he had alleged that a medicine which cost Rs 9 was being sold at Rs 108. His video had created a buzz on social media and an inquiry was also marked by the Punjab government. Earlier, Jindu had been associated with different political parties also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jindu-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/79174503.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Palaniswami surprises disabled woman with job order in 2 hrs||Tuticorin: Moved by the plight of a disabled young woman who was waiting in a wheelchair to see him outside the Thoothukudi medical college hospital on Wednesday, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami stopped his car, spoke to her and got her a job in less than two hours. The CM was in Tuticorin to attend a review meeting on Covid-19 and developmental works and inaugurate various projects. As he was leaving the hospital and heading to the collectorate for the review meeting, he noticed the disabled woman and stopped his convoy. The woman, Mareeswari, explained that her husband is a daily wager, now virtually jobless, and they had a five-year-old daughter. The CM instructed revenue department officials to bring her to the collectorate where after discussing with collector Sandeep Nanduri, he surprised the woman by handing over an appointment order. According to the order, the woman, a Tamil MA holder, will be deployed at the ward for those getting treated under the chief minister’s comprehensive health insurance scheme on a monthly salary of Rs 15,000 through an outsourced agency. The CM also handed over a cheque for Rs 50 lakh and appointment order as teacher to Bhuvaneswari, widow of police constable Subramanian, 28, who was killed in action on August 18. The policeman was hot on pursuit of a historysheeter in the Vallanadu forest when the accused hurled a country bomb on his head, killing Subramanian instantly. Earlier in the day, EPS inaugurated a linear accelerator for cancer treatment at Thoothukudi government MCH at Rs 16 crore for the benefit of patients who are forced to travel to Thiruvananthapuram or Chennai for specialised cancer care. A central research laboratory at Rs 71.6 lakh was also opened at the hospital. The CM dedicated 18 projects completed at Rs 38 crore through the public works, police, fire and rescue services, school education, municipal administration and fisheries departments. Financial assistance and welfare measures worth Rs 37.6 crore were given away to 15,792 beneficiaries. Palaniswami also laid the foundation stone for 29 projects worth Rs 328.7 crore to be executed through various departments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/palaniswami-surprises-disabled-woman-with-job-order-in-2-hrs/articleshow/79180463.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Mumbai||Flying from Mumbai to Patna dearer than Goa as Diwali turns homecoming season||MUMBAI: Diwali has perked up demand for domestic air travel and the proof lies in the five-digit return airfares for travel to most cities the coming weekend. The topsy-turvy part in the Diwali airfare trend is that for travel from Mumbai, Patna is more popular than Goa. Travel companies said that most revellers have planned to fly back home this holiday season and leisure travel has taken the second spot amid Covid-19. On Tuesday, the most expensive return airfare this weekend from Mumbai was to Patna, with the cheapest fare starting at Rs 20,000 for a direct flight. In comparison, the cheapest Mumbai-Goa return fare was Rs 7,000. Cheapest fare from Delhi to Patna was Rs 14,500 and to Goa Rs 12,500. Cheapest return fares from Mumbai to other destinations like Cochin, Lucknow, Dehradun, Jaipur, and Kolkata were in the range of Rs 10,000-Rs 13,500. Air tickets around 10% lower than last DiwaliTravel company MakeMyTrip spokesperson said: “As Diwali approaches, we are witnessing a week-on-week increase in flight bookings—currently, our data indicates a 20% jump in bookings for Diwali between November 6 and 16. With people looking forward to returning home to celebrate the festival, Delhi, Patna and Kolkata currently are the most-booked destinations.” Aditya Agarwal of Cleartrip said: “The top routes being booked for travel between November 12 and 16 show that the preference is for travelling back home and spending time with families during Diwali.” The top 10 routes are those dominated originating in business centres such as Mumbai, Bengaluru, Delhi, Hyderabad and Pune and heading towards places in the east and north like Patna, Jaipur, Kolkata, Varanasi and Lucknow, said Cleartrip. “Due to the pandemic, booking volumes are about 50% of last year’s. The volumes have doubled since July/August, which is attributable to easing of restrictions and arrival of the festive season,” said Agarwal. Airfares this Diwali are about 10% lower than last year. “But this could change as we have three more days to go,” he added. For people going for leisure holidays, Jaipur, Kerala, Goa, Visakhapatnam and Varanasi top the destination list, according to the Diwali trend tracked by hotel group OYO. “Delhiites and Lucknowites are heading on road trips to Jaipur, whereas Puneites, Bengalurueans and Hyderabadis are travelling to Goa. Across South India, Kochi in Kerala has emerged as the most popular tourist hotspot, with most of the demand stemming from Chennai and Bengaluru,” said Yatish Jain of OYO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/flying-to-patna-dearer-than-goa-as-diwali-turns-homecoming-season/articleshow/79181106.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Two intensivists to provide critical care at GMC||PANAJI: Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital will shortly appoint two intensivists. At present, GMC does not have such specialists on board. Intensivists provide critical care to patients, and their absence was felt during the ongoing Covid outbreak when GMC was flooded with critically-ill patients in August and September when the virus was at its peak. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said two posts of intensivist have been created, and appointments for the same will happen shortly. Filling of these posts will be subject to scouting for eligible candidates who would most likely come from outside the state. GMC, he said, doesn’t have the superspeciality which is a three-year course after doctor of medicine (MD). Asked if the tertiary care hospital felt the burden of managing the increased number of critically-patients during Covid times, Bandekar said that pulmonologists and anaesthetists in GMC have been trained in critical care. They have been managing intensive care units with their assistance, he said. GMC has 10 MD seats in anaesthesia. Bandekar said the superspecialty ‘intensivist’ has been recently introduced, and hence, only a few hospitals have appointed such specialists. “Not many hospitals have intensivists, and most government hospitals don’t have them on board,” he said. A senior health official said that though GMC somehow managed to salvage the situation, hospital authorities felt the burden when the caseload of patients requiring critical care increased from August onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-intensivists-to-provide-critical-care-at-gmc/articleshow/79180446.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||Dog killed after crude bomb explodes||POINGUINIM: Canacona police on Wednesday booked an offence against an unidentified person after a dog was killed in a crude bomb explosion in a farm at Gulem, Canacona. Police sources said that the dog may have stepped on the bomb or bit it, leading to the explosion and the canine’s instant death. Police sources said that the incident occurred Wednesday morning. Acting on a complaint by the dog’s owner, Alex Carpenter, police registered the case under Section 429 (mischief by killing, poisoning or maiming animals) of the IPC. Sources said that action will be taken based on a report by veterinary experts. Carpenter said that the incident occurred while he, accompanied by his dogs, was on a visit to the farm in Gulem where he was invited “for some study.” “Suddenly, there was an explosion, and one of my dogs was thrown in the air due to the impact of that explosive. The dog’s face was blown off,” Carpenter said. While his other dogs got injured, Carpenter escaped with a minor injury. He said that such incidents happen regularly in Gulem. “Every single night, one animal or the other gets killed in such explosions here, be it a wild boar, cheetah or deer,” he said. Sources said that farmers use crude bombs to kill animals that stray into their farms or plantations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dog-killed-after-crude-bomb-explodes/articleshow/79180423.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Two weeks on, no headway yet in toddler’s murder||JAIPUR: Police are yet to arrest anyone for the murder of two-and-a-half-year-old boy at Jamwaramgarh around two weeks ago. The kid’s charred body was found in a well. Although the cops are certain that he was killed due to some superstition, they are yet to find any evidence against any family member. Ganesh Regar had gone missing on October 30. A day later, the child’s burnt body was found in a well. “We have been working to gather evidence against family members. All clues are leading to the fact that he was killed due to a superstition and we are trying to find the person who could gain from the child’s death,” said a police official. Cops also said that the toddler was still learning to speak and the family had taken him to a tantrik to speed up the process. The family members are so deeply involved in black magic and superstitions that few of the women of the family claimed to have been possessed by spirits. After the child went missing, the family did not search for him and lodged a case only in the evening. “After the child’s body was found, we went to question the father and found that he was drunk. Another strange fact which has come to light is that the family made the victim’s mother sleep alone in another room after Ganesh went missing. We are trying to connect the dots and reach a conclusion,” added the official. The family claimed that Ganesh disappeared in broad daylight, but they did not see anyone taking him. His body was found around 300 metres from his village and it appears that he was killed the same day that he was abducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-weeks-on-no-headway-yet-in-toddlers-murder/articleshow/79180461.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit: DM launches Deepavali Mela to promote crafts & produce by self-help groups||PILIBHIT: In a bid to ensure direct access of rural women’s self help groups and potters among urban customers, with the objective of generating demand for their products under the prime minister’s ambitious Aatmanirbhar Bharat mission — the district administration on Wednesday inaugurated a three-day Deepavali fair at the Gandhi stadium in Pilibhit. This first-of-a-kind effort was conceptualised by district magistrate Pulkit Khare. On the opening day, the fair was attended by 30 self help groups promoted by the district administration, under various welfare schemes of the state government. All products displayed for sale at the fair are eco-friendly, including carry bags made of cloth and paper, different articles made with water hyacinth fibre, cow dung products, honey, spices and pickles, decorative items, embroidery work including women’s traditional costumes, designer masks and organic agricultural produce. Decorative idols of Lord Ganesh and Goddess Laxmi and pottery lamps were the special attraction. The fair is exclusively aimed at creating a direct marketing chain for products made by rural entrepreneurs, with eliminating the network of dealers and marketing mediators, said the DM while inaugurating the fair. He called upon urbanites, especially members of social clubs, doctors, lawyers, teachers and businessmen, to make a practice of buying eco-friendly products of these self help groups directly from their sales points, and benefiting from the affordable price and high quality, while providing economic opportunity to rural entrepreneurs. A young farmer, Aftab Singh Sandhu of village Bela Pokhra under Amaria tehsil, who had set up a stall of organic agricultural products including mustard oil, pulses, wheat and rice, applauded the DM’s effort in providing this platform to directly reach urban customers for his products. Ritu Agarwal, a former district president of the women’s wing of Rotary Club, thanked the DM for letting urban women have access to rural manufacturers of a variety of quality products which were hitherto unknown to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dm-launches-deepavali-mela-to-promote-crafts-produce-by-self-help-groups/articleshow/79176659.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 12, 2020||Dehradun||Scientists find more evidence that origin of horses and rhinos could be traced to India||Dehradun: Six years since the first evidence emerged that the common ancestor of horses and rhinos originated in India about 54 million years ago, the same group of scientists has now found more evidence establishing the link to India. The Cambaytherium — illustrations of which look like a cross between deer and horses — is thought to be that common ancestor. All perissodactyls, meaning odd-toed hoofed animals, are believed to have descended from it. And the fossils were found in India. At the time, though, the scientists had not been quite sure where to place it in the taxonomy of primitive animals. They were also not sure where the species came from, geographically. The new study, published in the ‘Journal of Vertebrate Palaeontology’ last week, tries to answer these questions. “The current study was much more thorough, enabling a new analysis of the relationships of Cambaytherium … The new analysis shows that Cambaytherium is the most primitive member of an extinct group called anthracobunians, which was restricted to India during the Eocene (56 to 34 million years ago),” Kenneth Rose from Johns Hopkins University and lead author of the study, told TOI. “Anthracobunians are what evolutionists call the primitive ‘sister group’ of perissodactyls.” This was a possibility they had considered in their 2014 paper. The new study, by scientists from seven institutes, said that the restriction of both these extinct species to the Indian Plate — an island continent which started drifting towards Asia in the Eocene — indicated that they originated there. “This has profound implications for the geographic origin of its sister (group),” it added. This fills some gaps in the understanding of a discovery that goes back to 2004. “We started exploring rare fossils found in Rajasthan in 2001. The first few years didn’t yield much,” said Kishore Kumar, scientist-G (retired) at the Wadia Institute of Himalayan Geology in Dehradun and co-author of the paper. It took several trips, many in extreme weather, before they hit upon the first fossils that held a clue in Gujarat in 2004. By 2005, it was believed that the common ancestor of hoofed animals came from Asia, but the specific area had not been zeroed in on. Between 2004 and 2014, many more fossils were found in India and after analysing them, the scientists found evidence that the earliest ancestors of hoofed animals originated in India. At the time, they had dismissed the possibility that the Cambaytherium reached India from the Asian mainland but considered that they may have “dispersed to India from Afro–Arabia or a contiguous area.” But now, the picture is clearer. Professor Sunil Bajpai, Head of the Department of Earth Sciences in IIT Roorkee, complimented TOI for highlighting this important study, and added that his team was the first to discover and publish Cambaytherium as the ancestor of horses in 2005. “Ours was an Indian group consisting largely of PhD students, and our work was funded by Department of Science and Technology, Government of India,” says Bajpai. The co-authors of the study are Katrina E. Jones from Center for Functional Anatomy & Evolution, Johns Hopkins University, Heather E. Ahrens, department of Biology, High point university north California, Luke T Holbrook from department of Biological Sciences, Rowan University, Glassboro, Rajendra S Rana Department of Geology, H.N.B. Garhwal University, Uttarakhand, Rachel H Dunn, department of anatomy Des Moines University USA, Annelise Folie and Thierry Smith from Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences, Belgium and Katrina E Jones from Harvard University, Cambridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scientists-find-more-evidence-that-origin-of-horses-and-rhinos-could-be-traced-to-india/articleshow/79175579.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 12, 2020||Madurai||‘Channel will be built to take Thamirabarani water to arid regions’||'Madurai: A channel will be built at a cost of Rs 264 crore to take surplus water from the Thamirabarani river to the arid regions in the coastal areas of Tuticorin district, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced on Wednesday.The channel would take water as far as Muththalapuram, the CM said after chairing a review meeting on Covid-19 preparedness and the status of various development projects in the district.The 60km-long channel will make drinking water and for irrigation available for villages in the northern part of the district.According to the proposed project, surplus water from the Thamirabarani is getting let out into the sea from the Srivaikuntam dam. This water will be diverted to Poovani from the check dam at Seevalaperi village through a 12.5km-long channel. It will be connected to the Uppar river, the Malattaru, the Kallaru and the Vaippar.The chief minister also spoke about the runway expansion at Tuticorin airport. The government procured 600 acres of land and handed over the same to the Airports Authority of India. The CM said steps would be taken to procure 106 more acres for the project on the request of the AAI.He announced new sea erosion walls and groyne or extension of existing ones at coastal villages such as Vembar, Keezha Vaippar, Veerapandianpattinam, Periyathazhai and Alanthalai to avert erosion.Later, the chief minister who visited Virudhunagar district, distributed welfare measures to the tune of Rs 45.36 crore to 8,466 beneficiaries.Completed projects to the tune of Rs 28.74 crore pertaining to various departments such as the DRDA, municipality, school education, health and family welfare, fire service, transport department and highway projects were inaugurated. The CM also laid the foundation stone for 15 new projects to the tune of Rs 11.36 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/channel-will-be-built-to-take-thamirabarani-water-to-arid-regions/articleshow/79180475.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||At 109, Goa sees lowest positive count since June, 152 recoveries||PANAJI: With 109 new cases of Covid-19 reported on Wednesday, the state saw the lowest count since June when the infections were on a rise following the outbreak at Mangor Hill in Vasco. The case positivity rate now stands at 7% after testing 1,469 samples. However, the mortality count jumped to 657 with five deaths. Of this, four deaths occurred in Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim and one patient died at ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. A 34-year-old man from Assonora, detected with acute pancreatitis and sepsis soon after his admission, died after receiving treatment for a week. He also suffered from alcohol dependence syndrome. Other deaths were that of three men — a 55-year-old from Santa Cruz, a 71-year-old from Karwar, a 59-year-old from Vasco and a 70-year-old woman, all having multiple comorbidites. They succumbed to the virus after an average hospitalisation for a week. While new infections have been declining there is not much drop in the hospital admissions. Wednesday saw 35 positive patients admitted in hospitals while the number of patients opting for home isolation was 72. As many as 152 patients were declared cured and recovery rate was pegged at 94%. For a change, the caseload of all 16 centres in North Goa was below 100 including that of Porvorim whose tally was at 84 on Wednesday. In South Goa, Margao, Ponda and Vasco have infections on the higher side though they too are witnessing a drop on and off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-109-state-sees-lowest-positive-count-since-june-152-recoveries/articleshow/79180464.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||MC commissioner asks CP to take action against encroachers||LUDHIANA: Recommending legal action against the encroachers, MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal has written a letter to police commissioner Rakesh Aggarwal. The MC commissioner has asked the police chief to take legal action against these shopkeepers for encroaching upon some portion of the roads, which is creating traffic chaos in these areas. The action has been recommended against 29 shopkeepers in Ghoda Colony and Bihari Colony near Cheema chowk, Chimney road near Samrala Chowk, GT road, Transport Nagar and Industrial Area-A. RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal claimed that he had made a complaint against these encroachers over phone to the MC commissioner. He had claimed that shopkeepers had kept material on a portion of the roads, disturbing traffic flow on these roads. The MC commissioner has given reference of the Punjab and Haryana high court order of 2012, which says that the police and MC should take action against the encroachers immediately. There is also a provision of penalty as well as FIR against the repeated offenders. These shopkeepers fall in zone B area and since they have kept material outside the shops, people are facing traffic problems. The officials of tehbazaari branch have taken action against these shopkeepers several times and also imposed penalty on them, but shopkeepers didn’t mend their ways. So, now they are left with no other option but to recommend legal action against them. The MC and police teams are already carrying out an anti-encroachment drive in the city, especially in certain markets, and people have appreciated the move. But still there are certain places where encroachers are still there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-commissioner-asks-cp-to-take-action-against-encroachers/articleshow/79174532.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Goa||KTC commences buses to Pune, Bengaluru & Mumbai as Diwali nears||PANAJI: To cater to passenger demand ahead of the festive Diwali weekend, the Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) has opened online bookings for three interstate locations — Pune, Bengaluru and Mumbai — after a gap of eight months. Buses to these destinations were suspended in mid-March owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. People from the three locations can now book tickets directly on www.redbus.in if they seek to travel to Goa. While two routes – Pune and Bengaluru (including Mangaluru) — have resumed, the service to Mumbai will start from Thursday. Interstate buses to Hyderabad, however, will not restart for now. “Most of the passengers from Hyderabad come to Goa to play at casinos. They usually arrive on Fridays and leave on Sundays, which is how we were able to operate the frequent trips prior to the pandemic,” a KTC official said. There is, however, poor response from passengers from Goa to travel to these destinations. “So far, there are nearly 20 people booking tickets on the Mumbai-Goa route, but no takers for the Goa-Mumbai route,” the official said. Nevertheless, anticipating good response from tourists, KTC is hoping to resume full-fledged services soon. “As of now, we are only running the interstate buses for the long weekend owing to Diwali,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ktc-commences-buses-to-pune-bluru-mum-as-diwali-nears/articleshow/79180491.cms||Nida Sayed
November 12, 2020||Bareilly||Four illegal under-construction residential colonies razed in Bareilly||BAREILLY: The Bareilly Development Authority (BDA) has demolished four under-construction residential colonies that were being built illegally in three prominent city localities. Vice-chairman of BDA Jogendra Singh said, “The colonisers of the residential buildings were issued warning notices earlier to get their building layout maps approved from the authority. They were also informed that the construction work, otherwise, would be stopped as it was illegal. However, despite the notices, the construction of these residential colonies was going on.” He added, “As the layouts were not approved in BDA, the constructions were unauthorized. Therefore they have been demolished by the authority.” One of the colonies was developed on a land opposite Amravati school at Badaun road. The other was being developed near Bara Bypass. BDA officials said that similar demolition drives will be conducted in other parts of the city to crackdown on the illegal constructions in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/4-illegal-under-construction-residential-colonies-razed-in-bareilly/articleshow/79176684.cms||Maria Khan
November 12, 2020||Hyderabad||2 basti dawakhanas for Secunderabad||Hyderabad: The state government has announced to sanction two more basti dawakhanas - at Ambernager in Boudhanagar and Indiranager colony in Sitaphalmandi, in Secunderabad on Wednesday. With this, a total of five basti dawakhanas were sanctioned in Secunderabad. On Thursday, 25 newly sanctioned basti dawakhanas will be inaugurated in the city by government officials in their jurisdictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-basti-dawakhanas-for-secunderabad/articleshow/79178923.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Jaipur||Rahul’s Jaisalmer visit cancelled||Jaisalmer/Jaipur: Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi’s two-day visit to Jaisalmer that was to begin from Wednesday was cancelled at the last minute. The reason for cancellation is unknown. Five guests including Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi’s children were to come to Jaisalmer on Wednesday morning on a private trip. Adventure activities in the desert area had been scheduled. Special arrangements were made for Rahul and other guests to stay at Hotel Suryagarh. However, looking to his interest in staying on the sand dunes a tent had been put up especially near Ghotaru Fort and Bida village. Preparations for Rahul’s visit were being done under the supervision of state revenue minister Harish Choudhary who hails from Barmer. The minister had reached Jaisalmer on Tuesday and was monitoring the preparations. Maken’s visit cancelled Congress general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, Ajay Maken’s visit to the state was cancelled on the advice of chief minister Ashok Gehlot. Maken wanted to meet the MLAs and party leaders but Gehlot reportedly informed Maken that law makers were in their areas to celebrate Diwali. Maken was advised to reschedule his visit after the festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rahuls-jaisalmer-visit-cancelled/articleshow/79180484.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Poorly-lit Vandiyur Road jn poses threat to commuters||Madurai: Poor lighting on the Ring Road at Vandiyur Road junction is posing a threat to commuters, especially bikers during night hours. Drivers on the Ring Road speed past often failing to notice bikers and pedestrians crossing from a distance, leading to accidents. City police officials said that four to five road deaths have taken place on the particular stretch recently.The Ring Road, which starts at Uthangudi and ends at Kappalur, connects to various southern districts and important roads including Sivagangai Road at Karuppayurani junction and Ramanathapuram Road at Viraganoor junction.Though toll is being collected for the road, lack of lighting is an issue at many places. Considerable number of vehicles cross the Ring Road at Vandiyur-Masthanpatti junction. At night, locals face the threat of being run over by fast moving vehicles, even though there is a police check post at the junction.A police constable said, “CCTV cameras have been installed at the junction to prevent crime incidents and to trace vehicles involved in accidents. But due to lack of lighting we are finding it difficult to read the number plates,” he said.R Velmurugan, a resident of Vandiyur, said that it is scary to use the Ring Road at night due to the speeding vehicles. “I usually avoid the road at nights. Even though police have placed barricades, vehicles still move very fast, unmindful of the people riding two-wheelers,” he said.Anna Nagar range police assistant commissioner Lilly Grace said that they have written to both the state highways and corporation to erect a high-mast light to increase safety. They have also kept barricades with blinkers to slowdown vehicles, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/poorly-lit-vandiyur-road-jn-poses-threat-to-commuters/articleshow/79180503.cms||V Devanathan
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Tele consultations up 4 times in Madurai since July||Madurai: As many as 21,859 tele consultations were done through e-Sanjeevani government telemedicine platform between July 1 and October 29 in Madurai district alone, making it second in the state in number of tele consultations. In Tamil Nadu, 2,09,092 tele consultations were done through the platform till October end, making it the top-performing state in the country in this regard.Through the e-Sanjeevani platform, accessed either through the eponymous app or the website at https://esanjeevaniopd.in, the public can connect with the doctor from their homes using any smart device. District health officials said that with more awareness created, the number of patients making use of the service is increasing every month. In Madurai, from 2012 tele consultations in July, the number has risen to 8,758 a month by October. Out of the total tele consultations, 19,195 were for non-Covid-19 illnesses.“Training was first given by medical officers to healthcare workers and field workers on how to make use of the service. We created awareness with our trained village health nurses going door-to-door with smart tablets and helping needy patients make use of the virtual consultation. We are planning to continue more awareness campaigns and become the top-performing district in the state,” said Dr K V Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services, Madurai. Under e-Sanjeevani OPD services, there are also different categories of medical services. General OPD services accounted for nearly 99% of the total consultations in Tamil Nadu according to National Health Mission (NHM-TN) state officials. AYUSH, Yoga and Naturopathy OPD, Obstetrics and Gynaecology OPD, and even rare specialities of Tuberculosis (TB) OPD, as well as antiretroviral therapy (ART) OPD (for HIV positive patients), have also been made available. NHM-TN officials said that plans are under way to expand the services and include more specialities.In the private sector, while some doctors have turned to various online platforms for providing consultations by video, calls and text, some private hospitals have developed their own online website link for tele consultations or mobile app. Officials at Practo, a telemedicine service provider, said that in Tamil Nadu, apart from Chennai, Coimbatore, Trichy, Madurai, Dindigul and Salem districts have seen growth during the past few months. In private hospitals, telemedicine services are being used to reduce hospital visits for high risk groups like elderly, pregnant women and those who may have undergone surgery.“Despite the popularity of telemedicine, patients still prefer to visit hospitals for consultations, especially when it is their first time. But, we encourage patients to use telemedicine consultations for reviews after undergoing a surgery or procedure especially if they have to travel long distances,” said J Adel, general manager-operations, Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre (MMHRC), Madurai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tele-consultations-up-4-times-in-madurai-since-july/articleshow/79180536.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 12, 2020||Madurai||Gang robs house in Virudhunagar after taking kids hostage||Virudhunagar: A gang of four men, who barged into a house at Aruppukkottai in the district on Tuesday night, took two children hostage at knifepoint and robbed gold jewellery worth several lakhs of rupees.The house in Ganesh Nagar belongs to Ramkumar, who runs an organic vegetable store. Ramkumar was not at home. His wife, Jabakiruba, and two young children were alone there.Jabakiruba opened the main door of the house after someone shouted her husband’s name. As soon as she opened the door, four unidentified men barged into the house.They tied up the woman, gagged her mouth and robbed the five sovereign gold chain she was wearing. They then asked to give them the almirah keys, to which she refused. So, they took her children hostage at knifepoint and threatened them not to shout. Then they collected the keys of the bureau and looted 30 sovereigns of gold jewellery. When they were about to leave, a woman next door came to the house. The robbers pushed her inside the house and locked it. Meanwhile, Ramkumar, who was returning home spotted the men running out of his house and managed to grab the shirt of one of them. But, he managed to escape.On being alerted, a police team from the Aruppukkottai Town police station took up an investigation. District superintendent of police P Perumal also reached the spot and conducted an inquiry. Perumal told TOI that according to the family, the robbers did not seem familiar. They might have known Ramkumar’s name as he owns a shop in the locality. “We have formed two teams led by inspectors,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gang-robs-house-in-virudhunagar-after-taking-kids-hostage/articleshow/79180512.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ludhiana||District mentors welcome PSEB move to cut syllabus by 30%||LUDHIANA: Amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) has decided to reduce its syllabus for Classes IX to XII for the current academic session by up to 30% on the pattern of the Central Board of School Education (CBSE). The city district mentors and teachers are glad about the move. However, in mathematics, chemistry and physics, no chapters have been deleted but only a few topics have been deleted. Dr Yograj, chairman of PSEB, told TOI, “A committee comprising subject experts from the PSEB and State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) set up by the school education department has finalised its suggestions for a reduction in the course load to ease the burden on students from Classes IX to XII. To make up for the academic loss that happened due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, one-third syllabus of Classes IX to XII has been reduced and the topics dropped from the syllabus have been selected for several subjects.” “We have followed the CBSE pattern and now I feel that 30% is sufficient and if we further reduce, then further complications can be there. We will upload the model paper and sample paper for the students. We want them to visit the schools for at least two months to clear the doubts if any,” he added. Another PSEB official said the approval of the academic council will be required before any further topic or chapter are removed from the syllabus. Punjab was among the first states to impose a curfew on March 23 and shut its schools. Jasvir Singh, district mentor, science, said, “The reduced syllabus by the Punjab State Education Board is a welcome move for students. It is good for them as students were going a bit slow in online classes in understanding the concepts due to lack of direct interaction. Three chapters of sciences have been deleted which were the basics and students have studied about the same in the previous classes. Thus, the reduced syllabus will not make them knowledge deficient as they have prior experience. Meanwhile, three chapters and a poem of the main course book and two chapters of the supplementary book have been deleted in English, besides a few topics of grammar. District mentor, English, Subodh said, “They have removed the chapters which were difficult and have less relevance. Topics such as voice, reported speech and concept of simple, complex and compound sentences which students have studied in the lower classes have been deleted. In fact, vocabulary too has been reduced. I feel that the reduction is good for the students as this will make them feel less burdened while preparing for exams during Covid-19. However, Sanjeev Taneja, district mentor, mathematics, is of the view that no chapters have been deleted in mathematics as everything is interlinked but there are a few topics which have been deleted from chapters. Taneja said, “If any portion is dropped, it will affect the students in clearing the concepts for competitive exams and higher classes. In Class X, Euclid division, algorithm from real numbers, cross multiplication method in the linear equation, applications related to quadric equations and many other concepts like application related to the sum of the nth term have been deleted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/district-mentors-welcome-pseb-move-to-cut-syllabus-by-30/articleshow/79174554.cms||Mehak Jain
November 12, 2020||---||Bihar-like alliance won’t work in Bengal: Left Front||MALDA: The Left parties that are united in Bihar speak in many voices when it comes to West Bengal. CPI (M-L) Liberation, which is among the 16 parties in Bengal’s Left-secular family, would prefer to target BJP as enemy No.1 and has no inhibition in taking along TMC even as CPM sticks to its anti-TMC-BJP stance. On Wednesday, these differences came out in the open when Left Front chairman Biman Bose turned down CPI(M-L) Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya’s suggestion that Left parties in Bengal and Assam should target BJP together. “There is no question of replicating the Bihar model in Bengal. Bengal has its own model,” he said here. His response came a day after Bhattacharya had hinted at a mahagathbandhan in Bengal. “In Bengal and Assam, the No.1 priority of the Left must be to stop BJP. “I think the Left has to get its act together in Bengal,” he said. CPI (M-L) Liberation, which is among the 16 parties in Bengal’s Left-secular family, would prefer to target BJP as enemy No.1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bihar-like-alliance-wont-work-in-bengal-left-front/articleshow/79181905.cms||Subhro Maitra
November 12, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand assembly passes resolution seeking separate religious code for tribals||Ranchi: The Jharkhand assembly on Wednesday unanimously passed a House resolution seeking a separate code for Adivasis and sent it to the Centre. The resolution, which demanded provisions for a separate ‘Adivasi/Sarna religious code’ from the Centre, for inclusion in the census register, was tabled by chief minister Hemant Soren. While tabling his government’s resolution, Hemant said a religious code will present an exact number of tribal communities, help document their population, preserve tribal languages, culture and history and help them avail their Constitutional rights (under the 5th schedule) and benefits under the tribal sub-plan. Soren expressed his concern over the falling tribal population nationwide. “Upon analysis of the tribal population between 1931 and 2011, a drop to 26.02% from 38.03% has been noticed in the past 80 years. The census figures indicate that the growth rate of tribal population in Jharkhand is less than that of other communities. While population of other communities has increased at a rate of 25.65%, that of tribal communities stands at 17.19%,” the CM said. Soren claimed that the dip in numbers were also because a large chunk of tribals migrate to other states when they are not harvesting. “It is often argued that these people, who are not documented in their respective hamlets, are done so at the places where they migrate. But these people are documented as people of general class outside of Jharkhand. The falling numbers of tribals can also have an adverse effect on the special provisions guaranteed by the fifth schedule,” he added. BJP, led by former minister Neelkanth Singh Munda, welcomed the state government’s move, but demanded that the resolution be renamed ‘Adivasi Sarna religious code’ as the name was misleading and politically motivated. Munda also questioned why the government did not deliberate the resolution in the tribal advisory council (TAC) before tabling it in the assembly. The new TAC is currently pending approval of the governor. Mandar MLA Bandhu Tirkey suggested that the resolution must drop the word ‘Adivasi’ and be passed as Sarna Code. Claiming that though tribal communities make up for 10.45 crore of India’s population, JMM MLA Dipak Birua said the Centre’s refusal to acknowledge Sarna as a religion is leading to religious conversions. Ajsu-P MLA Lambodar Mahto, who also welcomed the resolution, claimed 20 lakh tribal people have embraced Christianity through all these years. Hemant, agreeing to suggestions of legislators from the treasury and opposition benches, renamed the resolution as ‘Sarna Adivasi Religious Code’. “Besides passing a resolution, we will speak to the state governments which have tribal population and galvanise a nationwide appeal. We will also meet the Union government and demand the religious code before the Census gets underway in February next year,” he promised the House.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-assembly-passes-resolution-seeking-separate-religious-code-for-tribals/articleshow/79178889.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 12, 2020||Ranchi||Cop kills farmer after cow eats up veggies in Ramgarh||Ramgarh: A farmer died a day after he was thrashed by a policeman as punishment after his cow entered the cop’s farmland and ate up some cauliflowers planted there. No arrest has been made so far and the accused is absconding. The district police have launched a manhunt to nab the cop. Sub-inspector Jeetendra Kumar Mahto alias Mantu Kumar, who is posted in Ranchi, was visiting his home at Chhotkipona village under Chitarpur block in Ramgarh district when he found out that a cow belonging to Khemlal Mahto (45), a resident of Sauradih village, had entered his farm. DSP (headquarters) Prakash Soy said the cop thrashed the farmer severely and the he succumbed to the injuries at the sadar hospital on Tuesday. Soy said, “An FIR has been registered with the Rajrappa police station under various sections including Section 302 against Mahto, his parents and two others on the basis of a written complaint filed by the deceased’s wife Savitri Devi,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cop-kills-farmer-after-cow-eats-up-veggies-in-ramgarh/articleshow/79179001.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jewellers hope for a gold rush on Dhanteras||JAMSHEDPUR: Jewellery shops here have decked up in anticipation of brisk business during Dhanteras, and so have showrooms selling vehicles and electronic goods. Although the price of the yellow metal is still quite high (over Rs 52,000 for 10g of 24 carat gold), shopkeepers are optimistic that Steel City residents would purchase gold and silver jewellery during Dhanteras, which is considered auspicious on the occasion. The owner of a jewellery shop in Sonari market area, Rajiv Agarwal, said: “I am confident that whatever losses we have incurred during the lockdown period, we would be able to compensate that during the Dhanteras.” He said the annual bonus given by the Tata group has given a lot of people extra money and the latter are likely to invest it in buying gold. Another jeweller in Sakchi market said he has ordered new designs in view of the expected spike in demand during Dhanteras. He added that his shop would give customers the option to buy jewellery by paying in instalments. The two-wheeler showrooms here are also witnessing a large number of footfalls as many people are preferring to have their own vehicles owing to fears of contracting Covid. Keeping this new trend in mind, showroom owners expressed confidence that more people would buy or book vehicles on Dhanteras. Rohit Tudu, an employee at a car showroom in Bistupur, said they are expecting many people to book cars on Dhanteras as well. Similarly, owners of shops selling electronic goods also said that they expect the demand for laptops and smartphones to go up around Dhanteras. Vicky, the owner of a computer shop in Yashkamal Complex in Bistupur, said: “The demand for desktops and laptops has shot up since the imposition of lockdown. We expect many to buy new laptops or exchange old ones on Dhanteras.” Sakchi resident Sanchita said she was planning to buy a laptop for her elder son Riju on Dhanteras, as it would help him prepare better for his board exams next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jewellers-hope-for-a-gold-rush-on-dhanteras/articleshow/79178935.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 12, 2020||Surat||Surat: Sachin textile mills start getting treated waste water||SURAT: The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) on Wednesday inaugurated the tertiary treatment plant (TTP) of 35 million litres per day (MLD) capacity at Bamroli for supplying the treated water to about 68 textile dyeing and printing mills in Sachin GIDC. Surat was the first in the state to set up tertiary treatment plant of 40 MLD capacity on Ultra Filtration (UF) and Reverse Osmosis (RO) technology at Bamroli in 2014. The plant is generating industrial grade water and that it is being supplied to the textile mills located in Pandesara GIDC since 2014. SMC’s executive engineer, EH Pathan said, “Bamroli now has two TTPs of 35 MLD and 40 MLD capacity each. The 35 MLD plant will supply treated water to industries in Sachin. While the 40 MLD TTP is supplying to Pandesara industries.” According to Pathan, the SMC has set a target of treating and supplying 550 MLD water to industrial units in Pandesara, Sachin, Palsana, Hazira and nearby areas at the cost of Rs 500 crore by 2021. Work is going on for the three more TTPs at Kosad, Bhesan and Asarma with total capacity of 313 MLD. About 180 MLD of treated water will be supplied to Hazira units. SMC supplies treated water to the industries at Rs 29 per kilo litres. At present, ot is earning about Rs 30 crore revenue by supplying treated water to Pandesara GIDC. Ramaben Ramoliya, chairman, Sachin Industrial Association told TOI, “We had signed an MoU with SMC for supplying treated water in 2015. Till now, the industries were dependent on raw water from the irrigation canal and private tankers for daily requirement of 70 MLD.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sachin-textile-mills-start-getting-treated-waste-water/articleshow/79179150.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Ranchi||Showrooms flooded with bookings for cars, bikes for Dhanteras||Bokaro: Despite pay cuts and job losses looming large this year because of the pandemic, many in Bokaro have placed orders for cars and two-wheelers for Dhanteras with the showroom owners saying that the demand this time is more than what it was in the previous years. Many even claimed that they are unable not keep up with the orders, placed around a month ago, in view of curtailed production necessitated by the outbreak. As many as 1,000 cars and 1,500 two-wheelers have been booked across different showrooms, including Maruti, Tata, Hyundai, Hero, Honda, TVS and others. The automobile sector in Bokaro is upbeat as it is expecting to do business to the tune of Rs 10 crore in the festive season. Manish Bansal, owner of Maruti showroom Hindustan Agency, said they have received 493 advance bookings for cars, including SUVs like Breeza and Ertiga and sedans like Swift Dzire. “However, due to low production and the subsequent low supply this year, we can only deliver 250-280 cars,” he added. He has another showroom of bikes in Chas and that has received 700 bookings till now. Similarly, a Honda showroom here is reportedly flooded with bookings for bikes and the store is set to deliver around 400 two-wheelers on Dhanteras. Shree Hyundai Automobiles here is flooded with bookings for cars as well, an employee at the store said. Like automobiles, people are also flocking to jewellery stores for Dhanteras. “The demand for gold is pretty high this year. Customers are also buying diamonds,” Suresh Kumar, who owns Trimurti Jewellers, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/showrooms-flooded-with-bookings-for-cars-bikes-for-dhanteras/articleshow/79178849.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Jamshedpur||Tata Steel to host ‘Samvaad’ from Nov 15||Jamshedpur: Tata Steel is all set to host the seventh edition of its tribal conclave ‘Samvaad’ from November 15 to 19. This year it’ll be held virtually in view of the pandemic and the organisers have set up a dedicated YouTube channel for live streaming the event. “People can log into our YouTube channel (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtyIjTKJAYEaMH3BkcHRVzw) to watch the conclave live,” Tata Steel’s CSR chief Sourav Roy said on Wednesday. He added, “They can also watch the Samvaad programmes by logging on to our website (https://www.tatasteel.com/initiatives/samvaad/index.html).” The conclave will witness the coming together of representatives of more than 100 tribes across 23 states and nine countries. “We have kept this year’s theme as ‘Coming Together for Social Change’ to represent the belief that there are inherent aspects of tribalism that place seamlessness as a core value of society,” he said. The organisers are also planning to introduce around 16 tribal cuisines at the conclave and Steel City residents can even get a taste of each of those by ordering them online through Zomato. “Encouraged by the increasing love for tribal cuisine among the youngsters, we have tied-up with Zomato for the home delivery of the tribal delicacies,” Roy said. The young tribal film-makers are likely to gain the most from this year’s Samvaad as acclaimed tribal movies will be screened on the YouTube channel and the makers of the films will be invited for a dialogue with the aspiring directors to help the latter learn the art of film-making. Around 500 children from nine schools here will participate in that segment. This year’s edition will also see fresh compositions played on all the five days. “Each of the compositions will be new and dedicated to the cause of the tribals,” Roy said. Throwing light on the journey of Samvaad that made its debut in 2014, he said the Samvaad ecosystem has brought together more than 30,000 people from 117 tribes across 27 states and 18 countries in the past six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/tata-steel-to-host-samvaad-from-nov-15/articleshow/79179927.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 12, 2020||Ranchi||Colleges, univs still wait for recruitement of teachers despite guv order||Ranchi: Despite governor Droupadi Murmu’s instructions to the JPSC chairman to expedite the process of appointing teachers at colleges and universities, institutions here are facing a shortage of regular teachers and relying on part-time teachers and guest lecturers for conducting classes and examinations. Dr Shyama Prasad Mukherjee University (DSPMU) has around 60 regular teachers, much less than the required strength. The university has around 45 departments and ideally there should have been a professor, two associate professors and four assistant professors in each department. The vice-chancellor of DSPMU, Dr S N Munda, said, “We are depending mostly on contractual teachers for the classes. It is not an ideal situation. Teaching requires full-time involvement and only regular teachers can devote that time.” A similar situation prevails at Ranchi University (RU) which had sent a list of 268 vacancies to the Jharkhand Public Service Commission (JPSC), but the latter has recommended only 47 names for appointment. RU vice-chancellor Ramesh Pandey said, “The new teachers will join service soon after the festival season is over. However, the shortage of teachers in the university and colleges will still be acute.” Principal U C Mehta of Marwari College said, “There is a huge vacancy of regular teachers in my college. We are highly dependent on contractual teachers for conducting online classes.” A contractual teacher at Marwari College, Rajan Kumar, said that all zoology classes are being taken by contractual teachers, while in economics there is one regular and three contractual teachers. There is a large number of contractual teachers at Doranda College and at Karti Oroan College in Gumla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/colleges-univs-still-wait-for-recruitement-of-teachers-despite-guv-order/articleshow/79179829.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 12, 2020||Ranchi||Garhwa civic body begins cleaning of Chhat ghats||GARHWA: With just a week left for Chhat, the district administration, civic body and social organisations have started a drive to clean the ghats. The ghats at the banks of Danro and Saraswatiya rivers, besides those at the lakes and ponds are being refurbished for the convenience of devotees. The administration is also making provisions to provide devotees with Puja items and milk for ‘arghya’. Zila parishad chairperson Pinky Keshri said, “All the ghats are being thoroughly cleaned. There are altogether 19 Chhat ghats in the civic area. The sanitation drive has been launched much ahead of the festival this time so that devotees do not face any trouble.” She added, “Neighbourhoods are also being cleaned up by the civic body in association with Chhat committee members. Most of the streets leading to the rivers and ponds will be decorated with colourful lights.” Besides locals, revellers from neighbouring Bihar and Uttar Pradesh also visit the ghats here during the festivities, Keshri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/garhwa-civic-body-begins-cleaning-of-chhat-ghats/articleshow/79179942.cms||---
November 12, 2020||---||Nota got fewer votes than in ’15, yet beat many||PATNA: About 7,06,252 people chose the none of the above (Nota) option in the Bihar assembly election, which works out to 1.6% of the total votes polled, according to data provided by the chief electoral office, reports Faryal Rumi. Around 4.1 crore people cast their votes. The number of people who had chosen Nota in 2015 — 9.4 lakh out of 3.8 crore people who voted — was higher than this year’s figure. JAP-L, led by Rajesh Ranjan alias Pappu Yadav, and Plurals Party, led by Pushpam Priya Choudhary, got fewer votes than Nota in many seats. Pushpam fielded candidates in 149 seats and she contested the polls from Bisfi and Bankipur. She got 1,521 votes in Bisfi, where 2,929 people pressed Nota. In Bankipur, where there were 1,213 Nota votes, she won 5,189 votes. Political watchers said the decline in the Nota percentage indicated that people had started reposing faith in candidates and parties. An awareness programme run by the EC is another factor behind the decrease in Nota votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nota-got-fewer-votes-than-in-15-yet-beat-many/articleshow/79181908.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 12, 2020||Surat||Surat: No trace of gold looters||SURAT: Vadodara range IG Harikrishna Patel on Wednesday formed 10 teams to trace the four persons who had looted nearly 6.68 kg gold worth Rs 3.39 crore and cash from private finance firm India Infoline Finance Ltd’s office in Ankleshwar on November 9. The 10 teams includes officers from the Bharuch crime branch, special operation group (SOG), local crime branch (LCB) and parole furlough squad. Patel along with Bharuch superintendent of police, Rajendrasinh Chudasama, visited the IIFL office situated at Ashish complex at Teen Rasta circle in Ankleshwar on Wednesday. At around 9am,the armed robbers came to the office when the employees had just opened the shutters. They held the staffers at gunpoint and looted gold and cash from the password-protected strong room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/no-trace-of-gold-looters/articleshow/79179159.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Chennai||Most parents against school reopening in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The state government on Wednesday informed the Madras HC that most parents have expressed opinion against reopening of schools and colleges in the state. The government would soon take a decision on the issue, a state counsel told the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/most-parents-against-school-reopening-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79181936.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Delhi||8,593 fresh cases in Delhi set grim record||NEW DELHI: Delhi on Wednesday recorded the highest single-day tally of 8,593 new Covid-19 cases and the health department confirmed 85 deaths in the last 24 hours. The previous high was on Tuesday, when the capital recorded 7,830 people cases. The sharp rise in cases suggests that the infection is spreading fast, and the rising number of deaths is an indication of people developing severe symptoms. Positivity rate up to 13.4% from less than 6% in JulyAccording to government data, the positivity rate of Covid-19 in Delhi is 13.4%. It had dropped to less than 6% in July, raising hopes that the crisis caused by the pandemic was receding. However, the situation has only worsened since then, with very few beds being available for Covid-19 patients, especially those requiring critical care. Doctors say if the infection doesn’t get contained soon, the city’s health infrastructure may collapse. “I do not know if I will be able to get a bed on testing positive for Covid-19,” said a senior doctor of one of Delhi’s top private hospitals. He said the hospital has put stretchers in the corridors to attend to the seriously-ill in emergency or until the patient gets a bed. “Patients with mild-to-moderate symptoms, who can’t find a bed, are seeking tele-consultations,” said another doctor. Public health experts say urgent measures need to be enforced. “Festive season shouldn’t become an excuse to flout rules. It puts the person and family members at risk of contracting the infection and spreading it further, thereby extending the chain of transmission,” doctors say. Until now, Delhi has recorded over 4.59 lakh Covid-19 cases and a total of 7,228 deaths due to the infection. Initially, it was believed that the infection mainly affected the lungs. However, new evidence suggests that the virus affects multiple organs, including heart, brain and pancreas, among others. Increase in air pollution over the past week has added to the crisis. Doctors say air pollution is causing more severe symptoms in Covid-19 patients, making recovery difficult. “High-risk groups, for example elderly, those with co-morbidities especially respiratory problems, shouldn’t venture out until the situation improves,” said Dr Sandeep Nayar of BLK super-specialty hospital. “So many people are moving around without masks in the markets. Many of them may be asymptomatic cases. If people wear masks, the risk of disease spread will reduce,” he added. Watch Covid-19: Delhi records highest 24-hour coronavirus tally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/8593-fresh-cases-in-delhi-set-grim-record/articleshow/79181944.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 12, 2020||India||WHO chief Tedros thanks PM Modi for strong commitment to Covid vaccine||NEW YORK: World Health Organisation (WHO) Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Wednesday thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his strong commitment to Covax and making Covid-19 vaccines a global public good. "I thanked Prime Minister @narendramodi for his strong commitment to COVAX and making #COVID19 vaccines a global public good. The pandemic is an unprecedented challenge for the world, and we agreed to work shoulder to shoulder to end it. #ACTtogether," Tedros said in tweet. Tedros said he had a "very productive" telephone call with PM Modi during which both of them talked about ways to "strengthen our collaboration and advance access to knowledge, research and training in traditional medicine globally". धन्यवाद प्रधान मंत्री @narendramodi COVAX के प्रति आपकी मजबूत प्रतिबद्धता और COVID-१९ वैक्सीन को वैश्विक स्तर पर उ… https://t.co/BPDhZKSrsZ— Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus (@DrTedros) 1605116038000The WHO chief said in a tweet, "Namaste, Prime Minister @narendramodi, for a very productive call on how to strengthen our collaboration & advance access to knowledge, research and training in traditional medicine globally. @WHO welcomes India's Flag of India leading role in global health, and to universal health coverage." Had an excellent conversation with DG of @WHO @DrTedros. We discussed the vast potential of traditional medicine fo… https://t.co/7OEpTR4jWd— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605112707000Prime Minister expressed his appreciation for WHO's important role in facilitating a coordinated global response to the COVID-19 pandemic, a statement issued by the PMO said. He also noted the need to not lose sight of the battle against other diseases and appreciated the importance of WHO's support to the health systems of developing countries. According to the release, PM Modi Minister informed Dr Tedros about the planned celebration of Ayurveda Day in India on November 13 under the theme of 'Ayurveda for COVID-19'. Watch WHO chief Tedros thanks PM Modi for strong commitment to Covid vaccine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/who-chief-tedros-thanks-pm-modi-for-strong-commitment-to-covid-vaccine/articleshow/79181910.cms||---
November 12, 2020||Delhi||Case spurt should’ve rung alarm bells, Delhi HC raps govt||NEW DELHI: At a time when “alarm bells should have rung” in Delhi government over unprecedented spurt in Covid-19 cases, it instead relaxed safety norms for public gatherings and transport, Delhi High Court said on Wednesday. No household has been left untouched (by the virus), it added. The high court asked what “concrete steps” and “concerted strategy” were being worked out by the AAP government when “the situation has surpassed the stage of issuance of advisories. Strict compliance and deterrent action are the need of the hour.” A bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subromonium Prasad said that “in the light of the above and the mounting cases in past two weeks, alarm bell should have rung within the government to tackle the situation hands on.” The city state was “hands down beating” Maharashtra and Kerala in the number of daily new cases in the past two weeks, it added. The court noted that “even in such a critical situation, Delhi government has continued to relax the norms relating to movement of the public.” It highlighted that as against an order capping 100 guests at marriage ceremonies, the number of guests had been permitted to be increased to 200. Similarly, as against alternate seats in public transport, the government has now permitted full occupancy. “Photos flashed on social media bear testimony to huge crowds thronging the market places in Delhi. It is an alarming situation where all cautions has been thrown to the wind during this festive season and the public is out in uncontrolled numbers, which itself would become a cause for further spread of the infection. On the one hand, citizens of Delhi have been struggling with the Covid-19 infection and on the other, the air pollution in the city is adding to their woes,” the bench noted. The high court stressed that “any of the large gatherings of the public in narrow and constricted streets and spaces could become super spreaders of the infection.” The court also took a strong exception to poor enforcement of mask discipline, observing that “it is one thing for the Delhi government to state that till a vaccine is introduced to contain the infection, masks should be treated as a vaccine and another thing to demonstrate how it proposes to enforce such a statement.” If Delhi government was serious about containing the infection, then by now, there would have been some sanctions for enforcing wearing of masks in public places, and strategy in place to maintain social distancing, the court said. It also talked about “adhering to norms of adequate hygiene, preventing crowding at public places/public transports, making adequate arrangements for hospitalising patients suffering from Covid-19 infection and those who require to be shifted to Care homes.” The court asked standing counsel Satyakam to file a status report explaining steps taken by the AAP government in the last two weeks to contain the spread of the infection and listed the matter for further hearing on November 19. The high court said thousands of people in the city were “struggling for treatment and finding beds in hospitals and nursing homes,” and asked Delhi government if it had made “adequate arrangements.” “People are running helter-skelter without knowing what to do,” the bench observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/case-spurt-shouldve-rung-alarm-bells-delhi-hc-raps-govt/articleshow/79181950.cms||Abhinav Garg
