November 13, 2020||India||PM Modi congratulates Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi over her party's election win||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday congratulated Myanmar's Aung San Suu Kyi over her party National League for Democracy's victory in elections and said he looks forward to continuing to work with her to strengthen the traditional bonds of friendship between the two countries. Unofficial results showed on Tuesday that the ruling National League for Democracy party of Nobel Peace Prize laureate Suu Kyi won a majority of seats in Parliament, giving it a second five-year term in power. "Congratulations to Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and NLD for victory in the elections. The successful conduct of polls is another step in the ongoing democratic transition in Myanmar," Prime Minister Modi tweeted. Congratulations to Daw Aung San Suu Kyi & NLD for victory in the elections. The successful conduct of polls is anot… https://t.co/imf17SVGVy— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605199929000"I look forward to continuing to work with you to strengthen our traditional bonds of friendship," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-congratulates-myanmars-aung-san-suu-kyi-over-her-partys-election-win/articleshow/79199178.cms||---
November 13, 2020||---||You got it wrong, Nitish tells scribes when asked about 'last poll' remark||PATNA: Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday sought to clarify his recent "aakhiri chunaav" (last poll) remark which had triggered intense speculations, and claimed that it was an utterance made by him whenever he wrapped up an election campaign, but it was "misunderstood" this time. The JD(U) president was talking to journalists here for the first time after results for the assembly elections came out and the NDA got a clear majority, though his own party suffered a slump and got outperformed by junior partner BJP. The JD(U) won 43 seats against the saffron party's 71. "You guys did not get it right. I say the same thing at the last rally in every election ant bhala to sab bhala (all is well that ends well)," said Kumar when asked about his closing remarks at an election meeting he addressed in Purnea district last week, shortly before campaigning for the final phase of polls came to an end. Read AlsoMade no claim to CM’s post, NDA will decide, says NitishJD(U) chief Nitish Kumar said that NDA would be forming the next government in Bihar as people have given their mandate to the four-party alliance while adding that he had not made any claim to the chief minister’s post. When asked who will be named the CM, Nitish said: “I have made no claim, the"Listen to what I said before and after it and you will understand the context. Had you done so, you would not have misunderstood it," said Kumar whose words "ye mera aakhiri chunaav hai" (this is my last election) was interpreted by the opposition as an admission of impending defeat and a ploy to strike a chord with an angry electorate. However, JD(U) leaders had later came out with a clarification that "aakhiri chunaav" meant "aakhiri chunaavi sabha" (last election meeting) and Kumar was not talking about retirement. The 69-year-old chief minister, who has been in power since 2005, appeared unhappy over projections of a strong anti-incumbency during the elections and predictions of a rout of the ruling dispensation. "I have been selflessly serving people. Still, some people succeeded in creating some confusion. You must have noted the anxieties triggered in public mind following the projections of the exit polls," Kumar said. Most exit polls had predicted a comfortable victory for the RJD-led Grand Alliance which had led to fears, among those not sympathetic to Lalu Prasad's party, that its return to power could lead to lawlessness. "Jungle raj", alluding to the alleged lawlessness that prevailed during the 15 years Prasad and his wife Rabri Devi had ruled the state, came to be the recurring theme of the NDA's poll campaign. Lending weight to the narrative, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is being credited for the BJP's stellar performance, had repeatedly warned the people of the state against promises made by Prasad's heir apparent Tejashwi Yadav, whom he never mentioned by name but always referred to as "jungle raj ke yuvraj". Yadav was also the chief ministerial candidate of the RJD-led Grand Alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/you-got-it-wrong-nitish-tells-scribes-when-asked-about-last-poll-remark/articleshow/79199338.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Gurgaon||#LocalWaliDiwali: Take a trip to Banjara Market in Gurgaon for affordable home décor||Banjara Market is one of the most popular furniture markets in Gurgaon and has a huge variety to offer. From cheap and antique furniture to dainty home décor items, including mirrors, ceramic wind chimes and crockery – the market has an abundance of options to choose from if you are planning to redecorate or revamp your home this Diwali. From Moroccan to traditional decor items, wooden and metal diya holders, lamps, light fixtures with a vintage look – the list of items available at Banjara Market is exhaustive, and all of them are available at affordable pricesBut due to the pandemic, many of the sellers are still waiting for the usual rush of festive season. With our #LocalWaliDiwali series, we offer you a glimpse of this market and its vendors. Head over here for all your home decor needs, buy unique items and make this Diwali a happy one for your local vendors. Razeena says that the business has been very low this Diwali due to the coronavirus pandemicRazeena, 30, a seller at the market, fears that this Diwali will not be festive. “The business is very low this year because of the coronavirus pandemic. Subah se ek bhi grahak nahi aaya hai. I have bought all these diyas for Diwali from Uttam Nagar to sell here but I don’t think anyone is going to turn up to buy these. Sab pada hai. Ek-do din hi reh gaye hain Diwali ke, kaun lega yeh sab?” she wonders. Painting the diyas gold, she adds, “ Ek- do customer aa jate hain, unse hi ghar chal raha hai, par aur logon ko aana chahiye.” Razeena is not the only one who is struggling to sustain her business. Many sellers have returned to their hometowns because of the pandemic while others are doing their best to survive. Pol Kumar sells diyas and decor items, and says that Diwali used to be the peak season for them, but this year the sale has been very low Pol Kumar, 50, who sells diyas, home décor items and ceramic crockery, adds, “ Sab thanda pada hai lockdown ke baad. The month before Diwali used to be the peak season for us. Ab sab thanda hai. Diwali se koi umeed nahi hai,  bas chai paani ka kharcha chal raha hai,” he rues. Watch #LocalWaliDiwali: Take a trip to Banjara Market in Gurgaon for affordable home decor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/localwalidiwali-take-a-trip-to-banjara-market-in-gurgaon-for-affordable-home-dcor/articleshow/79192568.cms||Riya Sharma
November 13, 2020||India||CPWD announces design competition for iconic structure in proposed park on Yamuna bank||NEW DELHI: The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Thursday announced to hold a design competition for an iconic structure in the proposed “Nav Bharat Udyan” (New India Garden) on the Yamuna bank. The park will be developed over 22 acres to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence. TOI had on July 14 first reported about the “New India Garden”, which will be developed close to the Millennium Bus Depot. “This is part of the Central Vista Redevelopment Pproject. The iconic structure will be on the same alignment of the Rashtrapati Bhavan and India Gate. This will be like virtually doubling the length of the Central Vista from 2.9 km to 6.3 km. No structure will be touched between India Gate and the proposed park. Hence, this stretch won’t have the similar features or look like that of the Rajpath,” said a senior official of the housing and urban affairs ministry. He said the existing road network between India Gate and the proposed park will be improved to make it a user-friendly. “There cannot be a physical extension of Central Vista with similar character. We have National Stadium and Purana Qila on this stretch. These cannot be touched,” the official said. CPWD said the design can be subitted by individuals, students, a group of persons, architects and firms. It said the park will have the iconic structure and infotainment facilities such as Sphere of Unity, Milestones Walkway, Journey of India, Tech Dome, amphi-theatre to showcase India’s rich historical and cultural heritage, scientific achievements, and will symbolise unity in diversity and aspirations of the New India. The maximum permissible height of the structure will be 134 metres from the present ground level. CPWD has kept Rs 5 lakh as the prize for the winning entry while five commendation prizes of Rs 1 lakh each will also be given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cpwd-announces-design-competition-for-iconic-structure-in-proposed-park-on-yamuna-bank/articleshow/79199582.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 13, 2020||World||Besides Ladakh, India and China pushing for settling ‘other outstanding issues’ along LAC: MEA||NEW DELHI: India and China are pushing for settlement of “other outstanding issues” apart from disengagement in eastern Ladakh, raising hopes that any deal that may be worked out may include other “problem areas” on the Line of Actutal Control (LAC). Briefing journalists, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Indian and Chinese military commanders and officials would meet again “soon”. “India and China have agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at the meeting of the Senior Commanders, to push for the settlement of other outstanding issues.” There have been reports that India and China are considering disengagement proposals in eastern Ladakh where the two armies have been in a stand-off situation since May. Srivastava described the latest round of talks between the senior military commanders on November 6 as “candid, in-depth and constructive”. Both sides, he said, “exchanged views on disengagement at all friction points along the Line of Actual Control in the western sector of India-China border areas”. This could include not only the northern and southern banks of the Pangong Tso but could also the outstanding issue on the Depsang plains, where Indian patrols have been stopped by the Chinese side. On August 29-30, Indian troops occupied key strategic heights on the Kailash range on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso, effectively checkmating the Chinese ingress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/besides-ladakh-india-and-china-pushing-for-settling-other-outstanding-issues-along-lac-mea/articleshow/79200948.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||Besides Ladakh, India and China pushing for settling ‘other outstanding issues’ along LAC: MEA||NEW DELHI: India and China are pushing for settlement of “other outstanding issues” apart from disengagement in eastern Ladakh, raising hopes that any deal that may be worked out may include other “problem areas” on the Line of Actutal Control (LAC). Briefing journalists, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said Indian and Chinese military commanders and officials would meet again “soon”. “India and China have agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and, taking forward the discussions at the meeting of the Senior Commanders, to push for the settlement of other outstanding issues.” There have been reports that India and China are considering disengagement proposals in eastern Ladakh where the two armies have been in a stand-off situation since May. Srivastava described the latest round of talks between the senior military commanders on November 6 as “candid, in-depth and constructive”. Both sides, he said, “exchanged views on disengagement at all friction points along the Line of Actual Control in the western sector of India-China border areas”. This could include not only the northern and southern banks of the Pangong Tso but could also the outstanding issue on the Depsang plains, where Indian patrols have been stopped by the Chinese side. On August 29-30, Indian troops occupied key strategic heights on the Kailash range on the southern bank of the Pangong Tso, effectively checkmating the Chinese ingress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/besides-ladakh-india-and-china-pushing-for-settling-other-outstanding-issues-along-lac-mea/articleshow/79200835.cms||---
November 13, 2020||World||Trump bans US investment in Chinese military-linked firms||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump has stepped up a conflict with China over security and technology by issuing an order barring Americans from investing in companies that US officials say are owned or controlled by the Chinese military. The impact of the order Thursday wasn't immediately clear but it could add to pressure on companies including telecom equipment giant Huawei and video surveillance provider Hikvision that already face US export bans and other sanctions. It is Trump's first major action toward China since he lost his re-election bid to challenger Joe Biden. Economists and political analysts have said even if Trump was defeated he was likely to launch more actions Beijing before he leaving office on Jan. 20. Political analysts expect little change in policy under Biden due to widespread frustration with China's trade and human rights records and accusations of spying and technology theft. U.S. officials complain China's ruling Communist Party takes advantage of access to American technology and investment to expand its military, already one of the world's biggest and most heavily armed. Thursday's order complains the companies targeted "directly support'' the Chinese military, intelligence and security apparatus. It said Beijing "exploits United States investors'' to finance military development by selling securities in American and foreign financial markets. The order bars American investors from conducting any transactions in publicly traded securities issued by any Chinese companies designated by the secretary of defense as being linked to the Communist Party's military wing, the People's Liberation Army. The Pentagon earlier designated 31 companies as being owned or controlled by the Chinese military. Many are military contractors or state-owned companies such as phone carrier China Telecom Ltd. But the list also includes Huawei Technologies Ltd. and Hikvision Digital Technology Co., which say they are private and deny they are controlled by the military. Most of those companies have no shares traded in the United States but many sell stocks, bonds and other securities in markets outside mainland China that are accessible to American investors. Sales made to divest securities of those companies will be allowed until one year from now on Nov. 11, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/donald-trump-bans-us-investment-in-chinese-firms-that-help-military/articleshow/79201115.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||Government unveils fresh Rs 1.2 lakh crore booster||NEW DELHI: Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday announced a fresh set of measures, involving an estimated outgo of Rs 1.2 lakh crore, to boost demand, help create jobs, augment infrastructure and ensure growth is back on track. At a news conference, she pegged the value of the package at Rs 2.65 lakh crore, including the nearly Rs 1.5 lakh crore production-linked incentives (PLI) for 10 sectors that was cleared by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday. The PLI scheme is spread over five years, while several of the announcements made on Thursday, such as enhanced allocation for fertiliser subsidy and PM Aawas Yojana in urban areas, will see spending during the current financial year itself. This is also a departure from the past when the government was accused of providing little by way of budgetary support and instead piggybacking banks and other intermediaries to deliver the goods during the pandemic. The government is keen to support the recent recovery, as evident from a string of economic data. The economy has borne the brunt of the Covid-19 induced lockdown and contracted a record 23.9% in the June quarter. Including the steps announced by the Reserve Bank of India since the lockdown in March-end, Sitharaman said, the government and central bank have together provided a stimulus of around Rs 29.9 lakh crore — which is almost 50% higher than the budgeted revenue receipts for the year. The size of the stimulus now adds up to 15% of the GDP, the minister estimated. “Today’s Aatmanirbhar Bharat Package continues our efforts to help all sections of society. These initiatives will help in creating jobs, alleviate stressed sectors, ensure liquidity, boost manufacturing, energise real-estate sector & support farmers,” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on micro-blogging site Twitter. Barclays said the fiscal deficit may top 7% of GDP this year, against the budgeted 3.5%, but the government appeared to be keen to be backing steps for revival of the economy. It has already raised its market borrowing to help nurse the economy nack to health. Read AlsoNirmala Sitharaman announces new stimulus package worth Rs 2.65 lakh crore: Key pointsUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman addressed a press conference in an effort to pull the economy out of its historic contraction. "Economy has staged a strong recovery with growth in GST collections, bank credit, FDI inflows along with other indicators," she said.The latest bunch of measures came amid an improvement in several indicators, which Sitharaman listed. On Wednesday, RBI has warned that with growth expected to contract during the September quarter too, India is headed for a recession as it would make it two straight quarters of falling economic output. The FM relied on RBI’s assessment that economic recovery may take place from the third quarter, which is earlier than what was projected earlier. To support the recovery and encourage hiring specially in the organised sector, the Centre said, it will give 24% wages as provident fund contribution of employees earning up to Rs 15,000 a month in entities that have less than 1,000 employees, an exercise that will cover over 99% employers registered with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). For entities with over 1,000 employees 12% of the wages will be given as subsidy to cover the employee’s contribution. The benefit will be available to those who were not part of the EPFO net earlier or had lost their jobs between March and September. Rs 10,000 crore was provided for rural jobs too. The move is an extension of an earlier benefit, which has seen an outflow to support the employment of 1.2 crore employees. There were also steps such as support to enable loan restructuring across several sectors based on government guarantee if the outstanding credit was between Rs 50 crore and Rs 500 crore, a long-pending demand from the industry. The benefit will, however, be limited to companies that had repayment overdues of 30 days at the end of February. The move is part of the Rs 3 lakh crore package that was earlier limited to MSMEs, which has also been extended up to the end of March. Besides, the government has sought to provide fillip to the real estate sector in clearing inventory for flats that cost up to Rs 2 crore and are selling below the circle rate for the locality. There were sops for contractors engaged in erecting infrastructure too and an increase in allocation for fertliser subsidy to help the farmers. Watch FM Sitharaman announces steps to boost real estate sector||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-unveils-fresh-rs-1-2-lakh-crore-booster/articleshow/79201129.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||Twitter risks suspension over Leh map error||NEW DELHI: Social media giant Twitter runs the risk of facing suspension and even being blocked in India, with the government warning the company of legal consequences over the issue of showing Leh as part of Jammu and Kashmir, instead of the Union Territory of Ladakh. An FIR can also be filed against Twitter India top official. Top sources in the government said they viewed the matter as “a deliberate attempt by Twitter to undermine the will of sovereign Parliament of India”, which had declared Ladakh as a Union Territory of India with its headquarters in Leh. The government had issued a notice to the company on Monday, seeking its response by the close of this week. Earlier after Leh was shown as being a part of China, a notice was sent to Twitter founder Jack Dorsey (this has been corrected, though the India country tag still needs to be updated). The information and technology ministry sent the notice on Monday to the company’s global Vice President, asking him to explain within five working days as to “why legal action should not be initiated against Twitter and its representatives for disrespecting the territorial integrity of India by showing incorrect map”, the sources said. If Twitter fails to act after the current notice, then the government will take legal action, a source told TOI. “We can file an FIR against the head of Twitter in India under the Criminal Laws Amendment Act, 1961, for tampering with the map of India. There could be a jail of six months under this provision.” The other legal action being mulled by the government could come in the form of Section 69A of the IT Act. “Access to the company’s resource, app, or website can be blocked under this provision for questioning the territorial integrity of India or displaying content that threatens territorial integrity,” the source said, adding, “Serious action will follow if Twitter doesn’t follow-up by tomorrow evening.” When contacted, a Twitter spokesperson said that the company has already shared a comprehensive response to the government. “Twitter remains committed to partnering with the Government of India and the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology to serve the public conversation. We have duly responded to the letter and, as part of our correspondence, shared a comprehensive update with the latest developments regarding the geo-tag issue,” the spokesperson said. Sources, however, said, “Work within Twitter on displaying the Union Territory tag is underway and it should be shown by the end of November.” The IT ministry viewed the matter “serious” and IT secretary Ajay Prakash Sawhney had written write to Dorsey on October 21, initially after the location setting that was showing Leh in China. While the matter of Chinese location has been resolved, Leh is now being shown as part of Jammu and Kashmir. Sawhney had asked Dorsey to respect India’s sensitivities. In September, the government had sought explanations from Twitter over an account linked to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s personal website being hacked. “... any attempt by Twitter to disrespect sovereignty and integrity of India, which is also reflected by the maps, is totally unacceptable and also unlawful,” Sawhney had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/twitter-risks-suspension-over-leh-map-error/articleshow/79201328.cms||Pankaj Doval
November 13, 2020||India||AG nod for contempt case against Kunal Kamra for tweets against SC||NEW DELHI: Attorney General K K Venugopal on Thursday granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra for his tweets virulently criticising the Supreme Court after it granted bail to journalist Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case. Referring to the tweets, Venugopal said they are “not only in bad taste but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court”. “Apart from this, there is a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a flag of the ruling political party, namely the BJP, having replaced the tricolour. This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the SC is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, BJP ... All this, in my opinion, constitutes criminal contempt of court,” Venugopal said in his letter giving consent to an Aurangabad resident to initiate contempt proceedings against Kamra. The AG specifically mentioned Kamra’s two controversial tweets but said other tweets are also highly objectionable and it is for the court to take a call whether those tweets also constitute contempt of court. “I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. But under the Constitution, freedom of speech is subject to the law of the contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiably and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. I therefore grant consent to proceed by way of initiating contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra," Venugopal said in his letter to Shrirang Katneshwarkar who sought his permission to proceed against the comedian for contempt of court. Consent of the attorney general is required under Section 15 of the Contempt of Court Act, 1971 read with Rule 3(c) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court of India, 1975. Times ViewKamra’s tweets are not only not funny, they are in poor taste. But they are not worth litigating. The Supreme Court should treat them with the contempt they deserve - rather than dignifying them with its time and attention, it should ignore them. It’s best that it reserves its powers of contempt for matters of greater consequence, such as when its rulings are willfully disobeyed.Venugopal had earlier refused consent to initiate criminal contempt against actor Swara Bhaskar saying her comment regarding the Ram Janmabhoomi title dispute verdict was her perception. “The comment refers to the judgment of the Supreme Court, and is not an attack on the institution. This does not offer any comment on the Supreme Court itself or say anything that would scandalise or tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, this statement does not constitute criminal contempt," Venugopal had said while declining to give consent for contempt proceedings against the Bollywood actress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ag-nod-for-contempt-case-against-kunal-kamra-for-tweets-against-sc/articleshow/79201406.cms||---
November 13, 2020||---||BJP will back Nitish fully for CM, LJP hurt us but voters have answered Chirag: Bhupendra Yadav||BJP is clear that it will stand by its commitment that Nitish Kumar will head the NDA government in Bihar and the alliance's victory in the state is a strong endorsement of the coalition's governance, party general secretary Bhupendra Yadav, a key campaign strategist for the election, tells Akhilesh Singh. Excerpts: Q: PM Narendra Modi and other senior leaders have declared that NDA will form the government in Bihar under Nitish Kumar though BJP has larger numbers. Do you think this arrangement is going to last five years?A: Once we have made a commitment, we will stand by it. For BJP, power is not an end in itself but a means to serve people. It is precisely with this aim that we went to polls in Bihar. We are thankful to the people who believed in the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and his promise of building an Atmanirbhar Bihar, on the lines of Atmanirbhar Bharat. Nitish Kumarji is NDA’s chief minister in Bihar and we will back him all along. Q: Since BJP has far more numbers than JD(U), will you ask for rotational chief minister given the fact that there might be some resentment in BJP for not seeking the post?A: I have answered the question about our commitment to have Nitish Kumarji as our chief minister. The BJP cadre is a disciplined one. There is no resentment with regards to power sharing. Our only aim is to give Bihar the development which the RJD dispensation denied the state for 15 long years. Portfolios will be shared with mutual agreement. We are natural allies and have worked together for 15 years. Q: So far, JD(U) was the bigger partner and held key portfolios. Do you see a role reversal, like BJP taking more berths and important portfolios in the new government? A: All decisions will be taken in the best interest of all NDA constituents. As I have said, we are not running after positions but only the opportunity to serve Bihar’s janta who have reposed faith in us. Q: Is there any discussion on the Speaker’s post? Being the bigger partner, do you think BJP should get the post?A: No, there is no such discussion going on. We are thinking about how best to implement the promises we have made to Bihar. Q: Your majority is very thin and your two allies — VIP and HAM — have been fickle, changing sides frequently. They were part of the MGB just before the polls. Some say RJD has offered them deputy CM positions. Don’t you think dependence on their support means an unstable government?A: All this is pure speculation. RJD and its allies, Congress and Left, have been rejected by the people. They can try to spread rumours and create confusion but we are not affected because we have full faith in our allies as they have in us. All NDA constituents are together, the rest is rumour-mongering. Q: Do you think that Nitish Kumar is satisfied with BJP talking tough against Chirag Paswan, whose only goal was to bring JD(U) down?A: Both JD(U) and BJP are on the same page on the question of Chirag Paswan. We have unequivocally said LJP is not part of NDA in Bihar. Chirag quit the NDA and decided to go alone in the state. The people of Bihar have given their reply to Chirag. Q: Chirag has damaged the NDA. Will his party remain part of the alliance as there is no clarity about LJP’s continuation at the national level? A: We will cross the bridge when we get there. Chirag Paswan decided to part ways with NDA in Bihar. It was his decision and that harmed the NDA in the state. Q: A significant section of Bihar has voted for the Mahagathbandhan and not for ‘sabka saath sabka vikas’. What efforts will be made to reach out to such voters? A: There is only one effort that BJP has been making and will continue to make and that effort is to give development to all states and the entire country. That is the commitment PM Modi has made. That is the commitment BJP’s chief J P Nadda has made. Now that we are in office in Bihar, we will continue to work for all people across all sections. The work done over the past so many years by the NDA government did not discriminate between people. Q: As one could see, the first phase went wrong for BJP. What were the factors that you performed poorly in the first phase?A: In the first phase there was confusion over LJP. Some deliberately tried to say we were working as a team. We saw during Lok Sabha elections also that our margins were lower in these regions. But we will analyse the results and work towards plugging whatever gaps remain. Thankfully, there aren’t many.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-will-back-nitish-fully-for-cm-ljp-hurt-us-but-voters-have-answered-chirag-bhupendra-yadav/articleshow/79201593.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 13, 2020||Patna||Covid claims five more lives in Bihar||PATNA: The number of Covid cases in the state rose to 2,25,500 on Thursday with 523 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Officially, five fresh deaths on Thursday took the state’s Covid toll to 1,167. However, with 2,17,958 recoveries, there are 6,373 active cases in the state. As per the health department, two fresh deaths were recorded in Patna, taking the district’s toll to 290. Sitamarhi, Vaishali and Buxar recorded one death each on Thursday. At AIIMS-Patna, a 70-year-old man from Piro in Bhojpur and another patient from Dhanbad have died of Covid. Hospital’s nodal inchrage for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said six patients were admitted to the hospital and six discharged on Thursday. “Altogether 140 Covid patients are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Of them, 61 are in ICU, including 25 on ventilator,” he added. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, two new patients were admitted on Thursday and one was discharged. The hospital currently has 17 Covid patients. Of 523 new Covid-19 cases, 112 were from Patna, taking the district’s tally to 38,725. However, with 36,701 recoveries and 290 deaths, there are 1734 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur registered 27 new cases in the last 24 hours, Araria 26, Purnia 22 and Begusarai 20. According to the health department, 536 people have recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery to 96.66%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-claims-five-more-lives-in-bihar/articleshow/79197403.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 13, 2020||Business||Zoho partners TCS to reach global cos||SaaS firm Zoho has sealed a strategic alliance with Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) to increase the reach of its portfolio of business applications to global enterprises. With this partnership, TCS will help their customers and prospects implement Zoho’s business applications, and Zoho, in turn, will promote services offered by TCS to its prospects and clients. Zoho gets an opportunity to reach TCS’ vast network of global clients across 46 countries with its over 45 business apps. “We will also create Zoho Centre of Excellence at TCS to train and certify TCS employees on Zoho apps,” Ambi Moorthy, global head of partner development, Zoho told TOI. While the partnership covers the entire Zoho portfolio, Zoho has trained a small team in TCS on their customer experience platform, Zoho CRM Plus, to start with, Moorthy added. Zoho is also working on projects with TCS involving its HR suite Zoho People and expanding training for other products. “TCS has a business-led approach to consulting and enterprise transformation. Zoho takes the same approach to its technology, offering a vertically integrated platform of leading business applications and services,” Sridhar Vembu, co-founder and CEO, Zoho Corporation, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/zoho-partners-tcs-to-reach-global-cos/articleshow/79199465.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Varanasi||Annapurna temple opens for devotees on Dhanteras||Varanasi: The Diwali festivities, clouded with Covid-19 menace, commenced with the opening of sanctum sanctorum of Annapurna Mandir situated adjacent to Kashi Vishwanath temple for four days on Dhanteras on Thursday. The devotees get the glimpse of the golden idol of Mata Annapurna, the Goddess of nourishment, once in a year on the occasion of Dhanteras. After remaining open for four days, the sanctum sanatorum of the temple is closed a day after Diwali. Every year, a large number of devotees from far off places throng the temple to offer prayers and get prasad known as ‘khazana’ in the form of coins. But this year special arrangements have been made for the devotees to comply with the Covid-19 protocol, said Mahant Rameshwar Puri. The mahant said that pevisit the temple for darshan of the golden idol of Mata Annapurna till Annakoot festival on November 15. Since the threat of Covid-19 is not over, there is limited entry into the temple, he said adding that the ‘Khazana’ (prasad) is being distributed at the temple’s gate only and it would be sent by post to those devotees, who fail to get it at the temple. Volunteers were present for thermal scanning and hand sanitization at the entrance of the temple. Only five devotees were allowed at a time to enter the temple to maintain social distancing. The sanctum sanctorum of the temple was opened at 6am after an hour-long morning maha aarti. The darshan of the Goddess would continue from 4am to 11pm till November 15. Meanwhile, the markets witnessed crowds of shoppers, as Dhanteras festival is believed to be auspicious for purchasing. Huge crowd could be seen at the shops of electronic goods, jewellery, utensils and vehicles. The prominent markets including Godowlia, Chowk, Sonia, Rathyatra, Mehmoorganj, Sigra, Rathyatra, Guru Bagh, Luxa, Orderly Bazaar, Pandeypur and Hukulganj remained crowded for Dhanteras and Diwali shopping. Dhanvantri puja held: The Government Ayurveda PG College and Hospital organised Dhanvantri Puja on the occasion of 5th National Ayurveda Day on Thursday for good health and well-being of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/annapurna-temple-opens-for-devotees-on-dhanteras/articleshow/79200173.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||After 4k-pt run, sensex falls on profit-booking||Mumbai: After eight sessions, during which the sensex added nearly 4,000 points or 10%, correction set in due to profit-booking in banking & financial stocks. As a result, the sensex closed 236 points lower at 43,357 with HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank and Kotak Mahindra Bank pulling the index down. Buying in HUL, ITC and L&T cushioned the loss. The day’s losses came despite a Rs 1,514-crore net buying by foreign funds, while domestic funds were net sellers at Rs 2,239 crore, BSE data showed. According to Geojit Financial Services research head Vinod Nair, the market was hesitant to raise its optimism further as profit-booking was triggered across the banking sector after the announcement of the stimulus. TNN Market players were waiting for the package that looks positive and was nicely factored in the rising market of the past few sessions. “The FM’s new measures will have a positive impact on developers and homebuyers due to tax reliefs and will ensure demand for housing, which is on a strong recovery stage,” Nair wrote in a note. Subsidy announcement for fertilisers is likely to help rural & agricultural sectors, while expansion of production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for 10 additional sectors will boost domestic manufacturing in the long-term, he said. Going forward, though rising inflation — at 76-month high of 7.6% in October — could weigh on policymakers and central bankers, the slow but steady growth of monthly IIP numbers could act as a comforting factor. According to Motilal Oswal Financial Services chief economist Nikhil Gupta, this combination of high inflation (among the highest in the world) and better growth will make it difficult for policymakers to ease policies further. “We need to be careful about inflation trajectory,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-4k-pt-run-sensex-falls-on-profit-booking/articleshow/79200137.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||HDFC Bank to onboard 2cr merchants for payments||Mumbai: HDFC Bank, the largest merchant-acquirer in the country (in terms of swipe machines installed), is taking on fintechs eyeing this space. The lender plans to onboard two crore retailers, professionals and businesses onto Smart Hub 3.0, a zero-investment payment acceptance solution. This can be readied in 15 minutes and provide merchants a platform to help with billings and collections. The service, which was launched on Wednesday, allows merchants and self-employed to collect digital payments in-store, online or on-the-go. The in-store payments can be received from any mobile app. Online payments can be collected by sending customers a link with the amount auto-filled. Merchants can also send a QR code through a delivery person. The platform would enable the merchant view payments across channels on a single dashboard. Of the Rs 50,319-crore credit card transactions that took place in August, Rs 16,102 crore — or 32% of the total — were processed through HDFC Bank’s card swipe machines. While HDFC Bank is already a clear market leader, fintechs have been eyeing this space offering value-added services to merchants. According to Parag Rao, who heads payments, consumer finance, digital and marketing at HDFC Bank, the lender also provides current account services and loans to the merchants in addition to the digital solutions. “Small and medium businesses are the backbone of our economy. To further deepen the penetration of digital forms of payment across India, it is important that the merchant network is empowered with the best range of solutions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-to-onboard-2cr-merchants-for-payments/articleshow/79200462.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 13, 2020||Surat||Poor quality fuel caused technical snag: Ro-Pax operator||Surat: The Ro-Pax ferry services between Hazira in Surat and Ghogha in Bhavnagar resumed operations on Thursday, after remaining suspended for two days due to the technical snag in the vessel.Authorities at Indigo Seaways Private Limited, which operates the ferry vessel ‘Voyage Symphony’ said that the number of trips have been reduced to two per day from earlier three between Hazira and Ghogha on account of heavy tidal flow in the Gulf of Cambay till November 30.The ferry will sail from Hazira port at 8 am and in return journey the vessel will sail from Ghogha at about 3 pm. Indigo Seaways authorities stated that it was supplied High Flash High Speed Diesel (HFHSD) by Nayara Energy Ltd is formerly known as Essar Oil Ltd through its authorised agent Rajlaxmi Chemtech (India) Pvt Ltd on November 7. On November 10, the vessel started consuming new fuel supplied by Nayara, but the diesel generators frequently tripped and sailing had to be cancelled, causing inconvenience to the passengers. Expert technicians were called from Surat to check the generators. It was found that the generator was in order, but the fuel supplied was of poor quality. Detailed analysis of the sample was carried out at the government-approved laboratory ‘cargo quality services’ at Bhavnagar.Chetan Contractor, chairman and managing director of Indigo Seaways told TOI, “Fuel analysis results indicated that the fuel supplied by Nayara Energy was of poor quality, which resulted in the choking of the generator set. Once the fuel was replaced, the generators were found in good running condition. After satisfactory long test trial, the vessel resumed its normal sailing from Thursday.” On Thursday, the vessel ‘Voyage Symphony’ sailed from the Hazira port at about 8am with 375 passengers, 66 passenger cars and 40 motorcycles. In the return journey, the vessel departed from Ghogha jetty at about 3pm with 200 passengers, 44 cars and 15 motorcycles. Box: Longer berthing time at HaziraThe sailing time between Hazira and Gogha is three-and-a-half-hours. “However, we are facing one-and-a-half-hour delay berthing the vessel at Hazira port as we have to wait for the maritime pilot to manoeuvre the vessel from the busy port. At Ghogha port, we don’t require pilot as our captain berths the vessel on the jetty,” said Chetan Contractor, chairman and managing director of Indigo Seaways, which operates the Ro-Pax vessel.Box: Trouble startThe Ro-Pax ferry service ran into rough weather in just two days after the inauguration by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 8. The passengers at Gogha had a tough time waiting for long hours at the terminal to board the vessel when they were told in the evening that the trip was cancelled due to the technical snag. The ferry service remained suspended for the trips on Tuesday and Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/poor-quality-fuel-caused-technical-snag-ro-pax-operator/articleshow/79200442.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||TCS buys part of US co’s Ireland biz||Reeba.Zachariah@timesgroup.com Mumbai: Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) has agreed to take over some assets as well as employees of US-based Prudential Financial’s technology services unit for a nominal sum. Under the deal, a majority of the employees (over 1,500) of the unit, Ireland-based Pramerica Systems, will move to TCS’s payrolls besides movable (servers, laptops, etc) and immovable properties (offices). As part of the transaction Prudential, which is not affiliated to Prudential of the UK, has also awarded a five-year, $300-million IT contract to TCS, India’s second-most valued company after Reliance Industries. The New Jersey-based life insurer has been a customer of TCS and the deal adds to the Indian company’s talent and intellectual capital in Ireland. Present in Ireland since 2001, TCS has over 200 people servicing 30 clients — local as well as global. The Prudential deal comes three days after TCS agreed to buy Deutsche Bank’s technology services unit in Germany for one euro. Prudential has retained Pramerica Systems’s legal entity that will continue to operate from Ireland and will focus on providing regional business services to the parent after restructuring.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tcs-buys-part-of-us-cos-ireland-biz/articleshow/79200259.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 13, 2020||Surat||Student gets her own child marriage stopped||Surat: A nursing student showed immense courage to stop her own marraige, as she had not attained the legal age, by calling up the 181 Abhayam women’s helpline in Navsari town. The girl, who is six months short of legal marriageable age, did not want to tie the nuptial knot but her parents and other family members were adamant. In fact, they had even got invitation cards printed for the wedding that was fixed for November 30. Officials said this was the first case in Navsari district where a minor girl herself came forward to stop her marriage. “Usually, we get information from neighbours or other sources about child marriages. But this is the first case in Navsari where a girl herself helped us stop her marriage,” said an official from Abhayam. “The called us on Wednesday informing us that she was not of marriageable age and sought our intervention,” the official said. The girl’s father earns a livelihood by driving an auto rickshaw and the family has fixed her marriage with a boy who works in a factory in Surat. “When we reached her house, our team saw that the wedding invitation cards were being distributed among famiy members. The family had also made all the mariage purchases. But the would-be bride was not ready to get married. She is studying in the last year of nursing course,” an Abhayam team member who went to her house said. When her parents insisted that she was a major, they were asked to produce her school leaving certificate, which called their bluff. The family members were counselled about the legality involved and were requested to cancel her planned wedding. The boy’s family was also informed about the criminality of child marriage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/student-gets-her-own-child-marriage-stopped/articleshow/79200495.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||Kovai.co acquires Cerebrata||Chennai: Coimbatore-based B2B SaaS company Kovai.co has acquired Cerebrata, a privately-held software company based in Udaipur, Rajasthan, for an undisclosed sum. The all-cash deal is expected to bring in 15%-20% of topline revenue growth for Kovai.co, as Cerebrata’s product Cerulean is a complementary product for Kovai.co’s Serverless360, Saravana Kumar, founder and CEO, Kovai.co said. This is Kovai.co’s first acquisition. Cerebrata specialises in developing productivity tools to manage Microsoft Azure resources. Kovai.co has acquired all assets, IP, and team of Cerebrata, but the latter brand will remain independent for some time. It believes the M&A will help them achieve their vision of making Coimbatore the next prime location in India for SaaS. The SaaS enterprise is currently bootstrapped and has a team of around 150 people. The company is close to achieving $10 million in annual revenue, said Kumar, who is based in London. The products of the company are developed end-to-end in Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/kovai-co-acquires-cerebrata/articleshow/79199398.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 13, 2020||Surat||Eunuch kills lover of over a decade over domestic dispute||Surat: Bharuch police arrested an eunuch for allegedly killing her lover and live-in partner of over a decade late on Wednesday night. Police said that Nayna, a transgender residing at Bhathiji temple in Maktampura in Bharuch town stabbed Abdulkadir Hazibhai Sindhi, 30, with a sharp-edged knife. The deceased breathed his last in a private hospital in Bharuch on the early hours of Thursday morning. Sufia Shaikh, sister of the deceased filed a complaint with the Bharuch police stating that her brother was in relationship with the Nayna from the last one decade. Four days ago, Sindhi called Sufia and informed that Nayna was fighting with him all the time over petty issues. Police stated that the deceased had visited his sister’s place in Karjan on November 9 and had told her that the accused had threatened to kill him. The deceased returned to Bharuch on the same day. On Wednesday night, Nayna called up Sufia using Sindhi’s phone and informed that her brother was stabbed and was admitted in a private hospital. DP Unadkat, police inspector of Bharuch C-division police station said, “The Sindhi was living in the house of Nayna from the last many years as they were in relationship. On that fateful night, Nayna and the deceased had a verbal spat over some issue and in the fit of anger Nayna stabbed the deceased twice in his abdomen.” Unadkat added, “The accused has been arrested and will be presented in the court on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/eunuch-kills-lover-of-over-a-decade-over-domestic-dispute/articleshow/79200560.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Surat||Airport admits hiding fox carcass details was a mistake||Surat: The Surat airport authorities have admitted to having committed a mistake by not informing the forest department about the two fox carcasses found on the runway and disposing them off in December last year.In a letter obtained under Right to Information (RTI) Act, airport authorities had written to the forest department on June 9 stating that they had informed about the fox carcasses to higher authorities in the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the Airports Authority of India (AAI), but mistakenly forgot to inform the forest department as per the Wildlife Act, 1972. The authorities have ensured that they will share all the information related to wildlife in the airport premises with the forest department in the future. Airport authorities have further stated that the fox carcasses had to be disposed of immediately by the airport staff to ensure smooth movement of the aircraft on the runway. The pilot of the Udaipur-Surat flight had informed the air traffic control (ATC) on sighting of foreign object debris (FOD) on the runway while landing at 8pm on December 19, 2019.A team of airport staff that had reached the spot had found the carcasses of two dead foxes badly crushed. For the safety of the aircraft landing on the runway, the carcasses were immediately disposed of, stated airport authorities. Talking with TOI, deputy conservator of forest (Surat), Puneet Nayyar said, “Disposing fox carcasses without informing the forest department is a violation of the Wildlife Act, 1972. We have recorded the statement of a few officials involved in the disposing the carcasses. Without the evidence, we are unable to investigate further.” Nayyar added, “Our officer is regularly attending the Airport Advisory Committee meeting every month. We are ready to help and train the airport staff in handling the wildlife animals inside the premises. Earlier, we had caged about three jackals from the airport premises in 2019.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/airport-admits-hiding-fox-carcass-details-was-a-mistake/articleshow/79200568.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||100 special vehicles to enforce cracker ban in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Patrol vehicles — police control room vehicles (PCRs), heavy radio flying squad, motorbike squads and autos hired by local cops for law-and-order duty — will be criss-crossing the city on Saturday to try and restrict the use of firecrackers. For the first time, all these vehicles will have a dual job — to ensure that the mandatory 5m distance from Kali Puja pandals is maintained and the complete ban on crackers is implemented. “We are keeping a provision of at least a 100 chase-and-prosecute vehicles for Saturday,” said an officer. The police have identified some locations, including Phoolbagan, Behala, Tollygunge, Ballygunge, Lake Gardens, Patuli, Jadavpur, Entally and Cossipore, that will have special teams monitoring them. They will develop strategies after mapping the spots that have a history of maximum air and sound pollution on Diwali in the past five years. “A few apartments and slums will see extra cop deployment,” said another officer, adding that they would be recording all police activities in these pockets for future legal reference. Meanwhile, Kolkata Police will deploy at least one civic volunteer at each pandal on Kali Puja evening and at least two cops each at mid-sized pujas. This is over and beyond the deployment at each division to stop the use of firecrackers. The final deployment plan has reached individual police stations and the cops said it has been drawn up keeping the ground situation in mind. “The high court has ordered that no one can enter the Kali Puja pandals. Those officers and volunteers will ensure the same. If required, these men and women will seek backup from the local police station,” said an officer. Additional forces are likely to be deployed at each division for emergencies. A WBPCB hotline is also likely to be maintained, besides the dedicated police lines. “There were some issues regarding working on complaints lodged last year. This year, we are trying to rectify some of them,” said a source. Senior officers said there were three reasons why they seemed confident of upholding the HC order. “We have the necessary experience. Though the number of Kali Puja pandals are more than that of Durga Puja, not many require more than one or two cops to be manned. Also, unlike last time, most organizers are aware of the Covid-induced requirements and are accordingly prepared. Traditionally, too, Kali Puja pandals are more open and the idol is visible from a distance. Similarly, the general awareness against crackers is much higher this year, especially since the apartments — which are often the worst violators — have been hit by Covid. Also unlike Durga Puja, Kali Puja does not stretch too long and there are fewer people at the pandals. So we can concentrate on crackers for most part of the day,” explained a joint CP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/100-spl-vehicles-to-enforce-cracker-ban/articleshow/79198746.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||As Maharashtra agrees to strictly abide by NGT cracker order, no ban||MUMBAI: A Diwali vacation bench of Bombay high court on Thursday accepted a statement by government counsel P P Kakade that a recent order and guidelines by National Green Tribunal (NGT) will be implemented “strictly’’ where applicable in Maharashtra, and disposed a PIL seeking a total statewide ban on sale and use of firecrackers from November 10-20. Track the pollution level in your cityThe HC order followed a PIL by Pune ‘Right to breathe’ activist Aniruddha Deshpande (61), whose counsel Aseem Naphade said concern was over deterioration of air quality, when firecrackers are used during Covid-19, and pointed out that six states banned firecrackers this Diwali. NGT on November 9 had banned firecrackers in NCR and other cities and towns where air quality, based on 2019 data, was poor or worse from November 10-30, and where it was moderate permitted only “green crackers’’ for two hours. A bench of Justices A K Menon and S P Tavade accepted Kakade’s statement on behalf of the state, and did not pass further directions. Mumbai’s air quality level last October was satisfactory (85) and in November 2019 was moderate (118). The state counsel showed the bench copies of letters sent for effective implementation of NGT’s order and said the civic chief had passed orders with restrictions on use of firecrackers this year. The bench orally observed that the NGT had experts too. NGT had said at “other places the ban is optional for authorities’’, but if more stringent orders exist, they will prevail. Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) had on November 9 written to civic and police chiefs pointing to NGT’s order on “remedial action against pollution by use of firecrackers aggravating menace of Covid-19, posing higher dangers to lives and health of vulnerable groups’’. An AQI of upto 50 has minimal impact 50-100 is satisfactory, where sensitive people may face minor breathing discomfort; 101-200 moderate, where associated health impact would include breathing discomfort to people with lung disease such as asthma and hearth disease, children and elderly; 201-200 is poor, which may result in respiratory illness to people on prolonged exposure, especially those with lung and heart diseases; and 401-500 severe, the state authorities said. An MPCB chart showed that last November, the AQI in Thane was 132 and 120 last October; Mumbai followed by Kalyan were second and third highest at 118 and 115 last November, followed by Chandrapur at 110.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-to-strictly-abide-by-ngt-firecracker-order-no-ban/articleshow/79199142.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 13, 2020||---||No anomalies in postal ballot count: Bihar chief electoral officer||PATNA: State chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa on Thursday said the victory margin of elected candidates in 11 assembly constituencies was less than 1,000 votes. The CEO said the recounting of postal ballot papers, including those found to be invalid during counting of votes, was conducted on complaints received from candidates or their counting agents. However, no discrepancies were found during re-verification of the postal ballot papers, he added. The CEO’s clarification came in the wake of allegations of malpractices in counting levelled by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Srinivasa said all the 11 constituencies from where complaints of irregularities in counting of votes or postal ballots were received either by candidates or their counting agents were won by the candidates of RJD, BJP, JD(U), LJP, CPI and an independent. The data shared by the commission revealed that four seats were won by JD(U), three by RJD, one each by LJP, BJP, CPI and an independent. The EC, in its order in May 2019, had clarified that if the victory margin of candidates is less than the total number of postal ballots, then re-verification of only invalid ballot papers would be done. “But in the present context, re-verification of all the postal ballots was carried out to dispel any confusion. The reports of the returning officers sent to the commission clearly mentioned the reason or grounds for turning down the request of recounting of polled votes through EVMs,” he added. Hilsa, Dehri, Bhore, Ramgarh and Matihani were among the constituencies from where request for recounting of votes or postal ballots were received. For example, the victory margin of the candidate in Hilsa constituency was just 12 votes. The returning officer, in his report, said the total number of postal ballots was 551 and 182 were found to be invalid. The results of the re-verification were the same as announced earlier, the CEO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/no-anomalies-in-postal-ballot-count-ec/articleshow/79198647.cms||Ramashankar
November 13, 2020||Patna||Jobs, better education on Gen Y’s list of expectations from Bihar govt||PATNA: Millennials, who kept a close watch over the 2020 assembly polls and voted for “change”, have a long list of expectations from the NDA that will remain in power for the next five years. They seek women’s safety, jobs, quality education and an improved healthcare system from the government. Patna Science College student Anupama wants the government to recruit good teachers and introduce proper semester system. The 21-year-old says, “Colleges lack basic infrastructure and equipment required to improve the learning process. Besides, I want the government to provide a safe environment for girls.” 19-year-old Jyoti Kumari, a student of Patna Women’s College, also urges the government to focus on infrastructural development and quality education. “With better infrastructure, we will have more jobs and our economy will improve. This is what every Bihari youth wants,” she claims. Ashiana Colony resident Ashish Ranjan, on the other hand, seeks setting up of industries and factories so that migrants can work in Bihar, instead of moving to other states in search of jobs. The 23-year-old also wants the government to focus on sectors like education, health, roads and transportation that “are the basic needs of the people”. Hailing the “good governance” of chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar during his previous five-year term, Kadamkuan resident Rashmi Singh says, “I wish the CM continues to work hard by generating jobs and setting up IT parks.” A staunch NDA supporter, vicenarian Vaibhav Sinha, also wants the government to provide good education and jobs to Biharis for the “overall growth of the state”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jobs-better-education-on-gen-ys-list-of-expectations-from-govt/articleshow/79203478.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 13, 2020||Patna||Now, Gaya-Delhi flight to fly daily||GAYA: The Gaya-Delhi IndiGo flight, which was launched on October 8 and flew four days a week, will operate daily from Friday. Besides, another flight of the same airline will fly on the Gaya-Delhi route every Sunday. According to airport director Dilip Kumar, slot requests for flights on the Bengaluru-Gaya and Kolkata-Gaya-Varanasi routes (both IndiGo) and the Delhi-Gaya-Varanasi route (Air India) have been cleared. “The flight schedules will be announced only after an analysis of the passenger flow,” Dilip told this reporter on Thursday. Although uncertainty still prevails over resumption of international flights, more domestic ones are likely to operate from Gaya soon. Earlier on Wednesday, the Ministry of Civil Aviation had allowed domestic carriers to increase their operations from the existing 60% to 70% of the pre-Covid approved capacity. Tourism biz hit: With uncertainty over operation of international flights, the locals are worried about the poor footfalls at the Mahabodhi Temple which was thrown open to visitors on October 1. The tourism business is yet to pick up the pace in Gaya. Tourists and devotees from Thailand, Japan, Myanmar, Vietnam, Cambodia, Bhutan and European countries visit Bodh Gaya between October and February every year. Mahabodhi Temple’s chief monk Bhikkhu Chalinda said, “With no international flights, very few people from nearby localities or some foreigners staying in Bodh Gaya visit the shrine to offer prayers.” Nagrik Vikas Manch president Suresh Singh urged the government to resume international flights from Gaya. “Our tourism business depends on international tourists. Unless international flights are resumed, the footfalls will not increase,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/now-gaya-delhi-flight-to-fly-daily/articleshow/79197471.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Surat||Lab-grown diamonds to sparkle at Surat’s annual jewellery event||SURAT: Diamond connoisseurs would be able to witness a wide range of collection of the lab-grown diamond jewellery and loose stones under one roof. For the first time, the annual gems and jewellery exhibition ‘Sparkle-2020’ organised by the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) will have exhibitors from the lab-grown diamond industry to boost the demand in Surat and across the country. Surat has emerged as the leading manufacturer of lab-grown diamonds and jewellery, which is about 60% cheaper compared to natural diamond ones. Due to the growing acceptance of lab-grown diamonds in India and abroad, the SGCCI decided to give a platform to the emerging industry. According to SGCCI office-bearers, over 35 lab-grown diamond and jewellery manufacturers have already registered for the event scheduled from December 26. Vijay Mangukiya, chairman of SGCCI’s gems and jewellery exhibition committee told TOI, “Natural and lab-grown diamonds are two different categories and we want them to co-exist in Surat’s industry. “Till now, lab-grown diamond makers were not given the opportunity to exhibit their products due to the perceived threat of damaging natural diamond market. This is the first time that we have encouraged them, and the response is overwhelming,” added Mangukia who is also a jewellery manufacturer. Till now, SGCCI has received registration of about 150 exhibitors, mainly jewellery and diamond manufacturers from Surat, Ahmedabad and Mumbai. Sanjeev Shah, a lab-grown diamond manufacturer told TOI, “Lab-grown diamond demand in India, U.S and Europe is increasing. They (lab diamonds) are the cheapest option of natural diamonds and consumers who can’t afford natural diamonds are buying them.” According to the figures provided by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC), export of lab-grown diamonds increased 21% to Rs 1,500 crore between April-September, against Rs 1,200 crore in the corresponding period last year. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI said, “We want to provide transparency and clarity to the consumers on lab-grown diamonds. The jewellers should specify the type of diamonds they are selling. Lab-grown diamond has a different market altogether and it is growing in India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/lab-grown-diamonds-to-sparkle-at-surats-annual-jewellery-event/articleshow/79200573.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Rajkot||Promote dehydrated onion in local markets, demands traders’ body||RAJKOT: With onion, prices skyrocketing, the All India Vegetables Dehydrated Manufacturers Development Association (AIVDMDA) has said that if dehydrated onions are promoted as an alternative, the demand-supply gap in the domestic market could be reduced. The association has been perusing with the government to promote dehydrated onion in the local market which costs around Rs 15/ kg even in off-season (August to January). The AIVDMDA has also shown readiness to dehydrate red onion if there is a demand. The onion prices in the local market have touched Rs 80/kg over the past few months because of damage to crops due to excessive rain and shortage of quality onion in the retail market. Manoj Ram, president of AIVDMDA said “If the government promotes dehydrated onion, the price of fresh onion remain in control as there will be enough supply in the domestic market.” According to industry experts, there is stock of nearly of 25,000 tonne of dehydrated onions at any given point of time in the year and during peak season the stock goes up to 40,000 tonne. It takes 8kg fresh onion to produce one kilogram of dehydrated onion. The AIVDMA is ready to make available dehydrated onions 500gm and 1kg packs for the retail market. Vittha Koradia former president of AIVDMDA said “If government promotes dehydrated onion in the domestic market we believe this will prevent price rise of fresh onions in the lean season. There are nearly 115 onion dehydration plants in Mahuva of Bhavnagar district and 40 units in Amreli and Rajkot districts. These plants dehydrate nearly 70,000 tonne of onion every year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/promote-dehydrated-onion-in-local-markets-demands-traders-body/articleshow/79200738.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
November 13, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Death of drug addict turns out to be murder executed by his father||RAJKOT: The death of a a 21-year-old man, whose father said had occured due to fall from the terrace, has turned out to be murder executed in a fit of rage after a fight between the two over the victim’s constant demand for money to meet his drug addiction. The victim, Gopal Gamara, who was addicted to ganja, was allegedly clubbed to death by his father Rupa on November 3 in Saklasar village of Bhavnagar’s Talaja taluka. Rupa even performed his last rites the same day and told relatives and villagers that Gopal had fallen to death from the terrace of their house. A villager, however, called up the police and told them that Gopal had actually been murdered. “We summoned Rupa and he broke down during questioning,” said an official from Talaja police station. Gopal was severely addicted to marijuana for the past two years. He used to often suffer withdrawal symptoms and pick up fights with people in the village. Sometimes he even turned violent, said police. At around 5am on November 3, Rupa returned from a religious function at a village temple and was milking his cow. Gopal picked up a fight with him saying that he did not give him enough pocket money. “When the argument escalated, Gopal picked up a bat and ran after Rupa to attack him. Rupa, however, snatched the bat from his hand and hit him on his head. The blow proved fatal. Gopal collapsed and died on the spot. Rupa then laid Gopal’s body on a cot and left home for cattle grazing,” said the official. When other family members tried waking him up, they saw that the blanket in which his body was wrapped was blood soaked. Soon, Gopal’s younger brother Govind left home in search of Rupa. On coming home, Rupa told his family and the villagers that Gopal had fallen from the terrace and suffered fatal head injury. Rupa will be arrested after the mandatory Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/death-of-drug-addict-turns-out-to-be-murder-executed-by-his-father/articleshow/79200640.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Agra||Man alleged to have run over & killed Agra cop arrested with 8 other co-accused||AGRA: Police in UP’s Agra district have arrested a man who is alleged to have run over and killed a 24-year-old police constable after he tried to stop his tractor-trolley laden with illegally-mined river sand on Sunday near UP-Rajasthan border. Apart from the main accused, Prakash, eight other men allegedly involved in illegal sand mining and part of his gang were also arrested from different parts of the district on Wednesday. District police are now mulling invoking stringent Gangster Act against them. Constable Sonu Chaudhary was crushed to death in Agra’s Kheragarh region on Sunday morning under the wheels of the tractor illegally transporting sand into Agra from neighboring Rajasthan. SP rural (west), Agra, Ravi Kumar said that all the accused are suspected to have criminal records, and they are residents of Rajasthan. “One of the arrested accused had allegedly attacked and injured a policeman, Nishamak Tyagi, about a year ago when he had tried to stop him from smuggling illegally mined sand,” he added. The main accused, Prakash, was arrested near Lalpura village of Agra after a tip-off. He was riding a motorcycle with two others when a police team signaled him to stop near a check-post. Police said that the accused opened fire at them in a bid to flee. Two of them succeeded, but Prakash was caught. A resident of Rajasthan’s Dholpur district, Prakash later told police that he was with two other men, Babloo and Anoop, at the time of the crime. Both the accused are on the run and will be arrested soon, police said. The eight other accused were arrested from Kheragarh, Jagner and Iradatnagar areas of the district in joint operations of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/man-alleged-to-have-run-over-killed-agra-cop-arrested-with-8-other-co-accused/articleshow/79196714.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||Government to guarantee loans for all companies in 26 stressed sectors||MUMBAI: The government has revised its Rs 3-lakh-crore emergency credit line guarantee scheme to include fresh loans to 26 stressed sectors identified by the KV Kamath-headed committee, and healthcare sector. Earlier, the Extended Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) was available only to small businesses. The revised scheme extends it to stressed sectors, irrespective of turnover. However, the guarantees will be available only to loans that had an outstanding limit ranging from Rs 50 crore to Rs 400 crore as on February 29, 2020. “What it does is that entities up to 30 days past due will get an additional credit of 20% outstanding as of that date. Even as the earlier scheme goes on, we are bringing in an additional scheme wherein the tenor of additional credit will be five years — one year of moratorium and four years of repayment and servicing,” said finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her press conference announcing the stimulus measures. The earlier scheme had one year of moratorium and three years of servicing. Both the earlier and the revised scheme will be available up to March 31, 2021. In September, the government-appointed committee, headed by veteran banker Kamath to look into restructuring of loans where borrowers had come under stress due to Covid-19, had submitted its report. In it, the committee selected 26 sectors that would need restructuring based on the panel’s analysis of financial parameters that were hit. The sectors include power, construction, iron & steel, roads, real estate, wholesale trading, textiles, consumer durables, aviation, logistics, hotels, restaurants, tourism and mining. “We believe potentially around 40,000 entities can benefit from the scheme. However, if the overall amount stays at Rs 3 lakh crore, the overall corpus of ECLGS 2.0 could be a constraining factor,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, chief economist, SBI group. He added that the scheme can provide much needed relief to stressed sectors including auto, gems & jewellery, hotel & restaurants, iron & steel, real estate, textile, etc, by helping entities sustain employment and meet liabilities. In May 2020, the government announced ECLGS to mitigate the distress caused by the coronavirus pandemic-induced lockdown, by providing credit to different sectors, especially micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). It offered Rs 3 lakh crore collateral-free automatic loan for businesses, including MSMEs. Borrowers with up to Rs 25 crore outstanding and Rs 100 crore turnover were eligible for 20% of outstanding credit as on February 29. As of March, around Rs 14 lakh crore is outstanding to the MSME sector. The ministry said that over Rs 2 lakh crore had been sanctioned to 61 lakh borrowers and a total of Rs 1.5 lakh crore had been disbursed under the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-to-guarantee-loans-for-all-cos-in-26-stressed-sectors/articleshow/79199834.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Surat||Historysheeter stabbed 30 times over property dispute||Surat: A 38-year-old historysheeter, Rajesh alias Rakesh Maru, was stabbed at least 30 times killing him on the spot, in Palanpur Patiya area of the city on Wednesday night. Maru was allegedly killed over a property dispute by a group of five people on the main road itself. Maru is accused of extortion, assault and issuing threats in several cases, said police. Police have recovered the footage of the murder that was captured on CCTV camera. The video shows Maru trying to escape but the attackers hold him tightly and stab him multiple times. Over 30 stab wounds were found on Maru’s body, said police. One Dinesh Rajput and his associates were booked for Maru’s murder after wife of the deceased, Sandhya, lodged a complaint with the Rander police. Sandhya alleged that Maru had a dispute with Rajput over a property deal. Maru was involved in property dealing and was actively involved in the activities of slain gangster Surya Marathi. On Wednesday night Maru, a resident of Katargam, left home after a phone call and informed his wife that he is going to have dinner with his friend Asif Shaikh alias Ganda. Sources in police informed that Asif invited Maru for dinner. On way to Shaikh’s place, Maru went to Palanpur Patiya area to meet Rajput. Sources in police informed that Maru had an alleged affair with Rajput’s wife and on coming to know about it the accused attacked him. “It is not clear for what reason Maru was killed. We are making efforts to nab Rajput,” said a police officer of Rander police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/historysheeter-stabbed-30-times-over-property-dispute/articleshow/79200510.cms||---
November 13, 2020||---||Bihar: Jitan Ram Manjhi elected HAM(S) legislature party leader||PATNA: Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi was elected the leader of the Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) legislature party at a meeting held at his residence here on Thursday. Manjhi congratulated all the newly-elected MLAs of the party for winning the elections. “The newly-elected legislators were felicitated at the event. We also celebrated the party’s best-ever performance in assembly elections in the state,” HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan said. The Manjhi-led party had bagged four seats in the just concluded assembly elections. Asked if Manjhi was eyeing ministerial berth, Rizwan said, “The party’s agenda is very clear. We will work for the welfare of people. Manjhiji has not made any demand for the ministerial portfolio. We will remain with the NDA even if our elected MLAs are not accommodated in the cabinet.” “For the development of Bihar, the MLAs of Congress and RJD should come with us and support the NDA. Nitish hai toh vikas hai (sic),” Manjhi tweeted on Thursday. “The elected MLAs of Congress should realise the leadership quality of Nitishji. He has been running the state in much effective way,” Manjhi, who won from Imamganj seat in Gaya by defeating RJD’s Udai Narayan Singh, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/manjhi-elected-hams-legislature-party-leader/articleshow/79198802.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 13, 2020||---||Jobs, better education on Gen Y’s list of expectations from Bihar govt||PATNA: Millennials, who kept a close watch over the 2020 assembly polls and voted for “change”, have a long list of expectations from the NDA that will remain in power for the next five years. They seek women’s safety, jobs, quality education and an improved healthcare system from the government. Patna Science College student Anupama wants the government to recruit good teachers and introduce proper semester system. The 21-year-old says, “Colleges lack basic infrastructure and equipment required to improve the learning process. Besides, I want the government to provide a safe environment for girls.” 19-year-old Jyoti Kumari, a student of Patna Women’s College, also urges the government to focus on infrastructural development and quality education. “With better infrastructure, we will have more jobs and our economy will improve. This is what every Bihari youth wants,” she claims. Ashiana Colony resident Ashish Ranjan, on the other hand, seeks setting up of industries and factories so that migrants can work in Bihar, instead of moving to other states in search of jobs. The 23-year-old also wants the government to focus on sectors like education, health, roads and transportation that “are the basic needs of the people”. Hailing the “good governance” of chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar during his previous five-year term, Kadamkuan resident Rashmi Singh says, “I wish the CM continues to work hard by generating jobs and setting up IT parks.” A staunch NDA supporter, vicenarian Vaibhav Sinha, also wants the government to provide good education and jobs to Biharis for the “overall growth of the state”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/jobs-better-education-on-gen-ys-list-of-expectations-from-govt/articleshow/79198711.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 13, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: NRIs funding protests against farm laws||BATHINDA: Financial assistance is pouring in to farmer organisations to carry on with the protests against the farm laws even from foreign countries. Three NRIs residing in Manila, Philippines, have sent Rs 1 lakh to BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) in support of the protest. Lakhbir Singh, Ekam Singh and Gorkha Singh have also assured more assistance in the days to come. A family member of Lakhbir provided the money to farm organisation activists at Mahal Kalan village in Barnala district on Thursday. BKU (Ekta Dakaunda) block Mahal Kalan president Jagraj Singh Hardaspura said a lot of money is being spent to continue the protests. Though most of the money is collected from activists, who also provide ration, the NRIs are also coming forward in contributing for the protests, he said. He said farmers are determined to reach Delhi on November 26-27 to hold protest at the national zapital despite the Delhi Police denying permission for it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/nris-fund-farmer-protests/articleshow/79198993.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Dang’s traditional medicine men are now wellness entrepreneurs||SURAT: Gone are those days when the traditional Dang medicine men, who are knowledgeable about the magical and medicinal potencies of various plants, were seen foraging the forests with their sickles collecting exotic herbs and roots for various natural treatments that they practised. Or even at the once a week haat-bazaars, where the Bhagats or Vaidus as they are locally called, holding an impromptu OPD and attending to their indigenous clients who flock in with their maladies for a miraculous healing touch, from all over the neighbouring areas. With time, these centuries-old traditional practitioners too have changed colour. While passing through a remote tribal village in Dang, don’t be surprised if a villager now offers you ‘healing massage’ at 50% discount with some rare medicinal oils besides a steam bath in natural water! With the advent of the modern entrepreneurial concepts of wellness, these medicine men too have undergone makeover and opened health care spas and wellness clinics! Bhagats have realized the potential of their ‘jadi-buti naturopathy’ and are reaping rich from their entrepreneurial ventures and traditional knowledge. As many as 150 traditional healers from Dang and Valsad are working in tribal areas of these districts. Of these, a few are developing successful business models and have become ‘medipreneurs’ or wellness experts of sorts. Sukar Pawar, 70, a traditional healer, grows his own medicines, processes it at his health centre ‘Charak’ and not only sells it to his own patients but also supplies to other Bhagats. He has set-up a nursery of medicinal plants like Terminalia Arjuna, Terminalia Chebula, Aloe Vera, Adusa and others. “Annually I sell saplings worth Rs 1 lakh to buyers from south Gujarat and Maharashtra. I grow saplings in accordance with number of orders,” said Pawar who attends at least 150 patients every month at his health centre in a remote village. Minoo Parabia, former head of bio-science department of Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU) considers Pawar’s work as important. “Bhagats have exclusive knowledge of medicinal plants and healing techniques. It is good if they are transforming and pass on the traditional knowledge to the next generation,” said Parabia, who had done extensive research on medicinal plants and practices of traditional healers. These Bhagats’ medicinal knowledge has been a traditional domain handed over from one generation to the next. However, their forefathers' therapies have been modified to suit needs of the current times. Another 49-year-old healer, Pandit Chaudhary, got trained for various healing techniques at Pune including massage, steam and examining patients. He too has grown trees, the produce of which he regularly uses for medicines. “I grow Arjun, Sevan, Nilgundi, Ardusi, Aloe Vera, Saragva etc which reduces my need to go to the forest,” he said. “129 traditional healers were trained for scientific healing practices and standardised format. BAIF conducted the course and gave them certificates from IGNOU and Quality Council of India,” said Sandip Yadav, senior program manager from BAIF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dangs-traditional-medicine-men-are-now-wellness-entrepreneurs/articleshow/79200610.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||State-of-the-art building for multiple civic operations to start functioning from January||HUBBALLI: The first of its kind state of art integrated command and control centre (ICCC) will be completed soon and will start functioning by January. The centre is being developed on the lines of ICCC building in Bhopal. Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited is building the new centre at the Samskrutik Bhavan at an estimated cost of Rs 55.57 crore. ICCC is an integrated system that will operate and manage multiple city service operations including real time monitoring and improving services delivery efficiency. “Several services will be integrated and their data will be collected at the ICCC. HDSCL is installing 120 cameras for discouraging the practice of disposal of solid waste, so continuous monitoring of these points will be taken care by the staff of HDMC working at the ICCC,” said HDSCL special officer SH Naregal. He said services like water supply, HESCOM services, fire and emergency department services and ambulance services will be monitored from the centre. “We will have real time data of the ambulances and fire department vehicles so that we can coordinate better. In the long term, it will be helpful during emergencies. The building will be ready by December end and trial run of the service will begin from January,” he said. In the first phase, at least seven department services will be integrated, including traffic police, BRTS for live tracking of happening of various services in 12 screens of 70 inches each will be installed in the ICCC room. Elected representatives can take a look at the live progress of the HDSCL by sitting in the ICCC room, he said. He said HDSCL is also developing a mobile application for addressing civic issues. The user once updates the problem with a photo in the app, it will reach every officer and the grievance registered will be monitored from this building. The status of the complaint will be sent to the complainant, he added. HDSCL managing director CW Shakeel Ahemad said all the smart street lights can be switched on and off from the new centre. “Using the data from the ICCC, we will monitor how bulbs burn out, how many are lit, and burn out bulbs can easily be replaced,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/state-of-the-art-building-for-multiple-civic-operations-to-start-functioning-from-january/articleshow/79198626.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||BS Yediyurappa to flag off work on govt medical college in Haveri today||HAVERI: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa will on Friday lay the foundation stone for the Haveri Government Medical College, bringing to fruition a longstanding demand of the people of the district.While minister for medical education D Sudhakar, Haveri district in-charge minister Basavaraj Bommai and other local elected representatives will be among those in attendance at the ceremony on the ground, the CM will flag off work on the project virtually. The number of dignitaries participating in the event has been kept minimal owing to Covid-19 regulations. Sources said that a sum of Rs 478.5 crore had been allocated for the project – Rs 365 crore for the construction of the building, Rs 85 crore for medical equipment and Rs 28.5 crore for other infrastructure. The medical college is being built across a government property spread across 56.1 acres in Devagiriyallapur on the outskirts of Haveri city. However, the medical college will start functioning from the next academic year. Assistant executive engineer for the health and family welfare department Shashidhar Wali said that a detailed project report had already been drafted, and approved by the state cabinet in 2019. He said that both the men’s and women’s hostels would be built to accommodate 375 students each. “The project will also include residential quarters for both teaching and non-teaching staff. We have set aside 2,692sqft for the construction of residential quarters for dean and principal,” Wali said. Special officer for Haveri Government Medical College Dr Uday Mulagund said that classes would start from the 2021-22 academic year. “There are some formalities we need to complete such as acquiring permission from the National Medical Council. We will have to start classes at a government engineering college initially till the building is completed,” Dr Mulagund said. MLA Nehru Olekar expressed his gratitude to Yediyurappa for his effort in ensuring the materialisation of the project. “We have been fighting to get a medical college in Haveri for a decade,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/cm-to-flag-off-work-on-govt-medical-college-in-haveri-today/articleshow/79198678.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 13, 2020||---||68% of elected MLAs in Bihar face criminal charges: Report||PATNA: At least 68% of newly-elected MLAs in Bihar have criminal cases against them, an increase of 10% as compared to the previous assembly. Also, the number of rich MLAs in the state assembly has gone up to 194 from 123 in 2015. Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) released these data on Wednesday on the basis of self-declared affidavits of 241 of 243 winning candidates. Data of two elected MLAs, one of BJP and another of RJD, could not be analysed as affidavits filed by them were unclear. Complete Coverage: Bihar assembly electionsData shows that of the 241 winning candidates, 163 have declared criminal cases against them. In the previous assembly, 142 MLAs faced criminal charges. This time, at least 123 winning candidates or 51% have declared serious criminal cases against them, including murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping and crime against women. In 2015, 40% of winning candidates had declared such serious criminal cases against them. At least 19 of the newly-elected MLAs face cases related to murder, 31 attempt to murder and eight crime against women. Read Also10 reasons Bihar's CM has the toughest jobThe NDA has won the tightly contested Bihar elections. For the next chief minister, it will be an uphill road aheadWhen it comes to party-wise break up, 44 of 74 RJD candidates or 73% have declared criminal cases against them, the highest among major parties. In BJP, 47 of 73 newly-elected MLAs have declared criminal cases (47%). Similarly, 20 of 43 newly-elected JD(U) MLAs face criminal cases. Of 19 winning candidates of Congress, 10 have declared criminal cases against them. Eight of 12 winning candidates of CPI-ML also face criminal cases. All five winning candidates of AIMIM have declared criminal cases against them. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said tickets had been given to candidates in strict adherence to guidelines issued by the Election Commission. Apart from increase in the number of MLAs with criminal cases against them, there is also an increase in crorepati MLAs. While in 2015, 162 of 243 MLAs had declared assets more than Rs 1 crore (67%), the number has gone up to 194 or 81% this time. The BJP tops the list with 89% of its MLAs owning assets more than Rs 1 crore, followed by JD-U (88%), RJD (87%) and Congress (74%). While the average asset of an MLA in 2015 was Rs 3.02 crore, it has increased to Rs 4.32 crore in 2020. Anant Singh, who has won from Mokama on RJD’s ticket, is the richest among all newly-elected MLAs with assets of over Rs 68 crore. RJD’s Ramvriksh Sada, who has won from Alauli (SC) seat on RJD’s ticket, is poorest with an asset of just Rs 70,000. Asked about more crorepati MLAs entering the assembly this time from BJP, party’s state spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said, “It is natural that with passage of time, one’s wealth increases.” Watch 68% of newly elected MLAs in Bihar face serious criminal charges||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/68-of-elected-mlas-face-criminal-charges-report/articleshow/79197351.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Jail IAS officers flouting court orders, HC tells Tamil Nadu govt||CHENNAI: IAS officers flouting court orders should face imprisonment primarily, and other punishments such as contempt proceedings or fine should only be secondary punishment, the Madras high court has held. Issuing a stern warning to the state bureaucrats notorious for non-compliance of court rulings, Justice S Vaidyanathan said, “If the äuthority is an IAS officer and he/she has disobeyed the orders of this court, they should be punished with imprisonment and imposition of fine under the Contempt of Courts Act will be secondary, and the imprisonment should be primary...” The judge, passing orders on a farmer’s plea on patta entries, also pointed out that of late, several cases had been filed for ‘disposal of applications’ pending with officials. “If those applications are disposed of by the authorities concerned in time, the parties need not unnecessarily approach this court for such specific directions. It is not known as to why an order of the court is required for the authorities to do their job... for which salary is provided to them,” Justice Vaidyanathan added. It is made clear that the time limit specified in law must be adhered to in disposing of the applications, failing which the authorities concerned will have to face departmental proceedings for their misdemeanor/ deviant/ misconduct, dereliction of duty, lack of devotion to work and lack of integrity, so as to deprive them of their entire terminal benefits, which will be an eye-opener for others not to follow the errant officials, said Justice Vaidyanathan. The outcome of the departmental proceedings must be entered in the service register of the official concerned, the court said. Justice Vaidyanathan gave one-month ultimatum for the government to issue a government order/ circular by fixing the time limit for disposal of applications. As for the plea moved by Mathavadiyan to direct revenue divisional officer of Tenkasi to dispose his appeal under the Patta Passbook Act, relating to a property he had purchased in Ambasamudram taluk, Justice Vaidyanathan said, “It is made clear that if any application is filed under the Tamil Nadu Patta Pass Book Act, for modification of entries in the patta, it shall have to be decided within 120 days from the date of receipt of application. If there is any appeal, it has to be disposed of within 90 days and revision within 60 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/jail-ias-officers-flouting-court-orders-hc-tells-govt/articleshow/79215397.cms||Suresh Kumar
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Two more held for creating fake Facebook profiles of cops, conning friends||CHENNAI: The city police’s cybercrime wing on Thursday arrested in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur two men who created fake social media accounts in the names of senior officers including commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and cheated their friends of huge sums of money, citing emergencies. Prime suspect Shakilkhan and his accomplice Ravinder Kumar, who were remanded in Puzhal prison on Friday, also conned people in states of Telangana, West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. The arrests, made by a team led by assistant commissioner of police Durai and inspector Vinod Kumar, came after the confession of their accomplice Mushtaqim Khan, who was arrested earlier in Bengaluru by the Telangana police team. Police said the three accused did not even have basic education, but were trained at an institution at Jamtara village in Jharkhand. Such illegal institutions, said an officer, train dozens of youths, and send them to various parts of the country to cheat people. The three arrested men created fake Facebook profiles of additional commissioner R Dhinakaran, assistant commissioners Arul Santhosa Muthu and Christin Jayasil among others. An investigation officer said, “They then sent friend requests to the officers’ friends. After winning their trust, they would begin seeking money saying it was for an emergency.” Many were convinced and began transferring anything from Rs 2,000 to Rs 5,000. Some even transferred Rs 10,000 each. The officers realised that a racket was involved after some of their close friends told them that they were being regularly asked for money. An investigation that began gained momentum after the arrest of Mushtaqim Khan, an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-more-held-for-creating-fake-fb-profiles-of-cops-conning-friends/articleshow/79215413.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Patna||Kabar Lake declared Bihar’s first Ramsar site||PATNA: ‘Kabar taal’ or Kabar Lake, located 22km northwest of Begusarai town, has finally been declared Bihar’s first Ramsar site. The declaration was made by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) on Thursday, which was also celebrated as National Birdwatching Day. Union minister for environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar on Thursday shared this information on his Twitter handle. “Pleased to inform that Bihar has got its first Ramsar site. Kabar taal in Begusarai becomes a wetland of international importance. It is an important wetland of the Central Asian Flyway for its population of migratory birds and biodiversity. With this, India now has 39 Ramsar sites (sic),” the minister said in his tweet. Ramsar sites are wetlands of international significance under the Ramsar Convention, 1971, an international treaty for the conservation, protection of wetlands. Dipak Kumar Singh, principal secretary (environment, forest and climate change, Bihar) said, “The lake is now on the world map. However, the state government will work on its restoration. The area of the lake has shrunk a lot over the years,” he said. He added, “Earlier, some private areas were also declared a part of the lake. There are many issues with the lake, such as encroachment of its inlets. We will restore and develop the wetland.” Spread over 2,620 hectares, the lake hosts 106 species of resident birds and is a nesting ground for 59 species of migratory birds. The site hosts five critically endangered species, including three vultures — Indian vulture (Gyps indicus), red-headed vulture (Sarcogyps calvus) and white-rumped vulture (Gyps bengalensis) — and two water birds — sociable lapwing (Vanellus gregarius) and baer’s pochard (Aythya baeri). In addition, it has 46 species of fishes and supports a large number of flora and fauna round the year. The Kabar Lake was declared a notified area under the Wildlife (Protection) Act of 1972. In 1989, the Bihar government declared it a bird sanctuary to prevent poaching. In spite of being a proposed Ramsar site since 1987, the lake was not among the 13 wetlands that were declared to be of international importance in 2002. Ashok Ghosh, chairman of Bihar State Pollution Control Board, in a survey report titled ‘Kabar Lake- A Paradise Lost’, had said the water of the lake was declining at an alarming rate due to severe eutrophication. “The depth of the lake is declining due to infestation of aquatic weeds. Besides, there is no inflow-outflow mechanism in the lake. Many people are dependent on the lake for livelihood, especially the Sahni fishing community,” he said in the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kabar-lake-declared-bihars-first-ramsar-site/articleshow/79197393.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 13, 2020||Rajkot||Bauxite theft worth Rs 4.50 crore detected in Gujarat's Kalyanpur||RAJKOT: Bauxite theft estimated to be worth Rs 4.50 crore was detected from the outskirts of Kenedy village in Kalyanpur taluka of Devbhoomi Dwarka district on Wednesday. A local transporter, was booked for his alleged involvement in the illegal activity, said police.“Jetha Varu of Halmatiya village, was booked for his alleged involvement in the mineral theft. The state mines and mineral department had received a tip-off that the illegal excavation of bauxite was rampant in Kenedy village. The department officials raided the spot on the outskirts of the village and detected the bauxite theft,” said F B Gagania, sub-inspector with Kalyanpur police station. “Varu and his associates had allegedly illegally excavated 35,313 metric tonne bauxite from the government land in the past one and a half years. Apart from Varu, more people are likely to be booked in the racket as their names may crop up during the investigation,” added Gagania. Police said that the officials of the mines and mineral department measured the earth excavated with GPS-based instruments and accessed the theft to be over 35 metric tonne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bauxite-theft-worth-rs-4-50cr-detected-in-kalyanpur/articleshow/79200676.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Allahabad||Accused of killing wife, man denied custody of kids||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has held that a man accused of killing his wife cannot be given custody of his minor children until he is acquitted by a competent court. The court also refused to grant visitation rights to the accused father to meet the children. Justice JJ Munir gave this decision while dismissing a petition filed by one Awadhesh Gautam on behalf of his two minor children. In the petition, Awadhesh had alleged he was falsely framed in the case and the minors were forcibly taken away by his in-laws and sent to an ashram in Uttarakhand. The court interacted with one of the children, a 10year-old boy, who was present in the court. The minor boy said that he and his sister were sent to a hostel run by an ashram by their maternal grandmother for studies and they did not want to live with their father. During the course of hearing, the FIR in the murder case and the postmortem report of the mother of the two children were also placed before the court. The court after hearing concerned parties declined to give the custody of the children to the father and observed, “The totality of the circumstances on record shows that unless acquitted, it would not be appropriate to place the two minor children in their father’s custody. It is all the more so as the elder of the two minors, who can express an intelligent preference about the guardian he would like to be with, has ruled out the father. He is also fearful of the father.” However, the court said that if the father is acquitted in the case, it would be open to him to make an appropriate application, seeking custody of the children. The court gave this decision on November 10 that came to limelight on November 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/accused-of-killing-wife-man-denied-custody-of-kids/articleshow/79214227.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 13, 2020||Patna||68% of elected MLAs in Bihar face criminal charges: Report||PATNA: At least 68% of newly-elected MLAs in Bihar have criminal cases against them, an increase of 10% as compared to the previous assembly. Also, the number of rich MLAs in the state assembly has gone up to 194 from 123 in 2015. Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) released these data on Wednesday on the basis of self-declared affidavits of 241 of 243 winning candidates. Data of two elected MLAs, one of BJP and another of RJD, could not be analysed as affidavits filed by them were unclear. Complete Coverage: Bihar assembly electionsData shows that of the 241 winning candidates, 163 have declared criminal cases against them. In the previous assembly, 142 MLAs faced criminal charges. This time, at least 123 winning candidates or 51% have declared serious criminal cases against them, including murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping and crime against women. In 2015, 40% of winning candidates had declared such serious criminal cases against them. At least 19 of the newly-elected MLAs face cases related to murder, 31 attempt to murder and eight crime against women. Read Also10 reasons Bihar's CM has the toughest jobThe NDA has won the tightly contested Bihar elections. For the next chief minister, it will be an uphill road aheadWhen it comes to party-wise break up, 44 of 74 RJD candidates or 73% have declared criminal cases against them, the highest among major parties. In BJP, 47 of 73 newly-elected MLAs have declared criminal cases (47%). Similarly, 20 of 43 newly-elected JD(U) MLAs face criminal cases. Of 19 winning candidates of Congress, 10 have declared criminal cases against them. Eight of 12 winning candidates of CPI-ML also face criminal cases. All five winning candidates of AIMIM have declared criminal cases against them. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said tickets had been given to candidates in strict adherence to guidelines issued by the Election Commission. Apart from increase in the number of MLAs with criminal cases against them, there is also an increase in crorepati MLAs. While in 2015, 162 of 243 MLAs had declared assets more than Rs 1 crore (67%), the number has gone up to 194 or 81% this time. The BJP tops the list with 89% of its MLAs owning assets more than Rs 1 crore, followed by JD-U (88%), RJD (87%) and Congress (74%). While the average asset of an MLA in 2015 was Rs 3.02 crore, it has increased to Rs 4.32 crore in 2020. Anant Singh, who has won from Mokama on RJD’s ticket, is the richest among all newly-elected MLAs with assets of over Rs 68 crore. RJD’s Ramvriksh Sada, who has won from Alauli (SC) seat on RJD’s ticket, is poorest with an asset of just Rs 70,000. Asked about more crorepati MLAs entering the assembly this time from BJP, party’s state spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said, “It is natural that with passage of time, one’s wealth increases.” Watch 68% of newly elected MLAs in Bihar face serious criminal charges||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/68-of-elected-mlas-face-criminal-charges-report/articleshow/79202776.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 13, 2020||Patna||Online sites come to shoppers’ rescue||PATNA: In the run-up to Diwali festivities amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many Patnaites are relying on online shopping sites to buy gifts, sweets and puja materials for themselves as well as their friends and relatives. Tricenarian Sangeeta Prasad, who lives in Mumbai, always celebrates Diwali and Chhath with her parents in Patna. However, she had to drop the plan this year because of the pandemic. “I cannot travel to Patna with my two children amid Covid. Therefore, I have placed an online order for puja items and sweets so that my parents do not have to step out of the house,” Sangeeta told TOI over the phone from Mumbai. Another Patnaite, Aditi Mishra, has sent Diwali gifts for her niece from Delhi. She said, “Since I could not go home this time, I ordered online gifts for my niece who will celebrate her first Diwali.” 24-year-old Sanchi Shroff, who had launched an online platform for selling a wide range of puja items recently, claimed that she had already sold products worth Rs 1.15 lakh. “Online sites have come to the rescue of shoppers amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” she added. Majority of the customers Sanchi deals with are in the age group of 30 to 35 years. “Some elderly people, who do not want to go out because of the pandemic, have also used my platform,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/online-sites-come-to-shoppers-rescue/articleshow/79197444.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 13, 2020||Patna||CISF constable dies of Covid-19||PATNA: Three more Central Armed Police Force (CAPF) personnel, who had been deployed in Bihar to conduct free and fair assembly elections, have died of different ailments, including Covid, in the last 24 hours. Earlier, six CAPF personnel had died in the state due to different reasons. A Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) constable died of Covid at AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday, CRPF Bihar Sector headquarters public relations officer (PRO) M K Singh said on Thursday. “Two constables, one each from Border Security Force (BSF) and CISF, died on Thursday due to other ailments while returning to their respective bases by trains,” he added. Singh said the BSF constable died near Narkatiaganj in Bihar and the CISF personnel near Guntur in Andhra Pradesh. “The next of kin of the deceased CISF constable will get Rs 30 lakh ex gratia as announced by the Election Commission. The kin of deceased BSF and CISF constables, on the other hand, will get an ex gratia of Rs 15 lakh each,” he added. Singh said 284 CAPF personnel had contracted Covid after reaching the state on poll duty. “At least 30 CAPF personnel are still undergoing treatment at different hospitals in the state for Covid,” he added. The PRO said 1,049 companies of CAPF had left Bihar earlier and the remaining 151 left from different locations in north Bihar in 14 special trains on Thursday. Altogether 1200 companies of CAPF, reserved forces and armed police of other states had come to Bihar to conduct elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cisf-constable-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/79197383.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 13, 2020||Rajkot||Instead of diplomatic statements, we gave fitting reply to enemies: Shah||Rajkot: In a veiled attack on the previous Congress-led UPA government, union home minister Amit Shah said that the NDA government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given befitting reply to the enemies rather than merely issuing ‘diplomatic statements.’Shah, who visited in Kutch on Thursday, also said that the infrastructure development in the border areas was far more in the last six years as compared to the previous 50 years. He was addressing village heads at the ‘Simant Kshetra Vikasotsav-2020’ at Dhordo village as part of the central government’s Border Area Development Programme.Shah also asked people living in border areas to remain more vigilant for better security. The country cannot take the path of development without strengthening its internal security. “It is necessary to stop the migration from border areas. To do so, those areas must be developed at par with cities,” he added.“Our government strongly believes that unless a citizen living on the border is not aware (about security aspects), the country's borders are not secure,” Shah said.The home minister enumerated that achievement of his government over the past six year and said as against just 170 km of roads in border areas undergoing resurfacing between 2008 and 2014, 480 km of roads were resurfaced between 2014 and 2020 under the Modi government.“We have allocated a budget of Rs 11,800 crore for the year 2020-21 for border area development. Infrastructure development carried out in these areas in the last six years under the Modi government is much more than what was done in the previous 50 years,” he said.“PM has instructed us to give priority to such villages and implement government schemes in these areas,” he said. The objective behind organising such programmes is to make sure that border areas get facilities like healthcare, education and better connectivity at par with cities, Shah said.Sarpanchs of 158 border villages along with other elected representatives of Kutch, Banaskantha and Patan districts were present during the event.Nitin Patel, sarpanch of Gaduli village in Lakhpat taluka said, “Currently, the development projects for these villages are decided at district level, which selects clusters of villages for a big project. I suggested that the panchayat should decide which project should start in priority. Panchayat should also be allowed to undertake infrastructure work in the limit of Rs 5 lakh in a year,” Patel told TOI.‘Fault finders rejected by people’Rajkot: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday took a dig at the opposition parties and said that recent Bihar assembly elections and bypolls in other states, was a proof that people have rejected leaders ‘who find fault in everything’"Some political leaders and parties have a hostile view about everything. They have a habit of finding fault with everything which is good for people," said Shah while speaking at Dhordo.“These leaders talk too much and think that their falsehoods will be accepted if they keep repeating it,” the union home minister said."Many doubted the country's preparedness against coronavirus, abrogation of Article 370, and the Ram Temple. They tried to create an atmosphere of unrest but did not succeed,” he added.The total whitewash Bihar polls and byelections in Gujarat, MP, UP, Karnataka, Leh-Ladakh, Telangana and Manipur is a clear mandate that people chose the BJP, Shah said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/instead-of-diplomatic-statements-we-gave-fitting-reply-to-enemies-shah/articleshow/79200749.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||Grasim to sell fertiliser biz to Indorama||Mumbai: Grasim Industries is divesting its fertiliser business — Indo Gulf Fertilisers — to Indorama India for a lump-sum cash consideration of Rs 2,649 crore. The board of directors of Grasim Industries, a flagship company of the $48-billion Aditya Birla Group, approved the divestment on Thursday. The company said the fertiliser business will be transferred to Indorama India on slump-sale basis following a scheme of arrangement. The divestment of the fertiliser business is a value-unlocking exercise for Grasim, and is expected to enable the company to pursue growth opportunities in its core businesses. Grasim plans to invest the proceeds from the sale into its core business of VSF and chemicals. The contribution of fertilizers to Grasim’s revenues is 3.5%, while the same is even less at 1.5% to Grasim’s profit. Indo Gulf Fertilisers is engaged in the manufacture, trade and sale of urea and other agri-inputs with a 1.2-MTPA urea manufacturing plant at Jagdishpur in Uttar Pradesh. Grasim Industries MD Dilip Gaur said, “The divestment of the fertilizer business by Grasim is a strategic portfolio choice and unlocks value for the shareholders. It is in line with the strategic thrust of the company to focus on core businesses.” Indo Gulf Fertilisers is known for its Shaktiman brand of fertilizers. Gaur said India Gulf Fertilisers will benefit from synergies and expertise of Indorama’s existing agri portfolio. Indorama India is a subsidiary of Indorama Corporation, Singapore, which is one of Asia’s leading chemical holding companies. Its subsidiaries manufacture fertilizers, polyethylene & polypropylene resins, medical gloves, polyester fibres & resins, spun yarns and cotton fibre. It is the largest producer of urea and phosphate fertilisers in sub-Saharan Africa, the largest producer of polyolefins in West Africa, and the third-largest producer of synthetic rubber gloves in the world. In India, Indorama is a leading producer of phosphate fertilizers, marketed under the brand Paras. Indorama Corporation vice-chairman Amit Lohia said, “Shaktiman and the Paras brands will be able to join hands to offer a complete range of products for our farmers including urea, phosphate fertilizers, potash, soil health products, seeds, and crop protection products.” Grasim’s standalone revenues were at about Rs 19,000 crore in fiscal year 2020, while its net profit was at about Rs 1,270 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/grasim-to-sell-fertiliser-biz-to-indorama/articleshow/79200356.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Rajkot||History-sheeter, 11 aides booked under GCTOC||Rajkot: A notorious history-sheeter and his 11 accomplices were booked under the Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organized Crime (GCTOC) Act by Gondal police on Thursday. The prime accused, Nikhil Donga, who is lodged in Ahmedabad’s Sabarmati Central Jail, has as many as 14 criminal cases including murder and extortion lodged against him, while his key aide Shaktisinh Chudasama is facing 32 cases.Of the 12 accused, seven arrested on Thursday, while three including Donga, Chudasama and Navghan Shiyal, are in jail. Others booked include Vijay Jadav, Prithvi Joshi, Darshan Sakarvadia, Vishal Patkar, Akshay Dudhrejia, Devang Joshi and Naresh Sindhav. While Donga and Chudasama are lodged in Sabarmati jail, Shiyal is in Gondal sub-jail. “During our investigation, it came to light that Donga was operating his gang from the jail to execute crimes including murder, threatening to usurping property and extortion. Hence, we decided to invoke GCTOC on Donga and his gang members,” said Sandeep Singh, Rajkot range inspector general of police (IGP).Last month, their criminal activities from jail were exposed after recovery of five cell phones, a power bank and a dongle during a surprise check in Gondal sub-jail by a squad from Sabarmati Central Jail. In fact, the squad found six ‘guests’ of Donga who were having a dinner party inside. After this, Gondal deputy superintendent of police Pratipalsinh Zala was tasked with carrying out a detailed investigation. The gang operated in three districts of Saurashtra including Rajkot, Surendranagar and Junagadh. In all, 117 cases have been registered against the gang members. “We found that Donga used to run criminal activities from the jail. He would give orders for extortion, land grabbing, thrashing people and even settled financial disputes,” said Zala. Jetpur assistant superintendent of police, Sagar Bagmar, has been handed over the further investigation into the case. He will secure the custody of Donga, Chudasma and Shiyal through a transfer warrant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/history-sheeter-11-aides-booked-under-gctoc/articleshow/79200694.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||Exide battery battles supply shortage||Chennai: Battery maker Exide’s Ahmednagar (Nagpur) and Bawal (Haryana) factories, which together produce 25 lakh units a month, are facing a ‘significant’ production disruption due to labour shortage. The overall impact is 60% production. Chennai-based auto dealership Jowin Batteries’s proprietor Alexander A said, “From a supply of 300 batteries, it has now come down to 20-25 per month.” An Exide India spokesman said in an email response, “We admit there are supply constraints for certain batteries in certain areas. The problem is more pronounced in the motorcycle segment because of reasons linked to Covid related disruptions.” Part of the problem, he said, is the disruption at Ahmednagar factory. “Exide’s main battery factory that caters to the two-wheeler after-market is located in Ahmednagar. This has resulted in severe production disruption,” spokesman said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/exide-battery-battles-supply-shortage/articleshow/79199346.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 13, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Jitan Ram Manjhi elected HAM(S) legislature party leader||PATNA: Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi was elected the leader of the Hindustani Awam Morcha-Secular (HAM-S) legislature party at a meeting held at his residence here on Thursday. Manjhi congratulated all the newly-elected MLAs of the party for winning the elections. “The newly-elected legislators were felicitated at the event. We also celebrated the party’s best-ever performance in assembly elections in the state,” HAM-S spokesperson Danish Rizwan said. The Manjhi-led party had bagged four seats in the just concluded assembly elections. Asked if Manjhi was eyeing ministerial berth, Rizwan said, “The party’s agenda is very clear. We will work for the welfare of people. Manjhiji has not made any demand for the ministerial portfolio. We will remain with the NDA even if our elected MLAs are not accommodated in the cabinet.” “For the development of Bihar, the MLAs of Congress and RJD should come with us and support the NDA. Nitish hai toh vikas hai (sic),” Manjhi tweeted on Thursday. “The elected MLAs of Congress should realise the leadership quality of Nitishji. He has been running the state in much effective way,” Manjhi, who won from Imamganj seat in Gaya by defeating RJD’s Udai Narayan Singh, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/manjhi-elected-hams-legislature-party-leader/articleshow/79202798.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Police arrest sellers, seize fireworks from Kolkata pockets in run-up to Diwali||KOLKATA: Candles, diyas and sanitizer on the racks in front and sparklers, charkhas, flower-pot crackers and shells in the godowns — this is the modus operandi that has come to light in Kolkata’s central business district, parts of Salt Lake and Lake Town in the run-up to Kali Puja and Diwali. At Anandapur off EM Bypass, police seized gunpowder and firecrackers from a vendor supplying to a local unit. Crackers were also seized outside Sealdah and Ultadanga railway stations. Three persons were arrested for selling crackers. At Old China Bazaar and Canning Street in the city’s central business district, shops and hawkers displayed candles and sky lanterns. But when they received inquiries on fireworks from “genuine” customers, they cautiously brought out the green crackers — mostly sparklers and flower pots. “We had stocked up on noise-less crackers before the ban was announced. We can’t keep these crackers at home and let them rot. We have invested a lot of money in them. So we are selling them only when approached by customers, that, too, at throwaway prices,” said a seller. A few customers TOI spoke to said they were making the purchase to avoid disappointing their children. Others said they were not aware of the complete ban on fireworks. “I have not bought crackers that emit noise. What harm can sparklers and spinners (charkha) do?” asked a man in his thirties. Kolkata Police deputy commissioner (central division) Sudhir Kumar said special raids were being carried out to confiscate fireworks. “We have already seized a good quantity of crackers and have stepped up vigil to ensure there is no trading in any fireworks this year,” he said. Alerted by TOI, a team of officers from Burrabazar police station raided Old China Bazaar and arrested three such sellers late in the evening. “Approximately 122kg of crackers was seized from them,” Kumar said. At Duttabad in Lake Town, Bidhannagar City Police arrested at least two shopkeepers who were selling crackers on the sly. They, too, claimed they were simply exhausting the stock that had been purchased before the ban kicked in. A team from Bidhannagar North police station that raided his shop and a couple of others, seized 50kg of crackers, including chocolate bombs and shells. The team is now trying to trace the customers — many of them local youths — to confiscate the crackers that were sold. Already, multiple checkpoints have been set up in Behala, Taratala, Patuli and Kidderpore to stop crackers from being smuggled into the city from the fireworks hubs at Champahati and Nungi in South 24 Parganas. The seizure of gunpowder by Anandapur police has led to a fresh headache for cops — crackers being manufactured at unauthorised units in the city. While the carrier fled the spot on seeing cops, police found 2.5kg of crackers and 1.5kg of gunpowder in gunny bags. A case under the Explosives Act was initiated. Police also seized crac-kers from Beniapukur and Survey Park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-arrest-sellers-seize-fireworks-from-kol-pockets-in-run-up-to-diwali/articleshow/79198811.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 13, 2020||---||Our poor performance in Bihar elections failed Mahagatbandhan: Congress||PATNA: Congress national general secretary, Tariq Anwar, on Thursday accepted that the Mahagatbandhan failed to reach the magic figure of 123 assembly seats because of the poor performance of his party. He also suggested that the Mahagathbandhan, including Congress, should not seek the support of Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM for a possible formation of an RJD-led government in the state. Tariq is the first national-level Congress functionary to accept the party’s failure in the state election publicly. “We should accept the truth. Because of Congress’s weak performance, Bihar could not get the Mahagathbandhan government. Congress should do introspection to find out what went wrong. MIM’s entry in Bihar is not a good sign,” Tariq tweeted on Thursday. The AIMIM picked up five crucial seats in the region, securing 1.24% of the total votes polled, denting the Mahagathbandhan. Of these five, two were won by Congress and one by RJD in the 2015 assembly election. Anwar said, “Congress leaders in the know of things” failed to properly weigh Owaisi’s growing influence in the Muslim-dominated constituencies in Seemanchal consisting of Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia. “Moreover, Owaisi tried to divide the Muslim voters by accusing the two main constituents of the Mahagathbandhan--Congress and RJD—of not raising the issues of NRC-CAA vociferously,” he added. This comes amid the demand for overhauling of the party organization growing louder within the Bihar state unit. On Wednesday, several party workers had criticized the state leadership for the poor performance of the party. “With a leader like Tariq Ji publicly accepting the mistake, many more will join the league. Congress should seriously take note of its poor performance in Bihar and question the leaders who were looking after the party affairs in the state,” said a state-level leader, who did not wish to be named. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee secretary Manish Yadav also took to social media on Thursday to express his unhappiness. Talking to TOI, Yadav said, “We don’t have faith in anyone in the party, except for Rahul Ji and Priyanka Ji. Both need to take note of this situation and do a surgical strike within the party.” Yadav raised questions on Congress’s organizational structure in Bihar. “From block to state level, there needs to be overhauling. For the past five years, the same people have held the same positions, though the state president has changed twice.” A day before, Congress leader Rishi Mishra had also raised questions on the way tickets were distributed and demanded the accountability to be fixed. “Even in the previous year's parliamentary election, our performance was very poor. That time it was decided that proper analysis will be done and we expected some organizational change. But the same lot was given the same responsibility. You can see the result,” said a party worker. However, Mahagatbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav avoided commenting on the issue at a press conference on Thursday. When asked if giving 70 seats to Congress was right, he said, “We fought together and with full energy. This is not the time to discuss this.” Reacting to allegations that AIMIM was dividing anti-BJP votes, AIMIM state president Akhtarul Iman said, “We are running a political party that has the right to contest elections on its own. Do we need to seek anyone's permission to fight the polls even after getting it registered with the Election Commission of India?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/our-poor-performance-failed-mgb-congress/articleshow/79197369.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 13, 2020||Patna||No anomalies in postal ballot count: Bihar chief electoral officer||PATNA: State chief electoral officer (CEO) H R Srinivasa on Thursday said the victory margin of elected candidates in 11 assembly constituencies was less than 1,000 votes. The CEO said the recounting of postal ballot papers, including those found to be invalid during counting of votes, was conducted on complaints received from candidates or their counting agents. However, no discrepancies were found during re-verification of the postal ballot papers, he added. The CEO’s clarification came in the wake of allegations of malpractices in counting levelled by RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav. Srinivasa said all the 11 constituencies from where complaints of irregularities in counting of votes or postal ballots were received either by candidates or their counting agents were won by the candidates of RJD, BJP, JD(U), LJP, CPI and an independent. The data shared by the commission revealed that four seats were won by JD(U), three by RJD, one each by LJP, BJP, CPI and an independent. The EC, in its order in May 2019, had clarified that if the victory margin of candidates is less than the total number of postal ballots, then re-verification of only invalid ballot papers would be done. “But in the present context, re-verification of all the postal ballots was carried out to dispel any confusion. The reports of the returning officers sent to the commission clearly mentioned the reason or grounds for turning down the request of recounting of polled votes through EVMs,” he added. Hilsa, Dehri, Bhore, Ramgarh and Matihani were among the constituencies from where request for recounting of votes or postal ballots were received. For example, the victory margin of the candidate in Hilsa constituency was just 12 votes. The returning officer, in his report, said the total number of postal ballots was 551 and 182 were found to be invalid. The results of the re-verification were the same as announced earlier, the CEO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-anomalies-in-postal-ballot-count-ec/articleshow/79203430.cms||Ramashankar
November 13, 2020||Patna||Our poor performance in Bihar elections failed Mahagatbandhan: Congress||PATNA: Congress national general secretary, Tariq Anwar, on Thursday accepted that the Mahagatbandhan failed to reach the magic figure of 123 assembly seats because of the poor performance of his party. He also suggested that the Mahagathbandhan, including Congress, should not seek the support of Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM for a possible formation of an RJD-led government in the state. Tariq is the first national-level Congress functionary to accept the party’s failure in the state election publicly. “We should accept the truth. Because of Congress’s weak performance, Bihar could not get the Mahagathbandhan government. Congress should do introspection to find out what went wrong. MIM’s entry in Bihar is not a good sign,” Tariq tweeted on Thursday. The AIMIM picked up five crucial seats in the region, securing 1.24% of the total votes polled, denting the Mahagathbandhan. Of these five, two were won by Congress and one by RJD in the 2015 assembly election. Anwar said, “Congress leaders in the know of things” failed to properly weigh Owaisi’s growing influence in the Muslim-dominated constituencies in Seemanchal consisting of Kishanganj, Araria, Katihar and Purnia. “Moreover, Owaisi tried to divide the Muslim voters by accusing the two main constituents of the Mahagathbandhan--Congress and RJD—of not raising the issues of NRC-CAA vociferously,” he added. This comes amid the demand for overhauling of the party organization growing louder within the Bihar state unit. On Wednesday, several party workers had criticized the state leadership for the poor performance of the party. “With a leader like Tariq Ji publicly accepting the mistake, many more will join the league. Congress should seriously take note of its poor performance in Bihar and question the leaders who were looking after the party affairs in the state,” said a state-level leader, who did not wish to be named. Bihar Pradesh Congress Committee secretary Manish Yadav also took to social media on Thursday to express his unhappiness. Talking to TOI, Yadav said, “We don’t have faith in anyone in the party, except for Rahul Ji and Priyanka Ji. Both need to take note of this situation and do a surgical strike within the party.” Yadav raised questions on Congress’s organizational structure in Bihar. “From block to state level, there needs to be overhauling. For the past five years, the same people have held the same positions, though the state president has changed twice.” A day before, Congress leader Rishi Mishra had also raised questions on the way tickets were distributed and demanded the accountability to be fixed. “Even in the previous year's parliamentary election, our performance was very poor. That time it was decided that proper analysis will be done and we expected some organizational change. But the same lot was given the same responsibility. You can see the result,” said a party worker. However, Mahagatbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav avoided commenting on the issue at a press conference on Thursday. When asked if giving 70 seats to Congress was right, he said, “We fought together and with full energy. This is not the time to discuss this.” Reacting to allegations that AIMIM was dividing anti-BJP votes, AIMIM state president Akhtarul Iman said, “We are running a political party that has the right to contest elections on its own. Do we need to seek anyone's permission to fight the polls even after getting it registered with the Election Commission of India?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/our-poor-performance-failed-mgb-congress/articleshow/79203370.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 13, 2020||Patna||Dhanteras: Shopkeepers in Patna do brisk business||PATNA: Flouting Covid-19 safety protocols, hundreds of shoppers threw caution to the wind as they thronged local markets, malls and retail outlets for buying jewellery, utensils, coins and idols on the occasion of Dhanteras on Thursday. They neither followed social distancing norms nor wore face masks. However, the owners and employees of jewellery stores in the city were elated with the customers’ positive response despite the pandemic. The employee of a jewellery store near Dak Bungalow, Shekhar Keshri, told this newspaper that many people had made advance bookings. “All our customers underwent thermal screening and used sanitizer. They were not allowed to enter the shop without masks.” The director of another store on Jagdeo Path, Ankit Aggarwal, claimed that Covid had not impacted the sale of jewellery, silver coins or utensils. The salesman of a store on Fraser Road echoed similar views. “Covid has failed to dampen the spirit of Dhanteras because jewellery, coins and utensils are in huge demand,” he said. Even small shops in areas like Nala Road, Kadamkuan, Thakurbari Road, Boring Canal Road, Exhibition Road and Bailey Road attracted a large number of customers. Nitin Kumar, the owner of a shop in Kadamkuan, said, “We did brisk business as the market remained crowded throughout the day.” Shoppers also purchased kitchen appliances, electronic items, apparels and footwear on the occasion. Santosh Mishra, who sells decorative items at a shop on Boring Canal Road, said, “My business picked up the pace in the evening when several customers bought decorative pieces and utensils from me.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shopkeepers-do-brisk-biz/articleshow/79197421.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 13, 2020||Business||Beyond profit: Redefining good business||MUMBAI: Is ‘good business’ all about profit, or do the other Ps — people and planet — also matter? A ‘good business’ strives for higher ethical standards, cares for the environment and community, and is inclusive. And this is expected to become a conversation starter among Indian businesses. With businesses getting back on their feet amid Covid, a study by the $19.4-billion Mahindra Group — shared exclusively with TOI — attempts to find a common ground for responding to various challenges and understand what constitutes a ‘good business’. Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra believes this to be the “most important conversation of the decade”. “If we do the right thing in terms of impacting communities and driving positive change, profits will follow,” Mahindra said in an exclusive email interaction with TOI. Mahindra said in order to survive, businesses have to be sensitive to the demands of their environment. “The businesses that make the transition successfully will be the organisations of the future,” he said. Over the last decade, a number of foreign MNCs’ CEOs have stressed the need for businesses to become accountable on conscious capitalism. A well known founder of an Indian conglomerate is now pushing the need to have a conversation on the subject. The findings of the study, which involved over 2,000 respondents across 10 tier-1 and -2 cities, reveal that 62% of respondents believe that a ‘good business’ constitutes more than a financial return. More than 45% of young Indians aged between 18 and 25 give priority to ethical standards, caring for the community and inclusivity, rather than just profits. But ‘transactional’ and ‘performance’ metrics like profitability, growth and market leadership tend to increase among older respondents (48%) aged over 46. From the times when all that businessmen demanded was “a level-playing field” to now when they realise that investors and consumers are being influenced by factors like environmental, social and governance (ESG) and PPP, India appears to have come a long way. Globally, climate change, greed exceeding need, the fall of Wall Street and the rise of a new millennial generation are some of the triggers towards the emergence of conscious capitalism. “This year, Covid has underlined that we are all interconnected and that everybody’s well-being depends on the well-being of humbler members of society — delivery men, migrants, medical caregivers, vegetable vendors, domestic labour. Hence, in taking care of them, we take care of ourselves,” said Mahindra. He said it is essential for businesses to align their enlightened self-interest with a wide definition of community capitalism that sees not just local communities but people all over the world as their stakeholders. From an employment perspective, nearly half (49%) of the respondents chose salary and employee benefits, career & growth potential and climate change policies & environmental commitments as the top 3 considerations for a ‘good business’. The profile of the typical Indian consumer too is undergoing a transition with 60% of people saying it is important for the company to be ‘good’ in their opinion if they were purchasing a product or service from it. What’s more, a large majority (70%) of respondents said they would never invest in a business they did not consider a genuinely ‘good business’. Mahindra said a company’s approach “beyond the balance sheet” now exerts a material impact. “If the general trends we observe are correct, that people will want to invest their money and their patronage in businesses that have a wider perspective, in businesses that care about people and sustainability, then businesses that don’t ‘get this’ will see their brand value erode before their very eyes,” said Mahindra. This could also impact the way business is conducted. A firm called Y Analytics, a spin-off from the TPG Rise Fund, has created metrics to measure the social and environmental impact of companies. “We will explore the value of harnessing such metrics to the conventional ones in order to better evaluate where we are on the journey towards ‘good business’,” said Mahindra. Some costs could, however, increase. “In such a case, the cost of not recognising these new broader expectations of ‘good business’ may be higher than simply carrying on. With the best will in the world, the costs of complying with BS6 norms will impact the cost of production. But it will also impact the environment and health, so there is a societal trade-off,” said Mahindra. Are other businesses ready to make such trade-offs?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/beyond-profit-redefining-good-business/articleshow/79200222.cms||Namrata Singh
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru City Corporation restricts number of cracker shops||MYSURU: With just a few days remaining for the festival of lights, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) authorities has decided to give permission to just 12 firecracker shops on JK Grounds. Every year, around 25 temporary shops used to sell crackers at JK Grounds. The decision to curtail the number of shops at the grounds is to prevent crowding. MCC zone 6 assistant commissioner H Nagaraj said the decision to reduce the number of shops at the central business district was taken to prevent the spread of coronavirus. “People who visit the grounds to buy crackers should compulsorily wear face masks, maintain social distancing and use hand sanitizer regularly. As a precautionary measure, the health department will conduct Covid tests to shop owners and staff before they are given permission to do business,” he said. MCC commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said that shop owners are directed to sell only green firecrackers with reduced emission. “Permission to open cracker shops in other parts of the city will also be finalized soon. All measures to prevent coronavirus will be taken up by the corporation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-city-corporation-restricts-number-of-cracker-shops/articleshow/79198873.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Trichy||4 rescued child labourers to be rehabilitated in Trichy district||Trichy: The recent meeting of district task force committee (DTFC) which deals with the eradication of the child labourers, was a platform for the rehabilitation of a child labourer and three adolescent labourers rescued at Somarasampettai in Trichy. At the meeting chaired by the chairman S Sivarasu on Tuesday, district collector asked the project director of Child Labour Elimination and Effective Rehabilitation Society (CHEERS), Pearline Sathyanathan and project manager S Gowtham to collect the details of the children and their family. “We have been asked to check the financial status of the four children in order to support their education and also help the family,” project manager of CHEERS Gowtham told ToI on Thursday. District task force committee (DTFC) comprising assistant commissioner of labour, assistant inspectors of labour, anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) inspector P Azeem, state coordinator of Bachpan Bachao Andolan (BBA) H Natharsha Malim and CHEERS officials had carried out a raid at Somarasampettai at the end of September this year. The team found four minor boys employed in the locality. While two 16-year-old boys were found working in a two-wheeler mechanic shop, a 12-year-old boy and a 15-year-old boy were subjected as child labourers in a bakery and a petrol bunk respectively.Based on a complaint from Malim, Somarasampettai police registered a case after a few weeks wait. Gowtham said that the boys were handed over to their parents who had sent them to work due to poverty. The boys were paid Rs 60 to Rs 100 per day.DTFC having the assistant commissioner of labour (ACL) as the nodal officer has been asked to organize the meeting of the committee every month to assess the position of the children in such families so that their rehabilitation can be done properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-rescued-child-labourers-to-be-rehabilitated-in-trichy-district/articleshow/79200523.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: For Diwali, car registrations up by 29%, bikes by 48%||MUMBAI: Car registrations in the past 10 days for Diwali deliveries rose by 29%, while bike bookings went up by 48%, compared to average daily registrations in October. In fact, October witnessed highest vehicle registrations during Covid months, but the Diwali rush for new cars and bikes surpassed this record. Deliveries will be made on Dhanteras, on Friday, and Diwali, on Saturday. If you compare it with last Diwali, bookings for cars are short by 6% for cars and 8% for bikes. The rush for bookings peaked from November 3, which was 10 days before Dhanteras at Tardeo (island city), Wadala (eastern suburbs), Andheri and Borivli (western suburbs) RTOs. During this 10-day period, 2,253 new cars and 7,105 bikes were registered, and most will be delivered on the two festival days. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said, “Vehicle registrations have been expedited at RTOs so that citizens can get deliveries on time. We are working for more hours and some RTOs on Saturdays and Sundays to clear the backlog and ensure speedy registrations.” Revenue of over Rs 3 crore was collected by RTOs during the past 10 days as road tax for new registrations. Purchase of new automobiles in Mumbai usually peaks during Diwali, Dussehra, Gudi Padwa and Akshaya Tritiya, auspicious days for starting ventures, shifting to a new apartment or buying new cars/two-wheelers or gold (Dhanteras). Some applicants applied for special number plates, which come for a premium. Numbers are allotted through a computerised system, officials said. Despite short staff, the RTOs cleared all new registrations on time. Registrations were also high in neighbouring Thane and Vashi RTOs. All new vehicles will have the new BS6 engines, with better emission norms, and dealers said they will affix high security registration number plates on vehicles before customers come to the showrooms on Friday and Saturday for deliveries. A car dealer from Andheri said, “Due to Covid-19, we are processing everything online. The customer has to stay at home and will get an OTP (one-time password) for car insurance and another from the regional transport office for car registration. Executives call up customers for the OTP and complete formalities at the showroom. We have also told customers to pay online. Car loans have been processed faster during the festival season.” A RTO official said most work is done at the dealer-level, except for inspection and registration by the transport department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-diwali-car-registrations-up-by-29-bikes-by-48/articleshow/79199148.cms||Somit Sen
November 13, 2020||Agra||Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's great grandniece files plea to become party in Mathura mosque land suit||AGRA: Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose's great grandniece and national president of Hindu Mahasabha Rajyashree Chaudhuri has also filed a petition to become a party to the case filed earlier for the removal of a 17th century mosque from near the Krishna Janmasthan temple in Mathura. Talking to media persons in Mathura on Thursday, Chaudhuri said her organisation will back the petitioner in favour of the Hindu community. “Not only Krishna Janmasthan, Kashi Vishwanath, Tejo Mahal (sic) are also on our agenda,” she said, claiming that the Eidgah adjacent to “Krishna’s birthplace is illegal”. Rajyashree, whose great-grandmother was one of Netaji’s six sisters, took over as the national head of Hindu Mahasabha in 2018 -- only second Bengali to lead the right-wing organisation after Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mookerjee, who was its president between 1943 and 1946. In October, a Mathura court admitted the plea seeking removal of the mosque situated adjacent to a Krishna temple. The suit, filed by Lucknow resident Ranjana Agnihotri and five others, including a Delhi resident, claims that the mosque is exactly where Krishna was born and they have sought the ownership of the entire 13.37-acre land. It also sought cancellation of a compromise decree between the governing body of the temple complex and the management trust of the mosque in 1968. In the petition filed by Supreme Court lawyer Vishnu Shankar Jain, it has been stated that Shree Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan is a registered society that has overpowered the trust, which was “non-functional since 1958 and had fraudulently entered into a compromise with the Committee of Management Trust Masjid Eidgah on October 12,1968”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/netajis-great-grandniece-files-plea-to-become-party-in-mathura-mosque-land-suit/articleshow/79196732.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC changes Covid-testing norms||Ahmedabad: The AMC, which till recently was promoting testing as the main tool to defeat Covid-19, asked the citizen of Ahmedabad on Thursday not to get themselves tested for the infection out of anxiety. The civic body has reportedly asked its teams to test only those who have symptoms of the viral infection or have come in contact with a Covid-positive person. The teams have been told to put a mark on the fingers of those tested. In a statement issued on Thursday, the civic body stated that the move is aimed at helping those who need immediate testing but have to stand in long queues. “Unnecessary testing is also wastage of resources which is putting additional burden on the corporation,” the statement mentioned. An AMC official said that the testing numbers have crossed the 10k-mark. “There is rush to get tested because of the exposure during the festive season,” said the official. The official said that at every kiosk, one official will constantly monitor those coming for testing and standing in queues. “Earlier, those accompanying a person with symptom were also asked to get themselves tested. This will change now,” said the health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-changes-covid-testing-norms/articleshow/79200524.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 26.5% active cases of Gujarat in Ahmedabad district||AHMEDABAD: According to the Covid-19 dashboard by the state health and family welfare department, at the end of November 11, Gujarat had 12,223 active cases. Out of the total, 3,244 were in Ahmedabad district, which accounted for 26.5% of the total active cases. Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot with 2,012, 1,473 and 916 active cases accounted for 16.5%, 12% and 7.5% active cases respectively. Cumulatively, the four districts accounted for 7,645 or 62.5% of active cases. The website of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA) as on Tuesday morning showed 80.2% occupancy for the 2,135 beds in its 70 member hospitals in Ahmedabad city. Out of the total, the occupancy of isolation beds was 79%, the high-dependency beds was 86%, the ICU without ventilator was 75% and the ICU with ventilator was 68%. The analysis of the cases in Ahmedabad and Surat cities reveals that in the past two days, the average daily cases of Ahmedabad was 184 compared to 143 of Surat, indicating 29% more cases in the former. “Multiple factors including the change in weather, the lack of social distancing and mask etiquettes in crowded places and the surge of citizens in outdoors spaces due to festive season are responsible for the increase in number of cases. We request the citizens to exercise utmost caution during Diwali festivities,” said an AHNA member. “We are in talks with the AMC to increase the requisite beds till the number of cases again reach September-October level,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-19-26-5-active-cases-of-guj-in-abad-dist/articleshow/79200526.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chandigarh||15 Puja special among 22 trains to remain cancelled in Punjab||Chandigarh: There will be no puja special train plying from Punjab to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar this festival season, as 15 Punjab special trains are among 22 trains cancelled, said divisional railway manager G M Singh. He said the decision has been taken due to two reasons, ongoing farmers protest in Punjab and Gurjar agitation in Rajasthan. “However, we have arranged trains from Delhi,” he added. The trains have been called off in Punjab, as the rail tracks are ‘occupied’ by the farmers protesting against farm bills across the state. Central government has decided that no train will be run unless the entire state is free of farmers’ protests, he said. Jammu Tawi-Gorakhpur, Katra-Delhi, Amritsar-Ajmer, Bathinda-Delhi are some of the Puja special trains that have been cancelled till further orders. However, many other trains have been short terminated and short originated.Varanasi-Jammu Tawi puja special train has been short terminated at Saharanpur and JammuTawi – Varanasi will originate from Saharanpur too and remain partially cancelled between Saharanpur and JammuTawi and Saharanpur. Mumbai Central – Amritsar Express has been short terminated at Ambala. Consequently, Amritsar – Mumbai Central Express will short originate from Ambala and remain partially cancelled between Ambala and Amritsar and Ambala. Bandra-Amritsar Express-Bandra, Dhanbad-Ferozpur-Dhanbad and Jaynagar- Amritsar-Jaynagar have also been short terminated and short originated at Ambala too. Nanded-Amritsar –Nanded Express will short terminate and short originate from Delhi and will remain cancelled between Delhi and Amrisar and Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/15-puja-special-among-22-trains-to-remain-cancelled-in-punjab/articleshow/79199015.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 13, 2020||Trichy||Burglar caught stealing phones thrashed, dies||Thanjavur: A 23-year-old man was beaten to death by a group of people after he was caught red-handed stealing mobile phones from a shop near Thanjavur. Six people including shop owner Vincent have been arrested for the murder of R Haja Mohideen, a native of Isaiyakkadu village near Mathukkur. Though the he died on November 9, his identity could be ascertained only on Wednesday after the police traced his father from the man missing complaints. According to police, some residents of Kasangadu were returning home after watching a kabaddi match in a nearby village late on November 8 when the they saw lights at the mobile phone shop owned by Vincent. When they went to check, they found some people trying to steal mobile phones from the shop. On seeing them, two of the three burglars fled while Haja, who was allegedly in an inebriated condition, was caught. They beat him up and informed Vincent, who came rushing and also roughed him up. On being informed, Mathukkur police arrived and admitted Haja to a government hospital in Pattukottai. He was referred to Government medical college hospital in Thanjavur on November 9, where he died in the night. As the police could not ascertain his identity, they checked the man missing cases registered with neighbouring police stations. They came to know that there was a complaint lodged by Rahmatullah of Isaiyakkadu, stating that his son was missing since November 8. Subsequently, Mathukkur police arrested Vincent and two others on Wednesday and three others on Thursday from Kasangadu. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/burglar-caught-stealing-phones-thrashed-dies/articleshow/79200525.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Agra||21 cities in Ganga basin dump 60% of excreta into river: CSE report||In 21 priority cities and towns along the Ganga, 60% of the population’s excreta is directly or indirectly dumped into the river causing water pollution, says a new study by the Centre of Science and Environment (CSE). It maps the entire route of faecal waste from the start to end in places including Rishikesh, Bijnor, Kanpur, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Patna and Haldia. The study, which was conducted over a period of three years, has been presented to the National Mission for Clean Ganga in a bid to demonstrate the "breakdown in sanitation value chains" through a data-driven approach. In cities with more than 5 lakh population — Kanpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Patna — 52% of the faecal sludge (a mixture of faeces and water) produced is not safely managed. It is worse in smaller towns with population between 1.2-5 lakh, like Mirzapur and Farukkhabad, where 84% of the sludge remains untreated. In these towns, 85% of the population is not connected to sewerage network and is dependent on onsite sanitation systems like septic tanks and pits. In towns like Ramnagar, Rishikesh, Bijnor, Mughalsarai with population less than 1.2 lakh, around 56% of the population never gets their tanks emptied or gets them emptied only after 15–20 years. From there, a major chunk of the sludge ends up in open drains, nullahs, or open fields, and then into the river. This untreated sludge also seeps down to the ground water, which then finds its way back to households in the form of contaminated water that causes a number of water-borne diseases like cholera, jaundice, typhoid and dysentery.Dr Suresh Rohilla, director, water programme, at CSE and the main author of the study, said, “If one truckload of 5,000 litres of faecal sludge is dumped in any water body, it is equivalent of 5,000 people defecating in it in one day. Presence of human waste in water increases its BOD, or biological oxygen demand, which is a major cause of river pollution.” The study also found that in these 21 cities, 2% of the population still defecates in the open; no city is 100% sewered and only 15% faecal sludge gets treated. The report also highlights the problem of manual scavenging that is rampant, especially in towns with population less than 5 lakh -- where private operators dispose off the sludge. In addition to exposing loopholes in human excreta management, the CSE study also suggests solutions to fix them, like building faecal sludge management plants, construction of trenching sites (a bio-chemical method of waste disposal) and hiring of manpower and efficient equipment for collection and transport of faecal sludge and septage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/21-cities-in-ganga-basin-dump-60-of-excreta-into-river-cse-report/articleshow/79197797.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Trichy||Cracker sales touch all-time low in Trichy||Trichy: The sale of fire crackers has hit a new low at the temporary fireworks outlets in Trichy. Traders said that due to the financial crunch caused by the Covid-19 pandemic, many people shied away from buying crackers and added that they could not even achieve 30% sales till Wednesday. They had expected the sales to go up on Thursday, but are now hoping for better sales on Friday. “Besides the pandemic, even the ban imposed in many states has brought down the total production of crackers in Sivakasi, which has come down to 60% from the usual. So, wholesale traders have limited stock this Diwali,” said R Jayabal, a wholesale and retail dealer in the city. “We are maintaining only minimum stock. We have yet to reach 40% of sale when compared to previous years. We are expecting a moderate sale on Thursday and Friday,” Jayabal added. Cracker stores run by the state cooperative department are also facing poor sales this year due to the pandemic, officials from the cooperative department said. Despite the Covid-19 crisis and the cost of fireworks going up when compared to the last year, cooperative department has purchased the same volume of crackers for sale this year, a senior officer from the department told TOI. “A total of seven shops have been established across the district by the department including in both the head-quarters of Chinthamani and Amaravathi co-operative departments. We are expecting the last minute brisk sales,” the official added. K Banupriya, district officer, fire and rescue services department, Trichy (in-charge) told TOI that they have permitted 150 cracker shops across the district. Meanwhile, P Maharajan, a resident of Puthur, who is employed in a private company, said that people are in no mood to celebrate Diwali this year due to the pandemic and its impact on public’s finances. “Usually, we buy crackers at least for Rs 1,500 to Rs 2, 000. However, I bought just for Rs 800 this year,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cracker-sales-touch-all-time-low-in-trichy/articleshow/79200527.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 13, 2020||Varanasi||Admin to live telecast Deepotsav on 4 screens||Gorakhpur: People of Gorakhpur will also be able to watch the annual Deepotsav programme of Ayodhaya on four LED display screens being set up in the city on November 13. A LED mobile van will also be available for the telecast, as per the sources in district administration. On Friday, around 10 thousand volunteers will light around 5.5 lakh earthen lamps at 24 ghats in Ayodhaya. Covid-19 protocol will be followed and social distancing will be maintained during the event, said Ram Bhajan, a devotee. “We are fortunate that we’ll be able to watch the Deepotsav programme live on LED display screens at Kuchhury Chowk, Shastri Chowk, Lake view point Ramgarhtal lake and at Mohaddipur. Many of the devotees like me wish to go to Ayodhaya and watch the programme but can’t due to Covid-19 and other constraints. But thanks to technology that devotees like me will be able to watch the programme live from here,” said another devotee Ravi Yadav. PM Modi will also participate in the programme through virtual platform and I am very eager to watch the programme, a college student Rashmi Srivastav said. As per sources in the police department, heavy police force will be deployed in the areas of live telecast of the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-to-live-telecast-deepotsav-on-4-screens/articleshow/79200209.cms||Arjumand Bano
November 13, 2020||Trichy||Farmers claim several branch canals not desilted||Thanjavur: Farmers, who attended the monthly farmers grievance day meeting in Thanjavur alleged that though chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and ministers from delta districts claim that all the waterbodies and irrigation channels have been desilted this year, they could not get water in the tail-end areas as many branch canals and drain channels were not desilted properly. Farmers appealed to complete the process by at least next year. Rama Thiyagarajan, leader of a farmers’ association appealed to the district collector to desilt four branch canals that irrigate hundreds of acres of land in Kumbakonam. These four canals take their course from Manniyaru, which is the tributary of river Cauvery at Kabisthalam near Kumbakonam. Though many channels have been desilted, several branch canals have been left unattended leading to blocking of water flow. To irrigate hundreds of land, officials should desilt the four branch canals, Thiyagarajan added. Ramanathan, treasurer of Thanjavur district Cauvery farmers’ protection association also appealed to the collector to desilt Neelathanallur canal as it was untouched by the PWD authorities. Several small irrigation canals have not been taken into consideration leaving hundreds of ayakatars in a lurch, he added. President of Pazhavaru ayakatar, B Swaminthan said that another four water sources --Kailasanathar canal, Kandakirayam canal, Korai canal and Vadakku Sethi canal – have not been desilted. He also appealed to repair the recently-built sluice across Kondadi canal near Eragaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-claim-several-branch-canals-not-desilted/articleshow/79200543.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad HC relief for farmers seeking insurance under govt scheme||PRAYAGRAJ: Providing a huge relief to the farmers and marginalised sections of the society, the Allahabad high court has held that the period of limitation of three months for filing a claim under the state government’s Mukhyamantri Kisan Avam Sarvhit Bima Yojana is “unreasonable and arbitrary”, and allowed claims to be entertained up to a period of three years from the date of death. Allowing a writ petition filed by Gautam Yadav of Jaunpur district, a division bench comprising Justice Shashi Kant Gupta and Justice Pankaj Bhatia observed, “The court cannot ignore the social facts in the state of Uttar Pradesh, wherein the post death rituals extend for a reasonably long time and collection of documents required to be filed with claim (detailed in the scheme) take a long time and to expect the family of the bereaved that to file claim within three months is wholly arbitrary and has the potential of frustrating the entire purpose of the scheme which is to benefit the poor farmers.” “We have no hesitation in holding that the limitation prescribed under the scheme is wholly unreasonable and arbitrary and is liable to be struck out. A ‘socio-beneficial’ scheme has to be interpreted in a manner so as to advance the purpose for which the scheme is formulated and not in a manner so as to defeat the entire purpose of the scheme,” the court further added. While passing the said direction and observation, the court further directed that all the claims filed within a period of three years from the date of the death or within a period of three years from the date of rejection of claim, either partly or wholly by the insurance company, should be treated to be filed within limitation and should be processed on their merits. The court directed the Registrar General of the high court to transmit a copy of this order to the chief secretary of the state and director, Institutional Finance of UP for its communication to all the district magistrates in the state. The district magistrates in turn are directed to entertain and process the claims filed under the scheme within limitation as prescribed by this court, treating them to be within limitation and the same should be processed on their merits. The court directed and provided for the limitation of three years till the time the state government takes an appropriate decision and amends limitation clauses of the scheme to make them more reasonable, taking into account the socio- economic condition of the society as well the laws of India. The court ,while interpreting the scheme, relied upon the provisions of Insurance Act and Limitation Act. The Mukhyamantri Kisan Avam Sarvahit Bima Yojana was formulated with an intent of granting benefits to the poor farmers and marginalised sections of the society in the contingency of them suffering death or permanent disablement on account of the reasons so enumerated in the scheme. The scheme was formulated by the state as a welfare state and the insurance premium is paid by the state to the insurance company, which in turn issues the policies. In the present case, the petitioner had challenged the order of district magistrate (DM), Jaunpur whereby the DM had rejected the claim of the petitioner under the said scheme on the ground that the claim is time-barred. Allowing the writ, the court directed the DM, Janupur to now process the claim of the petitioner in accordance with law on its merits, treating the same to be within limitation within three months. This judgment was given by the court on November 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-relief-for-farmers-seeking-insurance-under-govt-scheme/articleshow/79199916.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 13, 2020||Trichy||ISRO scientist, TCS MD among NIT-T’s alumni awardees||Trichy: ISRO outstanding scientist and managing director of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) were among the eleven eminent personalities who will receive distinguished alumni awards of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy for 2020. Distinguished Alumni Award (DAA) and Young Achiever Award (YAA) have been given by the institute since 2007 for alumni who excel in their respective fields. Rajesh Gopinathan, chief executive officer and managing director, TCS Mumbai, received the award in the category of excellence in corporate and industry category. Anantha Sethuraman, general manager, Kadiresan Annamalai, senior director of marketing in the leading US based corporate companies too were selected for awards in the same category. Sathiya Keerthi Selvaraj, principal staff scientist, AI, Group, LinkedIn Corporation, USA, N Anantharaman, retired professor of NIT Trichy, Sethu Vijayakumar, program co-director for artificial intelligence - The Alan Turing Institute, London, V Srinivasan, outstanding scientist from Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre, ISRO, Thiruvananthapuram, received the awards in the category of excellence in academic, research, innovation and invention. Rajendra K Aryal, representative and country director, food and agriculture organization of the United Nations (FAO) in Afghanistan and Sivasankar Jayagopal, founder chairman, Winvinaya Foundation were selected in the category of excellence in service to the society. Young achiever award was bagged by Gautham Ram Chandra Mouli, assistant professor, Tu Delft, The Netherlands. Applications for distinguished alumni were invited in five different categories for excellence in academics, research, innovation, invention, excellence in corporate, industry, excellence in public administration, excellence in entrepreneurial venture and excellence in service to the society including sports, and journalism. This year, an online portal was created for submission of applications for the first time, said director NIT-T Mini Shaji Thomas. A total of 26 applications were received for the award. After careful evaluation, the committee bestowed the awards on 11 alumni.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/isro-scientist-tcs-md-among-nit-ts-alumni-awardees/articleshow/79200561.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Trichy||Postponement a big blow to government school students||Trichy: With the state government deciding to further postpone the reopening of schools after seeking the opinion of parents, government school students will continue to be at a disadvantage compared to those in private schools. However, private schools are effectively engaging teachers to take online classes right from kindergarten to class XII. Since parents of most students have access to gadgets, private schools are moving ahead with online classes where students are also put to online tests. In contrast, government school students are left to watch Kalvi Tholaikatchi besides learning from textbooks. The situation is no different for students in higher secondary classes awaiting board examination this year, which may reflect in their performance in competitive examinations. “Kalvi Tholaikatchi has not been effective as many students don’t haveg access to these classes, especially in the rural areas. Since textbook revision from home alone can’t help, many students have lost track of the curriculum,” said a government school teacher from Manachanallur. “After interaction with parents on Monday, we learned that many students in higher secondary classes have started going for work. Parents asked us to reopen the school as they fear their children will lose interest in studies,” said the HM. A few government schools say attempts to engage students in online classes went in vain. “We told parents that they don't have to get their children smart phones as government laptops are enough. But they need to get them a modem for internet access costing about Rs 2,000. But we failed in our attempt to engage students,” said another headmaster of a government school in the city. “There are students who are regularly in touch with us and coming to us with doubts. But they constitute only 20-30% of the students and the rest remain inaccessible. It would be challenging to bring them back to academics if schools are not reopened soon,” he said. Nirmala K Chandrasekaran of Tamil Nadu nursery, primary, matriculation, high/higher secondary and CBSE school’s association said most self-financing schools are in favour of reopening. Online classes are not enough to make all students learn the concepts when the new state board syllabus is tough. Needless to say about government school students who are not connected to teachers through online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/postponement-a-big-blow-to-government-school-students/articleshow/79200552.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kaali-peelis resume at T2 but plan stir on November 17||MUMBAI: Andheri RTO will send a notice to airport authorities for an explanation on why they changed rules for prepaid taxis, by telling customers to pay taxi drivers directly from November 17. Kaali-peeli drivers, who went on a flash strike on Wednesday night, resumed on Thursday, but plan to agitate on November 17, sources said. Regional transport officer (Andheri) Abhay Deshpande said, “We learnt about the agitation from media. It is surprising the airport authorities decided to change rules for prepaid taxis. RTO had not been informed and permission was not sought. We will seek an explanation.” A L Quadros of Mumbai Taximen’s Union said he had written to RTO to call for a meeting between airport officials, unions and traffic police to resolve the issue. Union leader Maqbool Mujawar said the purpose of prepaid taxis was that customers pay in advance, so that they are not overcharged. “Taxi drivers are also assured of a fare with premium,” he added. Airport officials said the system would benefit cabbies as they will get payments at the end of trips and will not have to return. Mujawar said the money can be transferred to cabbies online.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cabbies-resume-at-t2-but-plan-stir-on-nov-17/articleshow/79199152.cms||Somit Sen
November 13, 2020||Trichy||Hit hard by dull sales, diya sellers now pin hopes on Karthigai Deepam fest||Trichy: Sellers of diyas (clay lamps) in Trichy were unable to find decent buyers ahead of Diwali unlike last year and are now pinning their hopes on Karthigai Deepam festival which falls this month end. North Indians in Trichy mostly buy diyas during Diwali. Locals have been showing interest over the recent years, but not this year. S Panchavarnam, 60, who has been selling diyas for the last 15 years in Gandhi market, shifted to Kaliyamman kovil street near Chatram bus stand and says Covid-19 has hampered sales. “North Indian families make most of their buying from a couple of shops in the street as they light their houses with lamps on Diwali. But there weren't many takers this year.” She buys the lamps in bulk from the makers in Manamadurai near Sivagangai and from Cuddalore district in bulk. She said that sales of lamps witnessed a steady rise in recent years and sold about 40,000 lamps last year. “I ordered 20,000 lamps this year but I could only sell a few so far. Locals don't purchase diya for Diwali but buy it for Karthigai Deepam. Diwali may not be that bright this year,” she said. P Karpagam, 45, another seller from the street said that she used to make bulk sales to schools and colleges in the city for pre-Diwali celebrations. The lockdown has come as a blow as no educational institutions are working to organise functions. “Diwali is the time when we do most of the sales as we also market other products like clay pots for cooking. We made brisk sales during this time last year but there has been not much sales over the last few weeks,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/hit-hard-by-dull-sales-diya-sellers-now-pin-hopes-on-karthigai-deepam-fest/articleshow/79200563.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: PWD allows bamboo as mainstream construction material||NAGPUR: Bamboo will soon become mainstream construction material on the lines of concrete, thanks to public works department (PWD), which has included 12 new items in the state schedule rates (SSR) 2020-21. SSR is a manual and guide on the use of material in PWD projects. “Till now, bamboo was seen as a cosmetic material and was used for furniture and small canopy or sheds only, but now we have included new items which will promote use of bamboo even in construction of buildings and complexes. Not only PWD, but other departments will be able to promote it in construction activities,” said Ulhas Debadwar, principal secretary, PWD. “These items were included in the SSR taking a cue from Bamboo Research Training Centre (BRTC) in Chichpalli in Chandrapur. Entire BRTC is made out of bamboo. For the first time, RCC columns and beams of bamboo were put to use as non-scheduled items. We documented them and now have put in the SSR,” Debadwar told TOI. “Bamboo has a long and well-established tradition of being used as a construction material throughout the tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world. Bamboo is a critical resource as it is very efficient in sequestering carbon and also helps in combating climate change,” says PWD superintending engineer Sushma Sakharwade. The PWD move has been hailed by bamboo industry. “Round bamboo has failed to live up to the social urban image. This can be dealt with by modern bamboo construction and aesthetical architectural design using global innovations and best practices. Cost reduction by using prefabricated components, increasing speed of construction, availability of finance and insurance facilities will go a long way in social acceptance of bamboo buildings,” says bamboo expert Sanjeev Karpe. Karpe adds, “Maharashtra government has taken a revolutionary step in the field of bamboo construction in the country by including 12 new items related to modern bamboo construction.” “In India, bamboo had been a well-established building material. But, this has drastically changed in the last 20 years because bamboo buildings are being generally very poorly implemented most of the time. The implementation of bamboo structures seem to be generally quite poor, with poor planning and design, and specifications being abandoned in favour of other building techniques. We need to form superior guidelines and frameworks for building bamboo structures,” says Krunal Negandhi, who was involved in the construction of BRTC. “In the modern context, when forest cover is fast depleting and availability of wood is increasingly becoming scarce, research and development undertaken in the past few decades has established and amply demonstrated that bamboo could be a viable substitute for wood and several other traditional materials for housing/building construction sector and several infrastructure works,” said another bamboo expert Sunil Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pwd-allows-bamboo-as-mainstream-construction-material/articleshow/79189140.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 13, 2020||Kanpur||Pocso court refuses bail to kidnapping and rape accused||KANPUR: POCSO court judge Vikas Gupta on Thursday rejected the appeal filed by kidnapping and rape accused Rishabh Valmiki, a resident of Parmiapurwa Azad Nagar, against the juvenile justice board order declining bail. The kidnapping and rape complaint was lodged by the father of a minor girl who had disappeared on August 12, 2020, alleging that Rishabh, also a minor, had enticed her, said additional district government counsel Ravindra Awasthi. The juvenile justice board had rejected the bail application moved by the accused. The appeal was filed by the father of the accused, who claimed there was no eyewitness and the victim had recorded different statements under 161 and 164 IPC, and was therefore not reliable. The appeal also said the report of the district probation officer was not correct and reliable. He submitted he would take care of his son properly and provide him good company so that he becomes a responsible citizen. The accused is a student and his custody might affect his mental condition and would not tamper with evidence if released on bail. The ADGC countered the arguments and sought rejection of the appeal as there was an adverse report against the accused. The presiding judge in his order observed the victim was just 14 year old and could not understand the complexities of the case and her difference in her statements cannot be the basis of giving benefit of doubt to the accused. The probation officer’s report on record had recommended not to grant him bail. The judge said the order of the juvenile justice board was perfect and there was no need to disturb it. The criminal appeal is rejected accordingly, the judge said. In another case, the judge rejected the second bail application of rape accused Zeeshan alias Abid, a resident of Anwarganj. The prosecution said Abid and the victim were friends. Abid once took her to Lucknow and established physical relations with her on the promise of marriage. Thereafter he repeatedly exploited her but later refused to marry. The court observed there was no fresh ground for bail, hence the second bail application was also being rejected. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pocso-court-refuses-bail-tokidnapping-and-rape-accused/articleshow/79200670.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Varanasi||Greenish Warbler, migrant bird from Europe, spotted in Gorakhpur||GORAKHPUR: A migrant bird, Greenish Warbler, who migrates from Europe to North India every year in August, was spotted in Gorakhpur by an architect in Raptisagar. The architect clicked a picture of the small Greenish Warbler. “The small bird, who looks like a sparrow, is difficult to be seen but easy to be heard,” says the architect and the member of the Heritage Foundation, Anupam Agarwal. “Since wildlife photography is my hobby, I take my camera and go for a walk every morning to a plot next to my house where I’ve planted a number of plants and trees. On Sunday morning, I was surprised to hear the shrill disyllabic ‘chee-wee’ cry of a Greenish Warbler. I followed the sound, and with great enthusiasm, clicked the picture of the small bird chirping amidst the branches of a tree,” elaborated Anupam. “Greenish warbler is not easy to spot due to its timid behaviour. They are, however, one of the earliest migrant birds to travel from its breeding grounds in Europe to North India in August, and later move further to South India in November. ,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/greenish-warbler-migrant-bird-from-europe-spotted-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/79200230.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kanpur||Audio clip linked to Vikas surfaces||Kanpur: A purported audio clip has gone viral on social media on Thursday evening wherein a village panchayat official of Kanpur Dehat, and who claims himself to be a good friend of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, is heard telling the caller on the other side that he wept bitterly after the gangster’s encounter on July 10. Not only this, the official went on to say that he too could land in jail if his proximity with gangster was revealed some day. In the beginning of the audio, he (official) says that he tried to tell him (Dubey) that whatever he will do extreme, would prove wrong. The official revealed that Dubey used to organise ‘langar’ at his Bikru residence daily where “not only policemen, but even tehsildar, lekhpal and BDO join the langar and indulge in revelry”.. While eight policemen were killed in Bikru village on July 2 & 3 night, Dubey was killed on the morning of July 10 when he allegedly tried to escape the custody of STF following an accident involving the vehicle in which he was being taken to Kanpur from Ujjain Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/audio-clip-linked-to-vikas-surfaces/articleshow/79200629.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 13, 2020||Kanpur||Fraudulent bails: 59 gangster accused, 14 fraudsters booked||Kanpur:The police have booked 59 gangster accused for procuring bails on forged documents and 14 fraudsters who arranged the bails. The police said the fraudsters had arranged over 200 such bails in the past few years. According to SP West Dr Anil Kumar, things came to fore after a confidential investigation was carried out and a report of the same was dispatched to the gangster court as maximum number of bails were procured by gangster accused. He further elaborated that of the total 14 fraudsters, seven hail from Shivdeen Ka Purwa village in Bithoor, two from Parmiyapurwa area of Nawabganj and two from Pihani area of Billhaur, besides one other from Kailai village of Kanpur Dehat. “Also, it came to fore that many among the fraudsters had involved themselves in procuring bails of nearly half-a-dozen accused. They used to prepare fabricated bail bonds to get accused persons released on bail. The fraudsters have been identified as Arvind, Ramesh, Shailesh, Amar, Brij Kishore, Manoj Kumar, Ram Saran, Santosh Kumar, Rajesh Kumar, Rahul Kumar, Pramod, Mahesh, Nathhu and Prakash,” he said “An FIR was lodged under relevant sections of IPC following a complaint by clerk of gangster court Kiran Shankar Ghosh on Wednesday against 73 persons including 59 gangster accused and 14 fraudsters. Subsequently, an investigation was launched to nail down gangster accused, who procured bail and fraudsters who forged documents and arranged their bail,” he added. Bail means procurement of release from jail of a person awaiting trial or an appeal, by making deposition of security to ensure his submission at the required time to legal authority. The monetary value of the security, known as the bail bond, is set by the court having jurisdiction over the undertrial/prisoner. Failure of the person released on bail to surrender himself at the appointed time results in forfeiture of the security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fraudulent-bails-59-gangster-accused-14-fraudsters-booked/articleshow/79200702.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC seals 57 illegal chemical godowns||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has sealed over 50 chemical godowns and units that were illegally operating in the city. Of these, 47 units and godowns were sealed this week since Monday. The action came after 12 workers were killed and nine injured in multiple explosions at a chemical processing unit in Ganeshnagar on the Piplaj-Pirana Road last week. The AMC estate, town planning department and the solid waste department teams got into action and raided various parts of the city. The drive began from Lambha and Shahwadi area and several illegal godowns and factories were found operating without a valid fire NOC or even permission for trading. The officials said that on the first day of raids, some 10 units were sealed last week, followed by 21 on Monday, 16 on Tuesday and about 10 units again on Wednesday. All these units were operating in Shahwadi and Lambha areas. It wasn’t that AMC officials were unawere of them, but they were totally ignored by the town planning and fire department said an AMC officer. An AMC official said that for the fire department, it takes an incident to get into action be it a highrise or tuition classes, or illegal constructions in residential units. The AMC official said, “It was the responsibility of the department to issue an NOC for fire equipment. But once the NOC is given, the officials do not bother to go and check it again. Whenever an incident takes place they give the same excuse that the NOC was not renewed and it was the responsibility of the owner to get it renewed.” The officer said that in just three days, when the AMC raided Lambha area, they were able to spot within hours some 50-odd godowns and factories that were illegally operating. “This shows that the concerned AMC officials were aware of the location and the units ,but no action had been taken so far,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-seals-57-illegal-chemical-godowns/articleshow/79200571.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kanpur||Solvers’ gang busted in Etawah, five arrested||Kanpur:A team of Etawah police busted a solvers’ gang and arrested its five members on Thursday. The police also recovered four multi-media phones, besides other high-tech devices from them. The arrested accused were identified as Shivam Yadav, Manish Kumar, Nikhil Kumar, Prashant Kumar and Sachin Kumar, all residents of separate pockets of Etawah. “The accused were arrested following a paper leak of DLed (diploma in elementary education) 2018 exam on social media,” said SSP of Etawah Akash Tomar. The accused were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and sent to jail. “The breakthrough was made after leaked paper of English with regard to DLed exam 2018 went viral on Social media,” said the SSP. The SSP said the gang used to approach DLed exam aspirants, offering them to facilitate leaked paper on WhatsApp for Rs 2,000. “Once a candidate deposited a certain amount, the gang members used to make leaked paper available on WhatsApp on the candidates mobile phone. They had been found to be involved in DLed 2018 exam,” said the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/solvers-gang-busted-in-etawah-five-arrested/articleshow/79200714.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kanpur||UP: Vikas Dubey, others used SIMs obtained fraudulently||KANPUR: Slain gangster Vikas Dubey, his wife and aides were in possession of SIM cards obtained on IDs of other persons. The startling facts came to fore during investigations carried out by the Special Investigation Team (SIT). Police sources said head of SIT Sanjay R Bhoosreddy has now asked Kanpur police to lodge an FIR in this regard. “After several investigations it has come to light that 11 persons including slain gangster Vikas Dubey, his wife Richa and nine other of his aides were using SIM cards procured on IDs of other persons,” informed police sources while talking to TOI. Monu, an aide of gangster Vikas Dubey, was using SIM procured by Shashikant, who is son of Prem Kumar, who was killed in an encounter along with Atul on July 3 morning soon after Bikru blood bath. At present Shashikant is languishing in jail. Similarly, Arvind Trivedi was using SIM card procured against the name of Santosh Kumar. Vikas Dubey’s wife Richa was using SIM procured in the name of Mahesh of Nigohan Lucknow. Likewise, Raju Bajpai was using SIM of Deepak Bajpai, Shanti Devi was using SIM of Jairam, Shiv Tiwari of Maneesh Yadav, Amar Dubey’s widow was using SIM of Gayatri Tiwari, Rekha Agnigotri of Kshama Devi, Vishnupal of Chandra Pal Yadav and Vikas Dubey’s brother of Daya Agnihotri, the sources added. ADM City Atul Kumar told reporters that after receiving a letter from SIT, they had forwarded it to SSP/DIG Kanpur Dr Preetinder Singh for action in this regard. “We have received a letter and soon action would be initiated against the accused,” said the SSP/DIG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikas-others-used-sims-obtained-fraudulently/articleshow/79200705.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kanpur||Pocso court awards 10-yr RI, Rs 30k fine to convict||KANPUR: POCSO court judge Rajveer Singh convicted one Abhay Pratap Singh on Thursday for enticing a minor girl, exploiting her physically and blackmailing for extortion of money. The court sentenced him to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 30,000. According to prosecution, the victim, a student, was a minor. The accused managed to strike a friendship with her and took her out two-three times to several places. One day, he took her to a hotel room where he raped her. The next day, the accused showed her a video clip of her physical exploitation and demanded one lakh rupees or threatened to post the clip on internet and make it viral. The girl got terrified and in panic took her father’s debit card from home and withdrew Rs 44,000 from the ATM and gave it to the accused, who demanded the remaining amount after a few days. One day, the accused managed to climb to the roof of the girl’s house when she was picking clothes from the drying line and threatened to defame her. He also threatened her family members that he would kidnap her if they did not pay him money. The girl’s father lodged a police complaint on May 25, 2015 when the girl shared the details of her ordeal and an FIR was registered by police. The presiding judge in his order observed that prosecution had successfully proved its case and the accused was liable to be punished accordingly. He sentenced the accused to four years’ rigorous imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs 5,000 under Section 363 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), two-year RI under Section 384 IPC and 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 25,000 under POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/pocso-court-awards-10-yr-ri-rs-30k-fine-to-convict/articleshow/79200736.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Goa||Goa CM’s pharma cargo push at MPT just a pipe dream: Stakeholders||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant’s suggestion that Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) would shed its dependence on coal handling by shifting towards pharmaceutical cargo and other containerised cargo is a distant dream, stakeholders said. Industry experts pointed out that Goa does not generate enough containerised cargo to fill the feeder vessel service between Goa and Colombo while the feeder service between Goa and JNPT, Mumbai, was discontinued several years ago. “I don’t think it is going to be something quick and easy. It is not going to be like pharma is suddenly going to move through MPT,” convenor of Confederation of Indian Industry’s Logistics Panel Anthony Gaskell said. Close to 95% of the pharmaceutical cargo manufactured in Goa is transported on trucks to Mumbai from where the containers are directly loaded onto mother vessels that head to foreign ports. Goa has around 75 licenced pharmaceutical manufacturing units and the state accounts for 11% of India’s pharma exports. Gaskell said that due to the sensitive nature of the cargo, pharmaceutical companies prefer direct shipment from a port instead of transshipment, which could lead to delays. In order for large container vessels to berth at Goa, the state would need to produce a lot of containerised cargo. “One feeder ship needs at least 1,500 containers per week, but in Goa the cargo is so low that even in a month we cannot hit this number,” deputy chairman of MPT G P Rai said. Rai said that large container vessels may find it viable to operate direct services to MPT if sufficient cargo is sourced from nearby areas such as Kolhapur, Belagavi, Hubbali and other neighbouring areas. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a pharmaceutical company representative pointed out that for the last five years, industry bodies have urged the state government to implement a proper logistics policy and create proper infrastructure so that finished goods can be directly exported from Goa either through the Goa International Airport or through MPT. “All that the state government has done is offer token assurances,” said a senior director with a multinational pharmaceutical company. Out of the 75 licenced drug manufacturers, Goa is host to 35-odd multinational pharma firms, including Cipla Ltd, Lupin Ltd, Sanofi India, Wyeth Lederle Ltd, Merck India Pvt Ltd, Glenmark Pharmaceuticals and Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. In July 2017, the Confederation of Indian Industry held a conference on logistics and based on the inputs, a report was prepared and submitted to the state government. “The state of Goa urgently needs a Logistics Policy in place. The CII Goa Chapter can provide a helping hand to the government in drafting such a policy,” the CII report said. Gaskell said that movement of pharma products through ship could pick up if the authorities set up a consistent feeder service to JNPT instead of Colombo. “JNPT should be the port for transshipment and ports like MPT and Mangaluru should have a feeder service to JNPT. Then we can see how much of the cargo can be shifted from road to ship,” Gaskell said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cms-pharma-cargo-push-at-mpt-just-a-pipe-dream-stakeholders/articleshow/79200596.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 13, 2020||India||Fifth Scorpene sub ‘launched’, to be delivered to Navy in 2022||NEW DELHI: The country’s fifth Scorpene submarine ‘Vagir’ was ‘launched’ at the Mazagon Docks (MDL) on Thursday. The diesel-electric 1,565-tonne vessel, which will now undergo extensive tests, harbour and sea trials, is likely to be delivered to the Navy in 2022. Under the over Rs 23,000 crore ‘Project-75’ under way at MDL for construction of six French-origin Scorpene submarines, the Navy has commissioned two vessels, INS Kalvari and INS Khanderi, till now. The third submarine ‘Karanj’ is now in the last phase of sea trials, while the fourth ‘Vela’ has just begun them. The sixth named ‘Vagsheer’ is likely to be ready for commissioning by 2023, said officials. Though the Scorpene project has faced huge time and cost overruns, it is critical for the Navy since it currently has just 13 other ageing diesel-electric submarines, with just half of them operational at any given time. India also has two nuclear-powered submarines, INS Arihant and INS Chakra, but the latter does not have nuclear-tipped ballistic missiles because it has been acquired on lease from Russia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fifth-scorpene-sub-launched-to-be-delivered-to-navy-in-2022/articleshow/79201615.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||Maski gears up for bypoll||RAICHUR: Election activity is steadily picking up pace in the Maski assembly segment in Raichur. The Election Commission is likely to announce dates for polls here along with Basavakalyan in Bidar and the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. The Maski seat fell vacant after Congress MLA Pratapgouda Patil quit to join the BJP. In 2018, Patil won against Basanagouda Turvihal by a slim margin of 213 votes. This time around, the two candidates are expected to face off again but on different party tickets. Basanagouda recently joined the Congress on the promise of securing the ticket. Sources in the BJP said the party would field Patil as there were no other suitable candidate. The source added that Patil, who has won thrice in this constituency, has what it takes to win. Basanagouda has already started ground work, visiting people to mobilise support. About two days ago, a party worker donated Rs 50,000 for his campaign fund, all designed to woo the public. Basanagouda’s brother Siddanagouda told TOI that during the lockdown, he and his brother had helped the needy. “People are upset with Pratap and we’ll capitalise on it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/maski-gears-up-for-bypoll/articleshow/79197873.cms||Shreyas HS
November 13, 2020||Bareilly||Woman found murdered at her residence in Moradabad||Bareilly: A 22-year-old woman was found murdered with her throat slit in Saini wali Milak area under Katghar police station of Moradabad on Wednesday. According to police, the incident happened when the family members had gone to their farm fields and their daughter was alone at home. The deceased has been identified as Pooja Saini. The family told police that when they entered the home, they saw their daughter lying in a pool of blood. An FIR has been registered against unidentified persons, police said. The deceased is survived by parents and four siblings. Her father, Vishnu Singh, is a farmer. Station house officer, Katghar police station, Moradabad, Gajendra Singh said, “The incident was reported on Wednesday. The woman was found murdered at her residence when she was alone at home.” “Prima facie, it is a case of murder. The body has been sent for autopsy. The family said that they do not have any personal enmity with anyone. However, we are probing all possible angles in the case. Further interrogation is underway. The FIR has been registered against unidentified persons under section 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC,” added the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-found-murdered-at-her-residence-in-moradabad/articleshow/79195771.cms||Maria Khan
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Rs 10.79 lakh spent, still Nagpur police has most positive Covid cases in state||NAGPUR: City police, with 380 active cases, has surpassed Mumbai’s count of personnel hit by Covid to become the highest in the state. Even after spending Rs10.79 lakhs, city police are still reeling under the Covid spread. A lackadaisical approach seemed to have crept into the city police force regarding precautionary measures against Covid with 43 officers and 337 from the constabulary now active positive patients. This is in contrast to Mumbai, where the spread among the constabulary is restricted to 238 active positive patients along with 42 officers as on November 1. In the city, around 2,392 constabulary and their family members have so far tested positive. Around 1,759 officers and their family members, too, have tested positive since the onset of the pandemic. Around 17 personnel have died after Mumbai (92) and Thane (28). Though the first detection of the infection in the city police started in mid-May which is around a month after it had began showing up in other units like Mumbai, Pune and Thane, the top brass had pumped in sufficient budget to fight the infection spread and also spruce up the immunity. According to an RTI query, city police has so far spent more than Rs10.79 lakhs which includes Rs4.45 lakhs on sanitizers, disinfectant liquid worth Rs2.33 lakh and Rs1.82 lakh on the electric fogging machine. Dr Sandeep Shinde, chief medical officer, city police hospital, also provided through RTI details that around 8,000 ORS powder, 8,000 vitamin C strips, 7,412 arsenic album tablets, 9, 341 camphor tablets, 68,000 vitamin D and such medicines were distributed. In addition, 25 PPE kits, 200 N95 masks and 37 pulse oximeters too were distributed. Dr Shinde slammed the personnel for dropping their guard presuming the infection rate has receded. “The personnel have become complacent as the rate of infection seems to have dropped. Though they are coming in contact with several persons, they are not taking precautionary measures,” he said, adding, “I have been alerting the personnel by relaying messages to remain alert.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs-10-79l-spent-still-city-police-has-most-positive-cases-in-state/articleshow/79189180.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 13, 2020||Goa||Goa reports nil Covid death for the first time in 4 months||PANAJI: Goa recorded no deaths from Covid-19 for the first time in four months on Thursday. With the slowdown in new infections since last month, the daily average of mortalities due to the virus has reduced to five. State epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betodkar said that zero deaths, albeit for a day, for the first time in four months is “a big relief”. He was, however, quick to add that people should not start celebrating throwing caution to the wind. “We can’t say with certainty there won’t be more deaths tomorrow or next week, but definitely hospital admissions have reduced and all hospitals, including GMC have vacant beds,” Betodkar said.  Till last month, hospital admissions ranged between 50 to 60 a day, which reduced to 38 this month. Goa, he said has been able to control the rate of infection as people have been following protocols. They will have to continue to take precautions till the pandemic ends.  “Let’s celebrate Diwali as well as other festivities within families till the time that it is clear that we are out of the pandemic,” the state epidemiologist said. In August, post Ganesh Chaturthi, health minister Vishwajit Rane had said that the “state is seeing a spike in case” since some people defied protocol while celebrating the festival. An alarming rise in mortalities since August propelled the state to open two new Covid hospital — the Ponda sub-district hospital and the South Goa district hospital — besides the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao and the Goa Medical College (GMC), which opened its doors for critically ill Covid patients. Goa literally struggled to contain mortalities in September. The first Covid death was reported in the state on June 22 when a 85-year-old man from Morlem in Sattari taluka succumbed to the virus after over two weeks of treatment at the ESI-Covid hospital, Margao. A total of 657 people are reported to have died in Goa due to novel coronavirus since June with the highest number of mortalities — 235 — reported in September, the month which also saw 16,000 new infections. In October, as many as 175 Covid-linked deaths were reported with a total of 10,208 fresh infections, while this month, till Wednesday, 53 people died due to the virus. On Thursday, Goa reported 107 new infections and 192 recoveries, while recovery rate rose to 95%, a point more than on Wednesday. The state’s active caseload dropped to 1,727 while the case positivity rate was at 8 %. Since the last two days the positivity rate has dropped below 10%. The only centres that have a high number of cases are Panaji, Porvorim, Chimbel, Ponda, Margao and Vasco.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-reports-nil-covid-death-for-the-first-time-in-4-months/articleshow/79200625.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana decision to hike MBBS fee challenged in HC||CHANDIGARH: The decision of the Haryana government to hike MBBS fee and making signing of bonds by medical students mandatory has come under the scanner of the Punjab and Haryana high court. The matter has reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Varun Malik, a Sonipat-based social worker and RTI activist. According to the petitioner, the execution of bond is nothing but a “colourable form of capitation fee”. It has also been alleged that by taking the decision to increase the fee from Rs 54,000 to 80,000 in the first year of MBBS, the government was working like a loan shark. The state government has made the provision of executing Rs 10-lakh bonds for each students and such bond would be executed for every year till the term of the MBBS course is completed. The directions have been sought to set aside the notification, issued on November 6, regarding increasing the fee, for being “against the interest of the students, arbitrary and unlawful”. After hearing the plea, the HC has kept the matter for January 28 for deciding on maintainability of the PIL on such an issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-decision-to-hike-mbbs-fee-challenged-in-hc/articleshow/79199201.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: 91-year-old Covid survivor back home, cooks hilsa for family||KOLKATA: Ninety-one-year-old Sanat Kumar Das is Bengal’s fourth nonagenarian Covid survivor. He refused to give up even when he could not regain his senses for four days at Sagore Dutta Hospital after testing positive at his Panihati home a month ago. Das, who also suffers from diabetes and hypertension, is now back home after being treated for three weeks. His family says he started doing what he loves — cook hilsa for his entire family. In Bengal’s battle with Covid, the disease has been particularly severe in the 75 years plus age group. The fatality in this age-group has been over 12% with the patients suffering from hypertension and diabetes forming the biggest risk group. But there have been some cases, where several nonagenarian people have defeated Covid. Sripoti Naiban, 99, is Bengal’s oldest Covid survivor. Naiban is an Army veteran with a home in Diamond Harbour. Govinda Haldar (95), a resident of Salkia, and Lal Mohan Sett (94) of Bidhan Sarani in Kolkata, were also discharged after their recoveries. Das returned to his Panihati Sankharipara home a fortnight back. He had to be hospitalised in early October after he had collapsed at his home. He was very feeble when he was brought to the hospital after testing Covid positive. In the hospital, he lost his senses. He regained his senses after four days and took over a fortnight more to recover. Professor Hasi Dasgupta, principal, College of Medicine and Sagore Dutta Hospital, said, “It was a huge relief for us when he recovered and could be discharged from the hospital. It was a three-week battle for the doctors and hospital staffers, given his hypertension and diabetes. The age was also a factor. This is very inspiring and gives us a lot of hope.” Back home the nonagenarian Covid survivor appears least perturbed to discuss his battle with the virus. Das is more interested in talking about cooking that he loves. His family says he has not only recovered but has also been cooking hilsa for the family. Das’s younger brother, Umashankar, said, “There was a lingering worry in our minds that his prolonged battle with Covid will leave him mentally fatigued and depressed. Nothing of this has happened. My elder brother is fond of fish and now he has started cooking his favourite dishes.” Das’s neighbour, Sunil Kumar Biswas, said, “I do not understand about the medical issues. But one thing that I saw in the last two days is the level of dedication by the doctors and Sanat Babu’s immense willpower to survive. There were times when I felt it was a personal battle — doctors were desperate to resuscitate him from senselessness and Sanat Babu was responding to their efforts slowly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/91-yr-old-covid-survivor-back-home-cooks-hilsa-for-family/articleshow/79199237.cms||Saikat Ray
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||SP’s ‘Amt pattern’ leads to FIR against teacher on students’ complaint||NAGPUR: Four students of Std VII have written a secret letter to the superintendent of police (SP), Amravati rural, Hari Balaji, complaining against a politically influenced teacher making undue advances towards them for last one year. Immediately, action was initiated and FIR was lodged against the teacher concerned. The students had dropped the letter in a complaint box near their school. The box was installed there as part of an awareness initiative started by Balaji, an alumni of Madurai Medical College. The SP had formulated an audio-visual system, now hailed as ‘Amravati pattern’ by state police headquarters, where he planned to take awareness-creating short films related to crime against children and girls, to schools. It would be followed by installation of complaint boxes and banners displaying WhatsApp number for sending secret complaints to be monitored by Balaji himself. Currently, the films are screened and awareness done through online meeting softwares. In post-pandemic phase, physical activities would be held with team visiting the schools. Balaji, who had served four years at Chennai Superspecialty Hospital before getting selected as an IPS officer in 2013, has also formed a seven-member team for coordinating the awareness programmes and collecting the complaints. This entire system of creating awareness has been labelled as ‘Amravati pattern’ and asked to be replicated across the state. Balaji, whose name is associated with the country’s most successful operations against the Maoists at Kasnasoor and Nainer in Gadchiroli where 40 cadres were neutralized in 2018, earning him accolades as Addl SP (operations), has been asked to furnish the awareness creating short films on various issues. Around 300 complaint boxes have been kept across the district near schools and at market places within the limits of 31 police stations of Amravati rural district with a banner attracting grievances from commoners especially women and girls. The campaign started from end of January this year with an aim to reach more than an one lakh students and install at least 1,000 complaint boxes but only 20,000 could be reached with pandemic playing the spoilsports. Balaji, who is now working on a medical project, said the objective was to create awareness about what constitutes a crime and commoners should feel encouraged to approach police station for lodging a complaint. “We have tried to create an alternative complaint system encouraging commoners to report crimes and get speedy justice,” said Balaji. The SP said he has made short films on various issues pertaining to child sexual abuse and soon make many more on different other topics including laws related pre-natal diagnostic acts and medical termination of pregnancy. “Not a single amount was spent on this project. The films were conceptualized and written by the team under SDPO and were shot, edited and put together by the cyber cell,” said Balaji. “We are approaching the schools and expecting them to write them back with consent. This audio-visual awareness programmes would take around once in every 20 days,” he said. “The students are given some questionnaire on the subject of the films even before they are screened to gauge their understanding. In the pre-tests taken on the topic, they would score around 55% but later after screening, the same students would score 80-90%,” said Balaji. The SP also said anti-child abuse awareness programmes are targeted for primary school students while topics like abortion and diagnostic laws would be for secondary school level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sps-amt-pattern-leads-to-fir-against-teacher-on-students-plaint/articleshow/79195796.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Litigants not coming with clean hands, don’t deserve relief: Bombay HC||NAGPUR: Rejecting gangster Sahil Sayeed’s plea for quashing of FIR by his second wife, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court ruled that petitioners hiding their criminal antecedents didn’t deserve any leniency from the courts. “The petitioner hasn’t approached this court with clean hands. He suppressed registration of crimes against him. The litigant, who is not approaching the court with clean hands, is surely not entitled for any discretionary relief. Surprisingly, his entire application is conspicuously silent about disclosure of any offence registered against him and which are pending,” held a division bench comprising justices Vinay Deshpande and Anil Kilor. The police complaint against the petitioner was filed by his second wife, who accused him of keeping her in the dark about his first marriage and establishing sexual relations with her before they entered into a wedlock. She also accused him of forcefully taking her signature on property papers of their joint flat by intimidating her with threats. Subsequently, offences were registered against him under IPC’s sections 386,420, 504, 506, 509 and section 67 of the Information Technology Act, 2000. Quoting the Supreme Court verdict, the bench noted that the sessions court can’t be a mute spectator to conduct trial only for the offence registered by the police machinery. “During trials, if it’s noticed by the judge that evidence discloses more offences than for which the crime is registered, it will be well within its power and jurisdiction to frame additional charge against persons facing trial,” stated the bench. The justices added that this isn’t a case wherein HC shall come in the prosecution’s way in conducting a detailed investigation, especially in the light of specific allegations in the FIR. “The FIR isn’t an encyclopedia. Its bare perusal would show that there are specific allegations against the petitioner that he misled the complainant. Believing his promise that he’s unmarried, she allowed herself to have a physical relationship with him. It’s clear that her signatures were obtained on blank stamp papers under death threats. Prima facie there is evidence to show that the petitioner has indulged in extortion,” the justices noted. Explaining the circumstances and nature of the intimidation surrounding the complainant, the judges said that if a helpless woman residing alone isn’t immediately rushing to the police station and merely because there’s some delay in lodging an FIR, it can’t be a deciding factor in the petitioner’s favour. “In our view, the FIR itself shows that culpability of applicants or innocence can be proved during the trial itself. Therefore, we aren’t allowing ourselves to terminate the entire proceedings at this stage since we’re of the view that allegations made in the FIR require a full trial. Consequently, the application is meritless,” they held before rejecting Sayeed’s application.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/litigants-not-coming-with-clean-hands-dont-deserve-relief-hc/articleshow/79189221.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 13, 2020||Chandigarh||JJP votes did not shift to BJP, says Jai Prakash Dalal on Baroda||CHANDIGARH: A day after Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar claimed that all votes of JJP did not go to BJP’s Yogeshwar Dutt in Baroda, agriculture and farmers welfare minister Jai Prakash Dalal also said on Thursday that Dutt did not get the votes of their alliance partner in the assembly byelection. Dalal, who was the party’s in-charge for the bypoll, also alleged caste polarisation by Congress. “The vote bank of JJP belonged to a particular caste, which had the share of around 50% of the total votes in the constituency. But, it was shifted to Congress candidate because of the ‘Jativaad’ (caste) and ‘Ilaqavaad’ (area-based) politics by the Congress leaders. Had we got the JJP votes the way they bagged in October 2019, we would have certainly won,” Dalal claimed. In a chat with TOI on the results of Baroda bypoll, in which BJP lost by a margin of around 10,000 votes from Congress, Dalal said former MP Raj Kumar Saini, who contested in Baroda, was also one of the factors for their defeat. “Total of 5,600 votes polled by Saini in Baroda were our votes. Saini played into the hands of Congress leaders and contested the election only to harm the BJP nominee,” Dalal asserted. The minister also pointed out that the failure of the INLD candidate to get more votes also affected BJP prospects. “Had he managed to get around 10,000 votes, we would have easily won. But, because of the caste polarisation to some extent, we faced defeat.” Dalal stated that since their vote share in Baroda has increased, it could not be termed a humiliating defeat. On a question about the impact of farmers’ anguish over the central farm laws, Dalal said initially the farmers in Baroda were apprehensive of losing mandis and MSP for their crop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jjp-votes-did-not-shift-to-bjp-says-dalal-on-baroda/articleshow/79199212.cms||Ajay Sura
November 13, 2020||Goa||Pay-toilets on beaches raising a stink: Goa minister||CALANGUTE: Slamming the tourism department for the shabby condition of pay-toilets and changing rooms facilities at the Calangute, Candolim and Baga beaches, minister for waste management and Calangute BJP MLA Michael Lobo said if the department cannot maintain the facilities, they should be handed over to the Goa Waste Management Corporation (GWMC). Lobo told reporters on Thursday that the facilities, which were built two-three years ago by spending crores of rupees “are today in a pathetic condition with stinking urinals, broken doors and fittings and non-functional sewage treatment plants. Tourists using them are also being overcharged”. “They were built under the Centre’s Swadesh Darshan Scheme with the best of fittings, and were meant to provide basic toilet facilities for tourists so that they don’t urinate or defecate on the beach. But it’s sad to say that today the beaches have started stinking of urine again,” Lobo said. While stating that the toilets were meant to be affordable “so that the poorest tourist could afford to use them”, Lobo alleged that not many were frequenting them because they’re being charged Rs 20 for use of a urinal when the fee should be around Rs 3. “Because of this, tourists go and urinate in the sand dunes. This defeats the very purpose of building these facilities,” the Calangute MLA said. “Due to poor maintenance, the toilets are also stinking. It’s just the beginning of the new tourist season and tourists are encountering these shabby toilets,” the waste management minister said. He blamed the situation on the negligent attitude of the tourism department officials. “They are least bothered about what is going on. They should at least come and see what is going on at these facilities. But they are only interested in sitting at their desks in their offices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pay-toilets-on-beaches-raising-a-stink-lobo/articleshow/79200634.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Former CM Dharam Singh’s son eyes bypoll ticket||BIDAR: Former chief minister Dharam Singh’s son, Vijay Singh, who is an MLC, is reportedly eyeing the Congress ticket for the Basavakalyan bypoll. The death of the sitting MLA, Basanthpur Narayan Rao of Congress, has necessitated the bypoll, whose date has not been announced yet. A faction in Congress wants the party to give the ticket to his son, saying the sympathy factor may work in his favour. Congress has constituted a committee to finalise the candidate. KPCC working president Eshwar Khandre, who heads the committee, said the candidate would be chosen based on their loyalty and winnability. He added that there were eight to 10 aspirants, including Vinay and Rao’s son. “We are holding a meeting to discuss the names and a candidate will be finalised,” Khandre said. Vijay refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/former-cm-dharam-singhs-son-eyes-bypoll-ticket/articleshow/79197939.cms||Shreyas HS
November 13, 2020||Bareilly||Three get 20-year jail term for minor’s gang-rape in UP's Budaun||BAREILLY: Three men, including two brothers, have been handed a 20-year prison term for gang-raping a minor girl two years ago in UP's Budaun. A cash fine of Rs 25,000 each has been imposed, which will be given to the girl as compensation. The incident was reported in October 2018 when the girl went out to defecate in a cane field. Five persons had been initially booked in the case. Two were found not guilty and let off by the court. Police had filed chargesheet against the accused Surveer, Jasveer, Ajay Singh, Mahesh and Bhagwan Singh in this case and after court trial, Mahesh and Bhagwan were acquitted due to lack of evidence. Surveer, Jasveer and Ajay were pronounced guilty by the court. On Thursday, additional district government counsel said, “Accused Surveer and his brother Jasveer alias Jaswant along with Ajay Singh alias Sachin were found guilty by the court and a cash fine of Rs 25,000 each is also slapped on them. Failure to pay the fine would lead to an extended imprisonment for the accused.” So far, accused in 46 cases have been convicted in POCSO cases in Bareilly division in 2020. A monitoring committee consisting of district judge, SSP and district magistrate in every district is observing all the pending cases. The court activities were suspended for a few months due to the Covid-19 pandemic. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-get-20-year-jail-term-for-minors-gang-rape-in-budaun/articleshow/79195801.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Don’t avoid changes in symptoms of chronic lung disease, says Indian Chest Society||NAGPUR: There are many people with a chronic lung disease such as COPD or asthma who are at a higher risk of serious illness during the Covid-19 pandemic. There are also several cases in which persons with COPD or asthma have got infected by Covid-19 and later recovered. But after considerable period post-recovery, they are experiencing unusual symptoms like chest tightness, breathlessness and increased fatigue. TOI spoke to Indian Chest Society (ICS) general secretary Dr Rajesh Swarnakar who shared valuable tips on how to manage the chronic lung disease during the Covid-19 period. “It’s important than ever to take action and protect the health of your lung. You must know how to manage your condition, when to call your health care provider, how to avoid illness and manage stress,” said Dr Swarnakar. Following medicine schedule, not avoiding the unusual symptoms and maintaining mental health along with physical well-being are the keys to healthy lungs. There is a possibility of some overlap between the symptoms patients normally experience during a flare-up or exacerbation of their chronic lung condition and symptoms of Covid-19 illness. The foremost clue of Covid-19 is high fever (> 39.4 degrees Celsius or > 103 degrees fahrenFahrenheit:command value="252,1"/>“Reach out to the doctor promptly if you are concerned about symptoms that feel “different” than normal, such as shortness of breath,” said Dr SwarnaSwarnakar:command value="252,1"/>“Be sure you have plenty of medicine on hand — at least a 60-90 day stock. Do not delay getting refills. If you routinely use a nebulizer to take inhaled medicine, you can continue to use it as directed,” said Dr SwarnaSwarnakar:command value="252,1"/>Medics are also suggesting an action plan for those who have a long-term lung disease. “An action plan is a guide that a doctor shares with his patient to help him manage his chronic disease. This plan can include what patients are supposed to do every day and what you need to do if you have a change in symptoms which is called a rescue or sick plan,” informed Dr SwarnaSwarnakarx:command value="252,1"/>Many patients have other chronic conditions such as high blood pressure, diabetes and heart disease in addition to the chronic lung disease. They need to keep these conditions under control. The Covid-Covidndemic is stressful time for everyone, especially for people with chronic lung disease or other underlying conditions. “Do your best to keep your lungs healthy. Also, try to manage stress and anxiety by staying informed and staying in touch with friends and loved ones while maintaining social distancing,” said Dr SwarnaSwarnakarx:command value="252,1"/>The ICS has some valuable suggestions like getting enough sleep every night, eating a healthy and balanced diet, staying in touch with friends and family, avoiding being glued to news channels etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-avoid-changes-in-symptoms-of-chronic-lung-disease-says-ics/articleshow/79195834.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||KMC to ramp up tests after case spike in south Kolkata||KOLKATA: Following a spurt in the number of Covid-19 positive cases in several south Kolkata neighbourhoods, the Kolkata Municipal Corporation will ramp up infrastructure at its testing centres for more suspects to undergo the test. Currently, the KMC offers its Covid-testing (both RT—PCR and rapid antigen) to around 1,200 suspects every day. However, after a spurt in the positive cases in several neighbourhoods, the urgency to enhance the testing facility is being felt, said a KMC health department official. A few ward coordinators on Thursday raised the issue at a meeting of the coordinators, held at the civic headquarters, and requested the chairman of the KMC board of administrators (BoA) to intervene so that the number of tests could be enhanced at the KMC health clinics. Hakim assured them that he would soon take effective steps in this direction. According to a KMC health department official, around 800 people are being tested positive for Covid-19 every day across the city. However, the number of Covid positive patients has seen a spike in several wards across borough X. “We have reasons to feel worried about a spike in the number of Covid-positive cases in the neighbourhoods such as Lake Gardens, Jodhpur Park, New Alipore, Golf Garden, Bijoygarh, Pallisree Jadavpur (parts) and Baghajatin, which fall under borough X. We will organize camps to bring more citizens under the testing facility,” said a KMC health department official. The KMC health department is likely to enhance its rapid antigen test in coming days, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-to-ramp-up-corona-testing-centres/articleshow/79199287.cms||Saikat Ray
November 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Mercury drops to single digit in Shivajinagar||PUNE: The city’s minimum temperature hit the single digit, 9.8ºC, on Thursday morning for the first time this season. Ths was the third lowest minimum temperature in the plains of the country. Fatehgarh in Uttar Pradesh recorded the lowest minimum temperature (9.3ºC), followed by Mandla in Madhya Pradesh (9.4ºC) and Pune (Shivajinagar 9.8ºC). India Meteorological Department (IMD) scientists discussed at length the unusual drop in Shivajinagar’s minimum temperature during a meeting on Thursday, as other locations, such as Pashan and Lohegaon, in Pune as well as those in Maharashtra and North India recorded higher minimum temperature. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, IMD, Pune told TOI, “Minimums in all the other locations rose marginally on Thursday, except Shivajinagar. We had forecast a rise in the minimums from Thursday due to the influence of easterlies, which happened to affect other locations in the state. But Shivajinagar’s minimum temperature dropped. Local conditions were mostly responsible for it, the effect of orography being one of them. Also, the air was very dry till Thursday morning in Pune, though some moisture incursion began during the later part of the day.” On Thursday, Pashan recorded its minimum temperature at 11ºC and Lohegaon at 12.2ºC. The IMD observatory in Shivajinagar is located on the agricultural college campus, in an open field and away from the hindrance of buildings. Kashyapi said, “That also could have played a major role in conjunction with the clear sky conditions and mostly dry air. Similar drop wasn’t seen in Pashan, where the observatory is adjacent to a building. Lohegaon is known for a minimum temperature higher than Shivajinagar and Pashan.” Parbhani, which was the coldest location in Maharashtra on Wednesday early morning, also saw a rise in its minimum temperature on Thursday — from 9.9ºC on November 11 to 13ºC on November 12. Chandrapur’s minimum was also higher than Pune on Thursday at 11.2ºC. Pune was thus also the coldest spot in Maharashtra on Thursday. Kashyapi said all locations in Maharashtra, including Shivajinagar, were likely to see the minimum temperatures rise during the next few days as moisture has stared coming in, causing partly cloudy skies. This would prevent the direct escape of long-wave radiation into the atmosphere in the night. A fall in the minimums was again expected around November 16 after the passage of western disturbance and due to the weakening of easterlies, Kashyapi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mercury-drops-to-single-digit-in-shivajinagar/articleshow/79199262.cms||Neha Madaan
November 13, 2020||Pune||Robbers throw chilli powder in man’s face, steal Rs 5.5 lakh from SUV in Pune||PUNE: Unidentified men threw chilli powder in the eyes of the driver of a sports utility vehicle (SUV) and stole a bag containing Rs5.5 lakh in Mhalunge on Wednesday. The bag belonged to an Aurangabad-based labour contractor, who had come to Mhalunge to disburse salaries to his workers at different sites in the MIDC area. The contractor, Sachin Pale, lodged a complaint with the Chakan police. A case has been registered under IPC section 394. Pale told TOI over the phone on Thursday that he suspected an insider hand in the robbery. “I had withdrawn the cash from a bank in Aurangabad on November 9. Someone either in Aurangabad or in Pune who knew that I was coming to pay my workers must have tipped off the culprits,” Pale said. Pale said he stopped outside a company in Mhalunge on Wednesday morning. “I told my driver, Narayan Thorat (28), to wait in the SUV as I had some work inside,” he said. Pale left the bag containing the cash in the SUV. “Just past the main gate, as I was about to enter the building, I got a call and was told that someone threw chilli powder in Thorat’s eyes. I rushed out and saw him trying to clear his eyes. I checked the vehicle and found the bag missing,” he said, adding Thorat did not know that the bag contained cash. “Thorat said he was watching a video on his cell phone when the incident occurred. He stopped a passing car and was cleaning his face with some water. He said he did not get a look at the person(s) who stole the bag,” Pale said. Police said the spot where the robbery occurred was in a CCTV blind spot. “The robbers must have been following the SUV for some time before they struck.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/robbers-throw-chilli-powder-in-mans-face-steal-rs-5-5l-from-suv/articleshow/79199290.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Youth falls for pricey phone bait, loses Rs 7.3 lakh||PUNE: A 23-year-old final year commerce postgraduate student from Kalepadal in Hadapsar lost Rs7.25 lakh to fraudsters, who told him in July that he had won an iPhone worth Rs 1.5 lakh. Inspector (crime) Raju Adagale from the Hadapsar police said on Thursday, “The fraudsters had contacted the student over phone on July 20 and sent him a message on a social networking site, stating that his phone number was selected in a lucky draw and that he would receive a gift parcel comprising iPhone at his residence.” Adagale said, “The fraudsters told the youth to pay customs duty among other charges for releasing the gift parcel allegedly ‘seized by the customs department in New Delhi’. Without verifying their credentials, he borrowed huge sums from his friends and transferred Rs7.25 lakh to the fraudsters’ bank accounts via net banking. But he did not receive the gift.” He said, “Realising that he was tricked, the youth filed a complaint application with the Hadapsar police. We conducted a preliminary inquiry and registered an FIR against seven fraudsters under sections of IPC and IT Act.” On the progress in investigation, Adagale said, “The Dongri police in Mumbai recently arrested seven fraudsters involved in gift bait cases. Our probe revealed that the same fraudsters had duped the youth. We shall soon seek transfer of their custody and bring them to Pune.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-falls-for-pricey-phone-bait-loses-rs-7-3l/articleshow/79199285.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra’s condition unchanged||Kolkata: Actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition remains unchanged a day after he underwent a tracheostomy at Belle Vue Clinic. The procedure has been successful and it has helped to ease his breathing. Chatterjee’s other vital parameters remain unaltered and he will need to undergo dialysis regularly. Chatterjee’s neurological condition, however, remains unchanged and there has been no improvement in his consciousness level. Doctors believe that plasmapheresis can improve his response. “It will help in removing the harmful antibodies that may have been making his consciousness dip. We are monitoring him now and if his overall condition remains stable, we may go for it soon,” said Belle Vue critical care head Arindam Kar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitras-condition-unchanged/articleshow/79199332.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||Padma Shri awardee & sculptor Arjun Prajapati dies of Covid in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Sixty-four-year-old Padma Shri awardee and sculptor Arjun Prajapati was among the 13 people who died of Covid-19 in the state on Thursday. Prajapati was known for his stone-carved sculptures not only in India but elsewhere in the world. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, health minister Raghu Sharma and BJP state president Satish Poonia were among those who condoled his death. Prajapati was undergoing treatment at a city’s private hospital, where he died. According to the hospital’s doctors, he was brought to the hospital in a serious condition. His oxygen saturation was just 55%. In diagnostic tests, doctors found that his lungs were completely affected by the infection. They tried their best possible, including providing ventilator support, but to no avail. Other than Prajapati, 12 others died in the state and 2,176 others tested positive for Covid on Thursday, bringing the state’s overall tally to 2,19,327. With 13 deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,032. Jaipur reported three deaths, taking its toll to 391, while Jodhpur saw two casualties that took its fatalities to 199.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/padma-shri-awardee-sculptorprajapati-dies-of-covid-in-state/articleshow/79200690.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM urges PM to make registration of FIRs mandatory in all states||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday shot a letter to the Prime Minister asking him to implement the Rajasthan model of registering FIRs across the country. Gehlot said this would inevitably increase the number of FIRs in police stations, but would act as a preventive measure as police had to investigate the complaint after filing FIR. He said the recent NCRB report under the title Crime In India 2019 appreciated the measure. The report said the step has increased the number of FIRs, but it does not mean that the crime rate in the state has increased. Due to different policies and processes adopted in various states, the government should avoid comparison of crime data of one state with others. There is a difference between increase in crime and increase in crime registration and some people make the mistake of considering the two as same. The chief minister pointed out that according to the NCRB, the increase in figures may be due to people-centric schemes and policies in the state. All the states of the country should get out of the juggernaut of data and crime should not be registered for political gain. Making the registration of crime a measure of success and failure of police reinforces the tendency not to register a crime, he said. The CM has stated in the letter that to remove complexity in crime registration, in May 2019, Rajasthan implemented a system of uninterrupted registration of crimes. Under this, in case of not registering a case in the police station, the common man can file an FIR before the SP. The chief minister pointed out that the state government is effectively supervising all stages of registration, investigation and prosecution of heinous crimes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-urges-pm-to-make-registration-of-firs-mandatory-in-all-states/articleshow/79200688.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||Youth arrested on charge of bid to extort developer in Pune||PUNE: A 21-year-old youth from Hadapsar landed in police custody on the charge of intercepting a developer’s vehicle near Laxmimata temple in Wanowrie around 11.15am on Wednesday and demanding Rs5-10 lakh in extortion. Ambaji Shinge, the arrested man, will be in police custody till Friday. Police are also looking for his accomplice, who ran away after the developer and his kin apprehended Shinge. They later handed him over to the police. Assistant inspector Jaywant Jadhav from the Wanowrie police said on Thursday, “Shinge threatened the developer, claiming that he belonged to a criminal gang in the city. He was among a group of men the Mundhwa police had arrested in August for a bid to extort Rs35 lakh from the same developer. He was later out on bail.” Jadhav said, “The developer, from B T Kawade Road in Ghorpadi, and Shinge are not known to each other. On November 11, Shinge and his aide, riding on a motorcycle, intercepted the developer and his kin travelling on a Scooty in the Wanowrie area.” He said, “Shinge, claiming himself to be a gang member, threatened the developer with dire consequences saying that the latter had not met their extortion demand earlier. He asked him to now pay Rs5-10 lakh, but the developer refused. The developer nabbed him with the help of his kin. Shinge’s accomplice abandoned the bike and took to heels.” Jadhav added, “The developer called the police, handed over the suspect and lodged an FIR. A team has been sent out to nab the second suspect.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-arrested-on-charge-of-bid-to-extort-developer/articleshow/79199319.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||Electronics shop burgled in Pune, 2 women held||PUNE: The Yerawada police on Wednesday arrested two women on the charge of breaking into an electronics shop in Kalyaninagar and stealing CCTV cameras and other items totally worth Rs1 lakh. The incidnt happened between November 8 and 9. Police said the women were scrap vendors and knew each other. They broke the shutter lock and stole CCTV cameras, a speaker, an amplifier, cables and other goods. The shop owner, Nikhil Kulkarni (40) from Wakad discovered the burglary on November 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/electronics-shop-burgled-2-women-held/articleshow/79199294.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Parents worried of sending kids to school||AHMEDABAD: With nearly half the academic year over, parents of schoolchildren still seem to be in a wait-and-watch mode, unwilling to immediately take the decision of sending their children to school, especially at a time when there is fear of Covid-19 cases going up in the winter season. While some states have opened schools with caution, the surge in cases in some of them after reopening of schools, gives enough reason to worry. The state government has announced reopening of schools and colleges from November 23 in a staggered manner, but many parents are of the view that they will take a final call closer to this date. “There is a lot of fear among parents. We have been in touch with other self-financed school associations as well and they are also of a similar view. I feel that as of today not more than 15% parents will be willing to send their children to school,” said Manan Choksi, president of Ahmedabad School Progressive Management Association. According to the SOP guidelines issued by the government, schools are to take students for physical classes, only after getting written permission from their parents. Many parents are of the view that at a time when online classes are going on smoothly, physical classroom studies can be avoided till the situation is under control. However, this online shift in classes is proving to be a major problem of access in rural and remote parts of the state, especially for those from underprivileged families. According to some parents, children can be ‘super-spreaders’ of viral infections and Covid-19 seems to be no exception. The danger is not so much for them, as it is for their parents and grandparents at home, they feel. Naresh Shah, president of All Gujarat Vali Mandal said they are going to start a signature campaign after Diwali festival to protest the government’s decision. “If the government wants to take written consent of parents, a similar declaration must be given by the schools that they will strictly follow all the precautionary measures to ensure that children are not infected with Covid-19 while in school premises,” he said. To prevent crowding, schools and colleges have been advised to implement the odd-even formula. The government SOP encourages parents to use own transportation for pick-up and drop of students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-worried-of-sending-kids-to-school/articleshow/79199335.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||Bainsla-led Gujjars call off agitation in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Kirori Singh Bainsla-led Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti called off its 11-day stir at Pilupura in Bayana on Thursday. However, no major breakthrough was achieved as the six-point agreement between the government and the samiti on Wednesday was just a carry forward of what was achieved during the talks between Himmat Singh-led group of 41 leaders and the state government, claimed the leaders of the group. Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla, on the other hand, said the government will make efforts to expedite the SLP (on the issue of backlog). “There are two parts in the backlog issue. First, the matter is sub-judice. The government will put up a battery of lawyers and will expedite the SLP. Second, moving forward, I have given them a document (centre’s order) dated 2008, which states that SC/ST backlog would be the same as OBC backlog. Therefore, they (government) have assured us that they would issue a notice in this regard in compliance with the manifesto.” The breakaway group of leaders had an agreement on 14 key demands with the government. “Col Bainsla and his son (Vijay Bainsla) have misled the community over the issue of 35,000 backlog posts. They promised the community, but didn’t discuss the issue with the government. In fact, there’s no mention of the word ‘backlog’ in the six-point agreement. There’s also no mention of REET admission in their agreement,” said Himmat Singh. “Unnecessarily, they caused problems for the people of the state by disrupting railways and roadways services. The internet services were also suspended in several districts because of them,” he added. The issues — financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of three persons who died after the agitation and a job for one family member in Nagar Nigam/Nagar Parishad; fixation of pay of 1,252 MBC candidates and reservation in recruitments that are under process (1,300-1,400 posts); implementation of Devnarayan scheme and setting up of a three-member committee; review meeting of sub-committee every month with representatives of Gujjar community; withdrawal of police cases filed during the agitation, ensuring quota in REET 2018 Level 1 recruitments – were already discussed and resolved during the meeting of the 41 leaders with the government. Calling off the agitation on Thursday, Vijay said, “The community has accepted and welcomed the agreement which was reached on Wednesday. We are leaving the railway track and calling off the agitation. We are also fixing the rail clips on the track before leaving. We appeal to the people of the community in other places as well to clear the roads that are blocked and also clean them up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bainsla-led-gujjars-call-off-agitation/articleshow/79200671.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan gets award for water management||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has bagged the third prize in the general category for outstanding work in the field of water resources management under the National Water Award-2019. Navin Mahajan, secretary of water resources department, received the award on behalf of the state from vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu in an online ceremony organized by the Union ministry of water resources. This is the seventh award the state has received in the last 15 months for outstanding work in the field of water resources, Mahajan said. Mahajan said the award had been given to the state for work in the field of increased water use efficiency, water harvesting management, integrated water resources management through participatory approach, micro irrigation with solar pumps, water harvesting and achievements under irrigation management and micro irrigation. He said it also appreciated the positive results achieved by state using information technology (IT) for transparency in water management. He informed that many important activities had been taken up to enhance water use efficiency.This includes the re-lining of Sirhind Feeder and Indira Gandhi Feeder (Punjab part), Rajasthan Water Sector Re-Structuring Project in the desert region (funded by NDB), Rajasthan Water Sector Livelihood Improvement Project, Indira Gandhi Canal Project Phase II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/rajasthan-gets-award-for-water-management/articleshow/79204133.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Former boyfriend molests woman in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A woman, 32, who runs a business of surgical equipment, filed a complaint of molestation on Thursday against her former boyfriend, alleging that he had held her hand forcibly during a party at a common friend’s place in the Anandnagar area of city on Wednesday night. Inspector Sajid Baloch of Anandnagar police said that the complainant identified the accused as Rushi Brahmbhatt, 34, resident of Solitaire Green apartment in Anandnagar who worked as an anchor in various TV channels. The accused and the complainant were in relationship for a long time and broke up around two months ago. “Brahmbhatt and the complainant were invited to a party at their common friend’s house in Sanskar Apartment in Anandnagar. During the party, Brahmbhatt allegedly held the complainant’s hand without her consent. Against this, she called up police control room and filed a complaint of molestation against Brahmbhatt,” said Baloch. Baloch added that Brahmbhatt was arrested on Thursday morning and later he secured bail from a local court. Baloch said that they will call the accused and other witnesses who were present in the party to record their statement before police to probe further regarding the alleged molestation case. Sources in police said that the complainant and accused had a verbal spat during the party after which the incident happened. A cop said that both the accused and complainant lived in Anandnagar where they had a relationship for about three years, which broke apart about three months ago. Brahmbhatt, who worked as an anchor in different TV channels, lost his job during the lockdown, whereas the woman was still running her business successfully, said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-boyfriend-molests-woman/articleshow/79199341.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Parent’s nod part of Centre’s SOP’||Ahmedabad: State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama today said that the decision regarding the requirement of consent from parents for allowing students to attend schools was in line with the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) guidelines issued by the Centre. The announcement, which comes on a day when Tamil Nadu government rolled back its decision to reopen schools from November 16 due to surge in cases, is being seen by some as an attempt to pass the buck to the Centre. There are other states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar which have managed to open schools without witnessing any spike in Covid-19 cases. Chudasama said the state government did not want to compromise the safety and health of students, nor was it looking to escape any responsibility. While the SOP announced by the government of India to open educational institutions is being implemented across the country, the Gujarat government has also decided to follow suit, he added. He said that the government has taken the right decision after consultation with education ministers and senior officials of various state governments. On Wednesday, the education minister had announced that schools and colleges in the state will reopen from November 23. The state has decided to gradually open schools starting from Class 9 to Class 12 students. The minister said that government, school authorities, society and parents all have a role to play in protecting the health of students, and ensure that they get education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-nod-part-of-centres-sop/articleshow/79199343.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Sachin Pilot, Kirori Singh Bainsla, three other netas test positive for Covid-19||JAIPUR: Four politicians — Congress leader Sachin Pilot, former MP Badri Ram Jakhar, MLA from Nimbahera in Chittorgarh Udailal Anjana, BJP MLA from Malviya Nagar Kalicharan Saraf — and Gujjar leader Kirori Singh Bainsla, who spearheaded the protest over reservation, tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday. Bainsla had met chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday and soon after complained of fever and sore throat. While meeting Gehlot, Wheelchair-bound Bainsla had maintained some distance. He had worn a mask, but in the picture issued by the chief minister’s office, his mask was not covering his nose. Gehlot wishes Pilot, Saraf, Anjana a speedy recoveryUnder the leadership of Bainsla, Gujjars had blocked the Delhi-Mumbai rail route in Bayana’s Pilupura and the Hindaun-Bayana road for the last week. He has now been admitted to the Infectious Disease Hospital under the Sawai Man Singh Medical College, which is now treating Covid patients. “He complained of fever, sore throat and showed other symptoms of Covid on Wednesday evening. We admitted him to IDH for continuous monitoring of his health and treatment,” said a senior SMS Hospital administration official. Doctors are continuously monitoring his oxygen saturation level and have also conducted tests to check if he has any complications due to the infection. Meanwhile, Sachin Pilot tweeted, “I have tested positive for Covid. Anyone who may have come in contact with me over the last few days, please get yourselves tested. Am taking appropriate doctoral advice. Hope to recover soon.” Gehlot wished Pilot a speedy recovery. “Wish you a speedy recovery @SachinPilot ji. May you get well soon,” he tweeted. “Wishing speedy recovery to BJP MLA, @KalicharanSaraf ji, who has tested positive for #Covid19. May he gets well soon. #Rajasthan,” the CM tweeted. “Wishing speedy recovery to my ministerial colleague, @UdailalAnjana ji, Congress leader & former MP Badri Ram Jakhar ji, who have tested positive for #COVID-19. May they get well soon, #Rajasthan,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pilot-bainsla-3-other-netas-test-ve/articleshow/79200701.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan gets award for water management||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has bagged the third prize in the general category for outstanding work in the field of water resources management under the National Water Award-2019. Navin Mahajan, secretary of water resources department, received the award on behalf of the state from vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu in an online ceremony organized by the Union ministry of water resources. This is the seventh award the state has received in the last 15 months for outstanding work in the field of water resources, Mahajan said. Mahajan said the award had been given to the state for work in the field of increased water use efficiency, water harvesting management, integrated water resources management through participatory approach, micro irrigation with solar pumps, water harvesting and achievements under irrigation management and micro irrigation. He said it also appreciated the positive results achieved by state using information technology (IT) for transparency in water management. He informed that many important activities had been taken up to enhance water use efficiency.This includes the re-lining of Sirhind Feeder and Indira Gandhi Feeder (Punjab part), Rajasthan Water Sector Re-Structuring Project in the desert region (funded by NDB), Rajasthan Water Sector Livelihood Improvement Project, Indira Gandhi Canal Project Phase II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/rajasthan-gets-award-for-water-management/articleshow/79204135.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan gets award for water management||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has bagged the third prize in the general category for outstanding work in the field of water resources management under the National Water Award-2019. Navin Mahajan, secretary of water resources department, received the award on behalf of the state from vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu in an online ceremony organized by the Union ministry of water resources. This is the seventh award the state has received in the last 15 months for outstanding work in the field of water resources, Mahajan said. Mahajan said the award had been given to the state for work in the field of increased water use efficiency, water harvesting management, integrated water resources management through participatory approach, micro irrigation with solar pumps, water harvesting and achievements under irrigation management and micro irrigation. He said it also appreciated the positive results achieved by state using information technology (IT) for transparency in water management. He informed that many important activities had been taken up to enhance water use efficiency.This includes the re-lining of Sirhind Feeder and Indira Gandhi Feeder (Punjab part), Rajasthan Water Sector Re-Structuring Project in the desert region (funded by NDB), Rajasthan Water Sector Livelihood Improvement Project, Indira Gandhi Canal Project Phase II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajasthan-gets-award-for-water-management/articleshow/79200696.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan gets award for water management||JAIPUR: Rajasthan has bagged the third prize in the general category for outstanding work in the field of water resources management under the National Water Award-2019. Navin Mahajan, secretary of water resources department, received the award on behalf of the state from vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu in an online ceremony organized by the Union ministry of water resources. This is the seventh award the state has received in the last 15 months for outstanding work in the field of water resources, Mahajan said. Mahajan said the award had been given to the state for work in the field of increased water use efficiency, water harvesting management, integrated water resources management through participatory approach, micro irrigation with solar pumps, water harvesting and achievements under irrigation management and micro irrigation. He said it also appreciated the positive results achieved by state using information technology (IT) for transparency in water management. He informed that many important activities had been taken up to enhance water use efficiency.This includes the re-lining of Sirhind Feeder and Indira Gandhi Feeder (Punjab part), Rajasthan Water Sector Re-Structuring Project in the desert region (funded by NDB), Rajasthan Water Sector Livelihood Improvement Project, Indira Gandhi Canal Project Phase II.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rajasthan-gets-award-for-water-management/articleshow/79204132.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||PM Narendra Modi likely to visit soldiers in Jaisalmer on Diwali||JAISALMER: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to visit Jaisalmer on Saturday and celebrate Diwali with soldiers deployed along the international border, sources said on Thursday. There are also chances that Modi may go to Bhuj in Gujarat instead of Jaisalmer. Considering the possibility of the VVIP visit, the district administration has begun preparations. Modi has been going to different border areas to boost the morale of soldiers during Diwali over the years. Sources said the PM would arrive by a special plane at Jaisalmer Air Force airport and then go to forward areas by a helicopter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-likely-to-visit-soldiers-in-jaisalmer-on-diwali/articleshow/79200689.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi threatens to move court over counting||PATNA: In his first interaction with the media after the result of the Bihar assembly election was declared, Mahagathbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Thursday thanked the people of the state for deciding ‘in favour’ of the Grand Alliance even though the Election Commission had given a result 'in favour of the NDA'. Tejashwi reiterated his party’s allegation of foul play in the counting of postal ballot papers and said if the candidates were not satisfied by the EC’s explanation, he would move court.He claimed that the Mahagathbandhan had won 130 seats and were ‘intentionally made to lose’ on 20 seats. Tejashwi further said the difference between the number of votes received by NDA and Mahagatbandhan was just 12,270 with NDA getting 1,57,00728 and Mahagatbandhan getting 1,56,88458 votes. “It is surprising that they have won 15 seats with 12,270 votes.” Reading the Election Commission’s guidelines, Tejashwi said, “Why were ballot votes counted at the end? Why were so many rejected? Give us video and CCTV recordings from those places where ballots were counted at the end. The EC has to clear candidates’ doubts and it is supposed to preserve ballot papers for 40 days.” He said the ballots were intentionally cancelled as teachers and service sector people, especially Niyojit teachers, had voted in the Mahagathbandhan’s favour. Lashing out at the NDA, Tejashwi alleged it had used the EC and the administration to turn the situation in its favour. “The NDA used money, force and everything else to get the results in their favour. It tried all sorts of calculations, but could not stop a 31-year-old. It was after this that they roped in BJP’s particular cell (EC),” said Tejashwi. The young leader also hit out at Nitish Kumar and said the latter should step down from the chair if he had any self-respect left. “Why has the glow vanished from his face? Look at how he has come to the third position. Since he has announced that this election would be the last of his political career, he should end it with dignity,” he said. When asked if he would approach VIP and HAM (S) to come over to the Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi said, “One thing is very clear. The mandate was in our favour and the people want a change. Those who understand this can make their own decision.” Tejashwi dared the NDA to fulfil by January all the promises it had made in its manifesto, including providing 19 lakh jobs to people, ensuring equal pay for equal work, increasing honorarium, and improving the health and education sector. If these promises were not fulfilled, the Mahagathbandhan would launch massive protests, he warned. Before this interaction, he addressed his party’s newly-elected MLAs, who elected him as their leader. He then addressed all the Mahagathbandhan MLAs, who also declared him as their leader. The younger Yadav scion also announced he would embark on a ‘Dhanyavaad Yatra’ (thanksgiving rally) soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-threatens-to-move-court-over-counting/articleshow/79197600.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 13, 2020||Patna||NDA to decide on next Bihar CM, I haven’t made any claim as yet: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar on Thursday said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will be forming the next government in Bihar as people have given their mandate to the four-party alliance of JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. Talking to media persons after meeting the newly-elected JD(U) MLAs, Nitish further said the next CM would be decided by the NDA. Asked about who will be the next CM, Nitish said, “I have made no claim, the decision will be taken by NDA.” This was the JD(U) chief’s first interaction with the media persons after the NDA’s win in the assembly polls. On a possible date for the oath-taking ceremony, he said, “Decision on the date of swearing-in will be taken after an informal meeting with NDA partners tomorrow (on Friday). It is not decided yet when the oath ceremony will take place, whether after Diwali or Chhath puja,” This year, Diwali falls on November 14, while the four-day Chhath Puja in Bihar will conclude on November 21. In 2015, Nitish had taken oath as the CM on November 20. Responding to a query on the role of the LJP in the election, Nitish said ally BJP would decide whether to retain LJP in the NDA or not. Nitish added, “We are analysing the results of this election." Asked if he would demand that the BJP drop Chirag Paswan-led party from the NDA at the Centre in the wake of the LJP candidates scuttling scope of JD(U) win in many constituencies, he responded jokingly, “Why don’t you make this suggestion,” adding, “In any case, it is for the BJP to decide. I have nothing to say in the matter.” Sources in JD(U) said the decision on the date of oath-taking ceremony would be taken after consultation with the top BJP leaders in Delhi. The JD(U) leadership has also approached the Prime Minister office to inquire whether PM Narendra Modi would give his consent to attend the oath ceremony of Nitish Kumar. “Before the oath-taking ceremony, the JD(U) will convene a formal meeting of its legislator party to name its leader. After that, a formal meeting of NDA legislators will be held in which all MLAs of the JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP party, will formally elect their leader,” JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh told TOI on Thursday. “We will inform the media as soon as the date of the JD(U) legislators’ party meeting will be decided,” Singh said. Earlier in the day, former CM and HAM(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi, along with his other three newly-elected MLAs, called on CM Nitish Kumar in the state capital here. Manjhi extended support of all four HAM(S) MLAs to Nitish Kumar. Manjhi and his MLAs went to meet the CM soon after a meeting of the HAM(S) legislature party at Manjhi's residence. HAM(S) is the first NDA ally which extended its support to Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-to-decide-on-next-cm-i-havent-made-any-claim-as-yet-nitish/articleshow/79202686.cms||Madan Kumar
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: MUDA to soon launch layout development under 50:50 sharing basis||MYSURU: Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) will soon put up boards announcing the layout projects under 50:50 site sharing basis with landlords at various locations across Mysuru. Farmers and landlords in Udbur, Kellahalli, Talur, Doddakatur, Daripura, Bommanahlli and Seegehalli have voluntarily come forward to develop their land into layout in association with MUDA, said MUDA chairman HV Rajiv on Thursday. Farmers have given consent to spare their land for the first of its kind initiative in Karnataka, he added. “According to our assessment, 700 acres of land is available for this project. The only hindrance is that the land is scattered. We need a minimum of 50 acres land in one mass to take up the project,” he said. Once the process starts, MUDA will pay a minimum of Rs 10 lakh per acre of land spared for the project to land losers as an advance. Rajiv claimed the project would be completed in 18-month time without delay after the paper works are finalised. A farmer would get nine developed sites of 30x40 ft dimension for every acre of land spared for the project. However, corner, commercial and 20x30 ft dimension sites wouldn’t be offered to them. MUDA is ready and capable to take up any number of such projects provided land lords come forward voluntarily. “It’s a win-win situation for both MUDA and landlords. MUDA will be able to provide sites for seekers as about 85,000 applicants are waiting, while farmers can sell the sites to anyone and at any time for a lucrative price,” Said Rajiv. Five years ago MUDA had proposed a similar project but it hit rough weather due to technical issues over land acquisition. Special squad to formed MUDA chairman HV Rajiv said the urban body has proposed a special police squad on the lines of Bengaluru Development Authorities to look into complaints of cheating using forged/fake property documents. Currently there is undue delay in attending to complaints by local police. Therefore to speed up investigation, MUDA would be proposing a squad of police personnel with DySP, two inspectors and staff to attend to complaints of cheating. A proposal will be sent to the government on this score.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/muda-to-soon-launch-layout-development-under-5050-sharing-basis/articleshow/79198962.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||PHED engineer in ACB net for taking bribe in Dudu||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Thursday arrested executive engineer of public health engineering department (PHED) Jitendra Kumar Sharma for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 50,000 in a case related to demanding commission for clearance of pending bills in Dudu. Following his arrest, the ACB teams rushed to different locations and its sleuths recovered Rs13.5 lakh from his house in Mansarovar of Jaipur. They also found documents of properties, including the plots in Jaipur and one plot in Jodhpur. The ACB sleuths are continuing their searches at Sharma’s house at Mansarovar. “Till now, we have found Rs13.5 lakh, documents of properties in Jaipur and Jodhpur. We are still searching his house which is a two-storey building,” ACB additional director general Dinesh M N said. The ACB teams are conducting raids and searched at different locations of Sharma believing that they might get more details of the property accumulated by him. ACB director general B L Soni said the special investigation wing (SIW) had received complaints that Sharma had demanded 7.5% commission as bribe of the total amount of the pending bills for its clearance for different works done. Acting on the complaints, the ACB team under additional superintendent of police Sanjeev Jain verified the complaint and laid a trap for arresting the 49-year-old accused, he said. The arrested accused is a resident of Vishanpura Charanwas of Chomu Tehsil. Currently, he is staying at his two-storey building at Monika Vihar, Manyawas Road in Mansarovar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/phed-engr-in-acb-net-for-taking-bribe-in-dudu/articleshow/79200700.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||NHAI to improve Outer Ring Road in Mysuru||MYSURU: Travelling on the outer ring road (ORR) of Mysuru will not be an unpleasant experience for tourists in a few months. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) have taken up the improvement of busy traffic stretches. The 10-lane national highway (NH 275K) ORR which is 41.5km long connects the major Bengaluru, Bantwala, Khozikode (Calicut) and Ooty highways. Tourists who travel to hill stations in Ooty, Kodagu and Kerala, especially during weekends, used to face hardship on the stretch. According to a study, the stretch records vehicular traffic up to 32,074 passenger car units (PCU). In the first phase, NHAI will take up work on a 10km stretch from Hinkal Junction on Hunsur Road at a cost of Rs 14.8 crore. The tender has been awarded to Hyderabad-based RMN Infrastructure Ltd. The project has been taken up under engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode. The second phase of work will start in three months where 31.5km of the road including the six-lane road and service road will be strengthened and improved at a cost of Rs 144.7 crore. According to the authorities, in the second phase, they will build a new 9.3km-long service road on both sides near the APMC near Bandipalya. Apart from this, 29 major junctions and 39 minor junctions on the stretch will also be improved. During the project, water supply and sanitation pipelines affecting the length of 9.3km will be shifted. Similarly, CESC authorities have been requested to shift power lines on the stretch. NHAI engineer Mahadeva Swamy told TOI that work will be completed by March next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/nhai-to-improve-outer-ring-road-in-mysuru/articleshow/79198991.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 13, 2020||---||NDA to decide on next Bihar CM, I haven’t made any claim as yet: Nitish Kumar||PATNA: JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar on Thursday said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) will be forming the next government in Bihar as people have given their mandate to the four-party alliance of JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. Talking to media persons after meeting the newly-elected JD(U) MLAs, Nitish further said the next CM would be decided by the NDA. Asked about who will be the next CM, Nitish said, “I have made no claim, the decision will be taken by NDA.” This was the JD(U) chief’s first interaction with the media persons after the NDA’s win in the assembly polls. On a possible date for the oath-taking ceremony, he said, “Decision on the date of swearing-in will be taken after an informal meeting with NDA partners tomorrow (on Friday). It is not decided yet when the oath ceremony will take place, whether after Diwali or Chhath puja,” This year, Diwali falls on November 14, while the four-day Chhath Puja in Bihar will conclude on November 21. In 2015, Nitish had taken oath as the CM on November 20. Responding to a query on the role of the LJP in the election, Nitish said ally BJP would decide whether to retain LJP in the NDA or not. Nitish added, “We are analysing the results of this election." Asked if he would demand that the BJP drop Chirag Paswan-led party from the NDA at the Centre in the wake of the LJP candidates scuttling scope of JD(U) win in many constituencies, he responded jokingly, “Why don’t you make this suggestion,” adding, “In any case, it is for the BJP to decide. I have nothing to say in the matter.” Sources in JD(U) said the decision on the date of oath-taking ceremony would be taken after consultation with the top BJP leaders in Delhi. The JD(U) leadership has also approached the Prime Minister office to inquire whether PM Narendra Modi would give his consent to attend the oath ceremony of Nitish Kumar. “Before the oath-taking ceremony, the JD(U) will convene a formal meeting of its legislator party to name its leader. After that, a formal meeting of NDA legislators will be held in which all MLAs of the JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP party, will formally elect their leader,” JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh told TOI on Thursday. “We will inform the media as soon as the date of the JD(U) legislators’ party meeting will be decided,” Singh said. Earlier in the day, former CM and HAM(S) president Jitan Ram Manjhi, along with his other three newly-elected MLAs, called on CM Nitish Kumar in the state capital here. Manjhi extended support of all four HAM(S) MLAs to Nitish Kumar. Manjhi and his MLAs went to meet the CM soon after a meeting of the HAM(S) legislature party at Manjhi's residence. HAM(S) is the first NDA ally which extended its support to Nitish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nda-to-decide-on-next-cm-i-havent-made-any-claim-as-yet-nitish/articleshow/79197622.cms||Madan Kumar
November 13, 2020||Patna||Two lynched for killing youth over card game in rural Patna||PATNA: Two men were lynched at a village in Patna district while trying to flee after they shot a youth for not allowing them to play cards late on Wednesday evening. The incident took place at Sabbalpur under River police station area of Fatuha. According to SHO Sakendra Kumar, the two deceased are Munna Das(35) and Ajeet Kumar alias Etwari (40). The murdered youth has been identified as 23-year-old Jitendra Sahni. “Jitendra, a fisherman, had returned home with his catch along with other villagers around 10 pm and they sat down to play cards. Suddenly six men, including Das and Kumar, came there and wanted to join them in the card game,” the SHO said. He added, “All six men were drunk and sensing trouble Jitendra refused to allow them to play cards with them. It resulted in an altercation, and Munna Das pulled out a pistol and shot Jitendra dead.” After shooting Jitendra, all six tried to flee the spot, but villagers managed to catch hold of Munna and Ajeet. “The villagers thrashed them mercilessly with sticks and rods after which they left them near the riverbank. Police later picked them up and rushed to the Patna Medical College and Hospital where Munna was pronounced dead while Ajeet died during treatment,” SHO said. SP (rural) Kantesh Kumar Mishra said Munna’s identity was ascertained within hours of the incident, but the second deceased, Ajeet, was identified only on Thursday evening. “Munna was accused in several criminal cases, including murder and loot. He was from Sabbalpur but had shifted to Ranipur in rural Patna. An additional force has been deployed in the village for maintaining law and order,” Mishra said, adding a hunt is on to arrest accused involved in lynching the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/two-lynched-for-killing-youth-over-card-game-in-rural-patna/articleshow/79197567.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Online+classrooms: More work and less time for teachers||Ahmedabad: The decision of the state government to run both online and classes at school concurrently has created confusion among the school managements, who now fear that not only would there be delay in completing the syllabus, but teachers will become overloaded.A teacher requesting anonymity said, “On a given day if I teach chemical reactions in science period for students attending school, I will be forced to prepare the same for the online class also on the same day or the next day.”This will force the teachers to work with double load as he or she will have to prepare material for online classes too. Online teaching is not just reading out the chapters to the students or just giving lectures, but one had to make the session attractive by diagrams, power point presentations and other means.Another teacher said that at present, in an online class they all students of a class are taught together, but with online and offline classes running concurrently, delivery of the same topic will consume twice the time.A senior teacher of a CBSE school said that if a teacher is forced to deliver the same topic on two occasions, it will put the teacher under terrible stress. Moreover, teachers will not have time for solving problems of students, or for sessions to clear doubts.Jatin Bharad, vice-president of Self Financed School Management Association said that the two systems running concurrently will increase the workload on teachers. In five hours of work, if a teacher works three hours for in-person classes at school, she would be left with no time to prepare for online classes. The situation will worsen if too few students, like only 10 students, turn up for a class, he said.Manan Choksi, president of Ahmedabad Progressive School Management Association said that there is no clarity from the government about the number of students for whom the classes should be conducted. The online system is working well in big cities and he feels that not many parents would be wanting to send their child to school. He said if there were three teachers for a subject, one of them will have to take offline classes while the other two will have to be there for online classes.However, a teacher of Class XII said, “Each teacher has a separate style of teaching and delivery, and if a specific teacher is taking offline classes and another teacher takes online classes, it will be extremely difficult for the students if the teachers are switched for any reason.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/onlineclassrooms-more-work-and-less-time-for-teachers/articleshow/79199362.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||Karnartaka: Wooday Krishna, Dr Daddi conferred with Nadoja awards||HUBBALLI: Educationist Dr Wooday P Krishna and well- known medical practitioner Dr Hanamanth Govindappa Daddi were conferred with Nadoja awards of Kannada University, Hampi during its 28th convocation on Tuesday. Pro Chancellor of the University and deputy chief minister Dr CN Ashwath Narayan did the honours. The deputy chief minister also inaugurated various buildings and performed land breaking ceremony for new buildings. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating the new building in the Kannada University campus, Dr Ashwath Narayan said for the development of infrastructure of the university Rs 10 crore will be provided from the district mining fund. The Rs 10 crore will be used to address the drinking water problem in summer season and to build a compound wall for the university’s 750 acre vast campus, he said. He also said that he is aware that the non-teaching staff of the university have not been getting their salaries for the last few months and the problem will be addressed at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/wooday-krishna-dr-daddi-conferred-with-nadoja-awards/articleshow/79198591.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Two sanitation workers among 3 arrested for smuggling gold||JAIPUR: In a big breakthrough, customs officials at Jaipur airport arrested three persons, including two sanitation workers, for allegedly helping to smuggle gold worth over Rs 15 crore over the past few months on Thursday. The two sanitation workers allegedly helped in taking the smuggled gold out of the airport. The interrogation of Faqaruddhin, who was arrested a few days ago after he was caught with 760gm of gold biscuit, led to the arrest of the three today. One of the accused has been identified as Gajendra Singh, a native of Pali. “The two other sanitation workers at the Jaipur airport have been identified as Yogendra Singh and Akash Kumar who used to pick concealed gold and bring it outside,” a senior customs official said. All the three have been booked under various sections of the Customs Act and sent to judicial custody. Sleuths of the customs department said that they have been busting various modules of gold smuggling since July this year at the airport. But this time they discovered the modus operandi of smugglers, adding that the sanitation workers used to help the culprits in getting the gold out of the airport. “In recent cases, it was found that the culprits who brought the gold used to visit washrooms at the airport and conceal it in various areas of the washroom, including the garbage bin,” said a senior customs official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-sanitation-workersamong-3-arrestedfor-smuggling-gold/articleshow/79200709.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ajmer||2 die in separate road accidents in Ajmer||AJMER: Two persons were killed in separate road accidents in Ajmer on Thursday. Durga Singh Rajput, a resident of Rathoredhan ki Dhani, died when a truck hit his bike on Kishangarh highway. According to police Rajput was on his way to work when a truck coming from Jaipur hit him. Rajput hit the divider and died on the spot. There was a jam on the highway for about an hour. Police sent the body to government hospital in Kishangarh and registered a case against the driver of the truck. In another incident in Roopangarh, a driver died when two trucks collided on Thursday morning. The driver of one of the trucks Vasu Singh Rajput, 35, died on the spot while cleaner Sunil, 32, was injured badly. Both were residents of Dhanod village in Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/2-die-in-separate-road-accidents-in-ajmer/articleshow/79200713.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court denies bail to Sola Civil doctor||Ahmedabad: Additional sessions judge J A Thakkar at the Mirzapur court has denied bail to Dr Shailesh Patel, one of the doctors at the Sola Civil Hospital who was nabbed by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) on graft charges. In refusing bail to the in-charge of hospital administration, Dr Patel, the court observed that the bribe was sought for clearing food bills for Covid-19 staff, which is a public money and therefore this was a fit case to refuse bail to him. Moreover, the court said that the probe is at a delicate stage in this case and looking at the role played by the doctor, he cannot be granted bail in larger interest of the society. Last month, two doctors – Dr Shailesh Patel and Dr Upendra Patel, the in-charge RMO of the Sola Civil, were arrested while allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 8 lakh for sanctioning a canteen bill and for extending the contracts. The probe agency claimed it had received a complaint from a catering contractor, who served staff and relatives of Covid-19 patients for four months. The two doctors had allegedly demanded 30% commission on total bill of Rs 1.18 crore, but they settled on Rs 16 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-denies-bail-to-sola-civil-doctor/articleshow/79199414.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Two killed in separate accidents||Hyderabad: An assistant professor in a private engineering college died in a road accident in Amberpet on Thursday. Amberpet police said Mohammed Farooq died after he was hit by an RTC bus while he was travelling on a bike. The bus came from the rear side and hit the bike, which led Farooq to suffer a head injury. He died on the spot. The incident took place at 8.40am at Rahatnagar in Amberpet. A case was registered against the bus driver. Meanwhile, in another road accident at Hayathanagar, a 18-year-old student Charan Yadav died after he was hit by a tipper. The mishap took place while he was travelling on a bike along with his 15-year-old cousin, who suffered injuries in the accident. The tipper came from the rear side and hit the victim’s bike. The victim fell down and the tipper went over his head. He died on the spot. A case of rash and negligent driving was registered against the tipper driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-killed-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/79199923.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Road works claim lives, but go on without safety signs||PUNE: When under construction road works become the cause of fatal accidents, it is time to raise the safety bar. But the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) seems have learnt no lessons, and unguarded works where commuters are exposed to dangerous debris and construction material continue across the civic areas. Two young software engineers were killed in an accident shortly after Saturday midnight on Baner Road when their motorcycle fell into a cable duct dug up as part of the ongoing work for a pedestrian path under the Pune Smart City project. The police are investigating if the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited and its contractor hired for the pedestrian path, cable duct and related works, had taken adequate safety measures like installing safety barricades and sign boards around the dug-up area. Days after the accident, a TOI team comprising a reporter and a photographer visited different places in the city to check if safety parameters are followed around road works. They found most road construction and digging undertaken by the PMC is without barricades, proper signages and other safety precautions. Some works done by Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited too lacked these necessary safeguards. The civic administration has taken up construction of concrete roads, pipeline repairs, sewage treatment works, laying of cables and concreting in many places. Activists said lack of accountability is the biggest concern in road mishaps. Norms laid down by the Indian Road Congress for safety are flouted in most cases. “Strict action such as filing a serious offence against those carrying out such works that cause mishaps and loss of lives is a must. Criminal cases and offences like culpable homicide should be filed in such cases against contractors and civic officials,” Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch, a citizens’ group, said. According to civic officials, they are taking action against the violators as per the law. “We have pulled up contractors who have not followed norms about safety. These include levy of a fine for the violators,” V G Kulkarni, head of PMC’s road department, said. Citizens said apart from poor quality work, traffic mismanagement is a strain. “If proper traffic management is done near the road works, there will be fewer accident-prone areas. Fatal accidents can be averted, but most of the road works lack any such measures,” Swargate resident Rahul Wagh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/road-works-claim-lives-but-go-on-without-safety-signs/articleshow/79199409.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 13, 2020||Ajmer||Body of power department employee found on transformer in Ajmer||AJMER: Body of an employee on contract with the electricity department was found on a transformer in Chandrawardai Nagar here on Thursday morning. Tata power is maintaining the transformer. Police have registered a case and have started investigation. According to police, Shayar Singh Rawat (25), a resident of Nasirabad was found dead on Thursday morning on the transformer at the power house in Chandrawardai Nagar. On Thursday morning, the employees informed the police and cops broke the gates of the power house to bring the body down. Shayar was working at Hazaribagh power house but it is not confirmed yet as to how he got to the power house at Chandrawardai Nagar nor are the circumstances in which he died clear yet. Police sent the body for post-mortem and have begun probe in the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/body-of-power-dept-employee-found-on-transformer-in-ajmer/articleshow/79200715.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||Minister’s brothers turn Congress rebels in Jaisalmer rural polls||Jaisalmer: The Congress in Jaisalmer appears to be battling infighting with cabinet minister Saleh Mohammad’s four brothers turning rebels in the upcoming panchayat elections. The Congress politics in Jaisalmer is now divided between Gaji Fakir, the local religious leader and cabinet minister’s father, and party’s local MLA Ruparam. On being denied party ticket in panchayat elections, minister Saleh Mohammad’s brother Amadeen, who is former pradhan of Jaisalmer, is now contesting as an independent candidate from Dam panchayat samiti. His other brother Purane Fakir is contesting as an independent candidate from Deon Jaisalmer panchayat samiti. Illiyas Fakir is contesting from Jaisalmer panchayat samiti. Ameen Fakir’s wife is contesting as zila parishad member on Congress symbol, while fourth brother Abdullah Fakir is also in the fray. Minister Saleh Mohammad said that denying of tickets was the decision of Congress high command and contesting the election as independents was an individual’s freedom. Amardeen Fakir said he had asked for a Congress ticket for panchayat samiti election but was denied. Amardeen said he wanted to serve the people, so filled the election form as an independent candidate. He had been a pradhan in the past and a vice-president in Youth Congress. Amardeen said he will win and remain with the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mins-brothers-turn-cong-rebels-in-jaisalmer-rural-polls/articleshow/79200718.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mangaluru||We have information about poll malpractices: Karnataka Congress president D K Shivakumar||MANGALURU: State Congress president D K Shivakumar said the party has information about malpractices committed in the byelections held for Sira and RR Nagar constituencies. He told reporters: “We have information regarding election malpractices and distribution of money. We will discuss about it. We must accept the defeat. People cutting across all sections, including educated youths and women, say they have voted for the Congress. I never expected such a huge margin of more than 50,000 votes in RR Nagar constituency. Hence, we have planned a broad inquiry to check whether the claims of voters are wrong, or if there is something wrong in polling of votes. We have several options when it comes to conducting an inquiry. Many speak about electronic voting machines. Let us wait for an opinion from our experts, whom I have invited to discuss about the issue. There is a need to correct the process,” Shivakumar said. On BJP state president Nalin Kumar Kateel’s allegations that the Congress chief was protecting former mayor and Congress leader Sampath Raj, who went missing, Shivakumar questioned, “Is he (Kateel) the home minister (of Karnataka)?” “They can arrest D K Shivakumar right? They have already arrested me once. Let them arrest me again if they want. I know they have been planning to trouble me more. I have been receiving information,” Shivakumar added. “We have planned our style of party building strategy. I am confident that people in this state will be enlightened. They will realise that only the Congress can develop this nation and the state, since our party is acceptable to all sections of society. There may be some setbacks for the time being. Party workers may be upset after the byelections. We have seen many byelection victories in Ballari, Nanjangud, Gundlupet and many other constituencies. Hence, byelections can never be a yardstick to weigh political parties,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/we-have-information-about-poll-malpractices-dks/articleshow/79198050.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||Construction firm & manager booked on charge of negligence||Pune: The Chatushrungi police on Wednesday registered an offence of negligence against a firm contracted for the Pune Smart City project work, and its manager, after two young techies died in an accident on Baner Road just after midnight on Saturday.The firm and its manager were charged with neglecting work of a pedestrian path and cable wire duct into which the two men fell after their bike skidded off the road, and died.Constable Deepak Phasale of the Chatushrungi police lodged the FIR for offences under Sections 304-A (causing death by negligence), 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by public servant) and 283 (causing danger, obstruction or injury to any person in any public way or public line of navigation) of the Indian Penal Code.Assistant inspector R V Malegave of Chatushrungi police station said, “During the probe, the documents obtained revealed that the permission granted to the contractor to carry out work on the stretch of the road had lapsed a fortnight ago. He did not renew the permission from the appropriate authorities and, hence, Section 188 has been applied.” They also found that the contractor had not installed proper signboards. “He did not put up barricades alerting road users about the impending danger. The manager and the firm neglected public safety. We believe this caused the accident,” Malegave said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-firm-manager-booked-on-charge-of-negligence/articleshow/79199451.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||Police raid call centre for illegal use of SIM cards in Pune||PUNE: The police on Wednesday night raided a call centre on BMCC Road for allegedly using fraudulently obtained SIM cards. The raid was conducted after DCP (Zone I) Priyanka Narnaware received information that the call centre was illegally using these SIM cards to call people and inform them about loan offers on behalf of private banks. Senior inspector Muralidhar Karpe of the Deccan Gymkhana police said the call centre operator obtained a large number of SIM cards by using either fake documents or genuine photo ID proofs of migrant workers. “We have seized 14 phones and several SIM cards. We are searching for those who sold these SIM cards to the operator,” Karpe said. The senior inspector said concealing one’s identity or digitally misusing the identity of another person was a serious offence. “We will verify all details and soon take a call on further action, including arrests,” he said. Karpe said the workers whose documents were used were completely unaware about the matter. “We are investigating how their documents were obtained by the operator, who would use each SIM card for five or six months and discard it,” Karpe said. A first information report has been lodged under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 465 and 468 (both related to forgery) and 471 (fraudulently using as genuine any document or electronic record). Repeated attempts — via calls and text message — made by TOI to contact the operator went unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-raid-call-centre-for-illegal-use-of-sim-cards/articleshow/79199467.cms||Gitesh Shelke
November 13, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks report on employed who got pattas meant for landless poor||MADURAI: Coming down heavily on those misusing government welfare schemes, the Madras high court has said that it may consider issuing a direction to the government to confiscate properties and dismiss from employment those who benefit by violating norms. The court said this while issuing a direction to the DVAC to conduct an inquiry into the properties possessed by a government school teacher who had obtained free pattas for himself and his family members. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi said that such kind of stern action is necessary to prevent such attempts by any one in future so that deserving people alone could get benefited. “Such people are required to be prosecuted criminally,” they said. The court was hearing a petition filed by G Raja who sought for a direction to restrain the authorities from disturbing the possession of the free patta allotted to him at Palluvoor in Sivaganga district. Additional advocate general K Chellapandian submitted that the petitioner suppressed the fact that he is working as a teacher in a government middle school at Mudikarai village and obtained free pattas for five members of his family, including his son R Mutharasan, who is a doctor in a primary health centre. Based on complaints and as per an earlier order of the court, the petitioner was suspended on October 9, Mutharasan on October 15 and the tahsildar who had allotted the free pattas, on October 8. Refusing to permit the petitioner to withdraw the petition, the judges observed that what has been done by the family is nothing but looting of public property, which is meant for the benefit of the landless poor. “This case would only go to show that many employed people are very greedy and that is the reason for the increase in corruption cases. A government servant should be a role model to the general public, however, the petitioner has proved to be a bad model by getting assignment of free pattas in spite of being in a better position than the landless poor. The petitioner’s action frustrates the attempt of the government to give benefit to the deserving section of people,” the judges said. The judges suo motu impleaded the secretary of revenue department, secretary of social welfare department and director of vigilance and anti-corruption as respondents and directed the authorities to file a report as to how many got free pattas despite having properties and in employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-report-on-employed-who-got-pattas-meant-for-landless-poor/articleshow/79201095.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Restored lakes, new parks by May as corpn expedites work||CHENNAI: About 20 big-ticket civic projects on road safety, better commute, beautification of bridges and new parks will be ready by May next year with the Greater Chennai Corporation expediting them. The cost of all these projects is about `300cr. Set to be showcased ahead of the assembly elections, these projects include sensory parks in Kotturpuram and Nolambur, pedestrian plazas around T Nagar, Villivakkam lake, pond restoration, dynamic lighting on bridges and vertical gardens. All these projects are in various phases of execution and some will be completed by December, said Meghanath Reddy, deputy commissioner, in-charge of the works department of the corporation. Most of these projects were conceived about five years ago. “For all the projects, funds are available now. Schedules have been given to the contractors and engineers. We are following up on the progress every day. Every engineer has to enter details of the number of workers at the site. We are getting independent reports from project management consultants on the progress,” he said. A senior corporation official said these projects will not just change the “look and feel” of the city but improve the quality of life. “The multilevel car parking will ensure that the Pondy Bazaar pedestrian plaza is utilised to full capacity and the parking management system will help the citizens become more organised. The T Nagar skywalk will help them avoid crowded Ranganathan Street and Usman Road,” said the official. Apart from these, projects such as waste exchange portal that will bring all waste collectors, vendors and generators in one forum will improve the solid waste management system. Also, the new contractor will take over waste management in Alandur, Adyar, Valasaravakkam, Perungudi, Sholinganallur, Teynampet and Kodambakkam by the end of December. V S Jayaraman, a resident of T Nagar, said: “Projects may be expedited, but we need to think how these plazas helped the citizens. The existing infrastructure should have some purpose and based on its feedback more projects can be planned. Skywalks are unnecessary. Footpaths have always been occupied by hawkers.” Ashwathy Dilip of Institute of Transportation and Development Policy said management of on-street parking is a crucial project. The city is testing on-street parking management. Learning from the pilot should be used to quickly scale up across other neighbourhoods, she said. R Govindaraj of Exnora Greater Chennai said executing projects during monsoon will be a challenge. “There is the festive season as well. Usually, the corporation stops major projects during monsoon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/restored-lakes-new-parks-by-may-as-corpn-expedites-work/articleshow/79198044.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Madurai||Govt draws flak for wavering stand on school reopening||Madurai: Confusion and relief filled the parent, student and teacher communities on Thursday after the state government announced that schools for Classes IX to XII will not be reopened on November 16 and that reopening is postponed until further notice. While the decision was welcomed considering the safety of students especially during the rainy season, parents and teachers also expressed displeasure at the see-sawing attitude of the state government on decisions regarding school reopening.“It is definitely good that the government has decided to wait for some more time and we can also see how the trend of Covid-19 cases are after Diwali. But the government’s sudden announcements and changes are only disturbing the mental health of students. There must be some clarity and government should take only informed decisions after consulting with all stakeholders,” said P Vijayalakshmi, parent of a Class XII student. According to sources, more than 60% of parents and schools of Madurai had given their opinion stating that schools can be reopened for Class IX to XII during the consultative meetings held.“Online classes are not for everyone and some students are struggling to retain what they study through them. As initially proposed, it could have at least been considered to permit voluntary sessions to clear doubts for Class X and XII, with the consent of parents,” said KR Sharmila, another parent of a Class XII student. Private schools are set to continue with online classes post Diwali festival. Meanwhile, government schools will continue to rely on only ‘Kalvi Tholaikatchi’ programs and pre-recorded video lessons for students to learn from home. “Safety comes first but the decision to delay reopening is particularly disappointing for government school students as they don’t have regular online classes like private schools. Further, the children are already very much distracted at their homes now. We cannot force them to study from home. This will affect students in the long run and create a lackadaisical attitude towards studies. Some of them are even thinking they will all be passed next year without writing exams,” said a government school headmaster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-draws-flak-for-wavering-stand-on-school-reopening/articleshow/79201094.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 13, 2020||Madurai||Garbage mounds raise a stink at Chinna Konmoi||Madurai: Dumping of garbage by residents and corporation employees on the roadside of the Gatelock Road in Chinna Konmoi area, is turning into an eyesore as the waste gets piled up. The busy road, which connects New Ramnad Road with Anupanadi, used to be clean until a few months ago, but the dumping of garbage is creating health problems and sanitation issues, residents have complained. Most waste is of plastic like one-time use plastic bags and cups, which are found disposed there, the residents said.S Alagar, a resident of Chinna Konmoi said that the piled waste if often set on fire, which emits unhealthy smoke and also pollutes the area. Elderly people are developing respiratory problem due to this. “It is said that corporation employees burn the waste. Higher officials from corporation should take note,” he said.V Manickam, a resident of Anupanadi said that earlier debris used to be dumped on the roadside. While the debris is now cleared by the corporation, people use the spot to dump garbage. Residents, who dispose garbage here should be punished. A health official from the Madurai Corporation said that the garbage will be cleared and cleanliness maintained. He said that strict instruction will be given to the sanitary employees to ensure cleanliness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/garbage-mounds-raise-a-stink-at-chinna-konmoi/articleshow/79201099.cms||V Devanathan
November 13, 2020||Madurai||Advocate stickers: HC seeks govt reply||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the state government in a plea which sought to register cases against those who are illegally using stickers meant for advocates on their vehicles.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that many incidents are reported in which the stickers meant for advocates are misused by miscreants for carrying out criminal activities.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by V Ramesh, an advocate and a resident of Madurai district. The petitioner stated that most people are seen illegally using the stickers on their two-wheelers and cars across the state. These stickers are used for illegal activities by habitual offenders and ganja sellers in order to escape from police checks.He further stated that students in law colleges are also seen using such stickers illegally in order to escape from police checks. Such kinds of practices degrades the profession of the advocates.Ramesh said that the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry is issuing authorised stickers for advocates along with the number of vehicles. He noted that the council had also passed a resolution in 2019, appealing to the police to take action against those using stickers apart from the authorised ones given by the council.Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/advocate-stickers-hc-seeks-govt-reply/articleshow/79201098.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Civic body to install more water ATMs for Chennai’s poor||CHENNAI: Anticipating another scorching summer, Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to install more public water vending machines which will dispense potable RO/UV purified water to people from low income group settlements. Known as Amma Kudineer, around 50 of these water ATMs are already installed in various parts of the city. The corporation has called for tenders to install and operate 11 more such installations in Kodambakkam zone recently. These will be operated on Corporation Colony Road in Kodambakkam, and Kamaraj Salai, Bakthavachalam Street, Bangaru Naidu Second Street, Thillaiyadi Valliammai Street, Rani Anna Nagar, at the junction of 60 feet Road and Anna Main Road, Muthurangan Road, NGO Colony Main Road, 24th Street in and 10th Avenue in Ashok Nagar. The corporation will spend around Rs 70 lakh to install these water vending machines. The contractor will have to ensure their operation and maintenance for a period of two years. A senior official said the water ATMs were aimed at the section of population who did not have access to potable drinking water. “A majority of the population in Chennai spends money on water cans. However, for the poorer sections, this can be a costly affair. The quality of water from many cans too is suspect,” the official said. Smart cards are given to people living in such localities and they can swipe it at the ATMs for 20 litres of water every day. The machines themselves can treat 200 litres of water every hour. Vanessa Peter, a researcher at the Information and Resource Centre for Deprived Urban Communities, said this was a useful scheme for people living in housing board colonies and slum settlements, but officials should ensure that it was maintained properly. For instance, the filters should be changed regularly, Vanessa said. “More such kiosks should also be built in areas where there are homeless people as well as vendors,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civic-body-to-install-more-water-atms-for-citys-poor/articleshow/79198069.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jodhpur||Jodhpur: Two killed in gang rivalry over looting of drug||JODHPUR: Two persons were killed and another injured in a rivalry between drug smugglers on Thursday. Bodies of two of them were found at two different places in the morning after which the police came to know about the incident. The injured person, who is a driver, has sustained fracture and undergoing treatment at the hospital. The incident was a result of looting of the drug consignment by the rival gang in Bilara on Tuesday and a failed meeting between the two to settle the matter in Fitkasni village near Jodhpur on Wednesday. The deceased have been identified as Mahendra and Bhairaram. The injured person Dudu Khan was the driver of the truck which was carrying the drug consignment. All of them along with the truck attendant Kanwaram had been abducted by the rival gang members after the meeting and were beaten badly. Police commissioner Jose Mohan said that Mahendra had been taking a consignment of opium from Guwahati in a truck loaded with tea. Khan and Kanwararam were the driver and attendant, respectively. “The truck was looted by some people near Bilara on Tuesday night. They then had a meeting in Fitkasni village in Jodhpur on Wednesday for the recovery of the looted opium,” said Mohan adding that the meeting did not end in any agreement. This disagreement resulted in abduction and murder of Mahendra and Bhairarm. Mohan said that they probably did not intend to kill them as the rival gang members had taken Mahendra to a hospital on Thursday morning after beating him badly. Police had got the information about the incident from the hospital. Bhairaram, however, was dropped by them in Narnadi area, the body of whom was found by police sometime later in the morning itself. Based on the information extracted by the police from Khan and Kanwrara, a noted drug smuggler Mangilal Nokhada from Lohawat in Jodhpur and his brother’s name has surfaced in the incident. Police teams have been sent to different places in search of them. Meanwhile, Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal has alleged police negligence in the matter claiming that cops were aware of the matter, but did not take action in time. He also called upon the community members to reach MDM Hospital morgue, where the bodies had been taken, and stage a demonstration against police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/two-killed-in-gang-rivalry-over-looting-of-drug/articleshow/79200719.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court bars media coverage of accused’s deposition||Ahmedabad: The special court, which hears the 2008 serial blasts case, ordered on Thursday that the details of deposition to be made by accused Qayamuddin Kapadiya should not be published in the media. Designated judge A R Patel has restrained lawyers involved in the trial and Kapadiya’s relatives from publishing any details related to his evidence or documents he may furnish during the procedure. The court has ordered maintaining complete secrecy in this regard. The court issued the gag order after the state government requested the court to do so in order to avoid ‘any adverse situation’. The state government’s application tendered in the court on November 11 did not mention under which law it was seeking the court order to maintain the secrecy with regard to Kapadiya’s deposition. While seeking to restrain media coverage, the state government cited an earlier order passed by the court to keep the names of 26 important witnesses a secret. After recording of his further statement under Section 313 of CrPC, one of the prime accused in the case, Kapadiya offered to give his evidence as a witness under Section 315 of the CrPC. The state government’s objection to his advocate putting across questions to him was rejected by the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-bars-media-coverage-of-accuseds-deposition/articleshow/79199489.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||PMPML to colour-code buses to help people easily identify various routes||PUNE: The local transport utility is planning to colour-code its buses to make it easier for passengers to identify the route. The project, dubbed CHARISMA (colour-coding all routes to identify, simplify maps and apps), will be rolled out across 200 routes in the first phase. At the moment, the only way for passengers to identify a bus route is to memorize its number or look at the destination board. “We want to simplify the whole process — 15 different colours will be used on 1,300 buses in the first phase, and the remainder would be covered in the second phase,” PMPML chairman and managing director Rajendra Jagtap told TOI. Among the colours under consideration for this project are red, black, blue, violet, green, pink, sky blue, parrot green, ochre, peacock, moss green, grey and khakhi. The colours will apply to the bus numbers at two corners at the front, two corners at the rear and the body of the bus. “Each bus stop will also have a route chart with the colour-coding, to get passengers used to this system. The PMPML recently launched the ABHI (airport) and ATAL (short-route feeder) services, which will sport their own specific colours,” he added. “We also plan to display a QR code at the bus stops and inside the buses. If a commuter scans the code at a bus stop, information about all the buses passing through the stop and their routes will pop up on his/her mobile phone. The codes in the buses will show the entire route with the names of the stops,” Jagtap said, adding that this would be rolled out in phases and expects it to be completely deployed within three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmpml-to-colour-code-buses-to-help-people-easily-identify-various-routes/articleshow/79199476.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 13, 2020||Madurai||HC directs state to sensitize officials on filing appeals in time||Madurai: Observing that the trend of filing appeals belatedly has become a habit on part of the officials for reasons best known to them, the Madras high court has said that any one who is negligent in bringing the orders to the notice of the concerned authorities, should be dealt with accordingly to inculcate discipline. Directing the state government to sensitize the officials to file appeals in time, the court directed the secretary of school education department to issue a circular to the officials stating whether there is any delay, any cost imposed or any financial loss caused to the government, and initiate appropriate departmental proceedings.A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a petition filed by the school educational department to condone the delay of 1,069 days in filing the writ appeal challenging a single judge’s order passed in 2016.The judges observed that sometimes, contempt petitions are also filed and the order passed in the writ petition itself would not have been brought to the notice of the authority, who is required to comply with the order. “We are moving towards digitalization and getting an order copy manually is a day-old practice. The orders are being uploaded in the official website of this court, then and there.”A writ petition was filed seeking approval of appointment of a teacher in a school and the petition was allowed by a single judge in 2016. Since the school management had appointed a teacher without exhausting the surplus teachers, the department decided to file an appeal challenging the order. Allowing the condone delay petition, the judges directed the government to pay Rs 25,000 to Aishwaryam Trust, and further directed to recover the cost amount of Rs 15,000 from the salary of district educational officer and Rs 10,000 from the salary of chief educational officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-state-to-sensitize-officials-on-filing-appeals-in-time/articleshow/79201097.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Sowcarpet killings: Family sought police protection||CHENNAI: A day after 74-year-old financier Dali Chand H Jain, his wife Pushpa Bai, 70, and their son Shital Kumar, 42, were found shot dead in their Sowcarpet home, it has emerged that the family had complained to the Elephant Gate police on September 29 and October 21 seeking protection. Police say Shital’s estranged wife Jayamala and her brothers Vikas and Kailash are the prime suspects and that they may have left for Mumbai. On September 29, police said, Shital had been tied up and attacked by Vikas and Kailash who barged into the house wearing face masks. On October 21, an officer said, Jayamala visited Dali Chand Jain’s house and demanded Rs 5 crore as compensation and that inquiries found he had rejected her demand. On Wednesday night, after Dali Chand’s daughter Pinki arrived at the house, found her parents and brother dead and alerted police, commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal and other senior officers visited the murder scene. Five special teams formed to solve the case found Jayamala had separated from Shital a few months ago and moved into her parents’ house in Pune along with her two daughters aged 13 and 11. After browsing through footage from a CCTV camera 50 metres from Dali Chand’s house, police found Jayamala, Vikas and Kailash, along with three more people, walking towards the residence around 2.45pm on Wednesday. About 20 minutes later, the six-member group is seen rushing away in the opposite direction. The street leading to Dali Chand’s house has been cordoned off and a team of assigned armed reserve police constables has been posted there to screen all people entering the area. The special police teams are using the location of the towers of the suspects’ mobile phones to track them down. The city police commissioner has got in touch with his counterparts in Pune and Mumbai to assist in the investigation. The photographs of the murder suspects have been forwarded to the police in Mumbai and Pune. Inquiries with the Mumbai police revealed that Vikas is a noted criminal who was involved in a few cases of murder in that city. Investigators suspect he might have brought three more assailants to eliminate Dali Chand, his wife and son in Chennai. An officer said, “We hope to narrow down on the murder suspects at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sowcarpet-killings-family-sought-police-protection/articleshow/79198087.cms||A Selvaraj
November 13, 2020||Pune||30 Pune scientists in top 2% list compiled by Stanford||PUNE: As many as 30 scientists from Pune-based institutes are in the top 2% in the world list published by Stanford University, Elsevier Research Intelligence and SciTech Strategies. They are classified into 22 scientific fields and 176 sub-fields. Nine scientists are from NCL, six from Pune university, five from IUCAA, three from IISER Pune, two each from ICAR-National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management, Baramati and DIAT and one each from Symbiosis International, MIT and D Y Patil Vidyapeeth Deemed University, Pune, among the others. “It was motivating for me to be in the list. We need more innovative research whereby original contributions will be visible in any matrix,” Nirmalya Ballav, a scientist from IISER, Pune, said. Ashwini Kumar Nangia, director of CSIR-NCL said a few names are in the below 100 rank in their fields. “This is a sign of infrastructure and research support for science and technology in the past two decades,” he added. Bhushan Patwardhan, UGC vice-chairman, said, “An analysis would help know where we stand among peers. Such recognition gives motivation to perform better. The credit for this accomplishment goes to my research students, collaborators and colleagues,” he said. “I am proud to have five colleagues in the list, 20% of faculty and emeritus. I would expect more than half of our faculty in such a list given our quality of publications and the impact of our research. The indices may not be ideal. Astrophysicists Jayant Narlikar and radio astronomer Govind Swarup are not in it. Nobody from the LIGO project has made it,” Somak Raychaudhury, IUCAA director, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/30-pune-scientists-in-top-2-list-compiled-by-stanford/articleshow/79199500.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 13, 2020||Pune||Couple in cop custody for impersonation||Pune: A local court on Thursday remanded Ankit Kumar Singh (23) and his wife, Minashree (22), in police custody till Sunday in a case of impersonation and other offences. The rural police had registered the offences after arresting Singh on Wednesday from Kirkatwadi on the charges of posing as an Army lieutenant colonel and cheating people. Minashree was charged with abetting the offence. Assistant inspector L N Naam of Haveli police said “Prima facie, Singh would impress upon people that he was a senior Army officer. He would also tell unemployed youth that he can help them secure Class IV jobs in the Army. We are verifying all these details and also the possibility of a job racket.” Naam said, “Minashree would present herself as the wife of an Army officer and impress others. She abetted the crime. Singh and his wife shifted from Uttar Pradesh to Pune about a year ago and were staying in a rented flat.” He added, “There is no doubt that he had morphed his images in the Army circles. We will study his laptop and cellphone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/couple-in-cop-custody-for-impersonation/articleshow/79199536.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Madurai||Vets call to protect animals from trauma||Madurai: Noise pollution during Diwali causes many problems to animals, and they become traumatized when loud fireworks are burst, say veterinarians. They urged people to be empathetic to the condition of the animals and try to protect them from trauma and pain.Joint director, animal husbandry, Madurai, Dr R Rajathilagam says that fireworks are part and parcel of celebrating Diwali, and that is how it should be, but at the same time cows become very traumatized due to the continuous sound and it may affect milk production. “Sudden sparks of light too create fear in cattle, and it would be good to fire crackers away from animals and away from cow sheds and other enclosures where animals are maintained,” he said.Farmer K Saravanan of Usilampatti says that one of his cows miscarried a week after Diwali about a decade ago, he suspects that it could have been due to the noise of fireworks. “I got a person to stand by her because we could see her fear, and her eyeballs were almost bulging, but she refused to stay calm and continued to be restless,” he said.Veterinary assistant surgeon and PG student Dr C Merilraj said, “If you have a pet at home, you should keep it close to you when the fireworks are burst, and now that the government has given specific timings that could be managed, and cattle too need extra attention,” he said. Dogs can be kept in rooms where there is less noise and somebody should stay with them till the festival ends, he said.“Some pets tend to become aggressive, and behavioural changes are common. The animal would isolate itself, and will refuse to eat,” he said. There have been many cases of dogs being run over by vehicles when they run in panic,” he said. Disposing fireworks is also important, because he says that he has treated dogs that were injured from carelessly disposed fireworks.K P Marikumar of Nandri Maravel, an organisation for community dogs, said that the irony is that there would be plenty of food on the roads during festivals but the community dogs would be hiding all through it and go without food. “People like us, feel helpless to see the plight of the animals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/vets-call-to-protect-animals-from-trauma/articleshow/79201100.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Madurai||Spate of robberies keeps cops on toes||Madurai: Three motorcycle-borne men attacked a private steel company manager and his colleague and robbed them of their mobile phones at Kappalur industrial estate in Madurai district on Wednesday.J Babu, 46, and his colleague D Bibukish, 26, were walking nearby the company on Wednesday morning. Three unidentified men, who came on a two-wheeler, attacked Babu and Bibukish with a knife. Both suffered injuries on their hands. The gang robbed the duo of the mobile phones and escaped.Babu and Bibukish got themselves admitted to a government hospital. Later, they informed Thirumangalam Town police, who registered a case and conducted an inquiry.In another incident on Wednesday, S Ravichandran, 47, a tailor in a garment knitting unit at Vadipatti, was robbed of his gold ring and Rs 2,500 in cash by an armed gang. Ravichandran was not attacked. The incident happened when he was on his way home after work. The Vadipatti police registered a case.Meanwhile, the city police arrested two people on Wednesday, who were planning to commit a murder and seized sharp weapons from them. An officer in the Sellur station said K Kumar, 21, and his friend S Tamilarasan, 19, of Vilangudi were planning to murder a man on Wednesday over a previous enmity. A police team, which was on rounds, spotted them under the Kamarajar bridge and made the arrest. Their friends Saran and Sinraj escaped on seeing the police. Police have launched a search for them.In a similar incident, the Madhichiyam police arrested five people - S Maideenkani, A Alagupandi, P Karthick, S Suriya and M Kannan from Alwarpuram while they were planning a robbery in their hideout in Vaigai river on Wednesday. Chili powder packets, a knife and machete were seized from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/spate-of-robberies-keeps-cops-on-toes/articleshow/79201101.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Madurai||Mittai sales fall 35% in Madurai||Madurai: Sale of sweets is down by 20% to 35% this Diwali in the sweet shops across the city compared to last year. The gift boxes segment too saw poor sales. The sweet shop owners, who are clueless about the dull business season, have brought down production to avoid losses.Sweet shops have not tried much new varieties this season as they are doubtful of the sales. However, there is much demand for sweets made from palm jaggery. Owners expect some miracle will happen on Friday, the eve of the Diwali, when usually sweet business peaks.D Balaganesh of Madurai Original Mittai Kadai said, “The sale is down by 35% this year. While the textile stores are witnessing usual crowd this year, we could not understand why people are turning away from sweets this season.” Balaganesh, treasurer, Maditssia, said one reason could be people prefer homemade sweets and snacks to those from sweet shops. At a time when people are spending more time indoors due to restrictions, they could have found more time to try their hands at homemade sweets.A Ajmal of Arasan Sweets said that they have brought down the production by 20% this year as initial signs were not encouraging. There is a considerable reduction in gift box sales too. It could be because a good number of people are not willing to travel this Diwali due to Covid-19 impact. A manager of a prominent sweet shop in the city hoped that the sale would be better on Friday. He said that people are spending as usual on other items. One reason for the dull sales is lack of physical activity. At a time when physical activities have come down, a good number of people might have decided to eat less sweets this year, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mittai-sales-fall-35-in-madurai/articleshow/79201102.cms||V Devanathan
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP’s victory in Dubbak a fluke: TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Unperturbed by the outcome of Dubbak by-elections, chief minister and TRS president K Chandrasekhar Rao reportedly commented that the BJP’s victory in Dubbak was a fluke and there would be no impact in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. He said he would appoint division wise incharge for all the 150 municipal divisions in GHMC and asked the party leaders to work rigorously for the party’s victory. K Chandrasekhar Rao held a meeting with all ministers, important party functionaries and party general secretaries at his residence in Pragati Bhavan on Thursday. KCR reportedly said the BJP won the by-election due to sympathy for the candidate, who was unsuccessful in three elections and not because of anti-incumbency factor. He added that BJP had resorted to false propaganda against the government, which also contributed to the party’s loss. “The saffron party is hoping that the results would repeat in GHMC elections too. People are happy with the welfare schemes being implemented by the state government. We should not forget same people gave thumping majority in the 2018 elections and subsequent elections,” KCR reportedly said. However, he said, if there are any lapses on the part of the party, that need to be rectified immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-bjps-victory-in-dubbak-a-fluke/articleshow/79199564.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 13, 2020||Pune||SPPU colleges to get facility for creation of online content||PUNE: Colleges affiliated to Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) will now be able to create their own online content for teaching where instructors and faculty members will be able to develop structured videos, process and deliver them through the content delivery express (CDX) system. The university will provide the studio for recording, a dedicated team of professionals for creating content, uploading and other processes for free. The CDX system was unveiled by vice-chairman of University Grants Commission, Bhushan Patwardhan, at the e-content Development and Learning Innovation Centre of the university on Thursday. Director of eCDLIC, Apoorva Palkar, said, “The learning management system is completely customised to the needs of academic institutions. It has a user-friendly interface which will enable teaching, assessments, discussions, reading material uploading, video-based teaching and assignment uploading and evaluation.” Patwardhan said the university made the most of the pandemic adversity by creating CDX. “The university must create its own courseware and become a role model for other universities,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-colleges-to-get-facility-for-creation-of-online-content/articleshow/79199527.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||Puneite first Indian to ride in hyperloop pod||People of Virgin Hyperloop etched a mark on the historical map of Earth on November 9 as the first people to successfully travel in a hyperloop pod at the DevLoop test facility in the United States — Pune lad Tanay Munjrekar was one of them. A Power Electronics Specialist with Virgin Hyperloop, Manjrekar was one of the few people to ride the pod making him the first from India. “Working on hyperloop — let alone being one of the first to ride it — is truly a dream come true,” said Manjrekar. “It is my hope that India sees the tremendous opportunity ahead of them, to embrace the challenge and leapfrog the rest of the world yet again and continues to progress the Pune-Mumbai hyperloop project,” he said. “This is the most glorious 15 seconds of my life. I can never forget them,” Manjrekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/puneite-first-indian-to-ride-in-hyperloop-pod/articleshow/79199504.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Chamarajanagar district administration to devise taluk-wise strategies to fight virus||MYSURU: In a bid to contain Covid cases in Chamarajanagar and to bring it under green zone again, the district administration is devising taluk-wise strategies. As per the plan, the district administration will focus on Hanur and Gundlupet taluks in the first phase. The district administration is also devising a micro-level strategy to create awareness among people. “Our idea is to focus on taluk-wise strategies. Under the first phase, our idea is working towards making Hanur and Gundlupet green. Similar exercise will be carried out in other taluks — Chamarajanagar, Kollegal and Yelandur. We will micro-manage all the strategies required to make the taluks Covid 19,” said MR Ravi, deputy commissioner, Chamarajanagar. “The winter season has set in. Initially we had just 65 oxygenated beds, but managed well. Our doctors are now experienced in handling the crisis ans we are confident,” he said. However, according to the sources, the biggest challenge would be containing Covid-19 amid the tourist flow. “Chamarajanagar district is known for both eco and spiritual tourism. People from entire south India visit the district in November and December till the New Year celebrations. Hence, there is always the fear of the spread of virus. Cold waves may add to the problem,” said the source. CAPTION Mysuru city police on Wednesday took up an awareness drive to educate residents on wearing masks and maintaining social distance while in public places to keep covid infection at bay. KR police led by inspector Srinivas distributed pamphlets and advised the public to follow the covid directive and help the government in effectively tackling the covid pandemic. Police have so far collected Rs 42 lakh fine from covidiots for not wearing masks in Mysuru city alone||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cnagar-district-admin-to-devise-taluk-wise-strategies-to-fight-virus/articleshow/79198864.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 13, 2020||Pune||Brain-dead man,77, gives new life to 75-year-old||PUNE: A 77-year-old brain-dead man’s liver was successfully transplanted into a 75-year-old recipient suffering from end-stage liver cancer at a private hospital recently, making this the case first in Pune where both the recipient and donor were aged above 70. “This is the first case in Pune, and perhaps in the whole of Maharashtra, where two senior citizens, in their 70s, are the donor as well as the recipient of the cadaver liver,” transplant surgeon Bipin Vibhute told TOI. The oldest liver recipient in India is a 78-year-old Delhi resident. However, unlike the Pune man who received the cadaver liver from an unrelated brain-dead patient, the Delhi recipient had undergone a living donor liver transplant where the donor was a young adult and his relative. The transplant had taken place in 2008. In the present case, the donor, a resident of Prabhat road, had sustained grievous head injuries in a road accident and was admitted in the Sahyadri hospital, Deccan branch, on November 4. Despite all efforts, he could not regain consciousness and was declared brain-dead on November 5. After his family members expressed their desire for organ donation, the doctors examined the man and found his liver in a healthy condition. The doctors then retrieved the organ and successfully transplanted it into the 75-year-old man on November 6. The recipient was discharged on November 10. The foremost challenge surgeons face while performing transplant surgeries in old people is their comorbidities like diabetes and hypertension. “So, we have to evaluate the function of each and every organ in the recipient’s body before enrolling them for transplant surgery. Once found physically fit, counselling session are held to prepare them mentally,” said Aarti Gokhale, transplant coordinator of the Zonal Transplant Coordination Committee. People believe that old people do not stand transplant surgeries but this is not entirely true. “Irrespective of age, if a recipient is fit for organ transplant, s/he has all the right to live long,” Vibhute said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/brain-dead-man77-gives-new-life-to-75-year-old/articleshow/79199551.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Youth held for making fake Instagram account||AHMEDABAD: Cybercrime sleuths on Wednesday held a 21-year-old man, Moin Pipdawala, a resident of the Gol Limda area, for creating an Instagram account of a girl and uploading lewd comments and pictures. Assistant commissioner of police Jeetendra Yadav said the accused and victim met during the university exams in 2018 and had become friends. “As the girl separated from the accused, to get even by besmirching the girl, the accused made the Instagram account” he added. According to cybercrime sources, a month ago the girl made an application to cybercrime police station regarding the Instagram account in her name. “We obtained the IP log of the device used to create the account and reached the accused. The accused confessed that he wanted to get even with the girl and thus made the account. We sent him for a pre-arrest Covid-19 test,” added Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/youth-held-for-making-fake-instagram-account/articleshow/79199544.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Madurai||Docs stress need for protecting lung health amid pandemic||Madurai: Pulmonologists have highlighted the need to protect the health of lung and prevention of pneumonia caused by bacteria, viruses and other pathogens especially with the world battling the SARS CoV-2 virus without a vaccine yet. Thursday was observed as the ‘World Pneumonia Day 2020’, the theme of which is ‘Every Breath Counts’.Pneumonia has claimed the lives of 2.5 million people worldwide, including 6,72,000 children in 2019. “Pneumonia is the infection of lung parenchyma by various infectious agents such as virus, bacteria, fungus etc. It affects people across age groups, and children and geriatric population are most vulnerable. Pneumonia continues to be the leading cause of mortality in children worldwide, of which 20% deaths are in India,” said Dr P Prem Ananth, a consultant interventional pulmonologist.Dr Aishwarya Vinoth, pulmonologist, Dr Rela Institute and Medical Centre, said that in the time of Covid-19, elderly people above 50 years could get vaccinated to prevent pneumonia. “Influenza and pneumococcal pneumonia are the two most common pneumonias. High-risk groups, especially those above 50 years, including those with comorbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension, etc., can get vaccinated for both. Elderly should never ignore symptoms of fever, chills, rhinitis, and cough and immediately consult a doctor even if it is not Covid-19,” she said. Doctors added that pneumonia patients can worsen their condition and possibly have complications, even to the point of needing ventilation if they don’t seek medical help.Though the mortality rate of common pneumonia like influenza is low and only around 10%, pulmonologists said that patients could still suffer severe damage to lungs for long term. “Those with recent history of bacterial or viral pneumonia are more vulnerable to Covid-19 infection. Any pneumonia can cause scarring of tissue in the lungs in some patients. The lung health of those with this condition will never be the same throughout their life,” said Aishwarya.As most types of pneumonias are spread through air and droplets, wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing is recommended by doctors at all times. “Immunisation for children is the key in preventing the disease. Some of the precipitating factors are overcrowding, smoking and air pollution. Avoiding of such precipitating factors can prevent infection. Maintaining a healthy diet with daily exercise is also recommended,” said Ananth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/docs-stress-need-for-protecting-lung-health-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79201104.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation proposes Rs 5,600 crore budget for next fiscal year||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) on Thursday proposed Rs 5,600 crore budget for the financial year 2021-2022 and presented it to the standing committee. The proposed budget will be Rs 220 crore more than the current year’s budget, Rs 5,380 crore. Records reveal income of the civic body has reduced, but its expenditure increased. In 2020-21, the civic body was expecting Rs 3,667 crore revenue and in 2021-22 it hopes to raise Rs 3,571 crore. In the revised budget estimates too, revenue income was reduced to Rs 3,296 crore. Of the proposed Rs 5,600 crore budget for 2021-22, capital expenditure, which takes care of infrastructure projects, roads, street lighting and storm water drains, is Rs 3,186 crore. The spending might further increase as capital expenditure proposed jumped from Rs 2,630 crore (2020-21) to Rs 3,186 crore (2021-22). Compared to the current year’s expenditure, an additional Rs 566 crore would be spent on roads, infrastructure and other works. Also, money spent on greenery would be 10-fold more compared to the current year. The civic body has allocated Rs 51.50 crore for urban forestry this year, while it plans to spend Rs 560 crore next year. While Rs 1,593 crore was allocated in 2019-20 for construction of houses under the flagship 2-BHK scheme of the TRS government, for the upcoming 2021-22 Rs 1,241.87 crore has been proposed. The civic body estimates that major sources of Rs 3,571-crore revenue would be from property tax (Rs 1,850 crore) and building fee (Rs 1,002 crore) and assigned revenue Rs 652.10 crore. Assigned revenue includes surcharge on stamp duty , profession tax etc. The revenue expenditure would be Rs 2,414 crore, leaving a surplus of Rs 1,157 crore. “Usually, GHMC is in revenue surplus, the capital expenditure has increased as this year we have taken up and planned more number of strategic road development plan (SRDP) and comprehensive road maintenance programme (CRMP) works,” GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar said. The GHMC standing committee, headed by mayor Bonthu Rammohan, would submit the budget proposals to the state government in March. “The budget will be reviewed by the standing committee on December 10, cleared by general body on January 10, sanction of budget by the corporation is scheduled on February 20 and it will be submitted to government on March 7,” Rammohan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-proposes-rs-5600-cr-budget-for-next-fiscal-year/articleshow/79199601.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 13, 2020||Pune||Jewellers get ready to turn up the bling this Dhanteras in Pune||PUNE: Jewellers from the city are expecting good business on Dhanteras, considered an auspicious occasion to purchase gold. The slight fall in the price of gold coupled with the long festive weekend is set to boost sales. While sales are not expected to exceed that of last year, jewellers are optimistic about seeing a very good festive season this year. Jewellers stated that Indians worship wealth or Dhan on the occasion of Dhanteras, which also prompts sale of gold bullion and jewellery. “We are very bullish for a strong bounce back in business for this Diwali season. Gold is still the most favoured purchase for the festive season. A lot of people, including millennials and first time investors are favouring gold as an investment option,” said Saurabh Gadgil, chairman and managing director of PNG Jewellers. Speaking about Dhanteras and the Diwali weekend he said, “Dhanteras and Diwali are falling over a long weekend and within a 4-day period. We are expecting to do business of around 85% of last Diwali in terms of quantity and, most certainly, we will exceed last year’s business value since gold prices have risen in the last 12 months.” Gadgil added that they are witnessing strong bookings for light weight and wearable jewellery besides bullion products. Vice president for category, marketing and retail at Tanishq Arun Narayan said, “Consumers are looking to bring in auspiciousness to their lives whilst shopping with care. With the drop in gold rates in the last few days, we should see a very good Dhanteras this year.” While jewellers are looking at an uptick in sales, citizens are preparing to worship Goddess Laxmi on the day. “Families worship their wealth on Dhanteras. Any time after 6pm is an auspicious time to conduct the rituals. As wealth is worshipped on the day, it is also considered an auspicious occasion to purchase gold,” explained Amol Mulay, a priest from the city. City-based homemaker Sudha Gupta said, “Our entire family will gather for a puja on Friday evening. We will offer prayers to Goddess Laxmi and then worship our safe or locker. The prayers are meant to seek prosperity over the coming new year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jewellers-get-ready-to-turn-up-the-bling-this-dhanteras/articleshow/79199588.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Khanna stripping case: Notice on petition seeking CBI probe||LUDHIANA: On a petition seeking a CBI probe into the incident of stripping of three persons allegedly involving former SHO of Sadar, Khanna, Baljinder Singh and constable Varun Kumar, the Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice of motion. In the petition, in which CBI, Punjab DGP, Ludhiana range IG, Sangrur SSP, Khanna SP Tejinder Singh Sandhu were added as respondents, the petitioner has prayed that the matter has not been investigated in a fair manner. Guninder Singh, advocate for the petitioner, said the officials had tried to help the accused so it should be probed by the CBI as there were politicians and senior officers involved. The bench of Justice Sudip Ahluwalia ordered that notice be served upon the respondents for December 8 and they should file their replies on affidavit by the next date of hearing. The petitioner submitted that the DGP had filed an affidavit, saying the investigation would be carried out fairly and departmental inquiry would be concluded within two months. The petition said nothing as said in the affidavit was done. The petitioner said the SIT constituted as per the affidavit was “afraid of taking action against political person Rajvir Singh, alias Rubal Singh, Manvir Singh and Bhagwant Singh of Doraha at whose behest and presence the inhuman act was done in the office of Baljinder Singh”. “The victims were never called by the investigation agency and were threatened by SP Tejinder Sandhu. The complainants were directed to reconstruct the crime scene in the office of SHO, Khanna Sadar,” the petition said, adding, “The respondent forced the complainant not to name the private political persons.” THE INCIDENT On September 5, Khanna City-I police had arrested the then Sadar SHO inspector Baljinder Singh and constable Varun Kumar after a case was registered against them on July 5 under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 295-A (deliberate act outraging religious feelings) of the IPC and other sections of the SC/ST Act and the Information Technology (IT) Act. On April 16, taking a serious note of the video showing Baljinder Singh allegedly assaulting and making three persons stand nude at the police station that went viral, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta had directed the then IGP (Ludhiana range) Jaskaran Singh to carry out an inquiry and submit a report at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/notice-on-petition-seeking-cbi-probe/articleshow/79200745.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Property tax for hosting mobile phone towers not collected since 2009||CHENNAI: The Greater Chennai Corporation has lost crores of rupees in tax revenue because it hasn’t collected yearly tax of Rs 30,000 since 2009 from property owners who host cellphone towers. When the civic body passed the rule in 2009, there were about 1,500 such towers in the city but it says it doesn’t know how many there are now. Seven residents in the T Nagar area alone each owed the civic body Rs 3.45 lakh in taxes, according to the corporation’s records. By this count, the revenue due from 1,500 towers is more than Rs 50 crore. But the actual amount will be much more since many more cell phone towers have been set up in the city in the last 11 years. Former mayor Ma Subramanian said that he had got the resolution passed in 2009. “I know many residents who get paid up to Rs 2.5 lakh a month as rent. We assessed this tower also as a property and considering all the radiation aspects, we decided to levy tax on it. However, it is a shame that the civic body hasn’t collected it from a single person in the past 10 years,” he said. Ramesh R K, a resident of Mylapore, told TOI that a mobile service provider pays a property owner rent between Rs 8,000 and Rs1 lakh a month for a tower, depending on the location. Rents rise to Rs 2.5 lakh in the Saidapet area, he said. Suresh, a property owner, said they paid a user fee to the Union telecommunications department, without specifying how much this was. “Why should we pay two government departments,” he asked. A corporation official said that after the resolution as passed, a case was filed in the Madras high court by service providers and property owners. The case was still pending so they hadn’t collected the tax. “We haven’t followed it up at all as it is pending. We do not have details of the number of towers present in the city now,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/property-tax-for-hosting-mobile-phone-towers-not-collected-since-2009/articleshow/79198128.cms||Komal Gautham
November 13, 2020||Chennai||108 new ambulances flagged off for dists; live tracking from next year||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami flagged off 108 more ambulances which took the vehicles tally in the state to 1,300. The vehicles will be sent to districts across the state. “Increase in ambulances has a direct impact on response time. For instance, in Chennai the average time it takes for the ambulance to reach a person in distress is 8.01 minutes. In a few days, we will be able to bring it below 8 minutes, which is the international standard,” said health minister C Vijayabaskar. According to GVK-EMRI statistics, Chennai has 70 ambulances – nearly one for every 3km. Since February, the state ambulances have ferried more than 2.9 lakh patients with Covid-19. The state had set aside up to 450 exclusive ambulances for shifting patients who are suspected or tested positive for the viral infection. The pilots and emergency technicians wore safety gears while transferring patients to the hospitals. Besides, nearly 8 lakh patients including women in labour were taken to hospitals for reasons other than Covid. With reduction in cases, the number of Covid ambulances has come down to 250. By early next year, people can track an ambulance. “Systems should be ready for use by early next year,” Vijayabaskar said. Once the new system is in place, people booking ambulances will be able to track it live through the app. The new app and its live tracking feature can reduce the number of repeat calls to the helpline, said EMRI head Selva Kumar. The control room receives around 20,000 repeat calls to the control room for the 1 lakh medical emergency calls. “Repeat calls clog the hotline and cause delay for people who are in need. Nevertheless, we cannot ask people not to call because it is important for them to know when the ambulance will arrive,” he said.  EMRI could not introduce live tracking at one go because the hardware, which was installed in 2008, needed an upgrade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/108-new-ambulances-flagged-off-for-dists-live-tracking-from-next-year/articleshow/79198117.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak MLA FIR placed before CJ||Hyderabad: Justice K Lakshman of the high court on Thursday directed the registry to place before the Chief Justice the petition filed by BJP leader and Dubbak MLA M Raghunandan Rao challenging the FIR booked against him, which the MLA alleged was a politically motivated case. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-mla-fir-placed-before-cj/articleshow/79199629.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Pune||Multiplexes in Pune to reopen by November 15||PUNE: Movie lovers can finally hit the theatres as early as the Diwali weekend, or even before, after a gap of nearly eight months since the Covid-induced lockdown was announced. Several properties from the 31 multiplexes in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad are expected to open on or before November 15, sources from the Multiplex Association of India said. A top source from the association said, “The availability of content to screen is a major issue. Some major properties in the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits are likely to open doors to patrons on Sunday, when a new Bollywood film releases.” Atul Bhandarkar, INOX Leisure Limited regional director (West) said, “We started our operations in Maharashtra from Thursday at select cinemas in Mumbai, Nashik, Kolhapur and Aurangabad. In Pune, the operations are likely to start from Friday morning.” An INOX Leisure Limited source said, “The first property expected to open will be the one on Bund Garden road. The rest of the facilities will gradually open during the next few days.” Neerav Panchamia, chief operating executive, E-Square Leisure Private Limited, told TOI that the E-Square Carnival on University Road and the facility in Hinjewadi was expected to reopen on Sunday. “We preferred to open a day after Diwali, as the main festival day is usually a lean day for us. We are yet to decide what movies will be screened, along with the new Bollywood film.” A City Pride Multiplexes official said all of their six properties in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad would start operations from Sunday, though the number of shows would be limited to five-six a day. Cinépolis sources said its multiplex in WestEnd Mall in Aundh started recently, while the branch in Seasons Mall would open on Sunday. PVR Cinemas sources said of their four properties in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, the one in Phoenix Marketcity, Vimannagar, opened on Thursday , while the rest would start operations in the coming week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/after-a-gap-of-8-months-multiplex-theatres-to-open-by-november-15/articleshow/79199595.cms||Neha Madaan
November 13, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: M Sivasankar, the real mastermind, says ED||KOCHI: Suspended IAS officer M Sivasankar was remanded in judicial custody till November 26 by the special court for considering the prevention of money laundering act (PMLA) cases on Thursday. The court reserved its order on Sivasankar’s bail application and is likely to take up the case on Tuesday. Both the defence and the prosecution levelled serious allegations against each other during Thursday’s hearing. Additional solicitor general SV Raju who appeared for the prosecution, told the court that Swapna Suresh was used as a front and that Sivasankar was the real mastermind. “The money in the locker belonged to Sivasankar. If not, why couldn’t she just open a locker in her name? Sivasankar made his CA open a joint account to maintain control of the locker as it was his money in it. The CA was the guardian of his money as he couldn’t blindly trust Swapna with it,” the ASG said. He said Sivasankar might have refused to interfere to clear the diplomatic luggage since he knew that it contained gold. Appearing for Sivasankar, senior advocate B Raman Pillai suggested there was an ulterior motive behind ED’s accusations and the agency’s interest to connect Life Mission with the gold smuggling case. Pillai said the word ‘CM’ was referred to in every other page of the ED questionnaire and many of their questions were about the projects of the state government. He added that Swapna’s statement that Sivasankar was aware of the gold smuggling, given a day before the bail hearing, was suspicious and is contradictory to all the statements collected so far. “She was questioned in custody for over eight times and she always maintained that Sivasankar had no role. Now, suddenly they have come up with a new story. Previous statements of Swapna and others should be considered along with this latest statement,” he said. He added that the agencies have been contradicting each other. “NIA says that the money in the locker was proceeds of crime from gold smuggling, and ED in its first complaint repeated the same. Now, it has come up with a new story about kickbacks,” Sivasankar’s counsel said. Though the court had earlier said matters pertaining to Life Mission were not a matter of concern in this case, it asked how it can ignore a statement made under Section 50 of PMLA given by the prime accused, which claimed that Sivasankar was involved. “The call that they are referring to was about clearing a baggage containing edible substances at Kochi airport which was held up by a food inspector. He doesn’t remember if it was the food safety commissioner or a former customs officer whom he was close with that he called. But why can’t they check and find out instead of raising mere allegations. Why are they not pinpointing the officer he contacted,” Sivasankar’s counsel asked. The ASG said the investigators need not register a new case to probe into a criminal activity that they have stumbled upon while probing another case. He said they have found ‘criminal activity’ in the case pertaining to Life Mission and that the vigilance case can be considered as a PMLA predicate offence. When the court asked ED on how it is going to connect Sivasankar with the money seized from the locker, the ASG said the court would find the answers in the sealed cover presented to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-the-real-mastermind-ed/articleshow/79198168.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Three property offenders held||Hyderabad: Paloncha police of Bhadradri Kothagudem district arrested three property offenders and recovered Rs 14 lakh worth valuables from their possession on Thursday. During a vehicle check at Dammapeta Centre in Paloncha at 6 am on Thursday, police intercepted three suspects travelling on a bike and took them into custody. The accused—Ch Satish, V Venkateswarlu and Sk Basha confessed to have committed five property offences at Paloncha and Aswaraopet. Police recovered 256 gm gold, 1 kg silver, Rs 22,000 cash and a bike, all worth Rs 14 lakh from their possession. Police are yet to recover 69 grams of stolen gold pledged by the accused with a pawn broker in Rajahmundry and 12 grams of gold and 500 grams of silver kept with a receiver in Rajahmundry. The accused were sent in judicial remand. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-property-offenders-held/articleshow/79199624.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Exorbitant flight fares hit Diwali travel plan||PUNE: The exorbitant pre-Diwali one-way airfares played spoilsport, compelling many to drop their plan to spend the festive weekend with dear ones. Working professional Kaushik Sharma from Baner purged his plan to spend the Diwali weekend with his relatives in Delhi because of the skyrocketing fares. “We are a family-of-three. The one-way flight fare was around Rs25,000. I had planned to return on November 17. The fare for three would be around Rs15,000 that day. Under these circumstances, we decided not to travel,” Sharma told TOI. The price of a one-way ticket from Pune to New Delhi on November 14 was hovering between Rs9,000 and Rs11,000, according to information on travel portals on Thursday. Similarly, a ticket on Pune-Jaipur sector was in the range of Rs10,000 to Rs15,000. The fare of a one-way ticket from Pune to Patna was Rs13,500-15,000. Against this backdrop, working professional Shreeja Prakash dropped her plan to go to Patna on November 14. “I cannot spend so much in these hard times. I wanted to buy the ticket at the last-minute because flyers making advance bookings from Pune were facing problems because of flight cancellation and rescheduling,” she said. Travel agents in the city claimed that pre-Diwali airfares this year were on the lower side compared to the last year’s. “If the fare of a certain sector is Rs10,000 at present, it was around Rs13,000-14,000 last year. This time, the number of last-minute bookings is higher, but the number of passengers travelling is less mainly because of fewer flights from Pune,” said Nilesh Bhansali, the director of Travel Agents Association of Pune. The representative of another travel company said, “At present, on an average 62 to 65 flights (arrival and departure) are operating. Last year, the total flight movements in the city were over 170. Fewer seats impact the flight fares. But there is some balance because the number of passengers is less this time.” Bhansali said, “Many have money and want to spend the Diwali weekend with their families. Instead of booking through travel portals and airline websites, an increased number of people are calling us for tickets this time because we are providing them with authentic information. There has been almost a 50% jump in the number of travellers booking flight tickets through agents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/exorbitant-flight-fares-hit-diwali-travel-plan/articleshow/79199636.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Docs raise alarm over antibiotic misuse||Hyderabad: Pointing to the growing incidence of antibiotic resistance, doctors have sounded an alert over the misuse of antibiotics. Citing incidents where antibiotics were not responding in younger people due to antibiotics abuse, doctors suggest that proper diagnosis by a medical practitioner and stopping use of over-the-counter drugs is essential. In one such case, a 32-year-old youth from Mahabubagar who was undergoing treatment for kidney infection was found to have developed resistance to most antibiotics. “It was later found out that his was a typical case of antibiotics abuse and that he had been a regular visitor to quacks,” said a doctor from Gandhi Hospital. In yet another instance, a cancer patient was declared an end-stage patient after developing multi-drug resistance. While antibiotics have to be used judiciously, it is often not the case in rural areas where untrained medical practitioners treat patients. “Antibiotics must be prescribed after confirming the sensitivity of the bacteria. While there are over 200 types of bacteria in the human body, it is often found that antibiotics are indiscriminately used for treating fever in many places without profiling the fever. Only in case of a bacterial infection, a low power antibiotic is to be given initially, which can be increased in power later on,” said Dr Sanjeev Singh Yadav, general secretary, Indian Medical Association (IMA), Telangana. Overuse of antibiotics makes the bacteria resistant to the more potent antibiotic, which cannot be used when required. “Though antibiotics are great healers, the problem is with misuse of these. It is important that people use them judiciously, and do not opt for unprescribed and over-the-counter drugs. A qualified doctor is the only one who can decide on the actual health condition and prescribe the right dosage of antibiotics or other medications. Instead of taking a radical approach, it is important that people with ill-health seek right medical advice before taking medicines. Excessive use of antibiotics could lead to resistance,” said Dr Bhavani E, consultant microbiologist, Continental Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/docs-raise-alarm-over-antibiotic-misuse/articleshow/79192950.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Over 23k engg, pharma seats left vacant in T||Hyderabad: Over 23,000 seats were left vacant after the final phase of allotment for engineering, agriculture and pharmacy seats, which concluded on Wednesday. The number of vacant seats have increased from 19,866 recorded last year to a staggering 23,070 this year. While there were 70,120 engineering seats on offer this year, only 50,844 seats have been allotted, shows data shared by Navin Mittal, convenor of Eamcet (admissions), 2020. Total 36,308 seats were available in the final phase. Of the 23,070 vacant seats, 19,276 were in engineering, 3,279 in B Pharmacy (MPC) and 515 in Pharm D. In engineering, 3,110 seats have been allotted in 14 government colleges and 47,734 seats have been allotted in 167 private colleges. Similarly, 48 seats have been allotted in three government pharmacy colleges and 82 seats have been allotted in 116 private pharmacy colleges. Almost 515 seats are still vacant in Pharm D. Terming it a yearly phenomenon, pharmacy colleges are hopeful that once admissions for biology, physics and chemistry open, the vacant seats for B Pharmacy and Pharm D shall be filled. The number of engineering colleges which achieved 100 per cent allotments were to the tune of 38, those with zero admissions were limited to three. In the final phase, 39,182 qualified candidates exercised nearly 12.98 lakh web options.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-23k-engg-pharma-seats-left-vacant-in-t/articleshow/79199645.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Schools should not open now’||Ahmedabad: Dr Kirit Gadhvi, president of AMA, told mediaperson on Thursday that schools should not be opened for as long as the surge in Covid-19 cases continues in the city and state. “We understand the long gap faced by the students, but we must think from the point of view of the students – it’s difficult to maintain social distancing and protection etiquettes,” he said. AMA officials added that a surge in cases was seen after re-opening of schools in states like Andhra Pradesh and the onus lies on the authorities. “Parents will definitely think twice before sending their wards to class. Schools must ensure continuous education even for students who do not wish to attend classes for the time being,” added a member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/schools-should-not-open-now/articleshow/79199640.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||First wave of marriages amid pandemic begins in November||Hyderabad: Amid growing fears of a second wave of the pandemic, Telangana is getting ready to witness several marriages solemnised before the year-end. With priests coming up with auspicious muhurthams till January 7, many parents are preferring to get their sons and daughters married in November month itself. Confirming the rush, SK Sharma, a priest from Chikkadpally, said: “At least a dozen people who had postponed the weddings of their children have approached me to find a suitable muhurtham in November.” He said the main reason for the parents to go ahead with the marriage plans is the fear of second wave likely to strike in December. Priests said the good muhurthams which began in the beginning of this month, would last till January first week. After that, for the next four months, there are no auspicious muhurthams to perform marriages or any other important event, they said. “We do not want to take any chance this time. Now that everybody knows the importance of social distancing and wearing a mask during the pandemic, we have invited only close relatives and family members for our daughter’s wedding on November 23,” K Kumaraswamy, a private firm employee from Ameerpet, said. Many people had weddings of their sons and daughters fixed in June and July this year, but postponed them in the hope that they could celebrate on a grand scale assuming that the pandemic would peter out by October-November. “But now, we had to reorganise our plans for my son’s wedding. We have dropped the plans for a big fat wedding and going for a very small ceremony now in the wake of Covid-19,” said businessman N Chandrasekhar Verma. Also, with wedding preparations taking a knock, families are purchasing gold on a big scale to make up for the loss of hosting a big event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-wave-of-marriages-amid-pandemic-begins-in-november/articleshow/79192968.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Man nabbed for diverting PDS rice, 13 quintals seized||Hyderabad: A person who was allegedly involved in diverting PDS rice was nabbed by LB Nagar police on Thursday. Police seized 13 quintals of PDS rice from the accused. The accused, a resident of Saroornagar, was dumping the rice at a place in LB Nagar. After receiving a tip-off, police conducted a raid and seized the PDS rice. The accused used to purchase PDS rice locally from different people in LB Nagar and later sell the same to hotels and other commercial establishments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-nabbed-for-diverting-pds-rice-13-quintals-seized/articleshow/79192955.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Waqf board reaches out to the flood-hit||Hyderabad: The Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) has distributed ration kits among flood-hit families and dispatched relief material for the people who were identified by the board officials in areas where the recent rains wreaked havoc. As per the board, grocery items, household articles, blankets and bedsheets worth Rs 20 lakh were provided to 1,500 families. “The affected areas have been include Yakutpura, Babanagar, Balapur, Maheshwaram, Karwan, Nampally, Malakpet etc. TSWB will ensure that help reaches the needy families,” said Mohammed Saleem, chairman, TSWB. He said that relief kits consisting of blankets, bedsheets, 10 kg rice , 2 kg oil, 1 kg masoor dal, sugar packets were sent to flood-affected areas. The vehicles carrying the items were flagged off by state home minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Mohammed Saleem and MIM MLAs Pasha Quadri and Ahmed Balala from Haj House, Nampally. Mahmood Ali lauded the TSWB’s initiative and said that after the distribution of Rs 550 crore to the flood victims by the state government, all possible efforts were being made to provide assistance to families suffering after the recent flood. “People have incurred huge losses. However the government must ensure that all possible aid is provided to the affected people,” said the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waqf-board-reaches-out-to-the-flood-hit/articleshow/79192977.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||Corporates move celebrations, team-bonding activities online||By: Anjali JhangianiPUNE: Many companies use the festive season to host team-bonding activities for their employees. From competitions to games, companies are now organizing these events online as employees are working from home. “We have organized a series of games for our colleagues such as a quiz on the mythological significance of Diwali, a rangoli competition and games like ludo tournament.While working from home, it is important to keep up some office traditions even if it is online, to boost employee morale,” said Joshua O’Brian, HR representative for a multinational company. Pradeep Jasnani, partner at a start-up, said, “We are a fun team and we encourage that spirit even though we have implemented work from home operations. Last year was our first Diwali at office and we organized competitions like best traditional outfit and best decorated desk. But, this year, we are hosting the competitions on WhatsApp where employees must send in pictures of the decoration and rangoli. We will also send gift vouchers to the winners.” Amarjit Singh, BPO employee, said, “We work for an Australian process, where we do not get holiday for Diwali. After a long time, I will be able to celebrate Diwali with my family at home. Even so, I miss the celebrations at the office. This year, our manager is hosting a Teen Patti tournament for our team to keep up with the celebrations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corporates-move-celebrations-team-bonding-activities-online/articleshow/79199680.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana to amend Revenue Act for Sada Bainama registrations||HYDERABAD: To clear legal hurdles for regularisation of land sale transactions on plain papers (Sada Bainamas), the state cabinet is likely to promulgate an ordinance amending the new Revenue Act. The cabinet, which is meeting on Friday at 4 pm, is likely to approve the amendment to the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020. Apart from this, the cabinet is expected to discuss and approve minimum support price (MSP) for the super fine variety of paddy, compensation to the crops due to rain and flood damages, incorporating provisions in the law in municipalities and municipal corporations for registering non-agriculture properties through Dharani and announcement of sops and developmental works in Greater Hyderabad in view of elections to the GHMC. Officials said the government is keen on regularising Sada Bainamas as the CM announced it on the floor of the assembly. “In the present circumstances, the government has no option but to bring an amendment to the new Revenue Act through an ordinance,” a senior government official said. Since there has been a demand from the farmers to announce higher MSP to super fine variety of paddy, the government is likely to announce MSP. KCR recently accused the Centre of not allowing to pay more than Rs 1,880 per quintal for paddy and even showed the letter written to the state by the Food Corporation of India. As the agriculture property registrations have already commenced through Dharani and provisions were made in the Revenue Act, the government is also thinking similar arrangement in Municipalities Act and Panchayat Raj for non-agriculture properties through Dharani to avoid legal problems. Though cabinet approval is not mandatory for giving consent to the election schedule prepared by the State Election Commission for the GHMC polls, the cabinet is likely to discuss the election schedule and indicate the dates to the SEC. As per the pre-poll exercise, the GHMC is expected to complete all arrangements by November 21 by announcing final publication of ward-wise polling stations. The CM may also announce a development package to the city under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) phase II apart from sops to people ahead of Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-to-amend-revenue-act-for-sada-bainama-registrations/articleshow/79199686.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Money in Swapna Suresh’s locker was commission: VACB||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The vigilance and anti-corruption bureau team probing the Wadakkanchery Life Mission corruption case is learnt to have obtained leads to suggest that M Sivasankar, former principal secretary to CM, was well-aware of the activities of Swapna Suresh, prime accused in gold smuggling case. After ED, the vigilance also confirmed that Rs 1.5 crore that was recovered from the bank locker of Suresh was commission money from the Life Mission project deal. The vigilance inference is that this money is the part of Rs 3.80 crore that was handed over by Unitac Builders director Santhosh Eapen to the UAE consulate official Khaled Shoukry, an Egyptian native. This money was kept in two bank lockers by Suresh. According to sources, Suresh gave a statement to vigilance that she had received Rs 50 lakhs as commission from the contract for rebuilding 150 houses that were damaged in the floods. Of this, Rs 35 lakhs was taken to the residence of the chartered accountant by her alongwith Sivasankar. The contract for rebuilding the houses was bagged by the Car Palace group, allegedly associated with Bengaluru drug case accused Bineesh Kodiyeri. On Thursday, vigilance investigators recorded the statements of Life Mission chief executive officer U V Jose here on Thursday. It is the second time that vigilance sleuths are interrogating Jose in connection with the probe. It is reliably learnt that Thursday’s meeting was to seek some clarifications after examining the files and other materials concerning the Wadakkancherry housing project. When his statements were recorded earlier, Jose is learnt to have given statements clarifying Sivasankar’s involvement in the Wadakkancherry project. He had said that he was not in the know-how of things, and all steps taken, including the signing of agreements, was done on the instructions of Sivasankar. As per the preliminary findings of the agency, Unitac Builders and Sane Ventures obtained funds from the account of the UAE consulate for the project. The two builders and officials of Life Mission as well as some private persons hatched conspiracy between themselves and obtained pecuniary advantages for themselves. While Unitac Builders and Sane Ventures, the two construction firms that bagged the contract for the Wadakkancherry housing project and hospital project, are the first and second accused, Life Mission officials are the third and fourth accused in the case. The agency has made Sivasankar as the fifth accused in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/money-in-swapnas-locker-was-commission-vacb/articleshow/79198196.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Inform on BRS applications’ status by Nov 19: HC to govt||Hyderabad: At a time when questions are raised over the validity of layout regularisation scheme (LRS), particularly after the recent floods inundated most parts of Hyderabad, the high court on Thursday directed the state government to inform it by November 19 the status of the applications made by building owners seeking regularisation of their buildings under building regularisation scheme (BRS)-2015 in GHMC area. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing a PIL filed by M Padmanabha Reddy of Forum For Good Governance (FGG), who questioned the rationale behind the BRS and raised apprehensions whether such schemes would encourage encroachments and defeat the purpose of planned growth of cities. Sivaraju Srinivas, the counsel for the petitioner, said that their plea is against BRS and the court earlier restrained the state from going ahead with the BRS. “As the errant builders were showing this interim order and were preventing the demolition of even those patently illegal buildings, we brought this anomaly to the notice of the court,” he said. The bench in October 2016 directed the state and GHMC to receive applications for BRS with a condition that they will not move ahead to regularise any of them. However, they were directed to pass rejection orders in respect of those buildings which cannot be regularised. The matter remained static at this stage.When the hearing in the case was resumed on Thursday, the bench sought to know the current status from advocate general B S Prasad. He assured the court that he would apprise the bench of the latest status and sought time. The bench gave him time till November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inform-on-brs-applications-status-by-nov-19-hc-to-govt/articleshow/79199661.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Electric 3-wheelers to drive EV adoption in Telangana||Hyderabad: With the Telangana government doling out incentives for early adopters of EV vehicles in its EV policy for various segments such as 2,3,4 wheelers and e-buses, the industry players expect that the high demand for electric 3-wheelers will drive EV adoption in the state in the coming days. Currently, there are around 600-700 e-3 wheelers in the city and with adequate financing support and requisite permits required for plying passenger e-autos, this number can grow up to thirty times (nearly 20,000) in two years, Raja Gayam, CEO at Gayam Motor Works, said. “The 3-wheelers will be the first to be electrified and will drive EV adoption primarily because even without any state subsidy, e-3 wheelers are economically viable as compared to their diesel counterparts, due to low maintenance cost,” he added. This is in line with the national trend as a CRISIL research paper that was published earlier this year had estimated that nearly half of the 3-wheelers sold in the next three years in the country will be electric. It said that e-3 wheelers, which already enjoy better cost economics compared with their internal combustion engine (ICE) counterparts, will account for 43%-48% of the new sales in its segment by 2024. On similar lines, KPMG, in a report published earlier this month, said India expects 65% to 75% of 3-wheelers to be electric by 2030. Even ETO Motors president Venugopal Rao Nellutla said the e-3 wheeler sales will be driven by high demand from the cargo segment, especially by e-commerce players who require it for last-mile delivery. “This is the right time for every state to work on replacing the diesel 3-wheelers with electric as post-lockdown, it is time to be more conscious about environment,” he said. As part of the policy, Telangana will be offering 100% exemption of road tax & registration fee for first 20,000 e-3 wheelers purchased & registered in the state. Besides, it will also offer retro-fitment incentive at 15% of the retro-fitment cost (capped at Rs 15,000 per vehicle) for first 5,000 retrofits 3 seater auto-rickshaws. Even under FAME II, e-3 wheelers including e-rickshaws are eligible for demand incentives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/electric-3-wheelers-to-drive-ev-adoption-in-telangana/articleshow/79193002.cms||Swati Rathor
November 13, 2020||Chandigarh||HC notice to Punjab, Centre on petition seeking CBI probe||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice to the Punjab government on a plea seeking CBI probe into the killing of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh Sandhu and protection to his family. Notices have been issued to home secretary Punjab, Union government through MHA, and the DIG, Ferozepur range-cum-chairman special investigation team (SIT), which is probing into the matter. Justice Karamjit Singh has issued the notice after taking cognisance of a petition filed by Jagdish Kaur Sandhu, widow of Balwinder Sandhu who was shot by assailants in Tarn Taran district on October 16. The petitioner, who herself is a Shaurya Chakra awardee, has sought directions to refer the murder investigation to CBI for probe. She has expressed apprehensions that some Punjab Police officials who are involved with anti-social elements may obstruct a fair probe by the department. She has also sought directions for providing protection to her family from security personnel of the central government, action against those Punjab Police officers who are responsible for dereliction of their official duty on account of withdrawing security from her house, leading to murder of her husband. According to the petitioner, during the days of terrorism in Punjab after 1984, her husband and the entire family had stood against it and never turned their back towards the nation, without a care for their own lives and property. She further submitted that they were attacked multiple times by terrorists in 1990-1991 but fought bravely. It was only because of their bravery, that four members of the family had been awarded Shaurya Chakra by the President in 1993.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/shaurya-chakra-awardees-murder-hc-notice-to-punjab-centre-on-plea-for-cbi-probe-in-case/articleshow/79200756.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's air quality a tad better, but still very poor||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s air quality improved marginally and touched the lower end of “very poor” category on Thursday. The air quality index (AQI) stood at 314, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). On Wednesday, the overall AQI was 344. Track the pollution level in your cityMet officials said the wind direction and speed helped in slight improvement of the air quality. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR), the forecasting body under the union ministry of earth sciences, said stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air was almost negligible (2%) on Thursday. CPCB’s central control room data showed that Delhi-NCR’s average 24-hour PM 10 and PM 2.5 levels were at their peak from 6 am to 9 am. The 24-hour average PM10 concentration for Delhi-NCR was at 324 micrograms per cubic metre at 6 pm on Thursday, while the 24-hour average PM2.5 was 161.7 micrograms per cubic metre at 6 pm. The standards for PM 2.5 and PM 10 are 60 and 100 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “The air quality improved on Wednesday and further improvement was seen on Thursday. As the wind direction continued to be easterly, there was minimum impact of stubble burning. Besides, the wind speed picked up during the day and average speed of 12 kmph was recorded on Thursday against 8-10 kmph on Wednesday.” He added the wind direction was likely to shift to north-westerly on Saturday and it might lead to transfer of stubble burning pollutants from Punjab and Haryana side to Delhi. SAFAR also said the stubble burning-induced impact in AQI was expected to increase from negligible to moderate for the next two days. According to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, a body under union ministry of earth sciences, air quality of the capital is likely to remain in the “very poor” range for the next two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-a-tad-better-but-still-very-poor/articleshow/79199768.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Majlis MLA booked for assault on Congressmen||HYDERABAD: Humayun Nagar police have registered an assault case against Jaffar Hussain Meraj, AIMIM legislator from Nampally constituency, and three of his associates for allegedly attacking Congress workers at Ahmed Nagar, First Lancer area in Hyderabad. On Wednesday evening, a group of Congress leaders, including Masood Ahmed and others, along with GHMC officials were distributing Rs 10,000 cash to flood affected families in Dhobighat at Ahmed Nagar. On coming to know this, AIMIM MLA Jaffar Hussain Meraj and his followers Sadiq, Afzal and others reached the area and allegedly objected to the distribution of the amount. The MIM leaders allegedly picked up an argument with the Congress leaders over the distribution of Rs 11 lakh amount in the area. Later, the legislator and his followers allegedly attacked Masood Ahmed. Tension prevailed in the area over the incident and local police rushed to the spot. The injured Congress leader was shifted to a local hospital and given treatment. The minority Congress leader, Feroz Khan from Nampally, also arrived at the spot and demanded stern action against the legislator and other AIMIM workers for obstructing in carrying out relief work. “After the floods in Hyderabad, we are actively taking part in relief work, but everywhere in the city AIMIM workers are obstructing us. Genuine affected persons are being deprived of the compensation,” said Feroz Khan. On receiving the complaint, the Humayun Nagar police registered a case under IPC sections 324, 506 and 149.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/majlis-mla-booked-for-assault-on-congmen/articleshow/79199745.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Notice to Punjab on plea against anti-beggar drive||CHANDIGARH: A few weeks after Ludhiana police launched ‘Mission Beggar Free Ludhiana’ drive, aiming to get rid of beggars from the city limits, Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday issued a notice to the Punjab government and Ludhiana police commissioner on a plea against the move and criminalisation of begging in the state. However, during the hearing of the case, the Ludhiana police commissioner informed the HC that there shall not be any ex-communication of beggars in the city. The division bench comprising Chief Justice Ravi Shanker Jha and Justice Arun Palli has issued the notice while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Prannv Dhawan, an undergraduate student at the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) Bangalore who has been working on various issues of socio-legal importance. Being a resident of Ludhiana city, the petitioner became acquainted with some public announcements being floated by the Ludhiana police concerning their 2020 policy to get rid of beggars from the city. It was discovered that not only was the said policy grossly unconstitutional, but that the parent act, Punjab Prevention of Beggary Act 1971, and the rules also suffered the same malaise. The petitioner’s counsel, Shreenath A Khemka, informed the HC that the state of Punjab enacted the Punjab Prevention of Beggary Act 1971 which criminalised the practice of beggary. In pursuance to the statute, the Ludhiana police widely circulated its 2020 policy of ‘Mission Beggar Free Ludhiana’ whereby beggars from across the city would be ex-communicated from the city limits. Khemka argued that both the instruments grossly violate the fundamental rights of fellow citizens including equality, dignity, life, speech, movement, residence and livelihood enshrined under Sections 14, 19, 21, 22, 23 and 25 of the Constitution. Seeking directions to strike down various provisions of 1971 Act and seeking prohibition against the Ludhiana police’s 2020 policy, the petitioner also submitted that the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act 1959 and the Jammu and Kashmir Prevention of Beggary Act 1960 were also struck down as unconstitutional because of similar provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-punjab-on-plea-against-ludhiana-polices-anti-beggar-drive/articleshow/79200755.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS targeting me: Vivek||Hyderabad: Telangana BJP core committee member Gaddam Vivek Venkatswamy on Thursday said the ruling party was targeting him as he was questioning their policies. Speaking to reporters, he said: “The Dubbak verdict shows that farmers, the youth, Dalits and weaker sections are very angry with the TRS government,” he said. He said that the BJP’s victory in Bihar bypolls across the country shows that people are quite satisfied with the Modi government. “The TRS deceived the people, especially by promising them double-bedroom houses in the state, but in reality nothing happened unlike other states which did well with the Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana scheme,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-targeting-me-vivek/articleshow/79199735.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Bombay high court orders video consultation with doctors for P Varavara Rao||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday directed the state and National Investigation Agency (NIA) to ensure that a team of doctors from Nanavati superspeciality hospital “forthwith” undertakes a video consultation with 81-year-old incarcerated Telugu poet P Varavara Rao lodged in Taloja prison as an accused in the Elgar Parishad case. A vacation bench of Justices A K Menon and S P Tavade said the video consultation could be arranged on Thursday itself or at the earliest on Friday morning, where Nanavati doctors, preferably same ones who had examined him when it submitted a report in July, can examine him, and if they recommend further consultation physically, they may do so by visiting Rao at Taloja jail. A report can be submitted via email to the state, and the matter will next be heard on November 17. If a physical examination is done, a report has to be filed by November 16. The bench passed the order in a fresh petition filed by Rao’s wife, P Hemlatha, through advocate R Sathyanarayan to seek his transfer from jail to Nanavati hospital due to his “deteriorating health.” It noted that “all agreed this is the most suitable solution in the interest of the accused and to assess his condition.” Hemlatha’s petition also seeks order for his release to be under his family’s care in Hyderabad. While senior counsel Indira Jaising, appearing for Rao, initially mentioned his medical bail, she finally did not press for it on Thursday. Jaising said there was urgency to hear the petition as a co-inmate of Rao’s from Taloja jail had informed Hemlatha on Wednesday that Rao’s health was fast deteriorating. Jaising said Rao has “dementia” and at first said a video call for consultation cannot be a substitute for physical and clinical examination by an independent panel of doctors. But Anil Singh, additional solicitor general for NIA, said it would “undermine” the faith in government doctors and the treatment being given in jail to inmates. He suggested that the video call should be the first option before a physical. Singh said “best treatment” would be given to Rao. The NIA in its affidavit said Rao was accused under grave charges of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and for alleged Maoist links. The petition is on health grounds but “there shall be no relief when the offence is against the state and public interest.” NIA said he is arrested for a “grave offence” and grounds raised in the petition are “not cogent” and liable to be dismissed. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakre said the jail doctors submitted a report dated November 12 and recommended some tests, which will be done. Rao’s family apprehends that he may lose his life in prison if he continues to remain there, Jaising said, arguing that there was no medical report since July 30 and he had been shifted back to prison from Nanavati on August 28. She said detention conditions cannot be inhuman or cruel and degrading, and every inmate has rights under Article 21 (right to life and liberty). “If he dies in jail it would be a case of custodial death,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bombay-high-court-orders-video-consultation-with-docs-for-varavara/articleshow/79199770.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Three held for stealing cattle, Rs 1 lakh seized||Hyderabad: Three persons who were allegedly involved in stealing cattle were nabbed by sleuths of Mothkur police of Rachakonda commissionerate on Thursday. Police said that J Lingamanthulu, J Upender and P Kiran are allegedly habitual offenders and were involved in five different cases registered in different police stations. “The accused used to target cattle sheds located in isolated areas and on the outskirts. They used to keep a heavy vehicle ready to shift the cattle into the vehicle,” police said. According to the police, the trio has stolen at least eight animals. “After committing the offence, they used to sell it in open markets and make cash. They are habitual offenders,” police said. The accused were caught after they were found moving suspiciously in Mothkur. During interrogation, the accused confessed that they were involved in stealing cattle. Police seized Rs 1.26 lakh and a heavy vehicle from the possession of the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/three-held-for-stealing-cattle-rs-1-lakh-seized/articleshow/79193007.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay high court orders video consultation with doctors for P Varavara Rao||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday directed the state and National Investigation Agency (NIA) to ensure that a team of doctors from Nanavati superspeciality hospital “forthwith” undertakes a video consultation with 81-year-old incarcerated Telugu poet P Varavara Rao lodged in Taloja prison as an accused in the Elgar Parishad case. A vacation bench of Justices A K Menon and S P Tavade said the video consultation could be arranged on Thursday itself or at the earliest on Friday morning, where Nanavati doctors, preferably same ones who had examined him when it submitted a report in July, can examine him, and if they recommend further consultation physically, they may do so by visiting Rao at Taloja jail. A report can be submitted via email to the state, and the matter will next be heard on November 17. If a physical examination is done, a report has to be filed by November 16. The bench passed the order in a fresh petition filed by Rao’s wife, P Hemlatha, through advocate R Sathyanarayan to seek his transfer from jail to Nanavati hospital due to his “deteriorating health.” It noted that “all agreed this is the most suitable solution in the interest of the accused and to assess his condition.” Hemlatha’s petition also seeks order for his release to be under his family’s care in Hyderabad. While senior counsel Indira Jaising, appearing for Rao, initially mentioned his medical bail, she finally did not press for it on Thursday. Jaising said there was urgency to hear the petition as a co-inmate of Rao’s from Taloja jail had informed Hemlatha on Wednesday that Rao’s health was fast deteriorating. Jaising said Rao has “dementia” and at first said a video call for consultation cannot be a substitute for physical and clinical examination by an independent panel of doctors. But Anil Singh, additional solicitor general for NIA, said it would “undermine” the faith in government doctors and the treatment being given in jail to inmates. He suggested that the video call should be the first option before a physical. Singh said “best treatment” would be given to Rao. The NIA in its affidavit said Rao was accused under grave charges of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and for alleged Maoist links. The petition is on health grounds but “there shall be no relief when the offence is against the state and public interest.” NIA said he is arrested for a “grave offence” and grounds raised in the petition are “not cogent” and liable to be dismissed. Public prosecutor Deepak Thakre said the jail doctors submitted a report dated November 12 and recommended some tests, which will be done. Rao’s family apprehends that he may lose his life in prison if he continues to remain there, Jaising said, arguing that there was no medical report since July 30 and he had been shifted back to prison from Nanavati on August 28. She said detention conditions cannot be inhuman or cruel and degrading, and every inmate has rights under Article 21 (right to life and liberty). “If he dies in jail it would be a case of custodial death,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-high-court-orders-video-consultation-with-docs-for-varavara/articleshow/79202175.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 13, 2020||Amritsar||Stubble burning cases breach 71,000 mark this season in Punjab||BATHINDA: With 1,758 stubble burning incidents recorded in the last 24 hours till Thursday evening, the total count of farm fires in this paddy harvest season has reached 71,081. Stubble burning had started 53 days back in Punjab on September 21 and it continues unabated despite various measures taken by both state and central governments. The border district of Fazilka recorded the maximum 266 burning incidents on Thursday, followed by 239 in Sangrur, 230 in Barnala, 200 in Muktsar, 170 in Bathinda, 165 in Ludhiana, 156 in Mansa, 84 in Faridkot, 80 in Ferozepur, 75 in Patiala, 65 in Moga, 19 in Fatehgarh Sahib, four in Amritsar, two in SAS Nagar and one each in Tarn Taran, Gurdaspur and Jalandhar districts. Five districts of SBS Nagar, Pathankot, Rupnagar, Hoshiarpur and Kapurthala, however, did not record any straw burning incidents during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/stubble-burning-cases-in-punjab-breach-71k-mark/articleshow/79200758.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chandigarh||8,286 farm fires in Haryana since September 25||KARNAL: Despite the central government’s many efforts — a commission to check air pollution, jail threat of up to five years or a fine Rs 1 crore — paddy stubble burning continues unabated in Haryana. As many as 200 cases of stubble burning were reported on Wednesday. All fresh cases of stubble burning were reported from eight districts in the state. The total number of farm fires recorded in the ongoing season has risen to 8,286. The numbers are higher than the last year’s figure (6,008) in the corresponding period,  and even crossed the final tally of the last year, which was 6630 cases. According to the data compiled by the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, the maximum (1,476) active fire locations were reported from Kaithal district, followed by Fatehabad (1,453), Karnal (1,030), Jind (987), Kurukshetra (834), Ambala (798), Yamunanagar (485), Sirsa (408), Hisar (258), Palwal (116), Sonepat (142) and Rohtak (103). The air quality index (AQI) Fatahabad was recorded up to 404 on Thursday, which falls in the severe category. It was in the very poor category in Yamunanagar 393, Charkhi Dadari 388, Bahadurgarh 343, Dharuhera 324, Hisar 321, Sonipat 321, Sirsa 307, Jind 305, and Faridabad 304. The AQI of 12 other cities — Ambala 295, Gurugram 293, Rohtak 291, Panipat 278, Narnaul 262, Kurukshetra 259, Manesar 254, Karnal 236, Ballabgarh 235, Panchkula 232, Bhiwani 228 and Kaithal 219 — stood at ‘poor’ level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/8286-stubble-burning-cases-reported-in-haryana-since-september-25/articleshow/79200759.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Notice to govt on two-child norm||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court on Thursday issued notice to the state government asking it to respond to a petition that described as discriminatory the approach of the state in imposing the two-child norm only for those who are contesting in GHMC elections. Those with a third child are disqualified and they cannot contest as corporators. The petitioners, R Sridhar Babu and Mohammed Taher from Hyderabad, questioned this and said that the state has already done away with such a norm in respect of other municipalities and municipal corporations in the state, but it retained that norm in GHMC. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy questioned the state as to why this approach was adopted. Advocate General B S prasad sought two weeks’ time to explain the state’s stand. Appearing for the petitioners, senior counsel L Ravi Chander said that they do not have any problem with the state taking time to respond. “But we will be aggrieved if the state issues a poll notification in the meantime because even courts cannot move forward once the poll notification is issued,” he said. The bench took note of his contention and directed the state to file its counter by November 17 and posted the case to November 19 for hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notice-to-govt-on-two-child-norm/articleshow/79199778.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||50 new basti dawakhanas for city||Hyderabad: In an attempt to improve health care in the city, GHMC will set up additional 50 basti dawakhanas in the city. Out of the 500 proposed basti dawakhanas, 224 are already operational. “In each basti dawakana on an average, 70 to 150 people are visiting every day. These neighbourhood clinics also have a pathology lab,” said Hyderabad Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, who inaugurated a clinic in Goshamahal circle. “Basti dawakhanas are useful for immediate medical assistance. Depending on the situation and intensity of diseases, patients are referred to Osmania General Hospital and Gandhi Hospital,” read a statement issued by GHMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-new-basti-dawakhanas-for-city/articleshow/79193030.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Ex-Facebook employee tells panel there was interference||NEW DELHI: In continuation of its ongoing proceedings, Delhi assembly’s peace and harmony committee, headed by Raghav Chadha, on Thursday examined a former Facebook employee in light of allegations and concern raised in complaints lodged with the committee against the social media platform. During the course of his deposition, Mark S Luckie, a former Facebook employee, alleged that there had been repeated interference by senior officials of the Facebook teams, including their policy heads, at the instance of political parties in the functioning of the content moderation teams which compromised execution of their own community standards. This was said in a statement released to the media by the committee. “He also affirmed that Facebook has been creating policies with respect to efficient content moderation which are not consistent or even transparent and are developed in a manner that it suits Facebook and its business model rather than the persons who have been victimised by its inefficient policies,” the statement added. The committee has received complaints against some Facebook officials for their alleged “deliberate inaction in containing inflammatory and hateful contents on their platform” and has since then met several times to discuss the issue and examined a couple of witnesses. During its earlier proceedings, the committee had taken cognisance of the issue and examined some independent and expert witnesses. To maintain transparency in the functioning of the committee, the proceedings were livestreamed. When TOI reached out to Facebook, seeking its reaction, it refused to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ex-fb-employeetells-panel-therewas-interference/articleshow/79199825.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Police seize harvesters brought from TN, farmers stage protest||Hyderabad: Dearth of harvesters is hitting the farmers hard this season despite a bountiful harvest. Some farmers hired rice harvesters from Tamil Nadu and brought them to Nalgonda. With police seizing them, angry farmers staged a protest on Thursday. Police set up a checkpost on Telangana-AP border at the new bridge in Nagarjunasagar to prevent paddy from being brought in to Miryalaguda mills where there is still a huge rush. Police are also preventing rice harvesters from being brought from neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. Officials asked the restive farmers to take a break and not to harvest their crop as a large number of tractors are yet to be unloaded at rice mills in Miryalaguda. Also, the use of rice harvesters has been restricted to day time as farmers are harvesting the crop and bringing the paddy straight to the mills where the waiting period is more than three days. Anxious farmers, however, are protesting these restrictions. “Because of the bumper harvest, some regulations have been put in place against the use of rice harvesters. Farmers got more of them from Tamil Nadu,” a police officer told TOI. He said the farmers were explained about the situation at Miryalguda. They were told not to take the harvested crop immediately to the place because of the waiting period at the mills. Legislative council chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy, who was passing by on the highway, stopped to enquire from farmers and spoke to senior police officials and got the harvesters released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-seize-harvesters-brought-from-tn-farmers-stage-protest/articleshow/79193024.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops rescue kidnapped infant||Cleared: dk Hyderabad: A two-month-old baby girl was kidnapped and Falaknuma police rescued her in less than nine hours. Later, the infant was handed over to her parents. At 5 am on Thursday, Shaik Basheer, 35, a labourer from Falaknuma, lodged a complaint with police stating that unidentified persons took away his two-month-old daughter when his family was sleeping on the footpath at Farooq Nagar. “Basheer along with his wife Sultana, 31, their son Sk Abdullah, 2, and two-month-old daughter Mariyam were been sleeping on the footpath at Farooqnagar. Basheer said unknown offenders came in an auto-rickshaw and took away the baby around 2.20am on Thursday,” Falaknuma inspector R Devender said. Police registered a kidnapping case under Section 363 of the IPC and three special teams began a manhunt to locate the kidnappers. CCTV footage analysis gave clues about the auto used by the kidnappers. “Around 2pm, a police team spotted the auto near Salami Hospital in Vattepally, Falaknuma. The auto was parked in front of a house at Vattepally and inside the house we found the three kidnappers — Syed Sahil, 19, an auto driver, his wife Zabeen Fathima, 19 and her sister Fatima, 23. We rescued the baby from their custody and handed her over to the family,” the inspector added. On interrogation, Sahil confessed that he had married Zabeen without consulting his family one-and-half-year ago and his parents told him to enter their house only after having a child. As they did not have children, the couple decided to kidnap the girl from a family dwelling on the footpath, the inspector said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-rescue-kidnapped-infant/articleshow/79199785.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Two arrested for duping Hyderabad businessman of Rs 2 lakh||HYDERABAD: Two fraudsters, who cheated Balamukund Namdeo, a city-based businessman, of Rs 2 lakh by impersonating as his brother working in the US, were arrested by the Cyberabad Cyber crime police. The accused created a fake WhatsApp profile with Balamukund’s brother’s picture and made him transfer Rs 2 lakh to a bank account citing medical emergency. On November 11, Namdeo of Petbasheerabad lodged a complaint with cybercrime police stating that he received a WhatsApp message from his brother Mahender Kumar Namdeo with US ISD code telephone number. “As the display picture of the WhatsApp number is of his brother, Balamukund thought it was a genuine message. The fraudster posing as Mahender asked Balamukund to transfer Rs 2 lakh to a bank account for medical emergency. Balamukund transferred the amount to bank account mentioned by the fraudster,” Inspector R Venkatesh said. However, Balamukund grew suspicious when the fraudster asked for Rs 1 lakh more. Balamukund called Mahender and realised he was duped, the inspector said. Based on the complaint, police obtained details of beneficiary bank account and arrested Deepak Nandial Sidhpura (42) and Manish Amrutlal Rajpopat (42), businessmen from Mumbai. They were brought to the city and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-arrested-for-duping-bizman-of-rs-2l/articleshow/79199777.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: ED summons Raninder Singh on November 19||JALANDHAR: The Enforcement Directorate has issued fresh summons to Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s son Raninder Singh, asking him to appear before it on November 19 in an old case of Foreign Exchange Money Act. Raninder had missed the November 6 date on the grounds of high fever, cold and cough and being under 14-day quarantine. On October 27, he had said that as the president of National Rifle Association of India, he was to attend a meeting of the Parliamentary Standing Committee in Rajya Sabha to discuss preparations for the Olympics. Raninder had last appeared before the ED on July 21, 2016.  Amarinder and AICC general secretary and party affairs in-charge Harish Rawat had questioned the timing of the summons linking it with Punjab government’s strong opposition to Centre’s new farm bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ed-summons-raninder-on-nov-19/articleshow/79200760.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Parties meet SEC, seek additional time for voters’ list publication||HYDERABAD: Amid speculation that polls for GHMC will be held in December first week, the BJP and Congress have urged the State Election Commission to provide the voters’ list polling station-wise and also give additional time after publication of the voters’ list. Eleven parties had given their view and representation to the SEC, which allotted 15 minutes to each political party. BJP representatives Chintala Ramachandra Reddy and NVSS Prabhakar sought clarity on BC reservations and wondered how could they be different in GHMC compared to other municipal corporations. They also expressed concern over bogus voters being given voting facility and voters’ list being changed even when EC claimed there was no delimitation. The BJP team also expressed concern over GHMC officials being deputed as returning officers. “We have raised this topic with election authorities. They said they will depute the central teams and officials from other districts,” Ramachandra Reddy said. He said, “If the poll notification is issued even before the polling booth publication list, we will not have much time. We will take legal recourse or seek corrections.” Congress representatives Marri Sashidhar Reddy and G Niranjan said SEC must provide polling booth list first. “How can the draft voters’ list be published before polling booth list. They should at least provide two weeks for plaints and objections before publishing final voters’ list,” Niranajan told TOI. CPI general secretary Chada Venkat Reddy sought reorganisation of divisions and revision of voters’ list, while CPI said the SEC should not rush in conducting the elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parties-meet-sec-seek-addltime-for-voters-list-publication/articleshow/79199784.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Diwali cheer: Four-wheeler sales up in Telangana amid pandemic||HYDERABAD: In what could bring cheer in Diwali season, four-wheelers’ sales have picked up in the state between April and October this year despite the pandemic and the extended lockdown. Registrations have shown a steady growth from just 3-4 four-wheelers in April to 18,156 units in October. These sales figures are much better than the vehicle registrations in the corresponding months of 2019-20 financial year. The data available with TOI shows that sales even in September was reasonably good with 11,259 units sold. For instance, the number of units (9,129) sold in the month of September last year was much less. Evidently, this October sales are also higher than the sales of last October. Exuding confidence, financial experts said the scenario looks bright. “However, it all depends on how soon the vaccine will be unveiled. Overall, the auto market did very well,” K Narsimha Murthy, director, National Stock Exchange, said. While the four-wheelers’ sales numbers have zoomed, the overall vehicles’ sales are low when compared to last year (between the months of April-September). A total of 4,99,731 units were sold (inclusive of four- , two-wheelers and other vehicles) in the last financial year when compared to 4,35,429 units this year. As per the data of two-wheelers’ sales, 1,03,469 units were sold last year as against 74,276 units this year till October. “Many customers are preferring cars as they are looking at safety aspects during the pandemic,” S Vikram, sales agent of vehicles, said. “The difference between sales of four-wheelers is less when compared to sales of two-wheelers from last year to this year,” he added. Transport department gets a revenue of around Rs 10 crore every month with registration of various vehicles. A senior official said the department netted Rs 278 crore in October this year when compared to Rs 178 crore in September.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/diwali-cheer-4-wheeler-sales-up-amid-pandemic/articleshow/79199801.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Dakshina Kannada police issue guidelines to prevent theft of areca||MANGALURU: The spurt in the theft of areca nut in several taluks in Dakshina Kannada has prompted district police to issue guidelines to farmers and traders to curb the crime. Dakshina Kannada police attributed the theft of areca nut to the value the commercial crop fetches on the market. Areca nut is widely cultivated across the coastal districts, and in Dakshina Kannada, it is extensively grown in belthangady, Puttur and Bantwal taluks. One quintal of areca nut is sold for Rs 36,000 to Rs 40,000. Pointing to theft of areca crop worth thousands of rupees, police said that if farmers were to follow simple guidelines, they would not have to suffer huge losses. Advisory to farmers, traders *Install closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras at areca nut drying yards, or have a sentinel posted at the same *All shops selling areca nut must install CCTV cameras *Intimate the nearest police station on noticing suspicious movement of an individual or a group *Ensure that drying yards are sufficiently lit during the night *Traders purchasing areca nut must verify the identity of those selling the crop lest the former be liable to legal action later on||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dk-police-issue-guidelines-to-prevent-theft-of-areca/articleshow/79198225.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bareilly||2 groups taken to hospital for checkup after clash come to blows again, several hurt||Bareilly: Several people were injured and an ambulance was vandalised on the premises of government hospital in Moradabad when two groups of people, who had come for medical examination after a clash, again attacked each other. Outnumbered, policemen remained spectators as the people attacked each other with batons, bricks and whatever they could lay hand on. Videos of the incident soon turned up on social media platforms putting the local police in the tight spot. Additional police force was called to bring the situation under control Wednesday night. Station house officer (SHO) of Civil Lines police station, Moradabad, Nawal Marwah, told TOI, “On Wednesday night, two groups clashed after an argument over consuming liquor in city’s Kashiram Nagar area, Majhola. As some of them were injured, police took them to district hospital for medical examination. However, the groups, on their arrival at the hospital’s emergency ward, again came face-to-face and started attacking each other.” An FIR has been registered against three identified and 20 unknown people under various IPC sections including 147 (punishment for rioting). “An ambulance that was parked outside the hospital was also damaged in the attack,” the SHO said. ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/2-groups-taken-to-hospital-for-checkup-after-clash-come-to-blows-again-several-hurt/articleshow/79197236.cms||Maria Khan
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger ate muscle part of youth: Autopsy||Hyderabad: A preliminary report of the post-mortem examination confirmed that the muscle part of 20-year-old S Vignesh, who was mauled to death by a tiger at Digida in Asifabad forest, was missing. Sirpur primary healthcare centre doctor Chenna Keshava Rao, who performed the autopsy, confirmed that the big cat attacked him, dragged him and ate the flesh. Injuries were found on the neck, buttock, chest and lower limb and bruises were found all over the body. Locals said the tiger dragged the body for a few hundred metres. While locals asked for a quick action, forest department officials said that with one kill the tiger cannot be called a man-eater. A health department official said: “Gluteus maximus (a thick fleshy) muscle on the buttock is missing. The tiger had no time as the villagers gathered quickly and drove it away. The neck was broken. There are claw injuries on his chest.” Sirpur MLA Koneru Konappa, Asifabad district in-charge SP V Satyanarayana and forest officials visited the site where the tiger had attacked Vignesh. Konappa said the forest department handed over Rs 5 lakh compensation to the youth’s family. “We have demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh. This is the first time that a tiger has killed a human in these forests. Forest officials said they would capture the tiger,” he said. The body of the victim was handed over to the family and Dahegaon police booked a case under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-ate-muscle-part-of-youth-autopsy/articleshow/79199830.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Suzi, most popular chimpanzee of Nehru zoo, dies of heart failure||Hyderabad: The most celebrated inmate of the city’s Nehru Zoological Park, Suzi the chimpanzee, was found dead in its enclosure on Thursday morning. The chimpanzee was born on July 15, 1986 and was aged 35. The preliminary investigation carried out by the veterinarians revealed that Suzi died around 7 am after suffering a congestive heart failure. According to K Kshitija, the curator at the Hyderabad zoo, the symptoms were indicative of a massive heart stroke. “We did not see any difference in her health condition until Wednesday,” said Kshitija. Suzi had once belonged to Subrata Roy, the chairman of Sahara Parivar India. She was brought to the Hyderabad zoo in 2011. With Suzi’s demise, only 3-4 zoos are left with chimpanzees in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suzi-most-popular-chimpanzee-of-nehru-zoo-dies-of-heart-failure/articleshow/79199819.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||KTR launches waste mgmt system||Hyderabad: MA&UD minister KT Rama Rao said Hyderabad has the most advanced waste management system in the country, after launching a collection and transportation system. He flagged off 55 compactors are used for collection and transportation of waste . “For setting up such an advanced fleet, which is the first in the country , I thank GHMC commissioner and mayor,” said Rao. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-launches-waste-mgmt-system/articleshow/79199839.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Festive sales perk up in run-up to Diwali||HYDERABAD: With Diwali just around the corner, the festive fervour seems to be catching on with retailers reporting a pickup sales, albeit with a twist thanks to Covid-19. National level retail chains are witnessing stores in tier-2 centres like Vijayawada, Vizag, Warangal, Karimnagar doing brisker business than last year as compared to Hyderabad stores. “While stores in tier-2 centres in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are registering over 100-115% sales this festive season over last year, Hyderabad stores have clocked only about 65-70% sales because most people are on WFH from hometowns and are shopping there,” said the manager of a national retailer that operates multiple brands. This has also meant that outlets in the IT hub are seeing lower footfalls and sales as compared ones in locations like Banjara Hills and Begumpet, said the manager of another national retailer. WFH has also resulted in another interesting trend. Certain categories have been flying off the shelves, while those that typically sell well during Diwali have no takers. For instance, casual clothes like T-shirts and track pants are selling like hotcakes, while there is hardly any demand for partywear, formalwear and cosmetics. Similarly, categories like home decor and improvement, WFH furniture and kitchen essentials have a massive spurt as people spend all their time at home. That explains why mattress players like Duroflex have forayed into furniture segment with cots and WFH furniture and have also expanded footprint through the pandemic. “Covid-19 has heightened awareness about the importance of good sleep in building immunity and health. We have seen 50% growth in overall business this October as compared to last year and have grown month on month through the pandemic,” said Smita Murarka, VP-marketing & ecommerce, Duroflex, adding that online sales too have doubled. “This festive season has beaten all forecasts with high demand for branded comfort products helping us clock 30% growth in pre-Diwali sales over last year,” added Uttam Malani, ED, Centuary Mattresses. “We have clocked nearly six times growth in sales as compared to last Diwali,” said Ameen Khwaja, founder & CEO, Hyderabad-based audio accessories player pTron.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/festive-sales-perk-up-in-run-up-to-diwali/articleshow/79199877.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||NRI category list for MBBS/BDS published||Thiruvananthapuram: The provisional list of candidates eligible for admission to MBBS/BDS courses under NRI category has been published by the commissioner for entrance examinations. Candidates who have uploaded the required documents through the website of the commissioner for entrance examinations (CEE) as per directives from admission supervisory committee and notification of the CEE on November 3 within the stipulated time have been considered in the list. There is 15% NRI quota seats in self-financing medical & dental colleges in the state for the academic year 2020-21. The list is available on the website www.cee.kerala.gov.in, for reference. Candidates seeking admission to NRI-quota seats in self financing medical/dental colleges should select ‘NRI quota’ options in the preferred colleges at the time of ‘online option registration’. Candidates who do not use this option will not be considered for allotment to NRI-quota seats even if they are included in the NRI category list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nri-category-list-for-mbbs/bds-published/articleshow/79198280.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Kidnapped infant rescued in 9 hours||HYDERABAD: A two-month-old baby girl was kidnapped and Falaknuma police rescued her in less than nine hours. At 5am on Thursday, Shaik Basheer, 35, a labourer from Falaknuma, lodged a complaint with police stating that unidentified persons took away his two-month-old daughter when his family was sleeping on the footpath at Farooq Nagar. “Basheer said unknown offenders came in an auto-rickshaw and took away the baby around 2.20am on Thursday,” Falaknuma inspector R Devender said. Police registered a kidnapping case under Section 363 of IPC and three special teams began a manhunt to locate the kidnappers. “Around 2pm, a police team spotted the auto in front of a house at Vattepally and inside the house we found the three kidnappers — Syed Sahil, 19, an auto driver, his wife Zabeen Fathima, 19 and her sister Fatima, 23. We rescued the baby from their custody and handed her over to the family,” the inspector added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kidnapped-infant-rescued-in-9-hours/articleshow/79199902.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi may get its cleanest Diwali in 5 years, but not the most breathable air||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the city is likely to touch close to “severe” levels even without adding emissions from firecrackers. However, in a “zero-firecracker” scenario, PM2.5 levels are expected to be better than the past four years during Diwali, shows an analysis carried out by System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Track the pollution level in your cityThe analysis comes on the assumption that no firecrackers would be burst due to the ban imposed by Delhi government. However, other local and meteorological factors could result in air quality being on the verge of “severe” on November 14, Diwali day, and touching “severe” the next day. A spell of light rain could be seen on November 15 or 16, which would allow pollution to reduce the next day. “Air quality is predicted to deteriorate and remain in the higher-end of the “very poor” category in the absence of any additional emissions due to fireworks during Diwali. The impact of stubble burning on Air Quality Index (AQI) is expected to increase from negligible to moderate for the next two days,” SAFAR stated on Thursday. “Under the zero-firecracker emission scenario, although the level of PM2.5 is predicted to be at the edge of very poor to the severe category, it is still expected to be better compared with the past four years around Diwali,” added the forecasting body. SAFAR stated that if firecrackers were used, the spike in PM2.5 levels could be the highest between 1am and 6am on November 15 with AQI remaining in “severe” range the next day. However, local wind speed was not likely to be calm on Diwali day, thereby allowing for dispersal of pollutants. The forecast also took into consideration a declining trend for farm fires over the past three days to assess stubble burning emissions for this period. “The transport-level winds are now northwesterly and will have high potential to transport biomass plume in the next few days, but the expected moderate surface winds in Delhi will not allow rapid accumulation of pollutants for a longer period. AQI could be severe on November 15, but a spell of rain by November 16 could flush out pollutants and bring pollution levels back to very poor,” stated SAFAR. The forecasting body added that AQI was likely to start improving from the afternoon of November 15 as moderate easterly winds were likely to reduce the stubble impact, along with 0% firecracker emissions. Isolated rain under the influence of a fresh western disturbance by November 16 would further help in flushing out the impact of any additional emissions and biomass-related impact. IMD has forecast a spell of drizzle or very light rain on November 15 with a drop in maximum temperature on November 16. Watch Anyone bursting, selling crackers to face strict action: Delhi Police Commissioner||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/capital-may-get-its-cleanest-diwali-in-5-years-but-not-the-most-breathable-air/articleshow/79199930.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad's Gandhi Hospital all set to begin non-Covid services by November 21||HYDERABAD: With junior doctors of Gandhi Hospital, the nodal Covid-19 centre, launching a strike on Wednesday over the issue of converting it to a non-Covid-19 centre, state health authorities on Thursday issued orders to begin non-Covid-19 services at the hospital on or before November 21. However, junior doctors refused to call off the strike saying that this is only one part of the demand and the rest of it are not fulfilled.  They boycotted duties on Thursday too demanding that the non-Covid-19 services be started with immediate effect. The junior doctors have been pressing for this demand for over a month now saying that they have lost ‘crucial clinical experience’ during the past eight months of the pandemic. A committee had been formed three weeks back to plan and execute the transition, and fumigation of wards and other preparations are underway. On Thursday, Dr K Ramesh Reddy, director of Medical Education, instructed the hospital superintendent to bifurcate Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 areas in the hospital and begin non-Covid-19 services by November 21. “Staff to be posted in Covid areas should be decided by the hospital superintendent. All the regular hospital work i.e. departmental teaching and other hospitals academic work should start. The hospital superintendent should distribute the staff between Covid and non-Covid wards depending on the load of admissions of Covid patients,” reads the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-hospital-all-set-to-begin-non-covid-services-by-november-21/articleshow/79199894.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Diabetics in Hyderabad keep HbA1c levels low amid Covid-19||HYDERABAD: In a positive news for Hyderabad, dubbed the diabetes capital of India, glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c) level of Hyderabadis has decreased from 8.64% to 8.02% since 2018 as per the latest findings of India Diabetes Care Index (IDCI). HbA1c is the indicator of long-term blood sugar control and gives an average of three months (recommended HbA1c goal is less than 7%). Speaking about the decreased HbA1c level days ahead of World Diabetes Day (November 14), endocrinologist Dr Bipin Kumar Sethi, said: “For two consecutive years, people living with diabetes in Hyderabad have registered a decrease in their average HbA1c levels. Despite staying at home due to Covid induced restrictions, Hyderabadis have managed to maintain their HbA1c levels well. This is a good sign as people with diabetes have up to 50% higher risk of developing complications from Covid.” “It is important to eat required amount of macro and micro nutrients in a limited period, giving the body time to digest and process them properly. This will keep blood sugar levels stable,” Dr Rahul Agarwal, consultant, internal medicine, Medicover Hospitals said. In the short-run, diabetes decreases productivity, reduces energy levels. “It also increases fatigue, increases anxiety disorders and mood swings, increases the chances of infertility and thereafter impacts foetal health. ,” Deepika Chalasani, clinical nutritionist and dietician, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/diabetics-in-city-keep-hba1c-levels-low-amid-covid-19/articleshow/79199922.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Cheyutha Phase II: Govt releases Rs 510 cr||Vijayawada: The government on Thursday credited Rs 510 crore into the accounts of 2.72 lakh beneficiaries under the second phase of YSR Cheyutha scheme, covering those who couldn’t make it in the first phase. Speaking on the occasion, panchayat raj minister Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy said chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has redefined welfare and empowerment of women through the implementation of various welfare schemes. “Previous governments provided welfare initiatives only to women in the age group of 25 to 45 years or pension support to the elderly, but never considered support for middle-aged women. The Cheyutha scheme has been brought in to provide financial assistance to women between 45 to 60 years from the SC, ST, BC and minority communities,” he said. In the first phase of Cheyutha, the government had credited financial assistance of Rs 18,750 each to 21,00,189 beneficiaries and released a total of Rs 3937.9 crore. “The chief minister asked all those who were left out in the first phase to apply within a month, and now all those eligible women have been provided with the financial assistance,” he added. A total of 23.72 lakh women have benefited through the Cheyutha scheme and Rs 4,447.91 crore has been credited to their accounts. Municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana said the government has also taken responsibility to empower women and turn them into entrepreneurs by encouraging them to start small-scale businesses. “The government has tied up with top companies like ITC, Amul, Reliance, and Procter & Gamble and coordinated with banks for grant of loans to give a helping hand to women entrepreneurs,” the minister said, and urged the women to use the money for economic empowerment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cheyutha-phase-ii-govt-releases-rs-510-cr/articleshow/79197006.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Meerut||28-year-old man shot dead||Bijnor: A 28-year-old man was shot dead on Thursday at Maujipur Dharma village under Kiratpur police station area of Bijnor district.According to police, deceased Dharmendra Singh was on his way home when a few assailants stopped him and after a brief conversation, pumped bullets in his chest.Dharmendra died on the spot. The assailants fled the scene.After getting wind of the incident, police rushed to the spot and took the body to district hospital for autopsy. According to superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh the assailants were known with the deceased. Probe is on. A case has been registered against unidentified assailants based on the complaint filed by deceased’s relative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/28-year-old-man-shot-dead/articleshow/79197275.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Molly pills worth Rs 1.2 crore stashed in massager seized||BENGALURU: In another mega drug haul at the Foreign Post Office (FPO) in Chamarajpet, customs sleuths on Wednesday seized 2.3kg of ecstasy pills estimated to be worth Rs 1.2 crore in the international market. Hidden in a German-made foot massager, the drugs were couriered from France to be delivered to an unidentified person in Bengaluru. Sources with Bangalore customs commissionerate said the parcel containing the massager underwent routine scanning at the FPO complex in Raghavendra Colony on Wednesday afternoon. “The process revealed suspicious content inside the massager and soon, officers of the customs’ postal appraising wing and preventive wing dismantled the device to discover a large quantity of orange, green and pink pills concealed inside brown duct tape,” explained an investigator. Lab examination revealed they were MDMA pills, commonly known as ecstasy or molly. Investigators ascertained that the sender from France had removed some components of the massager to make room for the drugs to be shipped to Bengaluru following a specific order possibly made via the darknet. The parcel was declared as a massager for medical purposes, sources added. Though the address of the receiver was found to be fake, customs sleuths have some crucial leads. A probe is under way to track down the suspect in Bengaluru, who had ordered the contraband possibly through bitcoin transactions. In early August, customs officials had unearthed a cache of ecstasy pills, MDMA blocks and brown sugar from a parcel that reached the FPO from the Netherlands. A youth was arrested in connection with the smuggling. In mid-September, Narcotics Control Bureau busted a four-member gang — two from Kozhikode and two from Mangaluru — who smuggled in molly through the FPO and sold it to college students and youths across southern cities. The suspects, who were college students, were inspired by a web series.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/molly-pills-worth-rs-1-2-crore-hidden-in-foot-massager-seized/articleshow/79198341.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||‘Cracker ban is an administrative decision, needs right implementation’||Q.What is the effect of bursting crackers on air quality? • Millions of people burst crackers during Diwali which leads to immense pollution and smog in the air. Firecrackers mainly consist of sulphur, carbon and other chemicals for colouring and binding effects. Post the bursting and explosion of firecrackers, the chemical components, metal particles and dangerous toxins are released in the air and these toxic components stay for hours, contaminating the air and deteriorating the air quality index. Q. What are the changes in air quality seen during the festival of Diwali?• On festival day, the average concentration of particulate matter 10 increases 35 times compared to a normal day before Diwali in cities like Vadodara and New Delhi. Similarly, concentration of sulphur dioxide has increased 23 times and NOx has increased 3 times on festival day. The trends vary in different parts of different cities. Q. How serious is the pollution caused due to firecrackers? What are its effects on human health? • Fireworks contain chemicals such as arsenic, sulphur, manganese, sodium oxalate, aluminium and iron dust powder, potassium perchlorate, strontium nitrate, barium nitrate and charcoal. Burning of firecrackers releases pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, carbon dioxide (CO2), carbon monoxide (CO), suspended particles and several metals such as aluminium, manganese and cadmium, which are associated with serious health hazards. Q. What are the most dangerous components of firecrackers? • Among the pollutants, PM 2.5 particles are considered the most harmful as they are able to enter deep into the respiratory tract, reaching the lungs. This can cause short-term health effects such as eye, nose, throat and lung irritation, coughing, sneezing, runny nose and shortness of breath, and in the long-term can affect lung function and worsen medical conditions such as asthma and heart disease. Q. Is pollution from firecrackers worse or more impactful during winters? What about industrial and vehicular pollution? • Air pollution is worse in the winter months (October-January) as particles remain suspended in the air for longer duration of time due to the lower temperature, wind speed as well as higher relative humidity. Pollution due to firecrackers adds to this air pollution. PM 2.5 particles are produced from all types of combustion, including motor vehicles and power plants and some industrial processes. The increased air pollution levels during winters is a combination of all the above components. Q. We have seen that bans do not work effectively. Will a ban on crackers work? • A ban is an administrative decision which needs proper implementation and execution. A ban on firecrackers has an impact on air pollution levels as well as the livelihood of many working in the production of firecrackers. We need to understand the importance of reducing air pollution levels irrespective of a ban is in place or not. The committed efforts from all of us can help avoid health issues related to air pollution due to firecrackers. Q. Does bursting crackers affect people of all age groups? What are the short-term and long-term damages of this exposure? • Populations of certain age group are more susceptible to ambient air pollution due to firecrackers. This is more important for children and senior citizens who can experience irritation in the eyes, nose and increased chances of asthma attacks. Also, people who have recovered from Covid may end up having complications of severe cough and breathing difficulty. Q. What should be the general precautions to be followed by everyone during this festive season with regard to Covid? • Cases of Covid have sharply decreased in comparison to the past few months but there might be a second peak in the total number of cases. It is imperative that we don’t let our guard down during the coming few months. There are some precautions to follow during the festival season. Avoid crowding in closed places. Parties with many people in closed rooms can be a source of spreading the Covid infection. If necessary meet in open areas restricting the number of people. The mask is often removed during eating food or having a drink. This can be a source of transmission. People should restrict to staying with close family members so that we can have more celebrations in the coming years. Carelessness on our part can cost the health of our near and dear ones which might ruin the festivities and celebrations. (Dr Sameer Arbat is an interventional pulmonologist leading the Covid team at KRIMS Hospitals)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cracker-ban-is-an-administrative-decision-needs-right-implementation/articleshow/79198037.cms||Manka Behl
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cash loader who stole Rs 30 lakh from ATMs held near girlfriend’s home||BENGALURU: A 30-year-old employee with a cash management firm who was on the run after stealing Rs 30 lakh from ATM kiosks he had refilled was arrested recently when he came to meet his girlfriend in Bengaluru. Accused Vinay Jogi, a resident of Laggere and from Udupi, worked as a cash custodian with Secure Value, a cash management firm, for five years. He allegedly took money from ATMs by misusing official keys and passwords and went absconding in the last week of August after his misdeeds came to his employer’s notice. Byadarahalli police registered a case of cheating against Jogi on August 27 on the basis of a complaint by Raju A, manager of Secure Value. Police said an audit by the firm found Rs 30 lakh had been misappropriated. Jogi absconded soon after he learnt about the audit on August 24. Sent video threatening suicide Police learnt Jogi had sent a video to his colleagues that he was being harassed by his employers. He had also apologised to his parents and sister in the nearly one-and-a-half-minute video. Jogi claimed he was suffering from brain tumour and would die in a few days. He also said he would commit suicide by jumping into Netravathi river. Meanwhile, police traced him to a place near Ballari. A team was dispatched to nab him but Jogi kept changing locations and sim cards to evade cops. Finally, police got a tipoff that he was going to meet his girlfriend at her residence in Bengaluru and the team headed by inspector A Rajiv swooped down on him when he was approaching the house. Police said Jogi didn’t take away huge amounts of cash from the ATMs. Investigation revealed he started pocketing money from the kiosks a day after he had refilled them. “He used to refill kiosks belonging to several banks on behalf of Secure Value. He used to visit the ATMs the next morning and open the chest using the keys and passwords. He took Rs 1 lakh or Rs 2 lakh at a time and left the spot. Jogi used to change the direction of CCTV cameras on entering the kiosk. He also used to flash light at the camera to blur his image,” a police officer said. Couriered cash to parents Police said an unmarried Jogi had built a house in Udupi after availing loans. Police have recovered Rs 11 lakh which he had transferred to a bank and Rs 14.5 lakh he sent to his parents by courier. “Jogi’s parents are law-abiding citizens. They were shocked to receive a parcel in which Jogi sent them the cash. They handed over the money to police as soon as they learnt about the offence,” an officer said. Police said a case was registered against Jogi for pocketing Rs 30 lakh from four ATM kiosks in multiple instalments. Now, he’s confessed to have stolen more than Rs 50 lakh from 15 ATMs in the city over several months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cash-loader-who-stole-rs-30l-from-atms-held-near-gfs-house/articleshow/79198311.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Chikkamagaluru: Duo who duped youngsters with promise of jobs held||CHIKKAMAGALURU: District police have arrested two persons for cheating youths to the tune of Rs. 2.5 crore by promising them jobs. The accused Prabhakar P and Shivaraj, both Bengaluru residents. Shivaraj is Prabhakar’s car driver, police said. Chikkamagaluru SP HA Macchindra said on Thursday that they arrested the duo after a youth who works in a hotel filed a complaint. “Umesh, who worked in a posh hotel in the city, met Prabhakhar while he stayed there. The prime accused introduced himself as a personal secretary to the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board chief and promised him a job in the board’s Bengaluru office. He asked him for money and allegedly collected Rs 7 lakh,” the SP said. After the money was paid, Prabhakar allegedly switched off his phone. When Umesh filed a complaint, police tracked the cell phone details and took the prime accused into custody in Bengaluru. During interrogation, Prabhakar said he had cheated at least 35 youths. Macchindra said, “An investigation is on to know if they are involved in any other crime. The prime accused used to travell to pilgrimage sites often. Prabhakar had allegedly put Rs 5 lakh in the hundi at Tirumala. Police said they seized Rs 60 lakh in cash and property papers from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/duo-who-duped-youngsters-with-promise-of-jobs-held/articleshow/79198926.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Four held for possessing drugs||Madikeri: Four persons were arrested on the charges of possessing drugs and 2kg marijuana worth Rs. 80,000 was recovered from them at Virajpet. Four accused Mohammad Altaf of Mogalli, Abdul Munaf of Kallubane, PL Abhishek of Sunkadakatte, KB Shafique of Perumbadi were selling the contrabrand when they were arrested. Virajpet DYSP CT Jayakumar, inspector Kyathegoda, SI Bhojappa and others raided the spot and arrested the accused. The bike used by the accused has been seized. All the accused have been remanded to judicial custody for 15 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/four-held-for-possessing-drugs/articleshow/79213499.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Prepare report on CPS: Jagan to officials||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to prepare a comprehensive report on contributory pension scheme (CPS), and include the 52,000 AP State Road Transportation Corporation (APSRTC) employees in the list of CPS beneficiaries. The officials said they have examined the reports of the cabinet sub-committee and the Thakkar committee on CPS. The state has 1,98,221 employees in government, grant-in-aid, universities and educational institutions under the contributory pension scheme, out of which 1,78,705 are government employees, 3,295 are working under grant-in-aid, while the remaining 16,221 are working in universities and educational institutions. The officials gave details of the expenditure to implement different types of pension systems to employees. The CM, who held a review meeting on contract employees, said the previous government had released GOs but none of them was implemented. “We have implemented them besides the minimum time scale (MTS) for contract employees,” he said. As regularisation of contract employees is linked with legal issues, the chief minister directed the officials to formulate guidelines to provide financial benefits to them without raising any problems. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prepare-report-on-cps-jagan-to-officials/articleshow/79197109.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kochi||Bineesh moved to Parappana Agrahara prison||Bengaluru: Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of CPM Kerala state committee secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who was arrested in a money laundering case with links to a drug peddling racket is now an under trial prisoner (UTP-number 8498) at Parappana Agrahara prison complex in Bengaluru. Bineesh, who was remanded in judicial custody by a special court on Wednesday, was then taken to the prison hospital, where he underwent different tests including Covid-19. Later on Thursday evening, he is likely to be shifted to an empty cell where he will be quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bineesh-moved-to-parappana-agrahara-prison/articleshow/79198310.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||T records 1,000 new cases, three fatalities||Hyderabad: Telangana on Thursday recorded 1,015 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, taking the total caseload to 2,54,666.  While the death toll rose to 1,392, altogether 2,35,950 patients have recovered from the infection. A slight dip in the number of active cases have been recorded in the state over the last week, with cases coming down from over 19,000 to 17,323.  The case fatality rate (CFR), which is a measure of infected patients succumbing to the virus is currently at 0.54 percent in the state. It is lower than the country average of 1.5 percent. The recovery rate is at 93 percent, remaining constant for over a fortnight now. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-1000-new-cases-three-fatalities/articleshow/79199955.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Government signs four skill development MoUs||Vijayawada: The government has signed four memorandum of understanding (MoUs) with industrial and academic institutions to provide skill training to people. The skill development activity would be attached to skill development universities and colleges that are set to come up in the state soon. The move is another step towards ensuring implementation of 75 per cent reservation in jobs for locals in industries. The 75 per cent quota is being enforced for all existing and new industries in the state. AP State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) MD and chief operating officer A Srikanth singed the MoUs with representatives of IBM India, Singapore Polytechnic International (SPI), India Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) and LV Prasad Film & TV Academy (LVPA) on Wednesday. The government has already cleared the proposal to establish a skill development university in Visakhapatnam and skill development colleges in every Lok Sabha constituency, besides the existing IIITs in the state. The APSSDC will establish and operate the centres of excellence in IT sector while IBM will shoulder the responsibility of giving access to industry relevant software as per academic initiative norms. The SPI will provide technical assistance and support to set up industry-specific labs, develop courses and curriculum, offer joint certification among others and accreditation for the proposed courses, design and develop a quality assurance framework for standardization of teaching and learning modules etc. Similarly, LVPA will establish and operate a centre of excellence in media and entertainment sector in Visakhapatnam district. The ITDC will also establish, operate a centre of excellence in hospitality sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/government-signs-four-skill-development-mous/articleshow/79197140.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Battery delight: AP boy recycles his way to glory||HYDERABAD: An 11-year-old Vijayawada boy in the US is getting recommendations from politicians for a start-up that helps get batteries to recyclers. Sri Nihal Tammana has helped install battery collection bins in 200 different spots across the US in one year. His non-profit organisation, ‘Recycle My Battery’, creates awareness about why it is important to recycle used batteries. Among Nihal’s many achievements is Special National Recycling Award for 2020 from the National Waste Recycling Association. Backing Nihal, senator Robert Menendez from New Jersey said, “It is impressive to witness such leadership at a young age.” Nihal also got recommendations from NJ state senate, including Vin Gopal, Patrick J Diegnan and Samuel D Thompson. The organisation has also received backing of IT Serve Alliance. “I have seen people dumping plastic into river Krishna. That’s when I realised I wanted to enable recycling of products that could damage the environment. In the US, used batteries are often dumped into waste basket,” said Nihal. Nihal began going out in his community and collecting batteries from around 400 houses. He would hand it at a local store to recycle. After talks with Call2Recycle, which is the nation’s largest battery recycling organisation, he was able to negotiate the provision of battery recycle bins. In a year since he started ‘Recycle My Battery’, more than 38,000 used batteries have been recycled. The modus operandi is simple: Get in touch with partner institutions such as schools, libraries and IT firms and place the battery bins there. When full, a student will ensure that they are taken for recycling. Nihal has helped place 200 bins nationwide and works with 45 other kids who help with coordination. The start-up claims to have raised awareness among over 3,00,000 adults and kids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/battery-delight-ap-boy-recycles-his-way-to-glory/articleshow/79199943.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: This fixie rider pedalled 100km daily for 100 days||BENGALURU: When Bangalore Randonneurs (BR), a cycling club, threw a challenge to ride 100km each day for 10 days on the trot in August, little did its organisers know that there would be one rider who would take it rather seriously. That’s fitness coach Anil Kadsur for you — after completing the 10 day, 100km challenge on a fixie (fixed-gear bike), he went on to pursue it beyond 100 days, and has still not stopped. Mohan Subramanyam of BR said they came up with the “monsoon challenge” as not many rides were happening due to the pandemic. “The cyclists were expected to ride 100km on any 10 consecutive days between August 1 and 31. We got an overwhelming response — of the 80 riders who registered, 60 completed the task. The challenge was tough due to extreme weather coupled with wind and rain,” Mohan explained. Anil, who had already done 30 century rides in June 2016, decided to do as many centuries as possible. Riding independently (with no registration whatsoever) from August 2, he kept hitting one century after the other and completed 100 of them by November 9. Clock-like precision Starting off from his Girinagar home daily at 2.50am, he covers 45km till 5am, after which he gets busy with his fitness sessions in south Bengaluru. He finishes another 40km between 10.15am and 12.15am, when he is away from the sessions. The last 15km comes after his day as an instructor ends at 7pm. “This has been my routine for the past 100+ days,” says Anil. On weekdays, Anil takes the Electronics City road. “On weekends, I enjoy a mix of Kanakapura Road, Bannerghatta Road and the one leading to Attibele,” he adds. On the challenge in riding a fixie amid city traffic, Anil says: “As the fixie doesn’t have rear brake, vehicles suddenly coming in my way disturb my momentum. It takes a lot of effort to regain speed.” For the record, the “habitual cyclist” has ridden 50,000km on fixie alone. The total distance done over the past 12 years (on different types of bikes) stands at 1,50,000km. Along the journey, he has also inspired at least eight of his students — and many more through social media — to ride fixie. Since Ganesha festival, Anil is joined by his student Prasad Sadashiva, an endurance cyclist, in his morning 45km rides. “Anil never skips his rides and sessions. In fact, he will be at the meeting points on time, every time,” says Prasad. Ask him when he’d end the century rides, and Anil smiles: “I don’t know. But I’m conscious of the body’s needs. Accordingly, I take in all nutrition and hydration and hit the pedal.” What's a fixie Fixie (aka fixed-gear bicycle) has a drivetrain with no freewheel mechanism. The drivetrain has the drive sprocket (or cog) threaded or bolted directly to the hub of the back wheel, so that the pedals are directly coupled to the wheel. During acceleration, the pedal crank drives the wheel. But in other situations, the rear wheel can drive the pedal cranks. This direct coupling allows a cyclist to apply a braking force with the legs and bodyweight, by resisting the rotation of the cranks. It also makes it possible to cycle backwards. (Source: Wikipedia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fixie-rider-pedalled-100km-daily-in-100-days/articleshow/79198571.cms||Charan Sadu
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cop suspended for sharing call records with suspects||BENGALURU: A constable attached to Sadashivanagar police station has been kept under suspension for allegedly sharing call detail records (CDRs) of a few youths with suspects arrested in a drug-peddling case. Prabhakar was with the station for three years. He had allegedly helped a drug peddler, Sujay, who was arrested by south division police earlier this month with 500 grams of hydro ganja. Sujay’s associates Hemanth and Suneesh were arrested in Goa along with Darshan Lamani, son of former Congress MLA from Haveri Rudrappa Lamani, on October 10. “While searching the houses of Sujay, Hemanth and Suneesh, police came across copies of CDRs. Investigators were surprised to learn that a constable had helped the accused in getting the CDRs of two youths, who had purchased ganja from Sujay and vanished without making payments,” sources said. However, police are yet to ascertain how Sujay and his aides came into contact with Prabhakar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cop-suspended-for-sharing-call-records-with-drug-case-suspects/articleshow/79198366.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||‘There’s no point in banning firecrackers’||Q. Do you think firecrackers should be banned?Not at all. Bursting crackers is a way of celebration and expressing one’s happiness. People burst crackers only for a few hours. I don’t see any point in banning them. Q. What about the concerns raised by environmental activists regarding pollution caused due to bursting of crackers?There are so many constant sources of air pollution – vehicles, industries, coal-fired power plants which are polluting the air throughout the year. Their contribution to environmental damage is much more compared to a few hours of bursting crackers once a year. When others more polluting sources are not being banned, why is there so much hue and cry about crackers? One might argue that the other things are necessary and crackers aren’t. But they have always been a part of our celebrations. Q. Many people believe that lighting diyas has been a traditional custom of Diwali and not crackers.In our country, celebrating Diwali has been about buying new clothes, performing Laxmi Pujan and then bursting crackers since ages. We are not the only ones; crackers are burst across the world during different occasions. Q. Are the crackers available these days less polluting?Almost 90% of the crackers that are widely sold now are aerial — they go up in the air and then burst. Hence the pollutants are not released around us. Very few ground crackers are being sold. Also, high noise emitting crackers are already banned. Most of the firecrackers have controlled decibel levels. Also, green crackers are also available which are supposed to have less content of chemicals. The smog hardly lingers in the air for a day and then the particles get dispersed. Q. But every year, data has shown significant deterioration of air quality post the festive season.That is because monitoring is done during the peak hours, right after bursting of crackers. It takes some time for particles to get dispersed. As I said, pollution caused due to crackers is temporary. In places like Delhi, the real cause of air pollution is burning of rice stubble. But no concrete measures are taken to curb it. Q. What effect will banning of firecrackers have on livelihoods?In a city like Nagpur alone, livelihoods of at least 20,000 people are dependent on crackers. Our industry has been already suffering losses due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Banning crackers will rob many families of their livelihood. They are largely dependent on the incomes generated during this festive season. (Ashok G Chandak is the owner of Chandak Fataka Company, Central Avenue)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/theres-no-point-in-banning-firecrackers/articleshow/79198122.cms||Manka Behl
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Outrage mounts against injustice meted out to puppetry artiste||HUBBALLI: Many folk artistes and associated organisations have expressed outrage over the withdrawal of puppetry artiste Keshappa Shillikyatar’s name from the list of Rajyotsava awardees by the government. The department of Kannada and culture had cited a technicality for denying Shillikyatar the prize this year – the honour, barring a few exceptions, was largely reserved for those aged above 60 – sparking outrage among the community of folk artistes, who remembered another similar incident wherein Jenukurubara Somanna of HD Kote taluk in Mysuru had been refused the honour in 2016. They felt that this injustice was being meted out only to folk artistes from rural areas and poor. President of the Kannada Janapada Parishat Balaji S took umbrage at the Kannada and culture department’s response of Shillikyatar being bestowed the honour in a few years’ time. “But he should be given the Rajyotsava award now. We have drawn the attention of both the culture minister and chief minister to this issue on Twitter. We will write to them soon,” said Balaji. He pointed out that, in an age dominated by technology, puppetry was an endangered art. “If the government insults members of the tribal community practising this art, it will soon become a thing of the past,” said Balaji, calling on the Kannada Bayalata Academy to speak out against the government for the injustice done to Shillikyatar. Jan Sangram Parishat’s Bengaluru division secretary Jagadeesha said that the officials from the department of Kannada and culture had assured him of Shillikyatar receiving the award in time to come. “Officials found that Shillikyatar’s year of birth mentioned on his passport was 1972, whereas the minimum age is 60, which means that he will have to wait till 2032. Folk artistes are poor and have no voice to speak of, which is why government officials can toy with them,” Jagadeesha rued. Activist Suresh Kanjarpane said that, upset with the rejection of Jenu Kurubara Somanna for the Rajyotsava honour four years ago, folk artistes had pooled funds, and bestowed on him the ‘Jan Rajyotsava’ award. “Devanooru Mahadeva had felicitated Somanna,” Kanjarpane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/outrage-mounts-against-injustice-meted-out-to-puppetry-artiste/articleshow/79197744.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 13, 2020||India||Modi and Asean call for adherence to international law in SCS||NEW DELHI: Amid efforts to finalise a code of conduct for the contested South China Sea (SCS) waters, where several Asean nations remain embroiled in maritime boundary disputes with China, India joined Asean on Thursday in again reiterating the significance of freedom of navigation and overflight and of adherence to international law, especially the UNCLOS. Addressing the 17th India-Asean summit that was held virtually, PM Narendra Modi said there was ample closeness between India's "Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative" and Asean's "Outlook on Indo-Pacific". "We firmly believe that a cohesive and responsive Asean is essential for security and growth for all in the region,” Modi said, adding that the 10-member south-east Asian group was the nodal centre of India's Act East Policy. Modi said India's top priority was to speed up all types of connectivity with Asean, including economic, digital, financial and maritime. Despite the reservations repeatedly expressed by China and Russia, India has maintained that the Indo-Pacific is a free, open, transparent and inclusive concept with Asean at its centre. Sharing details about the issues that came up during the summit, the government said both sides noted the importance of promoting a rules-based order in the region, including through upholding adherence to international law, especially the UNCLOS. "The leaders affirmed the importance of maintaining and promoting peace, stability, safety and security in the South China Sea, in particular freedom of navigation and overflight," MEA secretary (east) Riva Ganguly Das said, adding that the discussions covered regional and international issues including terrorism. Both India and Asean look at the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) as providing the "legal framework" for carrying out trade, commerce and other activities in the SCS. Modi participated in the summit at the invitation of Vietnamese PM Nguyen Xuan Phuc. Vietnam is the current chair of Asean. The Vietnamese PM was quoted as saying at the 37th Asean summit on Thursday that the member-states were looking forward to early conclusion of a code of conduct which is "effective, substantive and consistent with international law, particularly the UNCLOS". However, while China and Asean are looking to finalise the code of conduct by next year, India and the US had recently warned, after their 2+2 ministerial dialogue, that the code of conduct should not prejudice the legitimate rights and interests of any nation in accordance with international law. This was meant to prevent China, which continues to make expansive claims in disputed waters, from having its way in the negotiations for an effective code of conduct. According to Das, Modi also underscored the importance of strengthening convergence between India's Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative and Asean Outlook on Indo-Pacific to ensure a free, open, inclusive and rules-based Indo-Pacific region. Modi also announced a contribution of $1 million to Covid-19 Asean Response Fund and reiterated India's offer of $1 billion Line of Credit to support Asean connectivity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-and-asean-call-for-adherence-to-international-law-in-scs/articleshow/79201819.cms||Sachin Parashar
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||EPS will have to face many graft cases, says MK Stalin||DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday warned that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami (EPS), who he said will lose his post after May next year, would have to face a slew of corruption cases. Mounting a fresh attack on EPS, the opposition leader said EPS was involved in multi-crore scams, including the Covid-19 management scam, in the state. Stalin said EPS was scared of the outcome of the highway contract scam and that more scams would be exposed with documentary evidence in a few months. The provocation for the DNK chef’s scathing attack appeared to be a comment by EPS a day ago that Stalin’s chief ministerial aspirations would be dashed once the verdict in the case challenging his 2011 victory in Kolathur assembly segment was pronounced. Though the high court (HC) had declared that his victory was valid, his rival AIADMK candidate had appealed against the HC order in the Supreme Court. Slamming EPS for his statement, the opposition leader said he was ready to face the court and it was EPS, who was afraid of corruption charges waiting to be probed. “When a case is sub judice, EPS has made a comment akin to giving a verdict. This is contempt of court,” Stalin said. The DMK chief said he was not sure whether EPS was aware of the gravity of comments that he was making. He said the DMK has a history of facing court cases and winning them legally. “We have total confidence in courts. So, we are ready to face baseless cases.” Reiterating that EPS was scared of defeat, Stalin said the AIADMK would not even secure deposits in the assembly elections. “People of Tamil Nadu have made a clear decision on the AIADMK’s place after the elections. The countdown bell for the AIADMK and EPS’s CM post has begun.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eps-will-have-to-face-many-graft-cases-says-stalin/articleshow/79198316.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Meerut||Mourning death in family, UP trader refuses to open grocery store, shot dead||Meerut: The owner of a grocery store, who was mourning the death of his sister, was shot dead allegedly by a neighbour after he refused to reopen the shop and give sugar to him in UP’s Bulandshahr district on Thursday.Ramveer, the son of a local trader, had not opened the shop for the last few days due to the death in the family, police said.On Thursday morning, two youths from the area, Aakash and Kapil, reached Ramveer’s house and asked him to open the shop and give them sugar.An argument followed when Ramveer reused to open the shop and asked them to leave.Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar Singh said, “Ramveer was shot dead by Akash in Khatribada locality of Sikandrabad police station. A case has been registered.”Both the accused are on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mourning-death-in-family-up-trader-refuses-to-open-grocery-store-shot-dead/articleshow/79197286.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nashik||Study group for water diversion to Marathwada region formed||NASHIK: The state government has formed a study group under the stewardship of the director-general of the city-based Maharashtra Engineering Research Institute (MERI) to examine the suggestions regarding diversion of water to the Marathwada region from various river basins. The study group is expected to study and provide a solution for river interlinking — which will be in synchronization with the Integrated Water Plan of the state government — by March 31, 2021. “The study group will have to prepare a report on the ‘formula for the principle of allocation of funds in the irrigation sector’ and ‘figure out the plans for diversion of water to the Marathwada region from various basins’ by considering the water available in the said basins,” Ajay Kohirkar, MERI director-general, said. It may be noted that the rainwater in Maharashtra on the western side of the Sahyadri mountains, flows towards the Arabian Sea or is harnessed by Gujarat from rivers including Nar, Par, Damanganga, Pir, Pinjal etc. Maharashtra government is now planning to harness the water by arresting its flow towards the Arabian Sea by building dams and then lifting the water to a certain height. It will then pass the water across the ridge of the Sahyadri mountains by digging tunnels and then releasing the same into rivers like Godavari, Tapi, Girna etc. Subsequently, the water will be provided to various regions of Maharashtra. The task of the study group is to figure out how much water is available in which basin and how much water can be diverted from which basin. It will also plan interlinking of rivers and water diversion schemes in a step-by-step manner and finalize the criteria to be followed for construction of water diversion schemes. The experts who have been working on the water diversion schemes, however, have sounded caution. They said though the government resolution (GR) mentions “Diversion of water into water-deficit or Marathwada region”, the scope of the resolution remained “Diversion of water to the Marathwada region” indicating a priority for that region. “There have been several bitter instances in the past at the time of water-sharing between Nashik, Ahmednagar and Jayakwadi regions, especially when there is a scarcity,” the experts said. The study group, which has the chief engineers of the Tapi Irrigation Development Corporation (Jalgaon, Konkan Region, Mumbai), water resources department (Aurangabad, Nagpur and Pune), planning and hydrology (Nashik), and superintending engineer, Central Design Organisation (CDO) Nashik, as member secretary, will be headed by director-general MERI. For gfx CHECKING THE FLOW (check for image of Nar, Par river from ABhilash) Rainwater in Maharashtra on the western side of the Sahyadri mountains, flows towards the Arabian Sea or is harnessed by Gujarat from rivers including Nar, Par, Damanganga, Pir, Pinjal etc. Maharashtra government is now planning to harness the water by arresting its flow towards the Arabian Sea by building dams and then lifting the water to a certain height It will then pass the water across the ridge of the Sahyadri mountains by digging tunnels and then releasing the same into rivers like Godavari, Tapi, Girna etc. Subsequently, the water will be provided to various regions of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/study-group-for-water-diversion-to-marathwada-region-formed/articleshow/79199977.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 13, 2020||Kochi||Strict court orders will hit peace talks: Govt in HC||Kochi: Strict orders being issued by the court would affect the attempt to negotiate peace between Orthodox and Jacobite factions over Kothamangalam church, state government has told the Kerala high court. In an affidavit filed by additional chief secretary T K Jose, government said the court should postpone the proceedings in contempt of court case for three months as it has hopes on the ongoing peace talks. The court is considering a contempt of court petition filed by the Orthodox faction alleging that Ernakulam district collector S Suhas failed to implement last year’s court directive to take over the church and hand it over to them. Government has claimed in court that both the factions agreed not to create any trouble until the talks are over. If strict orders are issued by the court, it would affect the talks and would affect the peace of the state, the court was told. The district collector has also filed a statement to the effect that peace talks were initiated following intelligence reports that forceful takeover of the church would lead to damages to life and property. ‘Govt misleading court’ The Malankara Orthodox Syrian church denied any agreement with the Jacobite faction. “No such agreement have been made. The Orthodox church have maintained that the issues between the two factions will end only based on the Supreme Court verdict,” said Orthodox Church synod secretary Yuhanon Mar Diascoros. He said that the false affidavit shows the government’s unwillingness to implement the court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/strict-court-orders-will-hit-peace-talks-govt-in-hc/articleshow/79198361.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Cumulative positivity rate in dist down despite increase in cases||Ludhiana: Even as there has been an increase in new Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana recently, the cumulative positivity rate in the district is witnessing a decline and is less than what it was in July-end. The cumulative positivity rate is the number of samples that test positive out of the total tested.As per the recent state media bulletin, positivity rate in the district on November 10 was 4.51%. It is the lowest since the spurt in the number of cases around July-end and August first week. An analysis of the data since July 8 suggests that the cumulative positivity rate in the district on the day (July 8) was 2.84% with 1,244 positive cases for 43,721 tests done and it increased to 3.20% till July 15 and then to 4.73% by July 31. The cumulative positivity rate reached 7.17% on August 15, but dropped to 6.82% by August 31 though it increased in between. It decreased further to 5.81% till September 15, then to 5.57% till September 30, dropped further to 4.99% till October 15 before reaching the present value. The latest data of November 10 evening suggests that SAS Nagar is at number one position with 13.08% cumulative positivity rate in the state, Ferozepur district is at number two with 7.53% and Bathinda at three with 7.40%. Tarn Taran has the lowest rate of 2.58%.The health department authorities say the rate witnessing a fall after rising to a high value in August is a good sign. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga, however, cautions that it can increase in the coming times because of the festival season when people are not following the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cumulative-positivity-rate-in-dist-down-despite-increase-in-cases/articleshow/79194136.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 13, 2020||Meerut||Girl,2, dies after fire engulfs mattress factory in Meerut||Meerut: A two-year-old girl was charred to death in a fire that engulfed a mattress factory in Meerut on Thursday. The incident occurred at 11 am on Thursday after a suspected short circuit at the factory in Meerut’s Kharkhauda. A family, including a woman and five kids, lived at a house inside the premises of the factory.“A woman named Afsana lived with her five daughters at a house inside the factory. While everybody left the house at the time of the fire, her two-year-old daughter kept sleeping inside the house. Efforts were taken to rescue the child, but all in vain. Hours later, body of the child was found,” said Rishipal Sharma, station house officer, Kharkhauda police station.Fire officials say that prima facie it looks like a short-circuit led to the incident, however, a probe has been set up in the matter to investigate if there was any other reason.“A few labourers stayed inside the factory, however, at the time of the fire all of them could rush out of the building except the two-year-old toddler,” Sharma. The fire occurred at the mattress factory of one Nafees Ansari.At least two tenders were used to douse the fire, which continued for at least two hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/girl2-dies-after-fire-engulfs-mattress-factory-in-meerut/articleshow/79197313.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 13, 2020||Aurangabad||MVA seeks to encash differences within BJP camp||Aurangabad: While the suspense over official candidates of Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for Graduates’ Constituency election for Marathwada is finally over, the former will be eyeing to encash upon the alleged differences surfaced in the camp of latter over giving a party ticket. Pravin Ghuge of BJP has filed his nomination for December 1 election even if the party has given a ticket to Shirish Boralkar who had unsuccessfully contested the last poll. Ghuge, who is known as staunch supporter of BJP leader Pankaja Munde , along with couple of more such aspirants from the saffron camp, may weaken the chance of Boralkar if no reconciliation takes place. On the other hand, MVA has declared outgoing NCP ML Satish Chavan as its official candidate, paving way for a straight fight between him and Boralkar. Munde, who was personally present for the inauguration of campaigning office of Boralkar in Aurangabad on Thursday, openly vented out her displeasure over Ghuge being sidelined. “The party had to chop an election ticket of one person for the sake of Boralkar. Speculations were rife that whether I would make it for this event or not. However, my absence would have boosted the confidence of rivals,” she said. Stating that she was earlier not in favour of offering a ticket to Boralkar, Munde said that she would now leave no stone unturned for victory as party has taken a certain official stand. All eyes are on the Graduates’ Constituency Poll for Marathwada which is the first major political battle in the region after Shiv Sena ditched former alliance partner BJP to join hand with Congress and NCP to form MVA government in Maharashtra. While the the last date for filing nomination ended on Thursday, the total number of candidates who have filed their papers could not be ascertained till evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mva-seeks-to-encash-differences-within-bjp-camp/articleshow/79200027.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||Bikru fallout: Kanpur’s former SSP suspended||Lucknow: UP government on Thursday suspended senior IPS officer Anant Deo Tewari for his alleged role in posting and shielding of police officials who were hand in glove with slain don Vikas Dubey, a prime accused in Kanpur's Bikru massacre in which eight cops, including a CO, were killed on July 3. A PPS officer, who was promoted to IPS cadre in 2006, Anant Deo is at present posted as DIG PAC, Moradabad unit. He was Kanpur SSP just before Bikru carnage and DIG, Special Task Force, when the incident took place. Additional chief Secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi confirmed to reporters that DIG Tiwari was suspended based on the recommendations of the SIT formed after the massacre. He also said that action on other officers would also be taken later. Anant Deo is the 16th IPS officer to have been suspended ever since Yogi Adityanath took over as the CM in Match 2017. Anant Deo was shunted to PAC on July 8 after an old audio of DySP Devendra Mishra, who was later killed in the Bikru shootout, in which he was seeking action against Chaubeypur SHO during a chat with Anant Deo -- then Kanpur Nagar SSP -- went viral. The Chaubeypur SHO Vinay Tewari was arrested after his complicity with Vikas Dubey was prima facie established. Also, one Jaykant Bajpai, who has been identified as the financier of Vikas Dubey and is at present in jail, reportedly frequented Anant Deo when the latter was Kanpur police chief. Bajpai has posted several picutres of him along with Anant Deo clicked inside the SSP office. The SIT in its report has reportedly shown that the Anant Deo was soft while taking action against slain don Dubey. The manner of posting of Vinay Tiwari as Chaubeypur SHO was also questioned by the SIT, led by additional chief secretary Sanjay Bhoosreddy. Although officers kept quiet, sources revealed that the SHO was posted by bending rules. Sources also claimed that complaints by other subordinates also went unheard in cases pertaining to slain ganglord. The SIT in its report had also recommended against another DSP, who was posted as circle officer (CO) of the Sarojininagar area in Lucknow in 2017. Meanwhile, another IPS has also been served a show-cause notice in connection with the Bikru massacre. Besides, departmental action will also be taken against an ASP who was posted in the rural area of Kanpur and transferred from there only a week before Vikas Dubey and his aides killed eight police personnel. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) is also probing cases against Dubey and his 10 associates, including his financier Bajpai. The case was registered on October 21, under violation of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. On July 6, the ED had first sent a letter to inspector general, Kanpur range, Mohit Agarwal seeking specific details about Dubey and his associates. The ED has come across instances where prima facie money has crossed borders. The UP government had set up a three-member which also had two IPS officers, ADG Hariram Sharma and DIG J Ravindra Goud as members, to probe the entire sequence of events relating to the Bikru ambush, the properties amassed by the gangster and his henchmen and also how he managed to procure huge cache of arms and ammunition at his residence in Bikru village of Kanpur on the night of July 2 when as many as eight cops were killed by him and his aides. Dubey ran away after the massacre and was finally shot in a police encounter on July 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bikru-fallout-kanpurs-former-ssp-suspended/articleshow/79200782.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Crackdown against illegal sale of liquor in hotel||Aurangabad: The CIDCO police raided a hotel on Jalna Road on the night of November 10 and seized 96 bottles of liquor having market price of Rs 10,560. Acting on a specific tip-off, the patrolling staff of Jalna Road police carried out a crackdown at Hotel Kanduri. Hotel owner Rahul Shrimantrao Bhosale (21) of Jaihind Nagar has been booked in connection with the alleged illegal sale of liquor. An offence has been registered by the police under Maharashtra Prohibition Act 1949 and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code, an official release said. Welcoming the crackdown, citizens, especially those living in fringe areas, have demanded more such measures to contain rampant open sale of liquor in hotels. “A large section of hotels in different fringe areas of the city, including the Mitmita area, have been openly selling liquor. There is spurt in such activities during lockdown,” said Rohit Apet, a resident of the Mitmita area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/crackdown-against-illegal-sale-of-liquor-in-hotel/articleshow/79199986.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Cheaper, non-green crackers flood city||Coimbatore: A year has lapsed since the ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers that are not green came into effect in the country, yet they continue to flood the market. And the regular crackers that are on sale are manufactured by smaller, lesser known firework companies that too back in 2017. However, sellers say they are newly-made green crackers in old packaging material. The public, meanwhile, seem to be concerned more about prices of firecrackers, rather than whether they are eco-friendly or not. While banning the regular firecrackers, the Supreme Court had in October 2018 allowed bursting of green crackers with low emission content. Subsequently, 230 firms had signed agreements with the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR)-National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to manufacture green crackers that the latter develop. Green cracker boxes would have a logo in green colour with a QR code. While a couple of top brands from Sivakasi, including Standard Fireworks, have sent only green crackers for sales, the city seems to be flooded with hundreds of small brands. A sales executive with Vijaylakshmi Crackers at RS Puram says, “This year, Standard Fireworks has released only limited crackers and gift boxes. They all comply with the new regulations. So, we had to source some fancy matches box and the 2,000 wala, 5,000 wala and 10,000 wala from other smaller brands.” The matches boxes, 5,000 walas and gift boxes from other brands don’t have the green logo. In fact, the Lorry Owners’ Association Hall near Brookefields has only firecrackers from smaller and lesser known brands, which are 25% cheaper than their bigger counterparts. Each manufacturer has a separate stall with a salesperson. Not a single cracker box has the mandatory green logo. “These are all green crackers but have been packed in old boxes which does not have the logo,” says the sales executive with Vijaylakshmi Crackers. The package mentions they were manufactured in 2017, when the concept of green crackers wasn’t even around. The public, on their part, seem to have forgotten about green crackers. “We are buying based on prices and offers, because crackers have become too expensive. We burst them only three days a year and in limited quantity, so I am not thinking of pollution,” says a mill worker, who visited the Lorry Owners’ Association Hall with his two children. Surprisingly, shops with smaller brands of crackers saw more brisk business on Thursday, compared to their counterparts with bigger brands. Two other customers blinked when asked if they preferred green crackers. “I have left it to children to pick what they want,” said a retired bank manager, who was accompanied by his three grandchildren. Uncertainty over the public response has dissuaded most cracker shops from coming up with new varieties. “It is the same old walas, redfort, 25 shots, 12 shots and flowerpots that move fast,” said an executive with the Standard Fireworks stall next to Brookefields. “We haven’t received anything new this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cheaper-non-green-crackers-flood-city/articleshow/79198427.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Deadline to redesign 7 roads extended in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has directed Public Works Department to remove all hurdles in the redesigning of the city roads along the lines of European cities. The CM was reviewing the project, which would not only make the roads beautiful but also reduce pollution. Under the pilot project, seven roads have been identified for redesigning. The process of appointing a consultant, which is in the final stage, should be completed soon, said the CM. The deadline for redesigning the seven roads has, meanwhile, been extended till March 2021 due to the Covid pandemic. The earlier deadline was December, 2020. The redesigning of the roads was approved in November 2019. Commuters are facing several issues because even the wide roads of the city have multiple bottlenecks that create the problem of traffic congestion at various locations. The project eyes to remove those bottlenecks for a smooth flow of traffic and an organised lane system. The second goal will be to increase the efficiency of the existing space of the roads in the city so that the spaces are best utilised. A green belt, separate lanes for cyclists and pedestrians, attractive designs on the walls along the roads, open parks adjacent to the roads, separate parking spaces for autorickshaws and e-rickshaws will be part of the redesigning project. The footpaths will be widely mapped to an average of 10 feet for the convenience of pedestrians. The footpaths will be redesigned and reconstructed in accordance with a standard height for the convenience of people with disabilities. There will also be separate spaces for planting of trees on the sides of the footpaths. The slope of the roads, as well as the drains, will be redesigned to tackle the problem of waterlogging. Rainwater harvesting structures will be built inside the drainage systems to store rainwater as groundwater. According to the plan, not even an inch of the surface of any road or roadside will be left uncovered, in order to ensure that there is no dust on the roads. Adequate grasses and shrubs will be planted on all surfaces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/deadline-to-redesign-7-roads-extended/articleshow/79200799.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Kannur: Rahul Gandhi visits bereaved Venugopal||KOZHIKODE: Congress leader and Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi on Thursday visited the ancestral house of AICC general secretary K C Venugopal at Kannur to offer condolences as his mother had died on Wednesday. Venugopal’s mother K C Janaki Amma had died following Covid-19 at a private hospital in Kannur. Gandhi arrived at Kannur Airport in a special flight at 9:30am and reached Venugopal’s family house at Kandonthar near Kadannappally and spent around an hour with the grieving members. He offered his condolences to the family and paid floral tributes. Janaki Amma was under treatment a private hospital in Kannur from October 17 after she tested positive for Covid-19. Gandhi flew back to Delhi at around 1pm. Congress leaders were present at the residence during the visit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/rahul-gandhi-visits-bereaved-venugopal/articleshow/79198425.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Motorists want ‘No FASTag – No return toll’ policy scrapped||CLEARED SKHER Aurangabad: Motorists have raised their voice against the ‘No FASTag – No return toll’ policy on the busy Solapur-Dhule national highway number 211 that passes through Marathwada, including Aurangabad. Vehicle owners, who do not have FASTag, need to pay considerable extra amount for their journey. For example, the motorists travelling between Aurangabad and Beed have to pay Rs 100 extra for return journey completing within 24-hours if they do not have FASTag. Motorists have demanded rationalization of toll charges in keeping with their demand. “Those who are not frequent travellers do not need FASTag. They are being penalized through the extra charge. They must reverse their illogical decision with immediate effect,” said Yogesh Dharashivkar, a private professional. Faizan Syed, another vehicle owner, said it does not make any sense to burn holes in the pockets of the citizens for pushing reforms. “Only one lane has been made available for vehicle owners to pay toll at toll plazas on Solapur-Dhule national highway, if they do not have FASTag. This is leading to long queues. To add to the woes, motorists are denied return-journey toll for any mode of payment other than FASTag. Such treatment is unjust,” he said. When contacted, IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited, which manages the Solapur-Dhule national highway, pointed finger towards the National Highway Authority of India of the Centre. “The IRB Infrastructure Developers Limited adheres to the guidelines laid down by the NHAI,” the official response from the company stated, referring to the policy circular issued by NHAI on January 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/motorists-want-no-fastag-no-return-toll-policy-scrapped/articleshow/79200044.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Reopening of schools: Govt draws flak for wavering stand||Political parties have welcomed the state government’s decision withdrawing the earlier announcement of reopening schools on November 16, but has attracted criticism of being indecisive.“The announcement for school reopening and the subsequent withdrawal clearly shows the wavering mindset of the state government,’’ said DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday. “It has become a practice for the AIADMK government to make announcements without due diligence and then withdrawing,’’ he said in a social media post on Thursday. Stalin alleged that more than Covid it is the confusion perpetrated by the government that is scary. PMK leader S Ramadoss appreciated the government for the decision not to reopen schools and colleges. “This is the right decision. I welcome it,’’ he said in a twitter post adding that abundant caution should be exercised during festive period. He urged the government to take a decision on reopening of schools based on recommendations from health experts. Ramadoss noted that it was during Onam celebrations that Kerala saw a resurgence in the number of Covid cases. “To prevent a replication of the scenario in Tamil Nadu people have to be extra cautious,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/reopening-of-schools-govt-draws-flak-for-wavering-stand/articleshow/79198389.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Prominent leaders from Sangli set to fight it out for Pune seat||KOLHAPUR: The Pune division graduate constituency election has turned into a fight between two leaders from Sangli district after the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) picked Arun Lad as its nominee on Thursday morning. BJP had already announced Sangram Patil as its candidate, who filed his nomination papers on Wednesday. Incidentally, both Lad and Deshmukh are from Palus taluka of Sangli district. The third prominent candidate in the election us also from Sangli district – Prof Sharad Patil of Janata Dal (Secular). Patil has won the constituency in 2002 and also represented Miraj assembly constituency twice in the past. However, both BJP and NCP are facing problems from rebel groups. Bhaiyya Mane, a close associate of rural development minister Hasan Mushrif has filed his nomination papers. Mane is the director of Kolhapur District Central Cooperative Bank. Shrimant Kokate, who had also sought nomination from NCP, has decided to contest the election despite the announcement of Lad’s candidature. Kokate has been aspiring for the ticket for the past two years. For BJP, Sadabhau Khot from Sangli district is causing problem as his close associate N D Chowgule filed nomination papers on Thursday. Khot was present with him when he filed the papers. Khot is going away from the BJP leadership as he feels that he was not being accommodated in party affairs. The election is prestigious for BJP as it is considered as party’s stronghold. It was being represented by Chandrakant Patil, who is now MLA from Kothrud. Arun Lad had contested 2014 election as an independent when NCP refused him nomination. Lad has secured around 60,000 votes, which played major role in the victory of Chandrakant Patil. NCP had then fielded Sarang Patil, son of former bureaucrat and now Satara MP Shriniwas Patil. Last date to withdraw nomination paper is November 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/its-battlefield-sangli-for-pune-graduate-seat/articleshow/79200064.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Meerut||Man, 45, gets life imprisonment for raping 15-year-old daughter||BIJNOR: A 45-year-old man was handed down imprisonment for life — to remain in jail until the end of his life — for raping his 15-year-old daughter two years ago. Delivering the judgment, additional sessions and special judge Omprakash Verma on Wednesday also slapped on the convict a fine of Rs 20,000 that would be given to the victim. According to official sources, the accused — whose wife passed away five years ago under suspicious circumstances — was booked under section 376 (2) (committing rape) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act at Sherkot police station on August 29, 2018, based on a complaint lodged by the girl’s uncle. According to the complainant, the accused used to harass his daughter and raped her repeatedly. The crime came to fore when the girl narrated her ordeal to the uncle. After examining the matter thoroughly and recording the statements of witnesses and the girl, the investigating officer had filed a charge-sheet in the court in 2018. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-45-gets-life-imprisonmentfor-raping-15-year-old-daughter/articleshow/79197375.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 13, 2020||Aurangabad||Mumbai-Kinwat special train to run till Adilabad||AURANGABAD: The Mumbai CSMT-Kinwat-Mumbai CSMT special train (01141/01142) has been extended till Adilabad for the benefit of the passengers. “The Railway Board has given the necessary approval for the extended run of the special train with fully reserved accommodation,” an official release said. Accordingly, Mumbai CSMT-Adilabad special train will depart from the state capital daily at 4.35 pm from Friday. The train is scheduled to arrive at Adilabad at 9.30am on the next day. In the return journey, the special train will leave Adilabad daily at 1 pm with effect from Saturday and expected to reach Mumbai the next day at 5.35am. These special trains will halt at Kinwat, Bodhadi Bujrug, Sahasrakund, Himayatnagar, Bhokar, Mudkhed, Nanded, Purna, Parbhani, Manwat Road, Selu, Partur, Jalna, Aurangabad, Lasur, Rotegaon, Manmad, Lasalgaon, Nasik Road, Igatpuri, Kalyan, Thane and Dadar stations in both the directions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mumbai-kinwat-special-train-to-run-till-adilabad/articleshow/79200056.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Kadambari Balkawde appointed as KMC administrator||Kolhapur: Municipal commissioner Kadambari Balkawde was appointed as the administrator for Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on Wednesday by the state government. The decision on appointment of administrators happens three days ahead of the conclusion of the tenure of current house. The new house of elected representatives was scheduled to come into existence, but elections could not take place owing to the Covid-19 situation. Principal secretary of the urban development department issued an order appointing administrators for the civic body. The current municipal commissioner is expected to continue as the administrator as the election commission takes a minimum period of six months to complete the preparation. The EC is yet to initiate any preparation for the civic body election. The main work includes voters list and demarcations of wards. The order states that the government has decided to defer all elections of the civic body in view of Covid-19 situation. It further states that appointment of administrator was inevitable as tenure of the house could not be extended because of legal provisions. The municipal commissioner should take over as the administrator immediately after the tenure of the house ends on Saturday, the order read. The order has suggested that the administrator should form an informal committee of office-bearers such as mayor, deputy mayor, standing committee chairperson and party leaders so that people’s participation is ensured in the decision making process as well as running of the administration. The administrator is suggested to hold a fortnightly meeting of the informal committee. The KMC election assumes political significance in view of the changed situation in Maharashtra wherein non-BJP parties such as Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena have come together to form the MVA government. All three political parties will have major stakes in Kolhapur even as Sena’s performance in Lok Sabha and Assembly election was dismal. For BJP, it will be an opportunity to make a fresh attempt to spread the party. Former MP Dhananjay Mahadik has officially joined BJP and his Tararana Aaghadi continues to have influence in the city. Congress and NCP have been dominating civic politics in the current tenure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kadambari-balkawde-appointed-as-kmc-administrator/articleshow/79200061.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Public toilets in city to have space for transgender people||Ludhiana: Now, public toilets will have space for transgender people too.In the initiative taken up under the Swachh Bharat mission, the municipal corporation has completed the process at 49 public toilets in the city. The MC officials said on the directions of the Central government, they have started creating space for the third gender and stickers were being pasted on the washroom doors. In the existing public toilets, space was being reserved for transgender people. In the new public toilets, separate blocks will be created at the time of construction. Operation and maintenance cell superintending engineer Rajinder Singh said, “We have created space in public toilets for the third gender and only they will be allowed to use it. This has been done to end taboo around transgender people. It will also give a sense of equality to them.”Welcoming the move, the transgender people said the facility should be provided in public offices as well. The head of a dera in Salem Tabri, Bholi Mahant, said, “This is a very good initiative. Earlier, when we would go to public toilets, we used to think which one should we use.” Mahant added, “When we have been given voting rights under transgender category, then space should be reserved for us for other works, too. For instance, when we go to any public department for payment of dues or some other work, there should be a third queue for the transgender community.” Awareness about solid waste mgmtThe MC is also creating awareness among the transgender people about solid waste management and sanitation issues. They have been told to help civic body in source segregation and home composting of garbage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/public-toilets-in-city-to-have-space-for-transgender-people/articleshow/79194200.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||Deepotsav at Saryu to propel Ayodhya into the epic realm||AYODHYA: Minutes after the sun sets on the pristine Saryu river on Friday, the banks will magically illuminate with more than 5.51 lakh diyas and Ramjanmabhoomi will simultaneously light up with 11,000 earthen lamps in what is being touted as the grandest Deepotsav in 500 years, marking the historic construction of the Ram temple. And chief minister Yogi Adityanath will reiterate his commitment to turn the temple town into an international pilgrimage destination with a plethora of development projects worth more than Rs 500crore in his Diwali address from the Saryu banks, where 1,000 special invitees, including Governor Anandiben Patel would witness a spellbinding evening aarti and laser show. Sources said, the CM will particularly mention big-ticket projects for Ayodhya, including an international airport, doubling of railway tracks between Ayodhya and Varanasi and four-lane bypasses in and around Ayodhya, including the Sohaval-Vikramjot route. Apart from the grand Ram temple at Ramjanmabhoomi, a bow-shaped New Ayodhya project, which will embrace tenets of Vedic and modern township planning and Lord Ram’s statue, slated to be the world's tallest, are in the pipeline, additional chief secretary Awanish Awasthi told TOI. On Friday afternoon, a grand coronation procession of Lord Rama will start from Saket College in Ayodhya and traverse 5km to reach the Saryu banks. Accompanying the coronation procession of Lord Ram will be 11 tableaux featuring Putreshthi Yagya, Gurukul Shiksha, Ram Sita Vivah, Ahilya Uddhaar, Panchvati Rameshwaram Setu, Pushpak Vimaan, Kewat Prasang, Ram Darbar, Shabri Ram Milaap and Lanka Dahan. The main draw of the Deepotsav celebrations will be the landing of a helicopter modelled around the mythical Pushpak Vimaan at Ram Katha Park helipad in which three select models enacting Lord Ram, Sita and Laxman will be received by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who will perform the coronation rituals, said district magistrate Anuj Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deepotsav-at-saryu-to-propel-ayodhya-into-the-epic-realm/articleshow/79200792.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||LMC bonds to make debut on BSE today||Lucknow: Lucknow Municipal Corporation’s bonds worth Rs 200 crore will be up for bidding at Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) on Friday. The move is being undertaken under the Smart Cities Mission to meet financial requirements of the cash-strapped LMC. It will make LMC the first civic body in north India to float bonds. Urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon, municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi and other senior officers will participate in the launch through video conferencing. Funds generated from the bonds will be used by the civic body to revive its two-year-old housing project in Aurangabad Khalsa and some other development work. A municipal bond is a debt instrument issued by a civic body to finance capital expenditure, while the investors get payments on a predetermined rate of interest over a stipulated time period. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “The bonds would be floated for 10 years with annual returns of around 8.5-9%.” “The funds generated from them would be invested in projects having the viability of generating enough returns for repayment to investors,” Ajay Dwivedi added. The civic body had announced to issue bonds of Rs 200 crore during the Smart City Summit 2018. The state government gave approval for the municipal corporations of Lucknow and Ghaziabad in July 2019. In August, the then municipal commissioner Indramani Tripathi had announced that the civic body will issue bonds by mid-October. However, the project got delayed and will now see the light of the day. “The delay was due to some listing complications with the BSE,” said Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-bonds-to-make-debut-on-bse-today/articleshow/79200802.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||2 die of Covid, 88 test positive||Ludhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 88 tested positive on Thursday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 72-year-old man of Shimlapuri and a 60-year-old woman of Jodhewal Basti.The day also saw an outsider succumbing to the virus and 17 testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has mounted to 857 and that of outsiders to 345.To date, 4,11,502 persons have been tested.Of the 88 new cases, 39 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 20 positive cases’ contacts, 17 from OPD, nine through tracing process, one pre-operative case, and one cop.The district case count is 21,160 and that of outsiders is 2,942.So far, 19,628 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.75% of the total cases.There are 672 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,232.On Thursday, 82 people were quarantined and 2,056 samples were collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH.Of 12 patients on ventilators, seven are Ludhianvis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-die-of-covid-88-test-positive/articleshow/79194211.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Delhi||CPWD announces design competition for iconic structure in proposed park on Yamuna bank||NEW DELHI: The Central Public Works Department (CPWD) on Thursday announced to hold a design competition for an iconic structure in the proposed “Nav Bharat Udyan” (New India Garden) on the Yamuna bank. The park will be developed over 22 acres to commemorate 75 years of India’s Independence. TOI had on July 14 first reported about the “New India Garden”, which will be developed close to the Millennium Bus Depot. “This is part of the Central Vista Redevelopment Pproject. The iconic structure will be on the same alignment of the Rashtrapati Bhavan and India Gate. This will be like virtually doubling the length of the Central Vista from 2.9 km to 6.3 km. No structure will be touched between India Gate and the proposed park. Hence, this stretch won’t have the similar features or look like that of the Rajpath,” said a senior official of the housing and urban affairs ministry. He said the existing road network between India Gate and the proposed park will be improved to make it a user-friendly. “There cannot be a physical extension of Central Vista with similar character. We have National Stadium and Purana Qila on this stretch. These cannot be touched,” the official said. CPWD said the design can be subitted by individuals, students, a group of persons, architects and firms. It said the park will have the iconic structure and infotainment facilities such as Sphere of Unity, Milestones Walkway, Journey of India, Tech Dome, amphi-theatre to showcase India’s rich historical and cultural heritage, scientific achievements, and will symbolise unity in diversity and aspirations of the New India. The maximum permissible height of the structure will be 134 metres from the present ground level. CPWD has kept Rs 5 lakh as the prize for the winning entry while five commendation prizes of Rs 1 lakh each will also be given.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cpwd-announces-design-competition-for-iconic-structure-in-proposed-park-on-yamuna-bank/articleshow/79200834.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: After Arvind Kejriwal’s barb, Pramod Sawant says stop divisive politics||PANAJI: Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant and his Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal were at loggerheads on Twitter on Thursday, too, over the issues of railway double tracking and infrastructure projects that will cut through the Mollem National Park. Accusing Kejriwal of creating ‘Centre versus state issues’, Sawant said he didn’t require the AAP national convener’s advice even as he reiterated that Mollem would be protected. Kejriwal, on his part, claimed the Centre was forcing the double tracking project on the state. He called Mollem the lungs of Goa and urged Sawant to stand with the people of the state. “It is heartening to hear that @DrPramodPSawant ji. Goans are opposing double tracking project. Kindly hear their voice n #savemollem as they are lungs of Goa. I understand Centre is forcing this project on Goa. Pl stand wid Goans, say NO 2 centre n save Goa from becoming coal hub,” Kejriwal tweeted on Thursday. Responding to Kejriwal, Sawant said, “Dear @ArvindKejriwal ji, Doubling of Railway tracks is a nation building exercise. There is no threat to Mollem & we will ensure it remains that way. We will not allow Goa to become coal hub. Knowing your expertise in creating Center vs State issues, we will skip your advice.” The war of words, however, did not end there. In a subsequent tweet, Kejriwal said, “you don’t need to listen to my advice but please listen to the voices of Goans. Shouldn’t Goans have some say in their own state? Is Central diktat more important than Goan voices?” Sawant retorted, “Our feet and ears are firmly on the ground @ArvindKejriwal ji. Please stop your divisive politics of Center vs State. We are ONE NATION!”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-kejris-barb-sawant-says-stop-divisive-politics/articleshow/79200072.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Abhijit Wanjari, Sandip Joshi file nominations for grads’ constituency polls, both camps upbeat||NAGPUR: Congress candidate Abhijit Wanjari and BJP candidate Sandip Joshi filed their nominations for Nagpur division graduates’ constituency polls on Thursday. Supporters of both candidates seemed upbeat and claimed that their man would win easily. Wanjari and other Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders including Balasaheb Thorat (state Congress president and revenue minister), Congress cabinet ministers Nitin Raut, Sunil Kedar and Vijay Wadettiwar, Shiv Sena MP Krupal Tumane, former NCP minister Ramesh Bang, etc gathered at Samvidhan Square and then proceeded to the divisional commissionerate on foot. After filing nominations, Thorat told the media that BJP was claiming that the constituency was its bastion since 50 years and hence it would win this time too. “That is history. Wanjari has been preparing for this election since last two years and he is going to win easily.” On Wednesday, NCP city president Anil Ahirkar had told the media that the party would field its own candidate. Commenting on this, Thorat said, “We will talk to NCP leaders. If they are upset we will sort out the differences and ensure that they do not field a candidate.” After filing nominations, Congress leaders Ashish Dua, Rajendra Mulak and others went to Ahirkar’s office and pacified the NCP activists. Ahirkar then issued a letter to support Wanjari. Joshi first went to union transport minister Nitin Gadkari’s residence to seek his blessings. From there he proceeded to Samvidhan Square. He filed the nomination accompanied by former BJP cabinet ministers Sudhir Mungantiwar and Chandrashekhar Bawankule, outgoing MLC Anil Sole, Sulekha Kumbhare, Pravin Datke etc. Mungantiwar told the media that Joshi would win easily again. “This constituency has been bastion of BJP since last 50 years and will continue to remain so. The MVA government is giving shabby treatment to Vidarbha. The voters know this and will vote for BJP,” he said. The ex-state finance minister further said, “The term of Vidarbha Statutory Development Board (VSDB) ended on April 10 this year but the government is yet to renew it. MVA does want a body which will prevent diversion of funds meant for Vidarbha to other parts of the state.” “Tribal families have not got free food from government for last four months. I have asked Gadchiroli MP Ashok Nete to hold a meeting of all tribal MLAs in this regard. BJP will file cases against MVA government for cheating in every police station in tribal areas. If the police does not act, we will approach the court,” said Mungantiwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wanjari-joshi-file-nominations-for-grads-constituency-polls-both-camps-upbeat/articleshow/79194299.cms||Ashish Roy
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Silent Diwali: Fireworks banned across Telangana by HC||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Thursday ordered a complete ban on selling and bursting firecrackers this Diwali and told the state government to ensure that all shops selling firecrackers are closed immediately across the state. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy also asked the government to appeal to the people to avoid bursting crackers. So far, seven states and one Union Territory have banned bursting and sale of firecrackers this year. Among them are Dehi, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Chandigarh and Haryana. Besides, on November 9, the National Green Tribunal banned bursting firecrackers in all urban areas which had seen poor air quality in November last year. Hearing a PIL by advocate P Indra Prakash, the bench said that the state could not afford any activity that worsens air quality during the pandemic. Prakash, in his plea, had contended that the novel coronavirus affects the lungs and plays havoc with other organs as well. He added that Diwali fireworks cause pollution which tends to hang in the air and could jeopardise the lives of those hit by Covid-19. Advocate general B S Prasad told the court that the state government had not taken any policy decision on banning crackers. He also said that the government was optimistic that people would follow Covid-19 precautions while celebrating Diwali. The bench, in its order, said that while festivals were important and may serve a social purpose, the lives of people were more important. The judges added that it was the duty of the state to ensure that the lives of the people are protected and promoted in a meaningful way. “…considering the fact that the lives of the people need to be protected, considering the fact that uncontrolled and untrammelled use of fireworks may jeopardise the lives of many, this court directs the state to immediately ban the sale and use of fireworks by the people and by organisations,” the order read. “Inform us the steps taken by the authorities on November 19,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/silent-diwali-fireworks-banned-across-t-by-hc/articleshow/79200812.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kochi||Cochin Shipyard Ltd launches five ships, including three for Border Security Force||KOCHI: The Cochin Shipyard Ltd (CSL) launched five vessels at one go from its building dock and also laid the keel for two vessels in Kochi on Thursday. The vessels launched are two 8000 DWT mini general cargo ships for JSW Shipping & Logistics Pvt Ltd and three floating border outpost vessels (FBOP) for the Indian Border Security Force (BSF). Keel-laying was carried out for two more similar mini general cargo ships. The five vessels were launched by Rameetha K, scientist ‘G’, NPOL (DRDO) and wife of Madhu S Nair, CMD, CSL, while Pranab K Jha, VP JSW Shipping and Madhu S Nair did the honours of keel laying for the two new vessels. The mini general cargo ships launched on Thursday are part of a series of four similar ships being built for the JSW Group. These vessels are built and classed under the standards of Indian registry of shipping. These ships will be used for transportation of dry bulk cargo such as coal, iron ore, dolomite, and limestone. The vessels, with a length of 122 Mtr and height of 7.20 Mtr and speed of 10 knots, will have a compliment of 16 crew. These ships are expected to ply on the coastal route between Jaigarh port and Dolvi steel plant in river Amba near Dharamtar port. This programme, once implemented, would trigger one of the largest inland water transport cargo movements in India. The three FBOP’s, with a length of 46mtr, launched on Thursday are part of a series of nine vessels being built for the water wing of the BSF. These vessels are designed in-house by CSL & classed by Indian registrar of shipping. Each FBOP is designed with stowage arrangements for four fast patrol boats, which can be launched and hoisted using its own davit system. The vessels will act as a floating base for the flotilla of fast patrol boats and will supply petrol, fresh water and provisions to the smaller boats and are to be deployed on India’s eastern & western borders. CSL is also augmenting its infrastructure in Kochi and is currently investing around Rs 2,800 crore in the construction of a new 310 M long dry dock at CSL and a ship lift based ship repair yard at Willingdon Island, Kochi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/csl-launches-5-ships-including-three-for-bsf/articleshow/79198498.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Goa||Yuri Alemao quits Goa Forward Party||MARGAO: In what is perceived as a setback to Goa Forward Party (GFP) in its expansion plans, Yuri Alemao, son of former Congress legislator Joaquim Alemao, resigned from the primary membership of the party on Thursday. The move has, however, not come as a surprise to political observers, as Yuri was, of late, seen cosying up to Congress leadership, and was even seen with leader of opposition Digambar Kamat at the anti-coal protest at Chandor, recently. Responding swiftly to Yuri’s resignation, GFP dissolved its Cuncolim block committee and announced that the new panel would be constituted soon. The party however downplayed his resignation. “…he was never given any position or post in the party. We have thousands of primary members in the party across Goa and Yuri was one of them,” joint secretary of GFP, Santosh Kumar Sawant said. Eyes firmly set on Cuncolim constituency soon after the 2017 elections, GFP had inducted Yuri into the party fold in October 2018 and projected him as its candidate for the 2022 polls. “As part of our party’s expansion plans, we have selected Yuri Alemao as our prospective candidate from Cuncolim constituency,” GFP vice-president Durgadas Kamat had told reporters on October 4, 2018, and a week later even opened the party’s office in Cuncolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/yuri-alemao-quits-goa-forward/articleshow/79200113.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Funds released for 3 Delhi University colleges, govt tells HC||NEW DELHI: The AAP government has informed Delhi High Court that it has released funds to three DU colleges to enable them to pay salaries of their staff. The amounts were released in compliance of the court’s direction last week where it fixed a deadline of November 9 for the government to disburse the pending dues to four Delhi University colleges -- Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College, Bhagini Nivedita College, Aditi Mahavidyalaya Women''s College and Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies -- so they can pay salaries of their staff. However, the government submitted to the court that Dr Bhim Rao Ambedkar College was not given funds as it had already been given Rs 12.89 crore in lieu of the first two quarters as against a sum of Rs 11.5 crore which was released to it for the same period in 2019-20. The government’s stand before a bench of justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad was opposed by the college, which said that in the last financial year, no money was released in the second quarter and a cumulative amount of Rs 10 crore was released to it in the third quarter. It also told the court that this year it has been able to pay salaries of its staff only till Julyout of the amount released by the government. The college said that a representation has been made to Delhi government on November 9, requesting release of more funds for paying salaries to the staff for the months of August, September and October. “If such a representation has been made, the Directorate of Higher Education, GNCTD, shall respond thereto within two days,” the bench said. It also directed the government to file an affidavit indicating its stand with regard to payment of arrears of salaries of the teaching and non-teaching staff of Bhim Rao Ambedkar college from August and of the other three colleges from October. With the direction, the court listed the matter for further hearing on December 16.Advocate Ashok Agarwal, representing the teachers, had earlier told the court that the four colleges have not paid salaries to their staff for the months of June, July and August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/funds-released-for-3-du-colleges-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/79200846.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Meerut||13,000 votes in poll debut, distant 3rd in race, but Chandrashekhar Azad says ‘it still matters’||It was in the shadow of the 2017 clashes between Dalit agitators and the police in UP’s Saharanpur that Chandrashekhar Azad’s politics took shape. In three years, Bhim Army had become the new-age voice of Dalit rights in the country, his blue scarf and handlebar moustache feeding social media buzz, and each arrest securing his position further. It did not, however, translate into immediate political capital in his first poll outing. “I launched the Azad Samaj Party (ASP) in March. Then, there was a lockdown. In October, we got the registration certificate. Just a few days before the nomination deadline, we got our symbol. Where was the time to prepare?” Azad told TOI. The party was written off as an also-ran and, given its self-positioning as the Dalit outfit that goes back to the Kanshi Ram roots BSP chief Mayawati has “abandoned”, seen as being more likely to split votes than have any meaningful participation. ASP went on to contest just one seat in the UP bypolls, and two in the Bihar assembly polls as part of the Progressive Democratic Alliance led by Pappu Yadav. “Yet, we got more than 13,000 votes in the (Bulandshahr) bypoll, much ahead of Congress and the SP-RLD alliance. Isn’t that big?” he asked. BJP won the seat with over 88,000 votes. BSP came next with nearly 67,000 votes and ASP was third, with a 6.7% vote share. Congress got 10,000 and RLD over 7,000. The party didn’t fare well in Bihar either. In Chenari, it got just 800 votes and in Banka, about 300. So what went wrong? “Stardom does not always mean votes,” said political analyst Prof Badri Narayan. “He does not have the base yet. He may have a following among the youth, but the youth vote alone doesn’t win seats. It works in combination with caste and community equations. Mayawati is still an icon for the Jatav and Chamar communities. It is not easy to break into that bastion.” Dalit activist and commentator Chandra Bhan Prasad said Azad started out on the right track but could not stay on it. “He started with the slogan, ‘The Great Chamar’ (he had put up a board outside his village, meant to subvert the derogatory manner in which the term is often used). Then, he widened his agenda to Kanshi Ram’s Bahujan movement (with a broader base of marginalised communities) … He should have stuck to his core base. He has to create an identity that is distinct.” For Azad, however, this was a dry run for what he is working towards — the 2022 UP assembly elections. The 34-year-old lawyer-turned-activist has said he would like ASP to eventually become a viable alternative to the NDA and UPA. How does he see his chances shaping up? “Just wait another six months. All 403 constituencies in UP will each have 20,000-strong cadre, working at the booth level. My focus is to provide a robust alternative to BJP in the state.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/13k-votes-in-poll-debut-distant-3rd-in-race-but-azad-says-it-still-matters/articleshow/79197409.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP CM Yogi Adityanath gives job letters to over 1,400 junior engineers||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath issued appointment letters to over 1,400 junior engineers in the irrigation department on Thursday, saying that it was for the first time that such a high level of recruitments had taken place in an absolutely transparent manner. The chief minister said that in the past three years, the irrigation department had achieved major milestones in Uttar Pradesh — from completing pending irrigation projects like Ban Sagar to ensuring relief for citizens during floods. Speaking about his government’s commitment to ensuring jobs for everyone, to achieve which it was going to launch Mission Rozgar after Diwali, Yogi said the selection of 1,438 junior engineers for the irrigation and water resources department had been carried out by the Lok Sewa Ayog. The CM not only handed appointment letters to a few of the newly appointed JEs, but also interacted with the others via video conferencing and spoke to 10 of them, one each from Sitapur, Gorakhpur, Varanasi, Jhasi, Meerut, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Bareilly, Rampur and Saharanpur. During his interaction, Yogi asked the new recruits whether they had been required to pay anyone during the selection process, get recommendation from someone or faced any kind of bias. He said that just like their selection they too should work in a transparent and upright way. The CM referred to the appointment procedures under previous governments, saying that only money and sifarish (recommendation) worked earlier to get people jobs. “Last year, the Lok Sewa Ayog had selected 543 assistant engineers. The unbiased and transparent selection of engineers by the irrigation department is an example for other departments,” he said. Speaking about the role of the Jal Shakti department in preventing and managing floods and also ensuring irrigation facilities for farmers, Yogi said that it had great success in the past three years. “In the first year of BJP’s government in UP, 38 districts were affected by flood which resulted in widespread destruction and loss of lives. Since then, there has been significant improvement in the situation. Rivers have been channelized to control floods and irrigation projects pending for years were completed,” he said. The CM spoke about the Ban Sagar project in Mirzapur which was inaugurated by PM Narendra Modi in 2018. The project had received approval in 1973 and work was started in 1978 by the then PM Morarji Desai but even after crores of rupees were spent on it, the project remained pending, he said, adding that it was the BJP government that had it completed to benefit lakhs of farmers. The government is also working towards completing other pending projects like the Saryu Nahar project, Madhya Ganga project and Arjun project, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-gives-job-letters-to-over-1-4k-jr-engrs/articleshow/79200822.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 13, 2020||Goa||Startup policy extension not notified: Goa IT professionals||PANAJI: While information technology minister Jennifer Monserrate announced that the Goa startup policy would be extended for six months till February, the Goa startup promotion cell (SPC) is reportedly stalling applications from startups for incentives because the policy extension has yet to be notified. Goa IT professionals (GITP) said that startups are facing the brunt of the government’s lapse. “Eligible startups seeking promised benefits under the policy are being told that SPC is not processing any applications as they are awaiting the policy extension,” said GITP president Gurudev Naik. GITP also claimed that the finance department has taken away funds earmarked for startups citing the Covid-19 emergency and is not releasing the required funds amounting to less than Rs 3 crore despite follow-ups by the startup promotion cell and the IT minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/startup-policy-extension-not-notified-gitp/articleshow/79200135.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kochi||Amid rumblings in Youth Cong, Oommen decides not to contest polls||Kottayam: Young Congress leader Chandy Oommen on Thursday made it clear that he will not contest the local body polls. The decision reflects the brewing discontentment in the Congress party’s youth wing though Oommen said it should not be seen as a protest against the Congress leadership. Oommen said he pulled out of the race as he felt it was ‘inappropriate’ for him to contest even as several youngsters from the Youth Congress were denied ticket by the Congress party. Speaking to TOI, Oommen, a former NSU general secretary, said he had initially thought about contesting after some well-wishers encouraged him to do so. “It was Kottayam district youth congress president Chintu Kurien Joy who requested me to contest,” he said. “Youth Congress state president Shafi Parambil had met all DCC presidents in the state and requested them to give a chance to Youth Congress members during ticket distribution for the upcoming polls,” Oommen said. But there weren’t many young candidates on the list, he said. He also said that he is pained by the fake news doing the rounds that his father Oommen Chandy is not keeping good health. “My father is fine,” he said. Shafi Parambil and other young Congress leaders, including K S Sabarinathan had met the state Congress leadership raising the demand for giving representation for Youth Congress in elections. However, their request has been snubbed even for local body polls.  Kurien Joy said if Youth Congress members are not allowed due representation in elections it will be difficult to attract new members to the outfit. “Youth Congress members volunteered to work among the people during the pandemic. We were also in the forefront of the protest against the government over the gold smuggling case and other issues. Police cases have been registered against several members in the past six months,” he said. “Youth Congress Kottayam district committee has objected to the party’s decision to offer the Kerala Congress more seats. Most of the seats allotted to the Kerala Congress were kept for Youth Congress,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/amid-rumblings-in-youth-cong-oommen-decides-not-to-contest-polls/articleshow/79198523.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Stranded, Syrians hit Hyderabad streets for help||HYDERABAD: The pavement outside a mall in Banjara Hills is where Ahmed Faris and his wife spend evenings these days. While at first sight they appear to be just another couple on an outing with a toddler in tow, the placard in hand tells a different story. ‘We are from Syria. Please help’ it reads. A chat with the 25-year-old unravels his plight that began soon after the lockdown after landing in city for his wife’s treatment. Out of funds and no means to return, his family of five – husband, wife and three children – is now stranded in the city. With nobody else to turn to, Ahmed said he’s taken to the streets to raise funds to pay for his rented accommodation in Toli Chowki. “For the last two months we haven’t been able to pay rent (Rs 15,000). If we cannot get money now, we might lose our home,” said the young man adding, “We came here about eight months ago with Rs 50,000 for my wife’s treatment at Medicover Hospital. She had a gynaecological problem. Now the money is over and we do not know what to do.” But these visits to city corners haven’t been very fruitful so far, said Ahmed’s wife. “All we get at the end of the day is Rs 500 to Rs 600,” added the mother of three. That evening she had left her two older sons at home. “There is lot of problems in Syria... we can’t get help from there,” the wife said as her eyes, peeking from behind the burqa, welled up with tears. Like them, a few other families from Syria too have been walking the streets of Hyderabad – across Masab Tank, Mehdipatnam, Saidabad – with 'please help us’ placards. TOI caught with one of them outside the popular Azizia Masjid in Mehdipatnam. “Other members of my family are stationed at different locations/mosques. We need money for food, home,” she said, unwilling to share any further details. Mosque official, Mohammed Shahid, confirmed that these families make the rounds of the place every day. “We have been seeing them for a while. Those walking in for prayers help them with small sums of money,” he said. Though Medicover could not confirm Ahmed’s case in particular, an official there said that patients from these countries do visit the hospital – mostly for gynaecology issues or infertility – and seek treatment as outpatients. (With inputs from Syed Omar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stranded-syrians-hit-city-streets-for-help/articleshow/79200844.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Promotions for over 5,700 PAC personnel||LUCKNOW: In a bonanza before Diwali, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered promotion of 5,759 personnel of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) to various ranks on Thursday. A formal function to hand over the promotion letters to a view cops would be held at the 5, Kalidas Marg on Friday. Last week, the CM had restored promotions of 896 PAC jawans who were demoted following an order of the Uttar Pradesh police establishment board. ADG, PAC, Binod Kumar Singh, said that as per the promotion orders, as many as 5,042 personnel were promoted from the rank of constables to head constables and as many as 717 head constables were promoted to the ranks of platoon commanders. “PAC forms the backbone of the state police and the announcement made by the government during the festival will not only boost the morale of the jawans but also make them more sincere in rendering their duties,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/promotions-for-over-5700-pac-personnel/articleshow/79200839.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Footfalls in markets rise for Diwali, but sales down||JAIPUR: The footfall in the markets has increased ahead of Diwali, however, sales are yet to pick up as people are buying only necessary commodities. Last year shops were filled with customers. But this year, most of the shopkeepers are still waiting for buyers. “Last year, I had no time to talk to anyone and today I haven’t made a sale of even Rs 1,000 since morning. People are purchasing for basic needs and no one is thinking about any extravagant shopping like they used to do on Diwali,” said Ramesh Kriplani, a shopkeeper in Raja Park. By going around the market place one can observe the decrease in the number of street vendors. Last Diwali, there wasn’t enough space on streets as vendors were selling earthen lamps, religious products, bags, bed covers etc. This year very few vendors, most of them were seen sitting idle. Gomti Devi, a street vendors selling lamps, said she was able to make only Rs 100 since morning. “No one is interested in purchasing these lamps. I used to get many types of earthen lamps, but this year, I have kept it simple because there are no customers,” said Devi. On Dhanteras, as a custom people purchase utensils. Shopkeepers in Tripoliya and Chandpol market said that people are purchasing small items to fulfil the customs, but no one is ready to invest more. Markets have started to deck up with lights. Trade associations of different markets in the city have decided to decorate the market with simple lights to give a Diwali feel although no theme-based decoration was done this year. Many shopkeepers have started to sell their products online. Vicky Chelani, a shopkeeper in Bapu Bazaar said that not even half the customers were coming to the shops so he has started to send pictures of new dresses on social media. “I started reaching out to customers through Instagram or WhatsApp. We are doing home delivery of the items as well as people are reluctant to come out of their houses. Pandemic has changed the mode of business as well,” said Chelani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/footfalls-in-markets-rise-for-diwali-but-sales-down/articleshow/79200140.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Goa||Panaji: CCP for strict police vigil on Diwali eve||PANAJI: The Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), which recently announced a ban on firecrackers during Diwali celebrations, has sought assistance from Panaji police to carry out night patrols in the state capital along with its own officers on the eve of Diwali, when effigies of Narkasur are burnt. Earlier this month, the CCP had formulated standard operating procedure (SOP) for the festival, which will be celebrated from Friday night. “We have appealed to all Narkasur committee members to not burst any firecrackers and they have agreed. I have spoken to the Panaji PI regarding monitoring of sound systems as well. The collectorate has given only up to a certain time to burn Narkasurs, so the police will be monitoring that too,” mayor Uday Madkaikar, said. The CCP had put together stringent SOPs during Ganesh Chaturthi too, including a ban on firecrackers, no processions and quick visarjans minus crowding. However, despite strict implementation, in the villages adjoining Panaji where SOPs were not drawn out, people were seen carrying out processions and immersing idols without proper social distancing. “That was the reason for the increase in Covid cases at the time,” Madkaikar said. With the directorate of panchayats not having released any SOPs , the CCP is reliant on the police to crack down on violators within city limits. “Every civic body should have held a meeting and issued SOPs for the festival,” Madkaikar said. Director of panchayats Narayan Gad said SOPs for Narkasur in view of Covid must be issued by the collector. “This is because the collector is the competent authority for it under the Disaster Management Act,” he said. North Goa deputy collector Guru Desai, said that an order to impose Section 144 has already been issued for the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-for-strict-police-vigil-on-diwali-eve/articleshow/79200139.cms||Nida Sayed
November 13, 2020||Aurangabad||With 68% Covid antigen tests, Aurangabad district among top 5||AURANGABAD: The district, with roughly 68% antigen testing during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, is among the top five districts in Maharashtra with such a high percentage of rapid tests, which often tend to show “false negative” results. Parbhani, another Marathwada district, tops the districts in rapid antigen tests with 83% share out of total testing, reveal the official records of the Maharashtra health department. Aurangabad district health officer Sudhakar Shelke said all symptomatic Covid patients were asked to undergo the mandatory RT-PCR test even when their rapid antigen test results came out negative. “The rapid antigen tests give almost instant results, whereas we have to wait for at least 24 hours to know the outcome of an RT-PCR test. The rapid antigen tests are time-saving and are, therefore, employed at a large scale,” he said. Aurangabad had pioneered some testing initiatives, such as covering traders and vendors among other groups. The rapid antigen test kits were used for such random, mass-level drives instead of RT-PCR tests and that is reflected in the high percentage of antigen tests when compared to other districts, senior health authorities said. Parbhani district collector Deepak Mugalikar said his district did not have any labs for testing RT-PCR samples during the initial stages of the pandemic. Therefore, rapid antigen tests were imperative. “We have given a target of conducting 20 RT-PCR to every state-run Covid care facility in the district now. We have one government laboratory now for testing RT-PCR samples and a facility in the private sector has also come up recently,” he said. Stating that the Union health ministry itself had admitted to the limitations of rapid antigen tests, in terms of not being accurate in detecting true negatives, Mugalikar said the central authorities have advised states to mandatorily test through RT-PCR all RAT negative samples of individuals having Covid-19 like symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/with-68-ncov-antigen-tests-aurangabad-dist-among-top-5/articleshow/79196375.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 13, 2020||Vadodara||Baglamukhi’s female aide held||Vadodara: The police have arrested Disha John who was a follower of rape accused Prashant Upadhyay alias Baglamukhi Jyotish. Disha has been accused of helping Prashant in allegedly raping a 21-year-old girl when she was a minor. The girl has filed a complaint of rape at Gotri police station last week.“We have arrested Disha. She has been a follower of Upadhyay since a long time and was staying with him in the same premises. Disha now claims that she too was trapped by Upadhyay,” said S V Rajgor, ACP. Two other women Diksha Jaswani and Unnati Joshi who aided Upadhyar are yet to be nabbed. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/baglamukhis-female-aide-held/articleshow/79007061.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bareilly||Now, unused cane supply tickets to be automatically renewed online||ilibhit: The state sugarcane administration has introduced a process for automatically renewing unused outdated supply tickets of farmers online, without the farmers having to approach local cane offices to apply for getting the tickets reissued. This complies with orders of chief minister Yogi Adityanath to minimise complications faced by cane growers within the system. According to state additional chief secretary of sugarcane and sugar industry Sanjay R Bhoosreddy, the new system has been launched state-wide with immediate effect in the common interest of cane growers. From now on, unused supply tickets will be subject to revalidation twice, whereas earlier, they were revalidated once. This will be done through the department’s ERP (enterprise resource planning) system in a way a farmer’s claim of supplying sugarcane to procurement centres would not be affected. This would save time and energy of farmers, which they earlier had to spend at cane offices to get the work done manually, Bhoosreddy said. The revalidated supply ticket would be marked with capital ‘H’ to indicate its renewal, without changing its serial number. The online renewal facility would also be helpful in shielding farmers from the possibility of Covid-19 infection, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/now-unused-cane-supply-tickets-to-be-automatically-renewed-online/articleshow/79194294.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat gets tech so festivities don’t get spoiled||AHMEDABAD: Diwali is perhaps as much about sweets such as kaju katli, peda and laddoos as it is about firecrackers and the colours of rangolis, but what if the sweets you buy are older than the shop claims? The National Forensic Sciences University (NFSU) last week acquired accelerated oxidation process technology to identify spoiled food products or establish their shelf lives. Dr Jayrajsinh Sarvaiya, assistant professor at the Institute of Research & Development (IRD) at NFSU, said it is one of two facilities in India that can identify the ‘age’ of sweets and other food items. A team of researchers at NFSU tested a batch of malai peda sourced from Gandhinagar at the behest of TOI, to ascertain the difference between freshly-made pedas and one-day-old pedas, to see if there is any apparent difference in readings. “The oxidation reactor indicates the induction point (IP) of a given sample. In simple words, it shows for how long the food item can be considered ‘fresh.’ To find the IP value, a small sample is put in the reactor and the chamber is flooded with oxygen. A fresh sample will have lower absorption compared to older samples. This is due to fat and oil being the primary ingredients in the majority of sweets,” said Dr Sarvaiya. He said that the two samples had an IP level difference of about 15 hours, accurately showing which was the older one. “We are still optimizing our methodology and hope to achieve better accuracy with a whole range of products which will help identify false use-by dates,” he added. NFSU team members said sweets get spoilt by moisture loss, chemical changes or microbial factors. Dr H G Koshia, FDCA commissioner of Gujarat, said FSSAI rules have made it mandatory for non-packaged/ loose sweets sellers to display a ‘best before’ date on the tray with effect from October 1. “Ahead of the festivities, we have launched drives to ensure adherence to the safety rules for the safety of consumers,” he said, adding that lab tests can prove whether an food item is spoilt. The move has not received universal support from the manufacturers/shopowners. Even ahead of Diwali, some shops had not displayed the use-by date and when questioned about it, provided the manufacturing date and best before date verbally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-gets-tech-so-festivities-dont-get-spoiled/articleshow/79200190.cms||Parth Shastri
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||Rana: Owaisi another Jinnah, splits Muslims||Lucknow: Urdu poet Munawwar Rana on Thursday equated AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi with Pakistan founder Muhammad Ali Jinnah and said such leaders have divided and destroyed Muslims. He said the community will not allow another Jinnah to flourish in India. Rana’s reaction came in the wake of Owaisi’s party, All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen, winning five seats in Bihar election and suppoedly cutting into the opposition grand alliance's votes on many seats. Calling Owaisi a stooge of the BJP, the 67-year-old poet said AIMIM chief always divides Muslim votes which eventually benefits BJP. The poet alleged: “Hyderabad-based politician (Owaisi) is an agent of BJP. Both Asaduddin and his younger brother Akbaruddin Owaisi, who for me is a goon, misguide Muslims, especially youth, and further create division among Muslim voters in order to give direct benefit to BJP because Owaisi has vested interest to save his Rs 15,000 crore worth properties.” “What welfare or justice would he do to Muslims by winning five seats alone (in Bihar)? For Asaduddin, UP-Bihar is a milk cow for his vested interest. Asaduddin hides himself in Hyderabad when communal tension flares up in UP,” he added. Claiming to have known Asaduddin for the past 42 years, Rana said, “For Seemanchal in Bihar, a Muslim-dominated region, Owaisi should have joined hands with Tejashwi Yadav-led Mahagathbandhan to throw out NDA, but instead he took BJP’s help to safeguard his interests. Those votes and seats could have changed the entire fate of Bihar politics.” Munnawar Rana, the winner of Sahitya Akademi Award (which he returned in 2015), added that after Bihar, Owaisi was now heading for West Bengal to divide Bengali Muslim votes, while Amit Shah will divide Bengali Hindu votes. “Before my death, I want to help Muslims, especially youth, to identify the real culprits who are destroying and dividing them. The beauty of this nation is in diversity and it should not be compromised,” he added. Earlier this month, UP Police had booked Rana for his remarks on the recent killings in France over the caricatures of the Prophet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rana-owaisi-another-jinnah-splits-muslims/articleshow/79200847.cms||Arvind Chauhan
November 13, 2020||Chennai||No religious, political events until further orders: Tamil Nadu govt||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday revoked its order permitting religious congregations, social, political, cultural, academic and other functions from November 16. The ban would remain until further orders. BJP state president L Murugan accused the ruling party of bias and vowed to resume the ‘vetrivel yatra’, that would include Union ministers and senior party functionaries, from November 17. Law minister C Ve Shanmugam said his government nursed no animosity towards the BJP, its ally. Later in the evening, Murugan called on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy O Panneerselvam. Both the AIADMK and the BJP dubbed it a ‘courtesy visit’ ahead of Diwali. An October 31 order issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, had permitted gatherings attended by not more than 100 people from November 16. “The permission is now revoked. The ban will remain until further orders,” said a government release. The ban on religious congregations and political events comes close on the heels of the BJP and the state government clashing in the Madras high court over the BJP’s ‘vetrivel yatra’, a rally to be taken to six big temples of the deity Murugan. The government denied permission for the yatra citing Covid-19. BJP chief Murugan on Thursday accused the ruling AIADMK of overlooking the violations of the DMK, the Congress and others when they held demonstrations. “BJP functionaries and office bearers engaged in other work are also taken into preventive detention which is unjustified and unacceptable,” Murugan said, revealing his party’s plan to continue the yatra no matter what obstacle came their way. Union ministers D V Sadananda Gowda and V Muraleedharan, Karnataka BJP spokesperson Malavika Avinash, BJP Yuva Morcha chief Tejaswi Surya, national general secretary Daggubati Purandeswari among others will participate in the yatra. BJP national president J P Nadda has also been invited to the rally. BJP alleged there was an “understanding” between the principal Dravidian parties to checkmate the BJP in TN. C Ve Shanmugam pointed out that the AIADMK was founded “only to rid the evil force that is the DMK and it would remain an arch-rival”. The government was only taking precautions since the pandemic has been brought under control, he said. “The government has no animosity towards the BJP or any other party. It treated every party equally and filed cases against all leaders who violated rules, including DMK president M K Stalin, MP Kanimozhi and VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan,” the minister told TOI. He said the law would take its course if the BJP continued to be defiant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-religious-political-events-until-further-orders-govt/articleshow/79198546.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why lack of antibody may not be a worry||NEW DELHI: Lack of antibodies against the novel coronavirus doesn’t necessarily put a person who has been affected by Covid-19 at risk of re-infection. According to experts, immunological memory and specificity are two hallmarks of the immune system. Explaining this, Dr N K Mehra, honorary emeritus scientist at ICMR and former dean of All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said, “To put it simply, our immune system has the ability to quickly identify an antigen that it has encountered earlier and to promptly make antibodies against it. That’s why the chances of re-infection are minimal.” The immunologist added that even if re-infection occurred, symptoms would probably be milder. Many public health specialists have raised concern that a mutation in the novel coronavirus could increase chances of re-infection, but Mehra said minor variations in the genome wouldn’t make the virus totally unrecognisable to the memory cells and so recurrence of infection or severe symptoms was rare. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS, said Covid was a new disease and ideally someone who recovered from it was less likely to contract it again. “Even if that happens, the symptoms should be mild,” he said. “However, some cases have been reported overseas of re-infection with more severe symptoms than in the first occurrence.” The AIIMS director added that not much was known about the disease’s recurrence and the protection offered by post-infection antibodies and memory cells. “Achieving herd immunity by allowing people to move freely so they get infection and develop immunity may not be a good idea, given this uncertainty,” he said. The sero-surveillance survey conducted in Delhi by Maulana Azad Medical College in October shows negligible increase in the prevalence of antibodies over a month: from 25.1% in September to 25.5% in October. Also, according to the report, 46.6%, 30.7%, 34.7% and 43.5% participants were sero-negative, respectively, in July, August, September and October after previously having been diagnosed as Covid-positive. Soumya Swaminathan, chief scientist, WHO, said the novel coronavirus is highly transmissible. “We think it needs 60-70% of the population to have immunity to break the chain of transmission. If you allow this to happen naturally, it will take a long time. More importantly, it will have a big collateral damage. Even if 1% of infected people die, at global level it adds up to a huge number,” she said at a WHO webinar recently. “That is why it is not a good idea to try achieve herd immunity by letting the infection run without check.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-lack-of-antibody-may-not-be-a-worry/articleshow/79200860.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Caught stealing, Tamil Nadu man beaten to death||THANJAVUR: A 23-year-old man was beaten to death by a group of people after he was caught red-handed stealing mobile phones from a shop near Thanjavur. Six people including shop owner Vincent have been arrested for the murder of R Haja Mohideen, a native of Isaiyakkadu village near Mathukkur. Though the victim died on November 9, his identity was ascertained only on Wednesday after the police traced his father from man-missing complaints. According to police, some residents of Kasangadu were returning home after watching a game of kabaddi at a nearby village late on November 8 when the they saw light flickering at mobile phone shop owned by Vincent. When they went to check, they found some people trying to steal mobile phones from the shop. On seeing them, two of the three burglars fled while Haja, who was allegedly in an inebriated condition, was caught. They beat him up and informed Vincent, who came rushing and also roughed him up. On being informed, Mathukkur police arrived and admitted Haja to a government hospital in Pattukottai. He was referred to Government medical college hospital in Thanjavur on November 9, where he died in the night. As the police could not ascertain his identity, they checked the man missing cases registered with neighbouring police stations. They came to know that there was a complaint lodged by Rahmatullah of Isaiyakkadu, stating that his son was missing since November 8. Police took Rahmatullah to the mortuary where he identified Haja Mohideen on Wednesday. Subsequently, Mathukkur police arrested Vincent and two others on Wednesday and three others on Thursday from Kasangadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/caught-stealing-tn-man-beaten-to-death/articleshow/79200161.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||‘Indians have better immunity because of ayurveda in our life’||NAGPUR: When Covid-19 pandemic started in India in February-March, the horrifying death toll from Italy, Spain and USA was enough to create panic across the country. Looking at the high population density and poor health care facilities in India, people were expecting high prevalence of the disease and deaths. Nine months later, India’s recovery rate from Covid-19 is more than 92%, highest in the world, and our fatality rate is less than 1.50%, lowest in the world. Sero surveillance in many states and districts has shown that more than 50% of the local population has already been infected by Covid-19 and recovered by developing antibodies using their naturally developed immunity. While there could be many reasons for this, the foremost may be the involvement of ayurveda in day-to-day life of Indians, experts told TOI on the eve of National Ayurveda Day. “Over generations, ayurveda has been an integral part of day-to-day life of Indians. Some of us may have started consuming turmeric milk and Chyawanprash as immunity boosting medicines during Covid-19. But, many were already having it since ages. Thanks to many such practices, Indians have developed better immune systems as compared to other countries,” said vaidya Jayant Deopujari, veteran ayurveda practitioner. “Covid-19 has given vast acceptance to ayurveda not only in India but also across the world. In USA, people don’t get ayurveda medicines covered in insurance policies. Still they are buying these medicines by spending from their own pockets. This shows how people have accepted it,” Dr Deopujari said. Dr Nitin Awasthi of Baidyanath said ayurveda is not limited to immunity booster medicines. “People are now eagerly adopting the ideal lifestyle mentioned in ayurveda, localized and fresh eating options, and yoga as part of day-to-day life. At Baidyanath, we are in the process of documenting how ayurvedic treatment has cured 70 Covid-19 patients here,” he said. Young ayurveda practitioner vaidya Swanand Joshi said ayurveda has mention of unknown diseases and protocol to deal with such pandemics. “Over 2,000 years ago, doyens of ayurveda have mentioned about concepts like unknown diseases and protocols to treat them. That is why ayurveda was the first to provide medicines effective against Covid-19,” he said. Covid-19 pandemic has taught us many lessons and the foremost is to maintain good health. Ayurveda is based on the same principle, said Mukund Sherekar, expert of ayurveda herbs. “High demand of immunity booster herbal medicines and ayurveda wellness centres are physical factors showing ayurveda is in demand. But, mentally, we have understood the importance of staying fit without illness during this pandemic. This is the most important aspect of ayurveda we learnt during this phase,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/indians-have-better-immunity-because-of-ayurveda-in-our-life/articleshow/79195345.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: At 104, Delhi records highest single-day toll||NEW DELHI: For the first time, the number of Covid-19 deaths crossed the century mark in Delhi with 104 fatalities being recorded in the past 24 hours. This is the highest number of deaths in a single day. The total number of deaths has now hit 7,332. Before this, the maximum number of deaths was recorded at 93 on June 16. In the past 12 days, 821 people have died due to the disease in the city. This doesn’t include people from other states. “The incidence of Covid-19 has risen sharply over the past two weeks and so has the number of people developing severe symptoms. Mostly, people with pre-existing illnesses are succumbing to the disease,” said a senior doctor at a Covid-19 designated hospital. “Delay in admission is another major cause of deaths. Many people delay admission either because they feel the symptoms are mild or because they aren’t confident of getting a bed in hospitals,” said another doctor. On Thursday, Delhi recorded 7,053 new cases, taking the total tally to over 4.67 lakh. The number of active cases was 43,116. Of the active cases, 26,252 were under home isolation, while the rest (16,564) were admitted in various hospitals and Covid care centres. Out of 16,609 Covid beds, 7,911 (48%) were vacant. However, the number of vacant ICU beds with ventilators and without ventilators were only 175 (14% of all such beds) and 376 (18%), respectively. Hospitals like Apollo, Max Shalimar Bagh, Akash Healthcare and Sir Ganga Ram didn’t have any vacant ICU beds. “Delhi High Court has given us permission to reserve 80% of ICU beds in private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. This will help us add nearly a 1,000 more such beds in a day or two,” health minister Satyendar Jain said. Public health specialists said elderly people and those with comorbidities, like diabetes and hypertension, should avoid going out. “Such people are at highest risk to develop complications if they contract the infection,” Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine at Max Saket, said. Watch Covid-19: Delhi records highest single-day toll of 104 deaths||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-104-delhi-records-highest-single-day-toll/articleshow/79200892.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Gadvasu emergency services to remain open for pets||Ludhiana: Diwali brings almost non-stop bursting of crackers, making it a source of nuisance for dogs and other pets as well as stray animals, which are sensitive to this continuous production of noise and thus become restless. Quite a good number of dogs even run away from their owner’s homes, while some other start exhibiting signs of anxiety or stress, owing to sudden thundering noises. Keeping this in mind, Gadvasu authorities have decided to keep the emergency services open and doctors would be available for routine check-ups and even on call. Gadvasu VC Inderjeet Singh said, “Our emergency services will be open for routine check-ups and doctors will be available on call for patients. “The residue of crackers is also toxic and the dogs are very much curious to explore such type of leftovers. Carelessness while using fireworks can also cause serious burns, wounds or other type of mutilations in dogs. However, a few easy measures can save the situation from becoming horrible,” he said. Dr SS Nanda, director, clinics, said, “There will be routine OPD from 9am to 1pm and then after that an emergency veterinary officer will be available till Sunday morning.” Dr R K Sharma from the directorate of extension education said, “Dogs are more sensitive to sound stimuli as compared to humans. This can be easily judged from the fact that the auditory pain threshold in dogs is approximately 95 decibels while the same for humans is 130 decibels. It implies that the noise which an owner of the dog perceives as loud will be even louder for the pet. Fireworks usually produce sound of 190 decibels. Noise stimuli often make the muscles tenser, thereby, eliciting painful sensation, which makes the dog shake or shiver. “Dogs may develop a wide variety of symptoms, including restlessness, continuous barking, trembling, arched back, panting, dropping of saliva, chewing without having anything in mouth, digging earth, hiding in lonely places, involuntary urination and defecation or aimless running. A few dogs may inflict self injuries while others may be involved in attempts to escape,” he added. The veterinarians said an affected dog might also become prone to hypertension, fatigue, exertion and other related problems. Some dos and don’ts The dogs may be provided evening meals a little bit early. After usual toiletries, they may be allowed to remain indoors. The doors and windows should be closed and curtains be drawn so as to avoid crackers’ noise reaching their ears. Another way of distracting dogs from sudden noises is to keep the radio or television on. He should not be left alone. This will reduce the stress level, if any, to a great extent. Any kind of sporting activity can also help in distracting the dog from outside noises. Besides, firecrackers, sweets and other related items must be kept at safer places which are not accessible to pets. If you already know your dog is very much sensitive to loud noises, then you should allow your dog undergo rigorous exercise before the festivities begin. This will burn a lot of his energy, making it sleepy. Each dog must wear his/her neck-collar. Owner’s contact details must be pasted on the collar. This will help in locating the dog in case he flees. A first-aid kit should be kept handy in case you encounter any injured dog. If the above listed measures prove fruitless and the dog is becoming more and more aggressive with time, then, immediate veterinary intervention should be sought. Analgesics, tranquilisers or even psychopharmacological interventions may be considered. All these steps, if undertaken seriously, can make your Diwali unforgettable. You can fully enjoy the festivities along with your pets. IN BOX Helpline numbers Gadvasu - 0161-2414010. People for Animal - 9464691517 Animal Rescue Mission and Environment Welfare Society - 8872407000 Vets for Pets, Sarabha Nagar & South City Canal road, - 7382810000 and 9659510000 Gau Sewa Society- 9300000922||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/gadvasu-emergency-services-to-remain-open-for-pets/articleshow/79194342.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Public hearing on KSEB truing up pleas on Dec 15 & 22||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission (KSERC) will hold a public hearing via video conferencing on Dec 15 and 22 to record public opinion on the truing up petition submitted by Kerala State Electricity Board for the period-2017-18 and 2018-19. Suggestions and opinions regarding the truing up of KSEB revenue and expenditure for the two financial years may be submitted before Dec 10. The same can be submitted via post or email to kserc@kerala.org. For participating in the online hearing, the phone number and e-mail address of the participant should be intimated to KSERC secretary in advance. The time schedule of the virtual hearing and link for participation would be intimated from the office of the commission via email. The actual revenue and expenditure of power utilities are decided through the truing up petitions they file. Though truing up petitions are supposed to be filed on a periodical basis, neither the board is punctual in filing the same nor the regulatory authority takes time-bound decisions on such petitions filed before them. Often, the board refuses to accept the additional compensation approved by the commission, taking the decision to higher forums, seeking revision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/public-hearing-on-kseb-truing-up-pleas-on-dec-15-22/articleshow/79198558.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||BJP used ‘tikdam’ to win Bihar election: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Accusing BJP of using “tikdam” (manipulation) to win the assembly elections in Bihar, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Thursday said people who have faith in democracy are very disheartened by what has happened in the neighbouring state. “I was soar about how the BJP misused government machinery to win the recently concluded bypolls on seven assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh. But what has happened in Bihar is much bigger and more blatant,” Akhilesh said on Thursday. He said like the election results in US where no one knew what will happen till the last vote was counted, Bihar polls had a nail biting finish. “Aisa chunao humne kaheen naheen dekha … kisi ne nahi dekha hoga (I had never seen an election like this before … no one would have seen such an election),” he said adding that Tejaswi lost the poll when he was so close to win and form the government. “Now will elections be won like this?’ he asked. Akhilesh said Bihar elections were perhaps the only instance where barely 13,000 to 14,000 votes decided which political alliance will form the government. “BJP ka gathbandhan 14,000 vote zada paya … aur kya tigdam lagayi … idhar se udhar … (BJP and its alliance partners got 14,000 more votes at best …. and manipulated the rest), he said adding BJP excels in such practices. Yadav also presented people claiming to be Ayodhyaresidents whose farm fields have been marked for acquisition for airport expansion. He demanded the farmers should get the compensation they were demanding so that their land can add to the development of Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-used-tikdam-to-win-bihar-election-akhilesh/articleshow/79200856.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 13, 2020||Chennai||7 districts get new collectors in second shuffle in two weeks||Chennai: With elections just a few months away, the state government on Thursday posted new collectors to seven districts. In all, 15 of 38 districts have got new collectors in less than a fortnight. S Sameeran has been posted as Tenkasi collector replacing G K Arun Sundar Thayalan, who is now joint secretary to government, environment and forests department. V Vishnu is Tiruneveli collector in place of Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, who has been transferred and posted as joint secretary to health and family welfare. Madhusudhan Reddy is the new Sivaganga collector in place of J Jayakanthan, who has been posted as managing director of Tamil Nadu Fisheries Corporation. Dinesh Ponraj Oliver is Ramanathapuram collector replacing K Veera Raghava Rao, who has had a long stint in the districts for eight years. Rao is posted as director of employment and training. Sandeep Nanduri has been posted as Tiruvannamalai collector in place of K S Kandasamy, who is now special officer, grievance redressal, e-Governance. A R Gladstone Pushparaj is the new Ranipet collector replacing S Divyadharshini, who has been posted as joint commissioner (health) of Greater Chennai Corporation. K Senthil Raj has been posted as Tuticorin collector. Jacintha Lazarus, who is on inter-cadre deputation, has been posted as director of rehabilitation and welfare of non-resident Tamils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/7-districts-get-new-collectors-in-second-shuffle-in-two-weeks/articleshow/79198568.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||CM bats for data centres, policy to be framed soon||Lucknow: To encourage the setting up of data centres in the state, the IT department is working on a data centre policy which is expected to be finalized within the next few weeks. On Thursday, chief minister Yogi Adityanath took a presentation on the proposed policy and said that due to their capacity to generate employment, data centres should be encouraged to come up at the earliest. Yogi said that data centres have a crucial role in the IT sector and a policy is needed urgently for this field to attract investments. The new policy should be investor friendly and it should be finalized only after consultations with all stakeholders, he added. “While ensuring that benefits under the policy are extended to investors on time, it should also be ensured that they complete their projects on time. Since data centres will result in generation of direct and indirect employment, the policy should be drafted as soon as possible so that such centres could come up in the state at the earliest,” the chief minister said. Additional chief secretary, IT, Alok Kumar gave details on the proposed industries, the economic benefits of having data centres in the state, timeline for implementation of the policy, the benefits which are proposed to be given to companies under the policy. In October, Uttar Pradesh received its first proposal for a data centre. The Hiranandani Group will be setting up the state’s first data centre in Greater Noida with an investment of Rs 600 crore. Officials said that several other companies have approached the government for setting up data centres and there is likely to be major movement in this industry once the policy is ready. “India is still a growing digital economy and has huge potential for data generation and storage. Currently, only about 20% of the data generated within the country is stored domestically while the rest is stored in data centres locate in other countries,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-bats-for-data-centres-policy-to-be-framed-soon/articleshow/79200863.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP to demand Rs 400 crore for waste disposal||LUCKNOW: The state government will send proposals to seek Rs 400 crore funding from the Centre for disposal of 80 lakh tonnes of waste piled up at landfill sites for years. The government will also request for an additional Rs 120 crore for construction of faecal sludge treatment plants having a capacity of handling 1,200 kilo litres per day. The decisions were taken in a meeting of state level high powered steering committee of Swachh Bharat Mission under chief secretary RK Tiwari on Thursday. The committee also agreed to fund the approved projects in areas under the newly-created 56 local bodies. Urban development secretary Anurag Yadav presented the compliance report of decisions taken in the last meeting and said each local body was given Rs 33.67 lakh for setting up a material recovery facility for garbage segregation and treatment for recycling in their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-demand-rs-400-crore-for-waste-disposal/articleshow/79200862.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||BJP Rajya Sabha MP and MLAs celebrate Bihar win, booked||NAGPUR: BJP leaders, including Rajya Sabha MP Vikas Mahatme and member of legislative council (MLC) and city party chief Pravin Datke, were booked on Wednesday for taking part in the celebrations after the party-led NDA victory in the Bihar elections. The alliance partners proved the exit polls wrong by crossing the majority mark in a tense electoral battle. Mahatme, Datke, MLAs Vikas Kumbhare and Krushna Khopde along with their 40-45 supporters had assembled at their city office at Ganeshpeth by ignoring state orders against large gatherings due to the pandemic. Corporators like Bunty Kukde, also chairperson of the civic body’s transport committee, Pramod Chikle and several office bearers of Bharatiya Janta Yuva Morcha, too, were present at the venue. Ganeshpeth police invoked section 135 of the Bombay Police Act along with provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005, under which state had prohibited assembly of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-rajya-sabha-mp-and-mlas-celebrate-bihar-win-booked/articleshow/79194373.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||NHAI team takes stock of bizmen’s problems||tnn DELHI HIGHWAY Ludhiana: A team of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) visited Ludhiana on Wednesday to solve the problems being faced by businessmen who have their units near Delhi highway. The businessmen who have factories in Dhandari Kalan, Focal Points and other industrial areas near Delhi highway were up in arms against the authorities for failing to resolve the issues of long traffic jams and accidents on the service road from Giaspura to Sherpur Chowk. They blamed no exit and entry points on the highway for the ills. After the local administration failed to find a solution, the businessmen had recently shot off a letter to the NHAI. In its wake, the team comprising senior officials of NHAI, including project director Varinder Singh, visited Ludhiana, met the businessmen and assured to solve the problems soon. Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU), said, “We are facing a lot of problems on both the sides of the national highway, the stretch from Dhandari Kalan to Ludhiana. With no appropriate entry and exit points, a large number of vehicles use the narrow service lane, where long traffic jams occur after every hour. These issues not only waste time and fuel, but also lead to other problems like accidents, late delivery of raw material and finished goods to and fro factories. The NHAI team checked the ground reality. Besides the entry and exit points, other problems like condition of service roads, draining systems, dilapidated under-bridges, bottlenecks at Sherpur Chowk, among others, were also discussed.” “CICU representatives along with the NHAI delegation visited all such sites. During our interaction with the NHAI project director, we laid emphasis on improvement of the design of the national highway, as things have changed since it was conceived,” he added. Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, said, “During the meeting, we were told that the Sherpur and the Tajpur road exit points were being upgraded and tender process had been initiated for the two. Sahnewal junction is also being upgraded. NHAI has sought our support in upgrading the rainwater harvesting systems and requested us to adopt green belts near the highways which will help in reducing the problem of water accumulation during rains.” Didarjit Singh, a businessman, said, “We have requested the NHAI that Dhandari flyover should be extended by making a crossing over GT Road , as this will help in reducing the congestion in Focal Points, which have more than 10,000 industrial units.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nhai-team-takes-stock-of-bizmens-problems/articleshow/79194356.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||2 women held with gold in underwear||Coimbatore: Customs officials here seized gold and other items worth Rs 1 crore from seven flyers, including two women, on Wednesday. The officials had received a tip-off about some passengers in the Air Arabia flight from Sharjah that landed in Coimbatore at 3.30am. They confronted Deivani Radhakrishnan of Chennai and Vasanthi Ramaswamy of Pudukottai after the metal detector was activated. “They had concealed gold in paste form inside the sanitary pads they were wearing. We extracted 1,195.6gm gold worth Rs 62.46 lakh,” a statement issued by the customs department said. The officials also caught two men from Chennai, two from Pattinam and one from Ilayangudi. “They had smuggled 100gm gold in their luggage, and cigarettes and liquor worth Rs 46 lakh.” The directorate of revenue intelligence seized the contraband goods. Further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-women-held-with-gold-in-underwear/articleshow/79198564.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Bareilly||Forest staffers demand action against dept officer for ‘human rights abuse’||Pilibhit: Taking cognisance of a series of complaints filed by field staff of the Pilibhit forest and wildlife division against alleged inhuman behaviour and abusive language used by sub-divisional forest officer (SDFO), Hemant Kumar Seth, the president of UP Sahayak Van Karmachari Sangh’s district unit, Navneet Yadav, has demanded that senior forest officials take departmental action against the erring officer.Yadav also warned that the state unit of his outfit will “get involved”, in case his demand was ignored, terming the SDFO’s act as stigma on human rights.In the minutes of a meeting of office bearers and members of the Sangh, Yadav quoted some incidents of the SDFO’s dictatorial attitude and behaviour. He said that during an inquiry regarding some trees on private land conducted by Seth in Puranpur on October 23, he had abused forest inspector Babu Ram, and made him act like a chicken — a derogatory corporal punishment — on the spot.Likewise, during the inspection of Barahi forest nursery on October 30, Seth had used derogatory language at delivery clerk Balak Ram, and threatened to beat him with a shoe, said Yadav.He further alleged that the SDFO also misbehaved with forest inspector Radhey Shyam and other field staffers on November 9 at the department’s district headquarters, the report on which was filed to Sangh’s office bearers by range officer Wazir Hassan.He said field staff of the forest and wildlife division were extremely agitated over the SDFO’s unbridled behavior, which could pose obstacles in their functioning as the said acts were human rights violations.Yadav said copies of the meeting’s minutes were sent to the conservator of forest, Javed Akhtar, divisional forest officer Sanjeev Kumar, DM, SP and the state president of his union.On being asked about it, conservator of forest Javed Akhtar said he has directed SDFO Seth to appear before him in person to file his version. Further action in the matter will be taken afterwards, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/forest-staffers-demand-action-against-dept-officer-for-human-rights-abuse/articleshow/79194344.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Dip in gold prices buoys jewellers||Ahmedabad: A dip in gold prices one day ahead of Dhanteras has cheered up jewellers, with the price of the yellow metal settling at Rs 52,500 per 10g on Thursday. After remaining low through the year due to high prices and economic crises faced by customers due to the pandemic, demand for gold jewellery finally began looking up with the onset of the festive season in November. “The fall in gold prices over the past two days has been a boon for jewellers, whose business would have taken a hit on the festive muhurat. Inquiries have been slowly picking up for jewellery and we also have pre-booked orders for delivery of wedding jewellery,” said Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA) Gold prices turned volatile over the past few days amid talk of another lockdown in the US and Europe, according to gold analysts. Demand for gold jewellery is looking up this Diwali due to the coming festive and wedding season. Roughly 200kg of gold was traded across Gujarat on Pushya Nakshatra and jewellers expect sales will remain buoyant on Dhanteras, Diwali and New Year muhurats as well. Sales will be less than last year. “We expect a decline of at least 50% against last year’s festive season. The preference now is largely for jewellery and much less for coins and bars,” said Shanti Patel, president, Gems and Jewellery Trade Council. Industry players say gold jewellery is largely being purchased in exchange of gold and as a consequence sales will be relatively low. Jewellers said classic and minimalistic designs, with lower weight will remain a hit among young buyers. Demand for bridal jewellery will also remain good, jewellers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dip-in-gold-prices-buoys-jewellers/articleshow/79200305.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Facilities refusing to swab those without symptoms||BENGALURU: While the government’s top priority is to ramp up testing, many Bengalureans allege that primary health centres (PHC) in the city are refusing to collect their swab samples for tests if they do not show symptoms for Covid-19 infection. Vijayanath S, a resident of Rajarajeshwari Nagar, visited a PHC located near Global Village on Sunday seeking a Covid-19 test, but the swab collector refused to take his sample, claiming he showed no symptoms. “I felt tired and wanted to check if I had Covid-19, but the swab collector at the PHC refused saying I did not have fever, cough or cold,” said Vijayanath. “The collector said I would only be wasting precious testing resources.” A similar incident occurred to Imran Khan at the Kengeri PHC. “I was feeling slightly feverish,” said Khan, a resident of Kengeri. “The swab collector asked me if I had any major symptoms. When I told him I had a fever, he said since it’s ‘only a fever’, a test wasn’t required and suggested I take Dolo-650 tablets. If BBMP cannot enforce testing, why promote it? Where do we go to get tested? What if symptoms worsen?” When questioned, a swab collector at Rajarajeshwari Nagar PHC said: “Why should we waste rapid antigen or RT-PCR test kits when we are certain they don’t have an infection? Out of 150 tests we do on a daily basis, more than 95% are negative. We are wasting time and resources.” He went on to say, “We have not been paid for four months now and yet we work doggedly. We know who might be positive and who might not. So we don’t conduct tests unnecessarily.” A swab collector at a PHC in Jayanagar said they have been instructed by health department officials not to conduct tests if people are not symptomatic. “We are only following orders from senior officials. They have told us to conduct only RT-PCR tests for those who show symptoms,” he said. TOI called 21 PHCs across the city and swab collectors at these facilities confirmed that they weren’t conducting RAT or RT-PCR tests for those not showing any symptoms. However, when contacted, N Manjuantha Prasad, BBMP commissioner, said he wasn’t aware people without symptoms were being denied tests and promised to look into the matter. He said he would take action against those who aren’t conducting tests. “All staff have been ordered to test all who come to PHCs. There is no way tests can be denied. It’s not right if someone is doing it,” Prasad said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/primary-health-centres-refusing-to-swab-those-without-symptoms/articleshow/79198573.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 13, 2020||Kolhapur||No Covid casualties in Kolhapur, Sangli||KOLHAPUR: The district reported 24 fresh Covid-19 cases while 41 patients were discharged after recovering from the contagion. Not a single casualty was reported in the district. Of the fresh cases, Kolhapur city added six cases. According to the official statement, tehsils like Chandgad, Gaganbawda, Kagal and Radhanagari did not report a single case. Karveer and Hatkanangale reported eight and three cases, respectively. Ajara, Bhudargad, Gadhinglaj, Panhala and Shirol had one patient each. Kolhapur district has recorded 48,637 patients, of whom 46,306 have been recovered from Covid-19. The district has 671 active cases while 1,660 patients died due to the infection. As many as 14,754 cases and 360 Covid deaths have been reported in the limits of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation. Ichalkaranji town had reported 3,891 cases and 226 deaths so far while the urban centres recorded 7,378 cases and 820 deaths. The rural parts of the district have reported 24,233 cases and 820 patients died. Sangli reports 71 cases  Sangli district added 71 new Covid cases, including eight from the jurisdiction of Sangli Miraj Kupwad Municipal Corporation, on Thursday. The district did not report a single death. According to the officials, 106 patients in the district are in critical condition.  The district had reported 45,984 positive patients, of whom, 43,660 have recovered. The jurisdiction of the municipal corporation has 16,155 cases and 542 deaths. A total of 23,028 cases and 862 deaths have been reported in rural areas. The urban centres have registered 6,801 cases and 267 deaths.  Walva tehsil has the highest number of cases (5,331) while Miraj tehsil has the highest number of deaths (198).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-covid-casualties-in-kolhapur-sangli/articleshow/79196406.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Odisha company with negative net worth gets Marki-Mangli II coal block||NAGPUR: Odisha-based Yazdani International Private Limited has emerged as highest bidder for the Marki-Mangli II coal block in environmentally sensitive area of Yavatmal district, after the auction concluded earlier this month. The block has been in controversy on account of concerns of damage to environment if the area was mined. Yazdani has outbid Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation, and Reflex Industries, offering 30% revenue share for the coal reserves. Earlier, state tourism and environment minister Aditya Thackeray had written to the ministry of coal requesting that Marki Mangli II and Bander, which is also a environmentally sensitive coal block, should be removed from the auction. The ministry struck off Bander from the list, but Marki Mangli remained. Marki Mangli has thick forest cover. TOI had reported that the block was not only in the middle of a tiger corridor, but falls in the notified Tiger Conservation Plan by the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NCTA). Amid concerns raised on the environmental front, a quick look at the company’s financials also raise a doubt over Yazdani International’s capacity to fund the project through its own resources. The relaxed eligibility norm for the current coal block auction has paved way for almost any company to take part in the bidding process. The participant need not have any prior qualification on financial parameters or earlier experience in coal mining, said sources related to the process. Despite repeated attempts, Yazdani International did not respond to TOI’s questionnaire seeking details about its financial standing, investment plans, employment projection and its stance over the concerns raised by Thackeray. TOI accessed the company’s balance sheet, profit and loss account, and other details from the Ministry of Company Affairs (MCA) website. The company’s balance sheet as on March 31, 2019, shows that it has negative net worth of over Rs20 crore. This indicates that the company has suffered massive or continuous losses due to which its reserves and share capital have been wiped out. The profit and loss account for the year shows a loss of Rs1.99 crore. The company’s revenue from operations stands at Rs2.5 crore, which is barely 22% of the total revenue. As against this nearly 80% of its revenue comes under the head ‘other income’. “This again raises questions about its financials. In normal course, the income from operations for any company has to be higher than that from any other source. Even the ‘other income’ aspect needs further explanation,” said a financial expert who examined the balance sheet. The company has no subsidiary. “Starting the coal mine would need substantial investment and given the balance sheet available at the MCA website, the company does not seem to be in a position to fund the venture on its own,” the expert said. The coal ministry’s website and also a press release by PIB also names Yazdani International as the qualified bidder. The management’s representative at Bhubaneswar also confirmed that it was the same company. Documents in the public domain shows Yazdani International as an export house dealing in minerals like iron ore, chrome and manganese apart from owning mines in Odisha. The company’s directors are Mohammed Yusha, Sarosh Yazdani and Seraj Yusha, with Meraj Yusha as managing director. Yazdani International’s directors are also in the boards of over 20 other companies. These companies are in a whole gamut of businesses ranging from steel, power, real estate consultancy to even media and education. Some of these companies — are Yazdani Steel, Megastone Estates, Straight Iron Private Limited, Kriti Dealers, and Yazdani Educraft Private Limited. Back in Odisha, Mohammed Yusha, who is at the helm of affairs of the company, is known to be an influential man. The businesses have a long standing in the state. However, despite its ventures in Odisha, Yazdani did not bid for the Radhikapur East and West blocks. The mines have been bagged by Aditya Birla Group’s EMIL Mines and Minerals, and Vedanta Group respectively. If Yazdani offered an over 30% revenue share for Marki-Mangli II, Radhikapur East and West went for 16.50% and 15.75% revenue share.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/odisha-co-with-negative-net-worth-gets-marki-mangli-ii-coal-block/articleshow/79195395.cms||Shishir Arya
November 13, 2020||Delhi||App to help corona patients use green vehicles free of cost in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has launched ‘Jeevan Seva app’ to help Covid patients and their families commute to hospitals and healthcare facilities in the city. The app, launched in collaboration with a private agency, will use electric vehicles as an ambulance to transfer non-critical cases to healthcare facilities within Delhi free of cost. The patients can download the app through the link, which will be sent through SMS and QR code to every Covid positive patient. Health minister Satyendar Jain, who launched the mobile application, said it had been unveiled with the objective to facilitate Delhi citizens in home isolation in case of need. “From health checkups, ambulance requirements to admission in hospitals, health amenities are now just a click away. With this app, patients will get access to an e-vehicle, which will provide for free pickup and drop services. Each vehicle will be properly sanitised after every ride,” Jain said. Patients can book a cab from the app after registering through OTP, by entering their pickup and drop locations. The nearest cab will automatically be dispatched to serve. The service will be available 24 hours. The drivers will get all the information on their app. They will reach the patients sooner as the pickup location is automatically captured by the app. Dedicated supervisors will be monitoring the situation round the clock. The trained drivers will be complying with new safety guidelines, such as wearing PPE kits and being well equipped with sanitisers. The cabin will be insulated as well. The app will add efficiency to Delhi’s emergency commute services enabling ambulances to be more available to cater to serious requests in time. The patient will be apprised of pickup time and can contact the driver through the app only, reducing the anxiety regarding the availability and reaching of the cab ambulance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/app-to-help-corona-patients-use-green-vehicles-free-of-cost/articleshow/79200895.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||UP: ‘Keep medical colleges ready for second wave’||LUCKNOW: Even though the Covid-19 situation has been improving in UP, except for NCR and neighbouring districts, the government remains on high alert and is actively preparing to tackle a second wave of infections, if it hits the state. Medical education minister Suresh Khanna has issued specific instructions to medical colleges to be prepared to tackle the possibility of a surge in cases post-Diwali. “The case positivity rate and death rate in UP have declined and are below national averages, but the weather change and festive season can leave many sick. Therefore instructions have been issued to medical colleges and institutions to be prepared,” he said. He also told officials to ensure non-Covid care achieves 100% normalcy soon. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 tally in state reached 5.05 lakh on Thursday with the addition of 2,278 new cases in the past 24 hours. The number of recoveries also climbed to 4.75 lakh with 1,870 more patients getting cured. Health officials expressed concern over rising cases in some districts, particularly in western UP. “The situation in other districts is normal, but cases are increasing marginally in certain western UP districts, particularly in NCR,” said principal secretary, health and family welfare, Alok Kumar. The surveillance teams recorded 21 Covid deaths, taking the toll to 7,302, said officials. Kumar said the number of cases has been declining, but the risk of contracting the infection still remains high. “After declining every day for nearly seven weeks, Covid-19 cases have recorded a mild surge in the past few days. The increased activity around festivals and weather change makes virus spread easier. Prevention is the only armor against the virus,” he stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/keep-medical-colleges-ready-for-second-wave/articleshow/79200886.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Satara district reports 175 new patients & 3 Covid-19 deaths||KOLHAPUR: Satara district reported 175 fresh Covid-19 patients and three deaths due to the infection, taking the total number of case to 48,471 in the district. The death toll too has risen to 1,629. As many as 44,175 patients have recovered from the contagion and 2,667 patients are still undergoing treatment at facilities. Of the fresh cases, Satara tehsil added 34 cases, including 19 from Satara town. Khatav recorded 32 new patients, which included ten from Waduj, five from Daruj and four from Mhasurne village. Phaltan tehsil reported 15 new cases, 16 people tested positive in Karad tehsil, Patan registered six cases, Koregaon tehsil added 20 cases, Jawli tehsil recoreded13 cases, Wai and Khandala tehsils registered three and five cases, respectively, among others. Officials said all the three deceased were elderly and they belonged to Satara town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-reports-175-new-patients-3-covid-19-deaths/articleshow/79196422.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||No discounts: Dhanteras vehicle demand looks muted||Ahmedabad: Unlike every year when muhurat purchases and spot bookings drive vehicle sales, the pandemic will perhaps cloud the sales of passenger vehicles in Gujarat this Dhanteras. The day is considered auspicious for buying vehicles and precious metals. However, two-wheeler and car dealers expect the sales to be muted. “Bookings for festive day deliveries are made at least five days in advance. However, this time, we’ve hardly seen any bookings,” said Pranav Shah, chairman – Gujarat region, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA). “This time around, there are no discounts like there were during Dussehra as dealers too are left with little margin to make profits. This has failed to attract bookings and demand for two-wheelers is expected to remain low,” he further said. The demand for cars however, is expected to remain strog, especially in the entry-level segment. “Customer inquiries have been good for entry-level segment as the preference for a personal vehicle is rising among consumers. The segment of buyers who would invest in a car, have not been adversely affected in terms of their incomes and revenues and as a result the sales are expected to be good. We are looking at 50 deliveries at our dealership,” said a city-based car dealer. The recent surge in cases of Covid-19 in the city, however, has affected walk-ins at stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-discounts-dhanteras-vehicle-demand-looks-muted/articleshow/79200242.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Temporary bus stand on Codissia grounds to handle festival rush||Coimbatore: The temporary bus stand for the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses to and from Salem and Trichy started functioning on Codissia grounds here on Thursday. It is equipped with drinking water taps, portable toilets and shamiana with chairs.The crowd was too sparse on day one. While there were about 50 buses stationed at 6pm, there were less than 200 people.The TNSTC had announced 436 special buses to different districts from the city for Diwali. At least 200 of them have been allotted to Salem and Trichy. They have commenced operations from the temporary bus stand on Thursday and would continue services till Saturday.In a bid to decongest Gandhipuram omnibus stand ahead of Diwali rush, the TNSTC had announced the plans to set up the temporary bus stand on Codissia grounds for the buses leaving to and arriving from Salem and Trichy. In the previous years, the preferred location for the temporary bus stand was Avinashi Road.The temporary bus stand wore a deserted look during the day. While in the previous years, passengers were seen running to get onto a departing bus, buses were seen waiting patiently for them this time. The tents (shamiana) erected for the passengers to wait for buses had more stationed two-wheelers than people. There were buses to the temporary stand from Gandhipuram bus stand and they were relatively empty. “The crowd is less than 30% of that of last year,” said a bus conductor, who didn’t want to be named.TNSTC officials said the crowd could improve later in the evening and on Friday, the festival eve. “Most people may depart only a day earlier and stay in their native towns for the weekend,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/temporary-bus-stand-on-codissia-grounds-to-handle-festival-rush/articleshow/79198587.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Man held for trying to rape 90-year-old woman in Pollachi||COIMBATORE: A 20-year-old youth was arrested on Wednesday for attempting to sexually assault a 90-year-old woman at her house near a village in Pollachi. The accused, A Mydeen, 20, from Kumaran Nagar at Pollachi, was a daily wage labourer and was hooked to alcohol, police said. The 90-year-old woman was asleep in a separate room of her house located in an agricultural field in a village near Pollachi on Tuesday night. Her 55-year-old son, a farmer, was sleeping in the next room along with his family. Around 11 pm, his mother raised an alarm and her son rushed to her rescue when he saw Mydeen running out of the house. On Wednesday, her son and relatives nabbed the youth and handed him over to Pollachi west police station, where he was booked under IPC sections 376 (rape) read with 511. Police said Mydeen was inebriated when he entered the house of the elderly woman. A magistrate court remanded him to judicial custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-held-for-trying-to-rape-90-yr-old-woman/articleshow/79198575.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bareilly||Two booked for harassing woman shopkeeper, threatening her with acid attack & rape||PILIBHIT: Two people were booked for allegedly sexually harassing a 28-year-old woman shopkeeper, thrashing her and threatening her with acid attack and rape, following the order of superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav on Wednesday evening. In her complaint to the SP, the woman stated that two people visited her shop around 2.30 pm on November 9 and hurled derogatory remarks at her and made objectionable gestures. She rushed to Sungarhi police station with a complaint, but SHO Atar Singh declined to register an FIR, stating he would get the matter probed first, alleged the woman. The next evening, when she was on her way home after closing the shop, the two accused harassed her sexually, beat her up as she resisted and threatened her with rape and acid attack if she approached police, alleged the woman. The woman alleged that no action was taken against the accused even after she, along with her family members, approached Sungarhi police station the next morning. SHO Atar Singh said following the SP’s order, the duo was booked under sections 354 A (assault or use of criminal force to any woman with the intention of disrobing or compelling her to be naked), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-booked-for-harassing-woman-shopkeeper-threatening-her-with-acid-attack-rape/articleshow/79194369.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||City students score better in NTSE revision test||Ludhiana: City students studying in government schools have shown better participation as well result in the National Talent Search Examination (NTSE) revision test held recently by the education department. NTSE is a talent-based evaluation system for students of Class X and it is slated for December 13. After clearing the NTSE, successful candidates get Rs 1,250 per month for pursuing higher secondary studies and Rs 2,000 per month for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. As many as 80.4% of students appeared for the NTSE revision test exam in the district. 2,828 students were registered for the test and 2,275 appeared for the same. The students scored 48.9% average score while 124 students scored 80% and above and only five scored 30 out of 30. However, in the previous test many students scored above 80%. Sanjeev Taneja, coordinator, NTSE, said, “The score has improved from the previous revision tests. As compared to the first revision test, the second and third revision tests have shown massive improvement. Last time, only 11 students scored 90% and above and now we have 36 students who have scored above 90%. Besides, 1,002 students appeared for the exam, but this time the figure doubled. 33 students scored 80% and above and now 124 students had scored above 80%.” Six students scored 29 marks, 13 scored 28 marks, 12 scored 27 marks, 14 scored 26 marks, 26 scored 25 marks and 48 scored 24 marks, making it to 124 students who have scored 80% and above. The five students who have scored full marks are Harshdeep, Vikas and Gaurav from GSSS, Millerganj, Jashanpreet Kaur from GSSS, Goshal, and Tamanna from GSSS, Rajgarh. Sharing more details DS Chinna, principal of GSSS, Shahpur, said, “Due to problems faced by some candidates during registration on the portal, www.epuniabschool.gov.in is again going to be opened from November 11 to November 15 for the registration of NTSE (stage-I) class X examination to be held on December 13. Students who have already registered need not to apply again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-students-score-better-in-ntse-revision-test/articleshow/79194366.cms||Mehak Jain
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||Amid spike in cases, CM Rawat asks officials to provide Covid report speedily||Dehradun: With Uttarakhand witnessing a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last one-week, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday directed the state health officers to increase the number of sample test each day. During a review meeting, he told the officers to ensure that the test report is available to people of urban areas within 24 hours and for rural areas within 48 hours. Asserting that the next 15 days were extremely crucial, the CM instructed the officials to use all their resources. "More efforts are required in four districts of Dehradun, Nainital, Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar, which have witnessed the maximum number of Covid-19 cases. With the festive season around the corner, the next 15 days are extremely crucial. All district magistrates need to remain alert and take all required steps to check the spread," the CM said. In wake of the festive season, Rawat said a large number of people are expected visit the market areas. "Authorities need to ensure that social distancing norms are followed, and people wear mask. Strict action is required against those not wearing masks. The authorities need to talk to shop owners and social organisations for the compliance of social distancing norms," said the CM. Health secretary Amit Negi said "DM needs to remain extra vigilant and ensure all required infrastructure and medical facilities are available. The required arrangements at Covid centres need to be checked on regular basis."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/amid-spike-in-cases-cm-rawat-asks-officials-to-provide-covid-report-speedily/articleshow/79197502.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 13, 2020||Kolhapur||Solapur rural reports 158 Covid cases||Kolhapur: The rural parts of Solapur recorded 158 fresh Covid-19 cases while 109 patients were discharged after recovering from the illness since Wednesday late night. According to the officials, of the 158 patients, 94 are men and 64 are women. Solapur rural also recorded two deaths, one each in Pandharpur and Malshiras. Both the deceased were elderly. Of the fresh cases, Pandharpur tehsil reported 44 fresh cases on Thursday. Malshiras tehsil added 38 new patients, Madha recorded 38 new patients while Barshi reported 17 new cases. Solapur rural has a total of 32,686 patients, of whom 974 patients have succumbed to Covid-19, 1,757 patients are currently undergoing treatment and 29,955 patients have recovered from the contagion. Solapur city added 27 fresh Covid patients and 17 patients were discharged on Thursday . Two deaths were also reported. The city has reported 9,874 Covid-19 patients, of whom 550 patients have succumbed to Covid-19, 442 patients are currently undergoing treatment and 8,882 patients have recovered from the contagion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/solapur-rural-reports-158-covid-cases/articleshow/79196452.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Municipal teachers to check Covid norm violations in markets||NEW DELHI: In the wake of the increasing Covid-19 cases and rising footfall in markets, municipal corporations have decided to deploy teams for checking violations at crowded places. Teachers are being roped in for this drive. A notification has already been issued in this regard by the north corporation. The teams will remain in the field for enforcement from 1 pm-11 pm till November 17 and will challan those violating the Covid-19 norms. An order issued by Civil Lines zones on Tuesday stated: “Teachers and MCD employees are deployed in various wards in group of six for enforcement of Covid-19 norms.” A similar order with details of teachers to be engaged in different wards has also been issued in Narela zone. The decision, however, has been objected to by the teachers who have not been paid salaries for two months. Kuldeep Khatri of Shikshak Nyay Manch, Nagar Nigam, said that since March, teachers have been doing all tasks assigned by senior officials. “We distributed ration, helped in testing, took online classes, distributed books, served at quarantine centres, visited houses for improving enrolment rates and what not. And now, we are being asked to visit sweet shops and markets to manage crowds. This is unacceptable,” said Khatri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/municipal-teachers-to-check-covid-norm-violations-in-markets/articleshow/79200899.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: After parents’ opposition, govt drops move to reopen schools||CHENNAI: The state government on Thursday decided to postpone the reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII after most parents opposed the decision fearing the pandemic. Scrapping its earlier order allowing schools and hostels to reopen from November 16, the state government said it will announce the reopening date later depending on the situation. The government had conducted parents’ meet in more than 12,000 schools across the state on November 9 to get their opinion on reopening of schools. “In some schools, parents wanted to reopen the schools, while in others, they wanted to postpone it considering the safety of their children. Considering both the views, the order allowing schools and hostels to reopen from November 16 stands cancelled ,” a release from the state government said. The state government has also suspended the move to reopen colleges on November 16. Based on UGC guidelines, it allowed classes to resume for research scholars and final-year PG students of science and technology courses in colleges and universities starting December 2. Hostels will be allowed to open in these colleges for these students. The date for reopening of colleges for other classes will be announced later. Online classes would continue for other students, it said Welcoming the decision to postpone the reopening of schools, school managements asked the state government to immediately release the details of prioritized and optional syllabus for state board students. “It is a good decision respecting the parents’ views. But the school education department should release the 40% portions omitted this year so we can focus on lessons that would be valid for the exams,” said B Purushothaman, senior principal, Everwin Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Kolathur. He pointed out that CBSE had released the details of the lessons dropped for Class X and XII. Instead of chopping the portions, the school education department split the syllabus from Class I to XII into two prioritized syllabus and optional syllabus. Teachers have to compulsorily teach the topics in prioritized category while students have to self-study the portions under optional category. “Teachers are struggling to complete the portions for lower classes due to just two online classes per day. Teachers are really confused and the school education department should release the details of portions which are not mandatory,” said N Vijayan, senior principal, Zion Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Tambaram. Many schools have completed around 70% of lessons through online classes. “But, conducting assessment is a big problem. We don’t know what the children have learnt in online classes. The state government should allow schools to reopen in a phased manner starting with Class XII from December,” said GJ Manohar, principal, MCC Higher Secondary School in Chetpet. Colleges also welcomed the move to reopen with research scholars and postgraduate students. “It is a good move as postgraduate students need to come to college for practicals and conducting experiments. In our college, we plan to conduct semester exams from December 5. After that, we will accommodate the students,” said Thomas Amirtham, principal, Loyola College. “There won’t be any issue with reopening of colleges for postgraduate students and research scholars. Our college has around 300 to 400 students and it will not be a problem in maintaining social distance among PG students and research scholars,” said MG Ragunathan, principal, Guru Nanak College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/after-parents-opposition-govt-drops-move-to-reopen-schools/articleshow/79200236.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||Covid test must for all coming to Lucknow from Delhi||LUCKNOW: With a view to checking the second wave of pandemic in the city, district administration on Thursday said that all people coming from Delhi, which is witnessing a surge, will be identified and tested from Friday. Help of airport staff, surveillance teams, corporators and resident welfare associations will be taken to track such people. They will also have the option to voluntarily inform administration and get themselves tested. TimesViewLife is important and so is livelihood. An impact on any of them would have a cascading effect on personal and social life as well as the economy. The weather is already conducive to the growth of Covid-19 and in such a situation, if people will not follow safety protocols, the prediction of a post-Diwali surge might come true. Already, cases have seen a rise in the past two days. It is better to take prevention today than to feel sorry tomorrow.All shopkeepers and their staff and employees of all private pathologies will also be tested. Rapid testing will be done at ghats on Gomti bank and congested areas. The decisions were the part of the strategy to combat the second wave by identifying carriers of virus by testing everyone having the possibility of getting infected in the course of their duties. These steps are being taken because the period between November 12 and December 15 will be ‘sensitive’ for the second wave, said district magistrate Abhishek Prakash. Besides directions to expedite contact tracing and sampling, orders were issued to constitute surveillance teams for door-to-door surveys for identifying people with influenza like symptoms and severe acute respiratory infections and get them tested for Covid-19. Officers were also directed to inspect Covid hospitals, sample collection and testing centres as well as private pathologies to ensure all arrangements are upto the mark.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-test-must-for-all-coming-to-city-from-delhi/articleshow/79200894.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Period of enhanced speed limit renewed till December 8||NAGPUR: The Nagpur traffic police have extended by one more month the period during which vehicles can ply on city’s roads with enhanced speed limit. Motorists can continue to drive at a speed of up to 60 kmph within city limits till December 8. A notification to this effect was issued by deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Sarang Awad a couple of days ago. In August this year, the office of the joint commissioner of police had enhanced speed limits for vehicles including motorcycle/scooter, car, bus, truck and autorickshaw for a period of one month till September. The period of enhanced speed limit continued till November. After reviewing the earlier notification, the traffic police have decided to extend the period by one more month. TOI has highlighted that the Union road and transport ministry had in 2018 increased the speed limits nationally from 50 kmph to 70 kmph. But the city police had not taken any decision to increase the speed limit. It was revised after receiving a communication from the additional director general of police (traffic) to enhance the speed limits for vehicles plying on city roads. Sources said it was a long pending demand and the city police had not changed the speed limits for a couple of decades despite improvement in city’s road infrastructure. As per the notification, the speed limit for two-wheelers will be 60 kmph on city roads while for outer ring road, the motorist can accelerate the speed further by 10 kmph (i.e.70 kmph). For four-wheeler, bus and truck, the speed limit will be 60 kmph if they ply on any roads in the city. The speed limit for autorickshaw was set at 50 kmph and for outer ring road, the three-wheeler’s speed can go up to 60 kmph. For outer ring road, the speed limits for car, bus and truck will be 80 kmph, 90 kmph and 80 kmph, respectively, stated the notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/period-of-enhanced-speed-limit-renewed-till-dec-8/articleshow/79195419.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Demand continues to remain high for sandalwood||MYSURU: The Mysuru forest department’s sandal depot has earned close to Rs 6 crore revenue from the retail sale of sandal, so far during the year. Sandal trees from forests, collected from farmers or seized from smugglers, are put up for e-auction once a year. The demand for sandal has remained as usual since years. Sandalwood is mainly used to make incense sticks, sandal oil, ayurvedic medicine and handicrafts, apart from furniture. Due to its high demand and non-availability, it is giving scope to smuggling of sandalwood. Some of the agencies that are growing sandal trees have protected them by putting up iron fences around the trees. Miscreants backed by smugglers are felling young sandal trees, before they mature into fully grown trees, across Karnataka. Karnataka is the largest producer of sandalwood in India, and it was once known as the land of sandalwood. Today the government is making all efforts to increase its cultivation, and have started encouraging farmers and individuals to grow sandalwood. Unlike other timber, sandalwood is sold based on its weight, rather than size. Deputy conservator of forests K C Prashanth Kumar said the sale of sandal logs by the forest department earned revenue of Rs 6 crore for them. Of the three sandal depots in Karnataka, Mysuru’s is the biggest. The other two are in Shivamogga and Dharwad. Every year, seasoned sandalwood is auctioned online, for which the demand is increasing. There are about 18 different varieties of sandal that are grown in Karnataka. The best quality is sold for anywhere around Rs 20k per kilo, the DCF stated. Majority of our clients are incense stick manufacturers and oil extractors. ST Somashekar, district minister of Mysuru, during his recent visit the Aranya Bhavana, the headquarter of forest department of Mysuru division that has one of the sandal depots of Karnataka and gathered information about demand for sandal logs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/demand-continues-to-remain-high-for-sandalwood/articleshow/79199011.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Curfew in Sakleshpur in view of VHP’s rally against cow slaughter||HASSAN: Sakleshpur assistant commissioner Girish Nandan M imposed prohibitory order under Section 144 of the CrPC in three areas of Sakleshpur town till Thursday midnight. The step was taken as a precautionary measure to prevent any untoward incident during a protest rally organised by Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Bajrang Dal against cow slaughter. According to the order passed by AC on Wednesday, co-convenor of the pro Hindu organisations Srijithgowda had submitted petition seeking permission to carry out protest rally “Kushalanagara chalo” through Kushalanagar extension, Premanagar, and Azad road areas to condemn cow slaughter and the subsequent blood discharge into the drains located in front of the houses of Hindus. The police initially denied permission for the rally as Sakleshpur taluk is a very sensitive area. They had also received an intelligence report about a possible attempt to disturb the communal harmony in town. However, the notice reportedly did not reach the organisers and so they they pasted it on the office door. In a bid to avoid any confusion, the taluk administration also decided to impose prohibitory order in those areas where the rally was to pass through. “On Thursday, around 40 people took out a peaceful rally through some areas that were not brought under the prohibitory order. No untoward incident was reported,” said Girish Nandan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/curfew-in-sakleshpur-in-view-of-vhps-rally-against-cow-slaughter/articleshow/79198887.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Tax sleuths raid shops of five scrap traders||Coimbatore: Officials from the GST commissionerate in the city picked up three traders in a joint raid at 12 locations for alleged tax evasion to the tune of Rs 5 crore. Officials raided shops and residences of traders at Ganapathy, Chinnavedampatti in Coimbatore district and Tirupur after a tip-off that the accused were involved in invoice trading (bill trading) without supply of goods. According to a top source, six teams of GST officials raided five iron scrap traders’ shops in Coimbatore and Tirupur on Thursday morning, while another six teams raided their residences. A preliminary investigation revealed that the traders were issuing invoices without supply of actual goods. The source said as per GST rules, iron scrap traders have to pay a tax of 18% on every transaction. “But the five traders did not pay GST of even a single penny. One of the traders showed fake invoice bills of a turnover of Rs 38 crore in last year,” a top official, who did not wish to be identified, said.  The tax amount in the fake invoice was availed as input tax credit by the traders who received fake invoices on a commission basis without receipt of actual goods and utilized for further bill trading or tax payment of supply of non-duty goods procured without bills from the open market. The raid is still continuing, and is expected to be completed by Friday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tax-sleuths-raid-shops-of-five-scrap-traders/articleshow/79198599.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||‘Deepotsav was special this year, Covid played spoiler’||Lucknow: Deepotsava celebrations in Ayodhya this year would have been gigantic and shattered all previous records, but the Covid pandemic outbreak scaled it down, said UP tourism minister Neelkanth Tewari. Speaking to TOI, Tewari said, “It is the first Diwali after the judgment was pronounced in the Ayodhya title suit by the Supreme Court. Besides, the bhoomi pujan for Ram Lalla’s temple was performed in August. Had it not been for the pandemic, Deepotsav would have been organized on a huge scale and Ayodhya would have turned into a sea of devotees who would have thronged the temple town to celebrate the momentous occasion.” Yogi Adityanath government’s signature event Deepotsav would have been much more than just a celebration of Ram’s home-coming this year, he said. “Every lamp lit on this Deepotsav will be a tribute to the 500-year-old struggle for liberating Ram Janmabhoomi. It also reinforces the faith devotees in every corner of the world have in their hearts for Lord Ram,” Tewari added. The minister said Deepotsava started by the Yogi Adityanath government has been a trend setter of sorts. “I think it also marks the victory of traditional earthen lamps over artificial lights. And this shift has given a new meaning to Diwali in modern times,” he said. The tradition of lighting oil lamps has a positive impact on the environment too, he added. State tourism officials said Deepotsav has already created a Guinness Record and surpassed its own achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/deepotsav-was-special-this-year-covid-played-spoiler/articleshow/79200898.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Hearing on Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea adjounred to November 18||DHARWAD: The second additional court in Dharwad, which is also functioning as the special court for the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Thursday adjourned the hearing on the bail plea filed by former minister and senior Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni to November 18. Bharat Kumar, appearing for the former minister, pointed out that Kulkarni had fully cooperated with the investigating agencies and deserved to be released on bail. However, Judge M Panchakshari issued an order asking CBI to file an objection to the plea, and adjourned the hearing to November 18. Kulkarni is currently under judicial custody till November 18 and is being housed in Hindalaga Jail in Belagavi Kulkarni was arrested on November 6 from his residence in Dharwad in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. Meanwhile, the CBI on Thursday interrogated police inspector Channakeshav Tingarikar, who had investigated the murder in 2015. Tingarikar was the inspector of Dharwad suburban police station, and the murder had been reported in Saptapur, which was within its jurisdiction. Tingarikar was quizzed at an undisclosed location by the CBI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hearing-on-kulkarnis-bail-plea-adjounred-to-november-18/articleshow/79197390.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru HC wants Surya, others prosecuted||BENGALURU: Noting that the failure to prosecute politicians who flout norms governing wearing of masks and social distancing has serious consequences, the high court on Thursday directed the government to take a call on the issue. Citing examples of a September 30 rally where BJP MP Tejasvi Surya and eight others were belatedly penalised (on November 7) and the recent RR Nagar bypoll campaign, the court said as they (politicians) have admitted the offence and paid fines, it is for the government to decide on prosecution and it expects a positive response on this aspect. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka noted that the government has failed to take concrete action with regards to large-scale violations during political rallies. As for nonpayment of salaries to BBMP marshals, the bench said it is “simply unpardonable”. The court wondered how the Palike expects marshals to work without pay. However, the BBMP counsel told the court that salary dues till August have been paid and salary for September and October will be cleared by Friday. The bench said it expects an assurance that it won’t be repeated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-wants-state-to-prosecute-mp-other-netas-for-mask-violation/articleshow/79198619.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Covid, squatters delay eco-restoration of 3 water bodies||CHENNAI: Eco-restoration of the Adambakkam tank, Perumbakkam tank and Vengaivasal lake, which was begun in January, has been delayed. It is partly due to Covid-19 and partly due to non-removal of encroachments, say PWD officials. A senior PWD official said all the three water bodies were mainly affected by the marginal discharge of sewage, the blatant encroachments and the environmental degradation due to dumping of solid waste. The infrastructure needs immediate attention besides de-silting and deepening, said the official. More than 365 encroachments dot the Adambakkam tank, several of them set up nearly 30 years ago. In 2010, the PWD sent a detailed report to the Kancheepuram district administration, urging it to remove them. However, the revenue authorities are yet to verify the ‘documents’ presented and the encroachers continue to enjoy their stay on the water body, said the official. The situation at the Perumbakkam tank is worse. More than 800 houses have been built on the water body, and with garbage being dumped indiscriminately and sewage being freely discharged, the task of the restorers is challenging. At Vengaivasal, burial grounds have come up on as many as 12 acres of the smaller lake and at least 300 houses have been illegally built on the larger water body. Aware of the need to revive these key water bodies, the PWD last year proposed the eco-restoration and the state government gave its nod in January this year. The project was allocated Rs 12 crore. But there was an intense Covid-triggered lockdown from March till May and a partial lockdown from May to August when no work was possible. The work resumed in September, but the revenue authorities need to verify the documents of squatters in all the three water bodies before the eco-restoration can be completed by at least April next year, said the official. The three water bodies, when ecologically restored, are expected help improve the groundwater table in the surrounding areas and the water can be supplied to residents, said the experts. The two tanks and the lakes had been proper drinking water sources for residents of surrounding areas for a long time before unregulated development took its toll. The size of the water bodies has also shrunk significantly, the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-squatters-delay-eco-restoration-of-3-water-bodies/articleshow/79198596.cms||P Oppili
November 13, 2020||Chennai||2,112 new Covid cases take TN’s tally beyond 7.5 lakh||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 2,112 new cases and 25 deaths to the Covid-19 registry on Thursday that pushed the case tally to 7,52,521 and cumulative death toll to 11,440. After 4,029 people were discharged in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases fell to 18,395. Active cases in the northern districts was 9,783. In the eight western districts, active cases dropped to 4,920. The state has tested 76,574 people since Wednesday and the number of people tested so far is more than 1.05crore. The directorate of public health said TN has done 1.23lakh tests per million population compared to 85,922 across India. "Unlike several other states, we did not use any antigen kits. All our tests were gold standard RT PCR tests," said health minister C Vijayabaskar. On a comparative scale, Brazil, which has a population of 21 crore has done 1.02 lakh tests and Russia has done 2.7 lakh tests for 14 crore population. "Our aim is to track and test people so we can isolate people and initiate early treatment. This has helped us increase recovery rate and reduce deaths," he said. The recovery rate in the state crossed 96% while the case fatality rate was around 1.5%. Indicating a decline in infection rate, the doubling time for cases is more than 200 days compared to 83 days around the same time in October. “But with the festive season the number of people going for tests has come down from around 90,000 last month,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. “People with symptoms of the disease must get themselves tested immediately. The government labs and hospitals will function on all days including festive weekends,” he said. On Thursday, the eleven northern districts together reported 57% of fresh cases and 60% of deaths. After north fresh cases were highest in the western districts (533) followed by South zone (202). New cases in the central districts were the lowest at 172. Active cases were the lowest in the central zone (1,814) after the south, where 1,876 people were still being treated for the viral infection. All districts continued to report fresh cases, and hot spot Chennai continued to be on top of the table with 565 cases. Three other districts – Coimbatore (190), Chengalpet (148) and Tiruvallur (120) – reported cases in three digits. There were four districts that reported cases in single digits – Ariyalur (9), Tenkasi (8), Ramanathapuram (6) and Perambalur (5). Chennai reported six deaths in the last 24 hours followed by five in Kancheepuram. Madurai reported two and a dozen more districts reported one each. Twenty two of 37 districts reported no deaths. Of the 25 deaths reported on Thursday, 22 had comorbid conditions such as diabetes, hypertension or cardiac diseases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2112-new-covid-cases-take-tns-tally-beyond-7-5-lakh/articleshow/79198615.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Insecurity over literature will stunt our intellectual capacity, says Roy||A day after reports emerged about Manonmaniam Sundaranar University removing writer Arundhati Roy’s ‘Walking with the Comrades,’ book from the syllabus of M A English course following complaints, including from the ABVP, over its alleged ‘anti-national’ content, the writer on Thursday said, “the narrow, shallow, insecure attitude towards literature displayed by our current regime is not just detrimental to its critics. It is detrimental to millions of its own supporters. It will limit and stunt our collective intellectual capacity as a society and a country that is striving for a place of respect and dignity in the world.” While the DMK and the CPM opposed the move to drop the book that chronicles her journey to the hideouts of Maoists from the syllabus, and the BJP defended it, the Man Booker Prize winner said she was “not in the least bit shocked or surprised.” “It was my duty as a writer to write it. It is not my duty to fight for its place on a university curriculum,” she said. P 8||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/insecurity-over-literature-will-stunt-our-intellectual-capacity-says-roy/articleshow/79200271.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||Unaccounted money seized from 2 govt offices||Coimbatore: Sleuths of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted money from two government offices in Coimbatore and Tirupur in the last two days. A team led by DVAC deputy superintendent of police T H Ganesh conducted a surprise check at the office of the deputy director of industrial safety and health at Cross Cut Road in Coimbatore city and seized Rs 5,000 from the office of the industry inspectors . They also seized Rs 1.16 lakh from a tout who arrived at the office of the deputy director and Rs 32,000 from the office of the deputy director. After receiving a tip-off, DVAC deputy superintendent of police C Dakshinamoorthy and team conducted a surprise check at the Avinashi taluk office in Tirupur on Wednesday around 6pm and seized Rs 60,510. The search was completed around 10pm. The sleuths on Thursday registered an FIR against Avinashi tahsildar G Shanthi under Section 7 (Public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unaccounted-money-seized-from-2-govt-offices/articleshow/79198635.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||17-year-old boy among two held for sexually assaulting minor girls||Coimbatore: A minor boy was arrested for impregnating a minor girl and a 22-year-old man was arrested for sexually assaulting a minor girl in the city on Wednesday.The east all women police at Ramanthapuram arrested a 17-year-old boy for sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl. “The boy, a native of Thoothukudi district, was working in a shop here. He had befriended the survivor, who was his neighbour. He visited her house several times and sexually assaulted her. After the girl became ill, her mother took her to a private hospital, where doctors revealed that she was pregnant,” a police officer said.Police registered a case and arrested the boy for penetrative sexual assault and impregnating the minor girl. He was lodged in the observation home for juveniles at Lakshmi Mills junction.In the second incident, police arrested a S Sanjay, a native of Cuddalore district, for raping a 15-year-old girl. “He had befriended the Class X girl on social media. The girl, a native of Kerala, recently visited her aunt’s house in Coimbatore. They eloped on November 5. After the girl’s aunt lodged a complaint, east all women police registered a case against Sanjay under Section 366 of Indian Penal Code and sections 9 and 10 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012,” a police officer said.Sanjay was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/17-year-old-boy-among-two-held-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girls/articleshow/79198645.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Cracker window violations to attract strict action||AHMEDABAD: Briefing the media at the police commissioner’s office in Shahibaug, deputy commissioner of police, control room, Harshad Patel, said those who burst crackers outside the permitted 8pm to 10pm time window will be dealt with strictly and action under Section 188 of the CrPC and and the Explosives Act will be taken against them. Patel said the safety of women and social distancing is their main concern. “Police and women cops in civil dress will be patrolling crowded areas and act against those who break the law,” he added. Patel said all entry and exit points of the city will be heavily guarded, vehicle checking will be beefed up and team of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and Home Guard detachments will be kept ready for the festive period. “So far no communication from the DGP’s office has been received about cancelling leaves of police personnel or officers,” he said. On Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation allowing markets to stay open till midnight, Patel said they will support the decision provided people abide by Covid-19 rules. Patel urged people to wear masks and maintain social distancing in crowded areas during the coming festive season. He also said that traffic management and parking are also concerns. 21 applications for sale licences DCP Patel said there 225 firecracker traders who have got permanent licences to sell crackers. “This season there have been 21 new applications from firecracker traders of which 15 have been approved and the other six are being processed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cracker-window-violations-to-attract-strict-action/articleshow/79200293.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bareilly||Three police constables’ bikes found burnt outside house||Pilibhit: Three personal bikes of three police constables posted at Sungarhi police station at the district headquarters here were completely damaged in a fire on the intervening night between Wednesday and Thursday. It is suspected that the fire was deliberately set by unidentified vandals. A probe has been ordered into the matter.The bikes were parked outside the constables’ rented flat, which they share. Though Sungarhi locality is a congested area, no one saw anything. Constables Lokesh Kumar, Mohammad Rashid and Rajan Kumar learnt about the damage in the morning.Jai Prakash Yadav, superintendent of police, has entrusted the probe to circle officer, Pilibhit city circle, Virendra Vikram.The "vandalism" has also exposed poor night patrolling by police in the area.Atar Singh, SHO, said an FIR in the matter could not be registered as a written complaint is yet to be lodged by the constables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-police-constables-bikes-found-burnt-outside-house/articleshow/79194461.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Packing punch with home-made podis, pickles||Chennai: When the lockdown happened and he had to shut his restaurant, N S Krishnamoorthy, owner of Prem’s Grama Bhojanam in Adyar, decided to focus on creating healthy fare that customers could get delivered to their homes. The lockdown has now been eased, but his podis and batters continue to be sought after. “The pandemic had confined people to their homes and they wanted to cook nutritious, immunity-building food for their families while juggling WFH schedules,” says Krishnamoorthy, whose restaurant specialises in millet-based food. “So, I began making podis such as kollu (horsegram) podi, which is supposed to help reduce high BP and sugar levels, and drumstick leaf podi that you can mix with rice and eat or have with idli and dosa.” Millet batter for idli and dosa, ginger thokku, mango ginger pickle, amla pickle, and gongura were other things he came up with for customers. During the lockdown, many city restaurants turned to making traditional podis, pickles and other fare so that they could continue to have a source of income. And the demand for these has only increased even after the city opened up. So many restaurants are now focussing on expanding their range and launching their brands. “There is a huge demand for these pickles, podis and homemade batter. People find it’s healthy, tasty and cuts down cooking time,” says Krishnamoorthy. Nalina Kannan, owner of Thaligai restaurant in Mylapore, launched a new brand, Thaligai Tradition, during the lockdown. “We were selling sambar and rasam podis but during the lockdown we began making coconut, curry leaf and paruppu powder based on my mother and mother-in-law’s recipes,” says Nalina, adding the podis can be used in multiple ways. “If you mix the curry leaf powder with tamarind paste and water and boil it, you get karuveppilai kozhambu. You can add warm water to the coconut powder to make thenga thogayal, which is a good combo with kootu or else you can add oil to the podi and have it with dosa or idli,” she says, adding they are now delivering it to clients across India. “And if you add the coconut podi to sambar to make arachuvitta sambar.” Tarun Alexander of Ninan’s Restaurant at Parry’s Corner, which dates to 1956 and specialises in Kerala cuisine, says he began trying his hand at making pickles a few months into lockdown. “My friend, T Shamini, suggested it and so I began making pork, beef, prawn, and fish pickles. They are all made according to our family recipes. My mom constantly makes them at home, so I learned how to do it myself,” says Tarun, adding that the demand for the pickles have gone up after lockdown. “We now sell fish and prawn pickles at our restaurant, the others are made on request.” The latest one he has rolled out is a bacon relish. “It’s a little sweet and spicy, and has the consistency of jam. You can use it as a filler or spread, or even have it with rice,” he says, adding that 150g is priced at Rs 600. “But a lot of people are buying it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/packing-punch-with-home-made-podis-pickles/articleshow/79198672.cms||Priya Menon
November 13, 2020||Coimbatore||80-year-old woman killed for gold, cash in Tirupur||Coimbatore: An 80-year-old woman was found murdered in her residence at Kangeyam in Tirupur district on Wednesday. The deceased was identified as N Valliammal of Bharathipuram. “She was staying alone on her 12-acre agricultural land. She had leased the land to Subramani, a farmer, two years ago. Subramani, who visited her house on Wednesday around 3pm, found the body. There were several injuries on the head and strangulation marks on the neck,” a police officer, who didn’t want to be named, said. A gold chain, a pair of bangles, gold ring and gold ear studs weighing 10.5 sovereigns, and Rs 10,000 were missing from the house. Deputy superintendent of police R Dhanarasu inspected the place. Forensic and fingerprint experts visited the crime scene. A sniffer dog was also pressed into service. The killer had hit Valliammal with a wooden spade handle, a police officer said. Seven special teams have been formed to nab the murderer, superintendent of police Disha Mittal said. The Kangeyam police have registered a case under sections 302 (murder), 457 (lurking house trespass or house breaking by night) and 392 (robbery) and 397 (robbery or dacoity with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/80-year-old-woman-killed-for-gold-cash-in-tirupur/articleshow/79198682.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 247% jump in those seeking treatment for mental illness||BENGALURU: In compelling evidence that the pandemic has impacted many people — patients, contacts and healthcare workers — psychologically as much as economically, so much so that they needed psychiatrist intervention, data on the number of counselling sessions held and patients treated shows a massive spike in the state since August. Compared to mid-August, when TOI first reported on the link between mental health and Covid-19, the number of patients who needed treatment that involved medication has now jumped 247%, while the number of psychological counselling sessions conducted has more than doubled (106% increase). As of November 11, more than 9.9 lakh counselling sessions were conducted, compared to 4.8 lakh in August, while the number of people who had been treated jumped to 27,628 from 7,970 in August. While supportive psychotherapy has been enough in most cases, in other cases where people have been severely depressed, very anxious or suicidal, officials and doctors said administration of medicine was necessary. Dr Rajani P, psychiatrist and deputy director (mental health), department of health and family welfare, who had earlier said that the important thing was that people had sought help when in distress, told TOI: “The jump in numbers are in line with increasing Covid-19 cases. In the last fortnight or so, as Covid-19 cases are decreasing, we are also witnessing a dip in counselling sessions and patients needing treatment.” Another psychiatrist requesting anonymity said there were many patients who have shown suicidal tendencies and many more who were severely depressed. These cases could not be dealt with by mere counselling, the psychiatrist said. The state health and family welfare department said a majority of counselling sessions and treatment has happened with Covid patients followed by those in quarantine — home and institutional quarantine — and those in isolation. In August, this trend was the other way around. Aside from these categories, migrant workers, healthcare workers and doctors have been counselled. “But no doctor or healthcare worker has required treatment so far. That has been limited to the other three categories,” an official said. Of the more than 9.9 lakh counselling sessions held, 45% were for Covid patients and 44% for those in quarantine or isolation. The rest were migrants, doctors and healthcare workers. As of August, there were 80 psychiatrists (including in-house psychiatrists at government hospitals), 31 psychologists, 41 social workers, 60 nurses trained in counselling work and the numbers, an official said, have not increased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mental-health-covid-247-rise-in-those-seeking-treatment-since-aug/articleshow/79198705.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Green Brigade welcomes Telangana high court ban on firecrackers||HYDERABAD: Hours after the Telangana High Court, ordered a complete ban on use of firecrackers this Diwali and asked the government to issue a notification, the city’s green brigade heaved a sigh of relief and urged authorities to implement the ban. “The only thing we can hope now is for people to follow the ban strictly and be more conscious about the environment before it’s too late,” said Kaajal Maheshwari, environmental activist and founder of Citizens for Hyderabad. Prior to the blanket ban, the government had allowed people to burst crackers only from 8 pm to 10 pm. “We are living in extraordinary situations. The ban will definitely bring relief, particularly those already struggling with industrial pollution on a daily basis. We hope everybody adheres to it,” said Sudha Vinod, a resident of Balanagar. Sale of firecrackers, however, continued unabashedly with several shopkeepers claiming to have little clue about the court’s diktat. Traders however said they are concerned about their future. “It will force us to incur huge losses. Anyway, there has been a year-on-year drop in firecracker sales,” said a trader. Given their poor sales figures this year, some said that the order will have no bearing on their trade. “Consumers are only buying smaller products like pencil crackers (Phuljhadi), flowerpots (Anaar) and rockets. There are very few buyers for fancy rockets, garlands of 1,000-5,000 firecrackers,” said Raavee Basavaraju, a shopkeeper in Neredmet. He added that he may not even set up shop next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-brigade-welcomes-high-court-ban-on-firecrackers/articleshow/79200306.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||Deepotsav: Bundeli folk artists to hold centrestage among 7 states||LUCKNOW: To make this Deepotsav special, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has invited folk artists from seven states, including Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. However, a special place has been accorded to performers from Bundelkhand with the CM keen on promoting cultural and economic development of the region. Officials said, their performances will be viewed not just in Ayodhya, but also across the world. The culture department has included the Deewari troupe from Bundelkhand in the programme, where the youth will dance to the recitation of doha, chand and chaupai. “Lord Ram has special ties with Bundelkhand which abound with stories of his penance in the region and tales of his children, Luv and Kush. In Madhya Pradesh’s Orchha near Jhansi, there’s a Ram Raja temple which shares close links with Ayodhya,” said a government spokesperson. Ramesh Pal from Banda’s Badokhar Khurd has been invited to represent the Bundeli Deewari troupe. About 15 members of the troupe reached Ayodhya on Thursday and were busy in rehearsals. “This is the largest and most widely watched platform as Deepotsav will be watched by lakhs across the globe via a web link. Due to the pandemic, celebrations can be viewed on digital platforms,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bundeli-folk-artists-to-hold-centrestage-among-7-states/articleshow/79200900.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||SLC concealed SC, Bombay HC orders on sawmills’ licences: Lawyer||NAGPUR: Stung by the order of ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) cancelling illegally granted 50 sawmill licences, the state-level committee (SLC) headed by PCCF (HoFF) N Rambabu has virtually admitted that the orders of Bombay High Court and Supreme Court on the issue of sawmills licences were concealed. The minutes of the SLC meeting (copy with TOI) held on November 2 are also silent on the MoEFCC order on many counts. The SLC has not asked the respective forest officials to physically remove the additional horizontal band saws (AHBS) as it was done in Dhule where the AHBS was uprooted. If not uprooted, there is every possibility they can operate these saws clandestinely. It has done just a formality by issuing an order to stop the use of the AHBS. “After perusal of minutes of the 17th meeting of SLC, major illegalities and improprieties have come to the fore. The SLC and its members have committed grave illegality and impropriety while issuing AHBS licences and filing reply before MoEFCC by relying on orders which overruled the apex court’s Central Empowered Committee (CEC) and Supreme Court order issued on December 27, 2003,” said Manish Jeswani, environment lawyer who challenged SLC decision to grant 50 AHBS licences by the then HoFF Umesh Agrawal. “It seems that the orders of the apex court and Bombay high court, and recommendations of CEC were intentionally and deliberately not placed before the SLC. These orders were suppressed though all records including relevant orders were with the forest department,” he said. “SLC has issued licences in contempt of orders of the Supreme Court and while doing so they relied upon such material that was already set aside by the apex court. Barring MoEFCC member who expressed dissent, signatories to the reply filed before MoEFCC have committed perjury. I will file appropriate proceedings in the court of law against SLC and its members,” said Jeswani. As per the MoEFCC order, the SLC is also silent on identifying lands for compensatory afforestation on war-footing as Maharashtra has many upcoming infrastructural projects for which forest land has been proposed for diversion under the FCA. The SLC also doesn’t talk about necessary directions to stakeholders of wood-based industries for plantation of at least 10 trees per cubic metre consumed per year in order to enhance forest cover of Maharashtra. The MoEFCC order was issued on October 30, 2020, to permanently cancel these licences. By delaying disconnection, the SLC is giving chance to sawmill owners as well as Agrawal to challenge the order. The SLC minutes mention irrelevant matters and high court judgments that were set aside by the Supreme Court. It is also silent about the amendment of Maharashtra Forest Rules (MFR) 2014. The MoEFCC had said that SLC has to get timber availability report from IWST, Bengaluru, and get it examined by an internal forest department committee. It is to be ratified by the SLC and get state government approval, but the issue doesn’t reflect in the minutes. The minutes are also mum on initiation of inquiry and contempt proceedings against ex-PCCF Agrawal for alleged misuse of power, which has to be completed in two months’ time as per the order. It also doesn’t speak anything on the revision of working plans which are about to expire in the next 2-3 years. “The SLC and forest department appear to be deliberately not taking a decision on these issues and delaying implementation of the order so that affected parties can challenge it in the court of law,” said a section of retired forest officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/slc-concealed-sc-hc-orders-on-sawmills-licences-lawyer/articleshow/79195455.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Avoid gatherings during festivities’||AHMEDABAD: As the number of Covid-19 cases surge in Ahmedabad and other parts of the state, members of the Ahmedabad Medical Association (AMA) on Thursday appealed to citizens to avoid public gatherings and advised persons with co-morbidities or those who have recovered from Covid-19 to not go out unnecessarily. Dr Kirit Gadhvi, president of AMA, said their ‘Doctors-on-Call’ service is now a decade old and is fielding about 700 calls every day during the Diwali festivities. “A group of 15 doctors in different areas of Ahmedabad have volunteered to remain available during the festive season. They will consult callers and guide them on hospitalization if required,” he said. Dr Pragnesh Vachcharajani, secretary of Ahmedabad Family Physicians Association (AFPA), said generally the calls they get are about burns, respiratory illnesses or injuries. “But this year, due to Covid-19 we expect a surge in cases related to symptoms such as cough, cold, fever and possible cardiac issues,” he said. “Those with existing illness and co-morbidities should remain indoors. Avoid large gatherings,” said Dr Dhiren Mehta, secretary of AMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/avoid-gatherings-during-festivities/articleshow/79200301.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||ATM cash van driver flees with Rs 4.3 crore in Virar, untraced||MUMBAI: The driver of a cash logistics firm allegedly fled with a van containing nearly Rs 4.3 crore as his colleagues were filling an ATM in Virar on Thursday. Around 5.30pm, the driver halted the van outside an ATM kiosk at Bolinj in Virar (W). The two custodians of the cash, along with an armed security guard, alighted from the van with a trunk containing cash. While they were filling cash in the ATM, the driver drove off with around Rs 4.3 crore still in the vehicle, said Arnala Coastal police inspector Mahesh Shetye. While the van has GPS, it is still to be traced. Police suspect that the driver, whose identity has not been revealed, may have moved the iron trunks containing the cash into another vehicle.The cash logistics company officials told the police that in view of the Diwali festival and long weekend, ATMs were being stocked up. The custodians and security guard told the police that they had been loading cash in ATM kiosks since 4pm. While they got off to fill the ATMs, the rear side of the van, where the trunks containing the cash were kept, was sealed from outside, but the driver stayed inside. They told the police that the driver neither displayed any signs of suspicion nor did they notice anyone following the van. At the time of going to press, massive nakabandis were underway on several key roads in the Vasai-Virar region. Police were also examining closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage along the route and at toll nakas, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/atm-cash-van-driver-flees-with-rs-4-3cr-in-virar-untraced/articleshow/79200903.cms||Sandhya Nair
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||One of 128 samples unsafe: AMC||Ahmedabad: The food safety wing of the city's civic body revealed that in the last 10 days, between November 1 and November 11, its team had taken 128 food samples of which only one was found to be substandard, five were found to be a case of misbranding. Most of these food samples whose results were declared on Thursday were dried snacks. Interestingly, results of 103 food samples tested are still pending. Of these 28 food samples were taken in the last two days. The overall number of food samples taken this year has been far less when compared to previous years, reveals an Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/one-of-128-samples-unsafe-amc/articleshow/79200341.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||Muslim artisans adorn court of Lord Ram||Ayodhya: Deepotsav in Ayodhya will just not be about sublime splendour, but will reinforce the temple town’s secular ethos with two Muslim artisans, Nawaz Sharif and Shahzade Waris anointing the magnificent Ram Durbar, the main draw of the Lord’s coronation procession to Saryu banks. Apart from the duo, at least 10 other Muslims are busy giving final touches to 11 tableaux, which will be on display at the Deepotsav venue. Religious barriers blur as Abdul Rashid, Shahid Warsi, Shahanshah, Mohammad Hasan Ali, Harun Warsi, Rehan Warsi, Mohammad Ali, Mohammad and Shareef quietly chisel away intricate patterns in the tableaux amidst round-the-clock chant of Ram hymns in the run-up to the grand Diwali festivities. “Communal harmony is the hallmark of Ayodhya,” said Shahid Warsi. Talking about participation of Muslims in a government-sponsored religious ceremony, Salig Ram Tiwari, a member of the team, said, “Muslim artisans are skilled and they know the art of decorating Ram Darbaar with grace. Hindus and Muslims work together and eat together in Ayodhya. There are no walls here.” Nawaz Sharif, the key artisan decorating the court of Lord Rama, said, “There was no discrimination against Muslims during hiring of artisans for decorating the Ram Durbar. This work is just not fulfilling, but is crucial for our livelihood in times of Covid-triggered recession. We are very happy about bagging this job and what’s most important our creations will be viewed by crores of people worldwide during live telecast.” Most Muslim artisans involved in preparation of the Ram tableaux are residents of neighbouring Barabanki’s Dewa Sharif locality, which houses the mausoleum of the 18th century Sufi saint Haji Waris Ali Shah. The dargah also draws crores of devotees, many from the Hindu community. Eleven tableaux prepared by Muslims include the Ram Darbar, Putreshthi Yagya, Gurukul Shiksha, Ram Sita Vivah, Ahilya Uddhaar, Panchvati Rameshwaram Setu, Pushpak Vimaan, Kewat Prasang, Shabri Ram Milaap and Lanka Dahan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/muslim-artisans-adorn-court-of-lord-ram/articleshow/79200917.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops arrest Iranian burglars in Thiruvananthapuram||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Four Iranians, suspected of committing a robbery in Alappuzha, were arrested by Cherthala police with the help of Cantonment police personnel in Thiruvananthapuram city on Wednesday evening. Majid Sahebiaziz (32), Einollah Sharafi (30), Davoud Absalan (23) and Mohsen Setareh, (35) were taken into custody from a hotel in the capital early on Wednesday morning; two of them had expired passports. Later, it was found that they were wanted by Cherthala police in connection with a burglary that was reported at a shop on Tuesday. The gang had allegedly stolen Rs 34,000 from the shop. The gang had approached the staff at the shop seeking help to exchange their foreign currency. Their modus operandi was to approach financial firms, especially money exchange firms, in the guise of currency conversion, distract the staff and deftly steal money. Their act was caught on surveillance cameras installed at the shop. Commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyay said that the four men were part of a bigger gang of 24 Iranians, who had reached the country in January 2020 in different groups. From Delhi, they split into smaller groups and travelled to different parts of India and even neighbouring Nepal. After a similar crime was reported in Puducherry city police had alerted hoteliers to keep an eye on suspicious foreigners. Cantonment police station house officer Inspector BM Shafi said that he detained the foreigners after he was alerted by the manager of a luxury hotel where they were staying. “The hotel manager informed us that they were not carrying proper documents and I went there for an enquiry. Two of them were carrying expired passports. They told me that they will be receiving renewed passports within a few days,” he said. The officer collected copies of their identity documents and shared it in a WhatsApp group that coordinated activities of shadow policemen in state. The policemen at Cherthala identified them following which the four were detained and brought to Cantonment police station. By Wednesday evening, the policemen from Cherthala turned up and secured their custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-arrest-iranian-burglars-in-tvm/articleshow/79197573.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kozhikode||Karat Faisal files nomination as independent candidate||Kozhikode: Karat Faisal, who had failed to get endorsement of LDF for his candidature, submitted nomination papers as an independent candidate from Chundappuram division of Koduvally municipality on Thursday. Faisal had earlier declared his candidature from the division as LDF-independent and had started campaigning in the division. His candidature was announced by Kunnamangalam MLA P T A Raheem at a public function last week. However, the CPM district leadership grew wary that the candidature of Faisal, who was questioned by customs recently in connection with the gold smuggling case, would leave LDF with much explaining to do. Following this, INL leader O P Rasheed was announced as LDF candidate from the Chundappuram division in place of Faisal. Rasheed had submitted his nomination papers as LDF candidate on Wedneday. Speaking to media after submitting his nomination papers, Faisal said that he was confident that the people of Koduvally would support him. Faisal was an accused in the case related to gold smuggling through Calicut International Airport in 2013 and customs had slapped a fine on him in connection with the case. Though customs had last month questioned Faisal in connection with the Thiruvananthapuram airport gold smuggling case, no case has been charged against him. Faisal is a councillor in the current Koduvally municipal council after winning elections in 2015 as an LDF-backed independent candidate. K K A Khader of IUML is the UDF candidate from the division. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/karat-faisal-files-nomination-as-independent-candidate/articleshow/79309396.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Only 15% of disabled get Rs 1K Covid-19 assistance||Chennai: Only 15% of the disabled people in Tamil Nadu have received Rs 1,000 Covid-19 aid provided by the state government, the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority (TNSLSA) has informed the Madras high court. TNSLSA member-secretary K Rajasekar made the submission before a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha, in view of a specific direction issued by the court to ascertain the facts as to the disbursement of such aid. The issue pertains to a batch of pleas seeking direction to the state government to provide due benefits to the disabled persons in the state as provided under the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act. Recording the submissions made by TNSLSA, the bench directed the secretary to department of welfare of differently abled persons to file a detailed report on the implementation of the scheme. Though the state submitted that all those people have been identified and payments have been made, the petitioner submitted that it is not factually correct and that there are scores of others who have been left out. “Considering the submissions made, we would like to make sure that due compliance is made on the payment said to have been made for the differently-abled persons. This is a disputed question of fact. We have also been informed through newspaper reports that the money allotted to the differently-abled persons has also not reached them,” the bench said. The court also made it clear that the persons with disabilities must be treated as a different class of people as provided in the act and not at par with others. Therefore, the state should cave out ways to reach and provide such aids to disabled persons during these times of the pandemic, the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/only-15-of-disabled-get-rs-1k-covid-19-assistance/articleshow/79198698.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Ahmedabad||AMC ready to tackle festival fallout||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation made it clear on Thursday that its medical facilities will remain adequately staffed during Diwali, as leaves of all doctors and paramedical staff have been cancelled. Standing committee chairman Amul Bhatt said the decision was taken during the committee’s meeting on Thursday, as there’s an increase in burns cases during Diwali. The civic body has ensured that expert doctors are available round the clock during the festival at Shardaben Hospital, VS Hospital and LG Hospital, especially in burns wards. To ensure proper handling of any spike in Corona cases, the AMC has also ensured that the SVP Hospital remains adequately staffed during the festival, Bhatt said. Bhatt said the civic body administration has handled the Covid situation admirably and remain dedicated to provide the best possible service to citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-ready-to-tackle-festival-fallout/articleshow/79200328.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||AG allows comedian to be tried for contempt for tweets critical of SC||New Delhi: Attorney General K K Venugopal on Thursday granted consent for initiation of criminal contempt proceedings against stand-up comedian Kunal Kamra for his tweets virulently criticising the Supreme Court after it granted bail to journalist Arnab Goswami in an abetment to suicide case. Referring to the tweets, Venugopal said they are “not only in bad taste, but clearly cross the line between humour and contempt of the court. “Apart from this, there is a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a flag of the ruling political party, namely the BJP, having replaced the tricolour. This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the SC is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, BJP... All this, in my opinion, constitutes criminal contempt of court,” Venugopal said in his letter giving consent to an Aurangabad resident to initiate contempt proceedings against Kamra. The AG specifically mentioned Kamra’s two controversial tweets but said other tweets are also highly objectionable and it is for the court to take a call whether those tweets also constitute contempt of court. “I find that today people believe that they can boldly and brazenly condemn the Supreme Court of India and its judges by exercising what they believe is their freedom of speech. But under the Constitution, freedom of speech is subject to the law of the contempt and I believe that it is time that people understand that attacking the Supreme Court of India unjustifiedly and brazenly will attract punishment under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. I therefore grant consent to proceed by way of initiating contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra,” Venugopal said in his letter to Shrirang Katneshwarkar who sought his permission to proceed against the comedian for contempt of court.Consent of the attorney general is required under Section 15 of the Contempt of Court Act, 1971 read with Rule 3(c) of the Rules to Regulate Proceedings for Contempt of the Supreme Court of India, 1975. Venugopal had earlier refused consent to initiate criminal contempt against actor Swara Bhaskar saying her comment regarding the Ram Janmabhoomi title dispute verdict was her perception. “The comment refers to the judgement of the Supreme Court, and is not an attack on the institution. This does not offer any comment on the Supreme Court itself or say anything that would scandalise or tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, this statement does not constitute criminal contempt,” Venugopal had said while declining to give consent for contempt proceedings against the Bollywood actress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ag-allows-comedian-to-be-tried-for-contempt-for-tweets-critical-of-sc/articleshow/79200965.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Remdesivir saves lives if given early, finds Bengaluru study||BENGALURU: Administering remdesivir within nine days of the onset of symptoms in moderate to severe Covid-19 patients is associated with significant mortality benefits, a study by doctors in Bengaluru has found. Between June 25 and October 3, doctors from Apollo hospital, Jayanagar, a dedicated Covid facility, analysed the impact of the antiviral drug on 350 patients with moderate to severe illness. The aim was to evaluate the impact of timing of remdesivir initiation (symptom-onset to remdesivir treatment interval) on patients. WHO recently said the drug does not help treat Covid-19, triggering controversy. “Our study shows that treating patients with remdesivir within nine days from the onset of symptoms results in significant mortality benefits,” the doctors said. The drug is most effective when administered in the early stages of the disease, when active viral replication is high, doctors said. Of the 350 patients treated with remdesivir, four patients who developed side-effects were dropped from the study as they were taken off the drug quickly. The group comprised 270 men. The oldest was a 94-year-old man and the youngest a 24 year-old. The mean age was 60 years. The patients were divided into moderate (109 patients) and severe infection (237) cases. Depending on the day of admission, 260 patients were put on the drug within nine days of onset of symptoms and 86 after the ninth day. The study shows 76 (22%) died. Among the deceased, 73 had suffered severe infection and three were moderate cases. Of the 260 who received remdesivir within nine days, 174 had severe infection. While 47 or 18% of the 260 died, the fatality rate was 34% in the group (23 severe and 63 moderate) where administering remdisivir was delayed. “But in this group, 29 patients or 34 % died. The mortality was higher in this group compared to those who had received remdesivir within nine days,” says Dr Ravindra Mehta, chief of pulmonology, Apollo Hospitals, who spearheaded the study. “Though remdesivir was administered along with other drugs as per protocol, the other drugs were not consistent in all patients. Early intervention of remdesivir proved significant in all other patients who survived,” Dr Mehta said, adding the medical community must consider the date of onset of symptoms and not the day of admission. Dr Sameer Bansal, Dr Suhitha Bysani and Dr Hariprasad Kalpakam contributed to the study, which has been published in MedRxiv, the preprints server for health sciences. “The study will be submitted to the government,” said Dr Mehta. Watch Covid-19: Remdesivir saves lives if given early, finds Bengaluru study||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/remdesivir-saves-lives-if-given-early-finds-bengaluru-study/articleshow/79198758.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya: Muslim artisans adorn court of Lord Ram||AYODHYA: Deepotsav in Ayodhya will just not be about sublime splendour, but will reinforce the temple town’s secular ethos with two Muslim artisans, Nawaz Sharif and Shahzade Waris anointing the magnificent Ram Durbar, the main draw of the Lord’s coronation procession to Saryu banks. Apart from the duo, at least 10 other Muslims are busy giving final touches to 11 tableaux, which will be on display at the Deepotsav venue. Religious barriers blur as Abdul Rashid, Shahid Warsi, Shahanshah, Mohammad Hasan Ali, Harun Warsi, Rehan Warsi, Mohammad Ali, Mohammad and Shareef quietly chisel away intricate patterns in the tableaux amidst round-the-clock chant of Ram hymns in the run-up to the grand Diwali festivities. “Communal harmony is the hallmark of Ayodhya,” said Shahid Warsi. Talking about participation of Muslims in a government-sponsored religious ceremony, Salig Ram Tiwari, a member of the team, said, “Muslim artisans are skilled and they know the art of decorating Ram Darbaar with grace. Hindus and Muslims work together and eat together in Ayodhya. There are no walls here.” Nawaz Sharif, the key artisan decorating the court of Lord Rama, said, “There was no discrimination against Muslims during hiring of artisans for decorating the Ram Durbar. This work is just not fulfilling, but is crucial for our livelihood in times of Covid-triggered recession. We are very happy about bagging this job and what’s most important our creations will be viewed by crores of people worldwide during live telecast.” Most Muslim artisans involved in preparation of the Ram tableaux are residents of neighbouring Barabanki’s Dewa Sharif locality, which houses the mausoleum of the 18th century Sufi saint Haji Waris Ali Shah. The dargah also draws crores of devotees, many from the Hindu community. Eleven tableaux prepared by Muslims include the Ram Darbar, Putreshthi Yagya, Gurukul Shiksha, Ram Sita Vivah, Ahilya Uddhaar, Panchvati Rameshwaram Setu, Pushpak Vimaan, Kewat Prasang, Shabri Ram Milaap and Lanka Dahan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/muslim-artisans-adorn-court-of-lord-ram/articleshow/79200947.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 13, 2020||Kochi||Idukki: HRSS notto contest in LSG polls||IDUKKI: High range samrakshana samithi (HRSS), a people’s movement formed under the catholic church for the protection of farmers in the district, has decided not to contest in the local body election. HRSS had an active presence in the previous local body election and fielded candidates under LDF’s banner. Around 70 members had won under the banner of the movement. However, in the last parliament election, HRSS had a low presence. The group had announced its support for Joice George, who had contested again for Idukki seat. However, after his defeat, the movement returned to active politics in the district. “In the last local body election nearly 70 people were elected under the banner of HRSS from various panchayats and municipalities. A high-level meeting unanimously decided that it will not contest the local body elections this year,” HRSS general convener Fr Sebastian Kochupurakal. “However, the movement will continue as a pressure group to protect the interests of farmers in the district,” he added. After assuming charge, new Idukki bishop Mar John Nellikkunnel took a neutral stand on the electoral process prior to the last parliament elections. In a letter, Nellikunnel wrote that as spiritual leaders of people we should not take any position favouring any sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hrss-notto-contestin-lsg-polls/articleshow/79197582.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Punters suffer huge losses after Bihar exit poll results backfire||NAGPUR: The Bihar exit poll results not only nosedived, but also sank punters who toed the presumptive line to make moolah. If sources are to be believed, punters lost crores across India, leaving bookies cash rich before Diwali. An insider said punters went overboard while backing the Tejaswhi Yadav-led Mahagatbandhan after bookies opened equal odds for both the rival camps. Bookies made a killing with the BJP-led NDA regaining power with Nitish Kumar at the helm. After city police chief Amitesh Kumar issued a loud and clear warning to cricket bookies, it’s reliably learnt that many moved out of the city to operate their app-based business. The bookies, basically the ones from the elite class, are learnt to have made a cameo entry into the scenario given the media frenzy over the Bihar polls. With the IPL ending, many cricket-crazy punters switched over to the Bihar political turf. After some encouraging returns from the American polls with favourite Joe Biden (50p) winning against underdog Donald Trump (Rs2), punters invested heavily in the Bihar elections, expecting a windfall. Sources told TOI that punters were heavily banking on the exit polls by different agencies which more or less were supporting a sweeping Mahagatbandhan victory. “Apart from the exit polls, punters also banked on the anti-incumbency wave, Bihar’s well-known caste politics tilting against BJP and Covid-centric depression in the country,” said the source. “The results stunned punters. Bookies had predicted that punters would get swayed by the media frenzy as well as the exit polls and hence, did not open the ‘bhav’ or odds but kept it open,” the source added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/punters-suffer-huge-losses-after-bihar-exit-poll-results-backfire/articleshow/79195500.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 13, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Enforcement Directorate asks K M Shaji to submit more documents||KOZHIKODE: After interrogating IUML leader and Azhikode MLA K M Shaji for nearly 30 hours during the past two days, the enforcement directorate (ED) has asked him to produce more documents regarding his financial transactions, including details of funds received and the specific purposes for which they were used. The central agency has granted Shaji 10 days’ time to submit the documents. The ED is investigating the case relating to the allegation that the MLA had received Rs 25 lakh as bribe for sanctioning more plus one seats at Azhikode Higher Secondary School. The second-day interrogation of Shaji, which began at 10am on Wednesday morning lasted for nearly 16 hours and ended at 1.45am on Thursday. Coming out of the ED sub-regional office here, Shaji told reporters that the questioning by the agency went on well. “They have asked me to produce more documents related to questions which came up today. The documents have to be produced within 10 days. It is our duty to cooperate with the investigation,” he added. Shaji had submitted many documents to the ED during the two days of interrogation, including land and registration documents of the house in Kozhikode, which is in the name of his wife, its building plan, bank statements, PAN card, etc. It is learnt that ED is also closely looking into the source of his funds during the assembly elections. ED had collected all information related to Shaji’s income before quizzing him. Kozhikode corporation had measured Shaji’s house based on ED’s directive. It was found that the house was larger than the plan sanctioned by the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ed-asks-shaji-to-submit-more-docus/articleshow/79197596.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||Army chief visits forward posts in Uttarakhand along border with China & Nepal, reviews operational preparedness of forces||Nainital: Indian Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane visited some of the select forward posts along the international border in Uttarakhand during a two-day visit on Wednesday and Thursday in which he took stock of the security situation and operational preparedness along the border as per officials privy to the details of the visit. The three districts of Uttarakhand – Uttarkashi, Chamoli and Pithoragarh – share an around 350-km-long border with China and an almost 275-km-long border with Nepal. The Army chief’s visit to the state comes amidst heightened tensions with both the neighbouring countries and just days after he concluded a three-day visit to Nepal. According to Army sources, General Naravane had on Wednesday visited forward posts in Chamoli along the India-China border. The Army chief is also reported to have taken an aerial survey of the posts near Mana after which he met officers at the Brigade Headquarters in Joshimath and discussed the situation in detail. The Indian Army has been on alert in Uttarakhand since the stand-off in Ladakh with China. There are several sensitive posts in the Chamoli district along the Sino-Indian border including Barahoti, Mana and Niti Pass. While the Mana and Niti Passes have largely remained peaceful over the years, Chinese incursions have been reported several times in the Barahoti sector. On Thursday morning, General Naravane left for Pithoragarh where as per officials, he reviewed the situation as well as operation preparedness in select forward areas. He also met soldiers and raised their morale, officials said. The Army chief is expected to visit some of the forward posts in Pithoragarh on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-chief-visits-forward-posts-in-uttarakhand-along-border-with-china-nepal-reviews-operational-preparedness-of-forces/articleshow/79197580.cms||Prashant Jha
November 13, 2020||Pune||Reduce CFR to below 1%, Centre tells Maharashtra||PUNE: The Centre has asked the authorities in the state to focus on bringing the Covid case fatality rate (CFR) to below 1%. For the last six weeks, the CFR in the state has been at 2.6% — the second highest in the country after Punjab’s 3% and well above the national average of 1.4%. The CFR estimates the proportion of deaths from among confirmed cases. The central officials, while noting the recent fall in cases in Maharashtra, called for more interventions to curb the CFR especially in Mumbai (3.5%) and Pune district (2.4%) — two regions that have had a high caseload. The advisory was relayed during a recent virtual review meeting between the health ministry, state health minister Rajesh Tope and members of the state Covid task force. Tope told TOI that while the number of active cases has dipped significantly, the high CFR continues to be a concern. He said he has directed the health department to carry out an audit of every death and ensure that doctors treating Covid in tier-2 cities have access to tele-counselling and good training. “During our review meeting with the Union health minister and health officials, we were told to increase testing, bring down the mortality rate to below 1% and effect behavioural changes,” Tope said, adding that the state health department will improve hospitalisation time and patient care during the first 24, 48 or 72 hours. Dr Avinash Supe, chairman of the death audit committee, said the next 20 days will be most crucial for the state. “There's widespread concern that the number of cases could go up after Diwali. People are not wearing masks. All of our efforts will be wasted if people ignore precautions,” he said. Supe added that Delhi, which recorded nearly 8,000 new cases on November 10 (its highest single-day spike so far), should come as a warning to the state. He said all efforts are being made to control the state’s CFR, which was at 7% through June and July. But he said factors such as age and comorbidities in patients have kept the CFR at 2%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/reduce-cfr-to-below-1-centre-tells-state/articleshow/79200970.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||Vegetable prices soar in Hubballi-Dharwad ahead of Deepavali||HUBBALLI: The rising price of vegetables is burning a hole in the pockets of people in the festive season. There is no sign of a drop in prices before Diwali for people who had to pay high prices during Dasara. Prices of brinjal, green chilli, potato and other vegetables are still priced between Rs 60-70 per kg. Onion and tomatoes prices have gone up to Rs 80 to 100 per kg in the local market. Vegetable prices have shot up by Rs 25 to 30 each in recent days, said Renuka Aralikatti, a resident of Deshpande Nagar. “Many people buy more vegetables during festivals like Diwali and vendors are encashing it by increasing prices,” she said. Demand for brinjal, tomato, potato, beans and capsicum has increased in recent days and all of them are being sold at Rs. 80 to 100 per kg. Parvati Kamble, a vegetable vendor in Janata Bazaar, said vegetable prices were higher during Dasara. “Due to floods and rain, we were unable to get enough vegetables during Dasara and prices were around Rs100 to 120 per kg. But now the rain has stopped and vegetables from surrounding villages are reaching the Hubballi market, bringing down prices marginally,” she added. Most of the vegetables come to Hubballi from Navaloor, Gamangatti, Tadasinkoppa, Varur, Katnur, Mavanur, Giriyal, Chabbi, Kusugal, Shivalli, Hebballi and other surrounding villages within 20 to 30km from the city. According to a potato trader in APMC, Hubballi, when vegetables prices increase dramatically, people automatically look for potatoes, driving the root vegetable’s price up too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/vegetable-prices-soar-in-hubballi-dharwad-ahead-of-deepavali/articleshow/79197419.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 13, 2020||India||National interest should not be compromised for individual ideologies: Modi in JNU||NEW DELHI: Urging students to develop campuses as platforms for cohesive and inclusive debates, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while unveiling a statue of Swami Vivekananda on the JNU campus on Thursday, suggested that national interest should not be compromised for individual ideologies and thoughts, a message seen in the context of frequent clashes and even violence between Left and BJP men in the university. “One thing that has harmed the democratic set-up of our country is giving priority to one’s own ideology rather than the interest of the nation,” Modi said on the occasion where he urged students to imbibe the thoughts of Vivekananda, whose primary focus, he said, was to make India a great nation and a global power. Modi, wearing a saffron jacket, said one should be flexible in giving priority to national interest and not solely follow individual thinking. “One can take a glimpse at history that in times of adversity, people of different ideologies came together. People of different ideologies came together under Gandhiji’s leadership and they fought together as there was a common cause,” he said. “It was witnessed during Emergency also. I was part of that movement... RSS, Jana Sangh, communists, several people belonging to JNU had also joined hands and fought together for national interest,” he added. While the event was on, many students who had been protesting at the university’s north gate for two weeks over re-entry of students into the campus, showed their dissent against the PM. In an open letter, JNU Students’ Union asked, “Why did the Centre recommend the appointment of a vice-chancellor who left no stone unturned in destroying a university that has produced Nobel laureates? Why were students called criminals and anti-nationals, while those praising Nathuram Godse found a high place in Parliament?” Though BJP affiliated students’ wings have made some inroads in JNU, the campus remains predominantly a Marxist bastion that saw pitched battles in January between groups over issues like demonstrations against the Citizenship Amendment Act, hostel fee hikes and blockading of academic activities. BJP’s student wing ABVP was accused of organising violence while it claimed that Left groups had intimidated students in hostels. Modi said any decision taken out of obsession with a certain ideology harmed the nation. “If someone has accepted an ideology only in self-interest and as opportunism, it doesn’t succeed. We have to ensure that healthy debate remains alive,” he said. “India is a land where seeds of different ideologies germinate and flourish. Youth of the country should strengthen this tradition of the country,” he said and added, “This very tradition makes India the most vibrant democracy of the world.” Modi cited the JNU hostels, which are named after rivers of the country like Ganga, Godavari, Jhelum and Sutlej. He also mentioned the popular joint on the campus — Sabarmati Dhaba — where students gather for refreshments and said, “The statue of Swami Vivekananda is an addition where students can gather and exchange ideas.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/national-interest-should-not-be-compromised-for-individual-ideologies-modi-in-jnu/articleshow/79201852.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||Doon: Shoppers violate Covid protocols, while traders do average business on Dhanteras||Dehradun: The circles marked outside shops to maintain social distancing during lockdown are no longer visible due to heavy rush in the city markets on Dhanteras and neither is any Covid protocols being properly followed, even as there has been a rise in the number of infections in the past few days. The rush at the city’s main market, Paltan Bazar, reached its peak before noon on Thursday. Shoppers in large numbers were visible. People could be seen with face masks, mainly hanging on their necks. “I have personally asked customers to put on the masks, but they complain of suffocation,” said Umesh Karanwal, a shopkeeper. While a police picket was present, maintaining social distancing in the narrow lanes was a challenge. “The shopkeepers have placed their stuff in the narrow lanes. Some are using vehicles. There is hardly any space,” said Meenakshi Singh, a customer. However, amid the Dhanteras rush in the city's market areas, the impact of Covid-19 was visible on the business. Pankaj Mason, who heads the Doon Valley Mahanagar Udyog Vyapar Mandal, said, “If we talk about monetary issues, this year's business has been 30 to 40 per cent only. If last year, the overall business was around Rs 80 to Rs 110 crore on Dhanteras, this year has been Rs 30-40 crore.” Mason, who owns a jewellery shop in Paltan Bazar, said the jewellery sector has been affected. Pankaj Didan, who has a clothes showroom, said, “There has been a drop in sales.” While Sushil Agarwal, who owns a utensil store, maintained that the business was barely “average” this year. “We hope for a better turnout on Friday,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-shoppers-violate-covid-protocols-while-traders-do-average-business-on-dhanteras/articleshow/79197616.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Lecturers irked over UGC’s directive to repeat lessons||MANGALURU: Many teaching faculty from private undergraduate colleges are peeved over the government’s guidelines on repeating virtual classes once classroom teaching begins. The colleges are all set to open for offline classes from November 17. Agitated lecturers told TOI that they have been asked by the college managements to take offline classes starting from chapter one. “With three months of online classes, we have almost completed the syllabus. It is unfair and taxing to teach the same thing that has been taught online. We completely understand that some students couldn’t attend even single online classes due to connectivity and other issues. Yet, starting something all over which is about to end is unfair,” complained a lecturer, working in a college in Puttur. Most of the private colleges in coastal districts had begun the academic year with online classes from August and have almost completed theory syllabus. Practical classes are pending. An economics lecturer from a city-based private college said that college will continue with blended mode (offline/online) even after reopening. “At the same time, the college has also asked us to repeat what is being taught online. Close to 90% have been attending online and it is needless to start the same during offline classes. Adapting to the new mode of learning (online), we have tried our best to conduct classes. We will be more than happy to clear doubts or revise some chapters to help students,” a lecturer said. Principal Fr Michael Santhumayor said they are in a catch-22 situation as there are no clear guidelines from the UGC as well the Mangalore University. “So we have decided to start classes from chapter one. It will help students who did not attend online classes,” he added. Meanwhile, most of the government colleges haven’t started online classes and will begin the academic year with offline classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/lecturers-peeved-over-ugcs-diktat-to-repeat-lessons-in-regular-classes/articleshow/79198851.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 13, 2020||Lucknow||NBRI scientist gets London fellowship||Lucknow: Chief scientist at CSIR-National Botanical Research Institute Dr TS Rana has been elected as a fellow of The Linnaean Society, London, for his contributions in the area of plant molecular systematics and evolutionary biology. Dr Rana has about three decades of research experience in biodiversity assessment, plant molecular systematics, DNA fingerprinting and bio-prospecting of medicinal plants. He has published more than 100 research papers and four books. He is widely consulted not only in India but overseas by budding researchers. Dr Rana is the member of several reputed scientific bodies including Indian Botanical Society, Society of Ethnobotany, International Society of Environmental Botanists and Uttar Pradesh Academy of Sciences, among others. Earlier, Dr Rana has been bestowed with the prestigious BOYSCAST Fellowship in 2002 by the department of science and technology, government of India for his contribution in the field of botanical sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nbri-scientist-gets-london-fellowship/articleshow/79200972.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||PCMC intensify action as shoppers crowd markets||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has intensified action against people not wearing masks and found spitting in the market areas. The PCMC’s additional commissioner, Santosh Patil, said the crowd was more in the market areas due the festive season. “The gathering of the people for the festival shopping in the market areas has increased in the past few days. Citizens should be wary of the contagion and those seen to be flouting the norms will be fined on the spot,” Patil told TOI, adding that the Pimpri camp market was seeing more crowd compared to the other markets. Smita Zagade, deputy commissioner, PCMC, stated that an anti-encroachment and a health team had been deployed in the Pimpri camp market area. “We have intensified action and fine is being collected on the spot from the violators,” she said. Zagade added there was a low possibility of shutting down the market during the festive season fearing backlash from the traders and citizens. Earlier, the PCMC issued the guidelines for Diwali, banning the bursting of firecrackers in public places such as gardens, playgrounds, school premises or religious sites. The guidelines also stated that cultural programs such as ‘Diwali pahat’ would not be allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-intensify-action-as-shoppers-crowd-markets/articleshow/79200990.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Calcutta University colleges await nod for another admission round as seats open up||KOLKATA: Many colleges in Kolkata are waiting for a nod from the government and Calcutta University to conduct another round of admissions now that a considerable number of first-semester seats have fallen vacant after candidates submitted declarations and withdrew from courses they had applied for. Principal of Surendranath College Indranil Kar said one of the reasons for candidates’ withdrawal could be the prevailing pandemic. “We received several candidates from districts but some of them decided to pull out. May be, they are unsure of studying in Kolkata amid a pandemic and uncertainty. These students may have preferred a college near home,” Kar said. He added many might have chosen professional courses, counselling for which were on. Of the 2,500 seats at Surendranath College, around 900 from honours and general courses were reported to be vacant. “Around 200 students, who had taken admission to first-semester, expressed their desire to leave,” he said. Around 100 students have withdrawn their admission to Maulana Azad College. “Of the 1,032 seats, around 120 are now vacant,” said an admissions official at the college. At Bethune College, more than 90 students have withdrawn after admissions. The scene is similar at Lady Brabourne College, where over 107 seats out of 619 fell empty. “CU asked for a report at the earliest,” said principal Siuli Sarkar. “Since so many seats are now available, we believe there will be a second round of admissions, which will give interested candidates a chance to grab a seat here. Those who withdrew mentioned they had taken up courses elsewhere.” Sarkar added several students also took admissions in other universities . Principal of Vivekananda College in Behala Tapan Poddar said he had written to the higher education department, asking how to categorize candidates who had not submitted declarations. “There are three kinds: those who have mentioned they will withdraw their admission, those who have confirmed seats and those who have neither confirmed nor withdrawn,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-colleges-await-nod-for-another-admission-round-as-seats-open-up/articleshow/79198861.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 13, 2020||Vadodara||Man impersonating cops arrested in Manjalpur||VADODARA: The Manjalpur police arrested a man who was masquerading as a cop and moving around in the city. The accused has several other cases registered against him in the city as well as Anand. The cops are trying to ascertain if he has duped anyone by posing as a cop. According to the police, they spotted a car with ‘police’ written on it near Vadsar Bridge in Manjalpur on Wednesday evening. They intercepted the car and questioned the man driving it who identified himself as Harshil Limbachiya. He admitted that he wasn’t a cop. “We asked him why his car was carrying the police plate and he was even wearing a cap with a symbol of police on it. But he couldn’t give any satisfactory answer,” said B S Shelana, police sub-inspector, Manjalpur police station. Harshil was arrested for posing as a cop. Shelana said that Harshil has offences of cheating and rioting registered against him. The accused is in the business of selling water but the cops suspect that he may have been duping people by introducing himself as a policeman. City police commissioner, R B Brahmbhatt had some days ago directed all the cops to be in uniform when on duty. The police said that fraudsters may pose as cops and try to dupe people in the festive season. Having policemen in uniform patrolling the city would instil confidence among the citizens and also keep the conmen away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-impersonating-cops-arrested-in-manjalpur/articleshow/79198854.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ludhiana||Notice on petition seeking CBI probe||KHANNA STRIPPING CASELudhiana: On a petition seeking a CBI probe into the incident of stripping of three persons allegedly involving former SHO of Sadar, Khanna, Baljinder Singh, constable Varun Kumar and a local resident with alleged political links, the Punjab and Haryana high court has issued notice of motion. In the petition, in which CBI, Punjab DGP, Ludhiana range IG, Sangrur SSP, Khanna SP Tejinder Singh Sandhu were added as respondents, the petitioner has prayed that the matter has not been investigated in a fair manner.Guninder Singh, advocate for the petitioner, said the officials had tried to help the accused so it should be probed by the CBI as there were politicians and senior officers involved. The bench of Justice Sudip Ahluwalia ordered that notice be served upon the respondents for December 8 and they should file their replies on affidavit by the next date of hearing. The petitioner submitted that the DGP had filed an affidavit, saying the investigation would be carried out fairly and departmental inquiry would be concluded within two months. The petition said nothing as said in the affidavit was done. The petitioner said the SIT constituted as per the affidavit was “afraid of taking action against political person Rajvir Singh, alias Rubal Singh, Manvir Singh and Bhagwant Singh of Doraha at whose behest and presence the inhuman act was done in the office of Baljinder Singh”. “The victims were never called by the investigation agency and were threatened by SP Tejinder Sandhu. The complainants were directed to reconstruct the crime scene in the office of SHO, Khanna Sadar,” the petition said, adding, “The respondent forced the complainant not to name the private political persons.”THE INCIDENT On September 5, Khanna City-I police had arrested the then Sadar SHO inspector Baljinder Singh and constable Varun Kumar after a case was registered against them on July 5 under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 342 (wrongful confinement), 295-A (deliberate act outraging religious feelings) of the IPC and other sections of the SC/ST Act and the Information Technology (IT) Act. On April 16, taking a serious note of the video showing Baljinder Singh allegedly assaulting and making three persons stand nude at the police station that went viral, Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta had directed the then IGP (Ludhiana range) Jaskaran Singh to carry out an inquiry and submit a report at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/notice-on-petition-seeking-cbi-probe/articleshow/79194600.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||IIT-R scientists use AI to identify HIV drugs that can be repurposed for Covid-19 treatment||Roorkee: Scientists at the Indian Institute of Technology Roorkee (IIT-R) have used artificial intelligence to identify 10 drugs currently used to treat HIV that can be repurposed to treat Covid-19. The drugs are protease inhibitors, approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to treat HIV. Some are already in use for the treatment of Covid-19, while others are undergoing trials. “Amprenavir would probably be most effective against Covid-19 based on our selected criterions,” said Soumitra Satapathi, lead author of the paper in the journal Plos One and associate professor of physics at IIT-R. The other drugs identified as potential Covid-19 treatments include Fosamprenavir, Indinavir, Saquinavir, Ritonavir, Paritaprevir, Lopinavir, Atazanavir and Tipranavir. The pandemic has witnessed a push for machine learning in drug development. Satapathi said that using AI-based models could save resources and time needed for synthesising novel drugs.“The complexity in drug design and protocols regarding clinical trials often inhibit the process of developing various new drug combinations for the disease. IIT Roorkee scientists have successfully deployed Machine Learning-based-AI techniques to predict the commercial drugs that could be used for the treatment of Covid-19,” said a statement from the institute.Other co-authors of the study were Sovesh Mohapatra, Prathul Nath, Manisha Chatterjee, Neeladrisingha Das, Deepjyoti Kalita and Partha Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/iit-r-scientists-use-ai-to-identify-hiv-drugs-that-can-be-repurposed-for-covid-19-treatment/articleshow/79197641.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru model for other districts||MYSURU: The Covid-19 War Room in Mysuru, which played an important role in containing the surge in cases in October, is now a model for the other districts. Over the past four days, officials involved in managing the pandemic from 25 districts of the state, were trained at the Mysuru facility to handle the pandemic, a move to ensure preparedness should a second wave hit. The officials were trained to manage beds and the Apthamitra software besides other aspects. Lt Col Ashok SU, nodal officer, Covid-19 War Room, Mysuru, and Dr Seethalaxmi, district Ayush officer, modulated the training. “We divided officials from the 25 districts into various batches,” Ashok said. “Those who attended included doctors working in the War Room. The idea is to train management teams in every district to handle a crisis. Besides Covid, training was also provided in various aspects including disasters and natural calamities.” He said some three to four officials participated from every district. “We trained them in War Room management-related issues, software that is used, bed management etc. We also trained them in data management, which is key in fighting any kind of pandemic or disaster,” Ashok said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/officials-get-lessons-in-mysuru-model-of-pandemic-management/articleshow/79198867.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: 3,500 civic staffers on vaccine list||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has prepared a list of 3,500 staff members for the priority vaccination programme among frontline workers. The names are from departments of health, solid waste management and emergency services - all directly linked to Covid control and containment efforts. Officials from the PMC said the vaccination will be carried out as per guidelines that will be issued by the state and central government soon. “The civic administration is carrying out surveys and registrations of health workers who were active in the fight against Covid-19. The drive will continue for some days to ensure that staff who face the risk of exposure get the benefit of vaccination as early as possible,” a senior PMC official said. According to the PMC, registration of names is being done through ward offices across its limits. The civic body will also be registering names of people working in non-government sectors, including staff at private hospitals. Officials said the PMC has already completed the registration of around 36,000 citizens who work in these private sector institutes. Those who are on the list for priority vaccination include doctors, nurses and paramedical staff. They are spread across facilities such as the PMC's own dedicated Covid unit at Naidu hospital, the jumbo centres and other units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-3500-civic-staff-members-registered-on-priority-list-for-vaccination/articleshow/79200997.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand announces roster for recruitment, promotion in jobs for the disabled||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Thursday announced a roster for 4% horizontal reservation for recruitment and promotion of specially-abled people in government jobs, in compliance with the state government order of May 22, 2020. The authorities made a slight amendment in the September 26, 2018 order of the vigilance and personnel department, and passed a fresh order on Thursday. The appointing officer will prepare a roster with 100 ranks. According to the order issued by state additional chief secretary Radha Raturi, the 25th position will go to a candidate with blindness and low vision (a), 49th position to candidate with hearing disability (b), 75th rank to a person with locomotor disability including cerebral palsy, leprosy that has been cured, dwarfism, acid attack victims and muscular dystrophy (c), while the 98th rank will go to candidates with autism, intellectual disability, specific learning disability and mental illness (d), or someone with multiple disabilities from among people under clauses (a) to (d), including deaf-blindness in the posts identified for each disability. In case there is no specially-abled candidate for a particular category, the recruiting officer can fill up the post with a candidate from the next category. The order further states that posts filled in such a manner would be adjusted in the next recruitment year. If a candidate from specially-abled categories does not apply, the post may be filled up with a candidate from the general category. However, in the next recruitment year, an extra post would be reserved for specially-abled candidates as per the horizontal reservation guidelines. At present, the Uttarakhand government has vertical reservation of 19% for SCs, 4% for STs, 14% for OBCs and 10% for economically weak people. Earlier, specially-abled candidates got 3% horizontal reservation in the state. In October 2017, the Trivendra Singh Rawat government raised horizontal reservation for the specially-abled from 3% to 4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-announces-roster-for-recruitment-promotion-in-jobs-for-the-disabled/articleshow/79197652.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 13, 2020||Vadodara||Staffer flees with jeweller’s gold necklaces worth Rs 6 lakh||Vadodara: An employee of a jewellery shop allegedly stole gold necklaces worth Rs six lakh on Wednesday night.The jeweller Dinesh Rawal had purchased three necklaces from Chhota Udepur to make hallmark inscriptions on them. Rawal handed over the necklaces to Malay Jana, who works at the jewellery shop, and left for some work in the city. Jana gave the necklaces to his colleague Kaushik Dalai for taking them to Nikunj Das, who inscribes hallmark imprint on the jewellery.A few hours later when Rawal returned to collect his necklaces, Dalai had not returned. As he had taken some time, Jana personally went to Das to inquire. But Das told Jana that Dalai had never come to him. When Jana called on Dalai’s phone, it was switched off. Jana informed Rawal about what had transpired. They tried to contact Dalai for a couple of hours, but when he could not be contacted, Rawal approached the police.Based on Rawal’s complaint, an offence of cheating was registered at Wadi police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/staffer-flees-with-jewellers-gold-necklaces-worth-rs-6-lakh/articleshow/79198866.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Pune||New cases on the rise in Pune metropolitan region, hit seven-day high||PUNE: New Covid-19 cases in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) increased to 622, highest in a week, on Thursday. Among the fresh infections, the PMC areas added 279, followed by the PCMC limits (172) and the rural areas (171). On Wednesday, the region had reported 533 cases, while on two previous days 450 and 418 cases were added to the PMR tally. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that as many as 873 patients were discharged in the region on Thursday after they were declared cured. With this, the region’s total recoveries reached above 3.12 lakh, while its total caseload increased past 3.30 lakh. Besides, 19 more patients succumbed to the Covid-related complications in PMR on Thursday. Among these, the PMC limits reported eight deaths, while the rural and cantonments areas added six and the limits accounted for five deaths. The region’s death count due to Covid-19 reached 8,141 on Thursday night. The report stated that the tally of active Covid-19 patients dropped further to 9,445 from Wednesday’s tally of 9,715. As many as 5,520 patients were in home isolation in the region and 3,925 were admitted in various hospitals. The region conducted 6,158 tests of Thursday. The report revealed that PMR has continued to conduct tests in the range of 6,000 to 6,500 since the last few days. So far, the region has conducted 14.92 lakh tests, including 7.63 lakh tests from the PMC limits and 4.26 lakh from the PCMC limits. The rural areas have conducted 3.02 lakh tests so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/new-cases-on-the-rise-in-pmr-hit-seven-day-high/articleshow/79200998.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun gets two festival special trains||Dehradun: To cope with the festive rush ahead of Diwali and Chhath puja, the northern division of Indian Railways will operate at least two pairs of festival special trains on two routes. Dehradun station master Sitaram Sonkar said, “Keeping in mind the two major festivals - Diwali and Chhath puja - the Moradabad division is set to run two trains - one to Howrah and the other to Muzaffarpur from Dehradun.” Special trains '04308/04307' will run between Dehradun and Muzaffarpur city and '04310/04309' between Dehradun and Howrah from November 13 to 20. Apart from these two, Dehradun-New Delhi Shatabdi express and Dehradun-Kathgodam, which was cancelled earlier due to "traffic blocking", will resume from November 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dehradun-gets-two-festival-special-trains/articleshow/79197670.cms||Sukanta Mukherjee
November 13, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Ahead of Diwali, people throw Covid norms to wind||HUBBALLI: As Diwali, the festival of light is round the corner, people in the city are busy shopping, crowding the markets and throwing Covid-19 safety measures to wind. Declining Covid cases in Dharwad district in the last one month seemed have encouraged people to roam around without following safety measures. Many shops in Hubballi-Dharwad are not even bothered to do thermal screening of customers and hand sanitisers are not kept. Customers without masks are also allowed to enter shops and there is no social distance. Sharada Pawar, a homemaker said, “I went to purchase clothes for my daughter’s wedding and for the festival. I was shocked to find many customers in shops not wearing masks. No sanitiser were kept in shops and no thermal screening was done in many shops. The authorities are mute spectators to gross violation of Covid norms by many shopkeepers and the public,” she said. Ashok Bhandari, a cloth merchant in Hubballi, said, “We are following all norms and also not allowing customers to buy clothes if they come without masks to our shop. Only a few customers come wearing masks while many have no fear of Covid. If it is not curbed now, after Diwali, cases may go up,” he said. Deputy commissioner Nitesh Patil told TOI that the meeting of shopkeepers will be held soon to instruct them to follow norms strictly and will also fine people if they don’t wear masks. Suresh Itnal, HDMC commissioner said, “It has come to our notice that most of the shops in twin cities are not following any Covid safety norms. As we were busy with the MLC election work since a week, we could not concentrate on this issue. Now, we will start a drive from today to impose fine on shopkeepers for not keeping sanitisers, not doing thermal screening and for allowing customers without masks and we will also impose penalty on people for not wearing masks. We have already collected Rs 16 lakh fine from people for not wearing masks. We will resume the drive again,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/ahead-of-diwali-people-throw-covid-norms-to-wind/articleshow/79198581.cms||Basavaraj Kattimani
November 13, 2020||Pune||Pune: Father-son abuse cop, tossed in jail||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The police on Wednesday arrested two men for abusing a constable when the latter stopped them from driving their three-wheeler commercial vehicle on the wrong side of the road at Talawade. The police have identified the suspects as Pankaj Awate (31) and his father Krishnaji (61), both residents of Talawade. Police constable Yogesh Bote has lodged an FIR against the duo. Bote had been taking action against the people driving on the wrong side of the road when he came across the accused. Sub-inspector Kiran Kanase of Dehu Road police station said that on Wednesday afternoon constable Bote noticed a three-wheeler commercial vehicle travelling on the wrong side of the road at Talawade chowk. “Bote had stopped the driver and while he was being questioned, the vehicle owner Awate came there and started abusing Bote,” Kanase said. He added that Awate’s father too reached the location and began abusing Bote. “The duo then beat up Bote and another constable at the spot,” Kanase said. Awate owns a workshop in the area and the commercial vehicle was being used to transport material. “The driver is on the run,” Kanase said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/father-son-abuse-cop-tossed-in-jail/articleshow/79201000.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Channayanakote shows the way to be a clean village||MADIKERI: Channayanakote village is becoming a model village in cleanliness in Kodagu. Panchayat president, panchayat development officer, women organisations have succeeded in creating awareness among people to keep their surroundings spick and span. PDO Rajan and panchayat president Geetha have establish a scientific waste management unit in the village. They purchased a vehicle under Swachh Village project to ensure trash reaches the dumping centre. Initially, the residents were surprised to see the PDO himself reach their doors in the vehicle during morning hours to prepare them to cultivate a routine habit of cleanliness. “Our village should look beautiful and attractive. We have even cleared the garbage around the village, and we are developing a garden for the villagers,” disclosed president Geetha. Indira, an activist, appreciated the work by the panchayat team. “Approaching people door to door by the PDO and creating awareness for cleanliness is a welcome step. Woman organisations will also join hands with the panchayat in their endeavour,” she announced. Picture caption: Tipper has been deployed for door-to-door collection of garbage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/channayanakote-shows-the-way-to-be-a-clean-village/articleshow/79198724.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Vadodara||API worth Rs 23 lakh stolen from pharma unit in Padra||Vadodara: Active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) worth Rs 23 lakh was stolen from API unit of Ipca Laboratories Ltd at Ranu village in Padra taluka sometime between November 8 and November 9.The human resources manager of the unit lodged a complaint of a burglary at Padra police station on Wednesday.According to police, thieves entered the washing area of the warehouse of the unit by breaking through a window sometime between 3pm on November 8 and 8.30am the next day. Police said that the seal on the lock of the warehouse was found tampered with.On checking inside the warehouse, the seals on the drums containing silodosin API and losartan potassium were missing. The seals of containers were found in the finished goods store of the warehouse. When the inventory was checked, 7.3 kilograms of silodosin API and 25 kilograms of losartan potassium were found less. In all the total theft was valued at Rs 23 lakh.“Silodosin API is a costlier material as one kilogram of it costs Rs 2.6 lakh. We are taking statements of the company’s employees and collecting other details,” said a police official.API is the raw material used as an active ingredient in manufacturing medications for causing the intended effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/api-worth-rs-23-lakh-stolen-from-pharma-unit-in-padra/articleshow/79198874.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Business||Retail inflation surges to 77-month high of 7.6%||NEW DELHI: Retail inflation soared to a 77-month high in October led by a surge in food prices, while industrial output climbed to positive territory in September after six successive months of contraction, ushering in both cheer and apprehension for policymakers trying to put the economy back on track. Data released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday showed inflation as measured by the consumer price index (CPI) jumped to a near six and a half year high of 7.6%, higher than the 7.3% in the previous month. Rural inflation was at 7.7%, while urban was at 7.4%. The October 2020 number was the highest since the 8.3% recorded in May 2014. Food inflation remained in double digit at 11.1% in October, rising from September’s 10.7%. There was across the board hardening of food prices. Egg prices rose an annual 21.8%, meat and fish 18.7%, vegetables 22.5%, pulses and products 18.3%. Food inflation has emerged as a major policy worry in the past few months. Experts have blamed the hardening of food prices to supply disruptions and hope that they will ease as supplies improve. Inflation management has been a key success of the Modi administration in its two terms but the lockdown and supply disruptions have emerged as a tough policy challenge. Stubbornly high inflation during the UPA rule had been successfully moderated through a series of policy interventions by the NDA regime so far. The retail inflation data comes a day after the Reserve Bank of India warned that keeping the system flush with funds to keep long term rates low is “taking a step to the unknown and could kindle inflation without reviving growth.” For 13 months in a row the retail inflation has remained above the RBI’s 4% inflation target while it breached the upper tolerance level of 6% for successive 7 months, according to data from Care Ratings. “Inflation will remain elevated for the next few months driven primarily by food and miscellaneous segment. High inflation gives no scope to MPC (monetary policy committee) to lower rates further this year. The RBI action will be through the liquidity route henceforth,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings. Separate data released by the NSO showed industrial production rose 0.2% in September, after contracting 8% in the previous month. The resumption of economic activity had narrowed the contraction in the past few months and a spate of data have pointed to a recovery in the segment. Economists attributed the rebound to the festival demand push as evident from the growth in consumer durables. Several advance indicators have shown that a recovery is underway in the key sector. “The high frequency data for October 2020 indicate a sharp improvement in the pace of growth of some indicators such as auto output, electricity generation and GST e-way bills, partly led by favourable base effect and pre-festive season stocking. Growth in other indicators such as the output of Coal India Limited, and non oil exports eased, while remaining in positive territory. Overall, we expect the festive season push to result in a mid to high single digit IIP growth in October 2020, although its sustenance after the festive period is over, remains uncertain,” said Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ratings agency ICRA. “At present, our forecast for Indian real GDP in FY2021, is of a contraction of 11.0%. We will revisit this projection in early December 2020, after the data for Q2 FY2021 is released by the NSO. By then, there will be greater clarity on the likelihood of the endurance of the festive season uptick, as well as the pace of new covid-19 infections domestically and in major trading partners during the colder months,” said Nayar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/retail-inflation-surges-to-77-month-high-of-7-6/articleshow/79201885.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: Work on service roads to cut travel time at Ghodbunder||THANE: Soon, travelling from Thane to Vasai and Borivli via Ghodbunder road could be faster and smoother as Thane civic body is likely to start connecting broken segments of service roads along the arterial road between Patlipada-Gaimukh. The service road along Thane-Borivli is disjointed at several spots, including Patlipada, Dongripada, Kavesar, and Gaimukh as land belongs to forest department. TMC had started developing the road in 2003 but the department objected. City traffic spills over to the busy highway, where heavy freight vehicles move between Mumbai, JNPT, Pune and Gujarat throughout the day. This mix-up at intersections often adds nearly 30 minutes to travel time to cross Ghodbunder, regulars complain. “The issue of disjointed service road links was delayed for several years, and adding to traffic chaos on developing parts of suburbs. I had called for a meeting between forest department, Thane traffic police and corporation, following which the forest department showed willingness to part with land for the missing links,” said MP Rajan Vichare. “Around 462 metres, spread over Patlipada, Dongripada, Kavesar, and Gaimukh is required to connect service roads. The forest department has shown willingness to allow the road to be constructed on the stretches, which will help reduce travel time,” said Thane deputy police commissioner (traffic) Balasaheb Patil, adding that segregation will speed up movement on Borivli-bound lanes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/work-on-service-roads-to-cut-travel-time-at-ghodbunder/articleshow/79199138.cms||Manoj Badgeri
November 13, 2020||Pune||33% plasma donors lack antibodies: Sassoon hospital study||PUNE: As many as 114 (33%) plasma donors out of 351 who were tested did not have antibodies to show, a sero survey conducted by Sassoon General Hospital has found. The findings have surprised experts as plasma donation for Covid-19 relies on antibody-rich plasma from those who have recovered from the illness. The study among plasma donors was part of a bigger seropositivity survey at the hospital which included four categories: patients and their family members; healthy individuals; plasma donors; and, the hospital’s healthcare staff. Everyone surveyed was aged above 18. Dr Rajesh Karyakarte, deputy dean and head of department of microbiology at B J Medical College and Hospital, said, “In viral infections, the body fights the virus through an innate response. But if the infection goes beyond the first few rounds of viral replication, the adaptive immune response kicks in, which has two components: the humoral response (synthesis of virus-specific antibodies by B lymphocytes) and the cell-mediated immunity (CMI) response (the synthesis of specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes that kill virus-infected cells).” Karyakarte said, “Our immune system is trained for CMI response against intracellular pathogens, due to the BCG vaccine received at birth or through natural infections acquired during the course of life. We are tuned for CMI (in most cases) against micro-organisms found intracellularly, like viruses, so the humoral response may be low.” Karyakarte added that antibodies also wane after a while. “The IgG antibodies have a half-life of 21 days. If we test for IgG antibodies beyond a certain period, they may not be detected.” The survey results also showed that only 39 (12%) healthcare workers showed antibodies from the tested total of 322. Overall, 866 people were tested for seroprevalence in the four categories of which only 318 (36%) had antibodies. The samples were collected between August and the first week of November. Karyakarte said the low sero positivity among the healthcare workers was proof that protocols had been successfully implemented at the hospital, which has been one of the busiest dedicated Covid hospitals in the region. Since March, the unit has successfully discharged as many as 2,788 Covid-19 positive patients. S Chockalingam, the hospital’s administrative controller, said, “We provided our staff with high quality PPEs and training to avoid spread within the hospital. All of this worked in our favour,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/33-plasma-donors-lack-antibodies-at-sassoon-hospital-serosurvey/articleshow/79201002.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 13, 2020||Vadodara||Skeletal remains packed in bag found in Narmada canal||VADODARA: A skeleton packed in a bag was accidentally found by firemen on Thursday morning while they were fishing out a woman’s body from Narmada canal at Panchvati locality in Gorwa. Coincidentally, it is the same canal which was emptied twice recently for searching the remains of Sheikh Babu Nishar, who was killed in the custody of Fatehgunj police, in December last year. H owever, later during the day police confirmed that the remains were of an animal. According to the fire department, they had received a call from locals around 9.15am informing about a body floating in the water. When the body was being taken out, firemen found a polymer bag. Finding it to be suspicious, the bag was also removed and when opened, bones were found in it. “It was difficult to say whether the remains are of a human being or an animal. But since the bag’s mouth was tied with a wire, we found it suspicious and handed it over to police,” said fire officer Om Jadeja of Chhani fire station. KM Chhasiya, inspector of Gorwa police station, said, “We took the opinion of a veterinary doctor and prima facie it seems that the remains are of a calf of a cow or buffalo. Once the doctor’s investigation is over, they will hand over the certificate confirming which animal’s remains they are.” Meanwhile, a case of accidental death was registered in connection with the body of the woman that was found. “The body was of Urmila alias Shilpa Vabul, who had swept away in the canal on October 25 along with her daughter,” said a police official. Vabul’s daughter Urvashi’s body was found a few days after the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/skeletal-remains-packed-in-bag-found-in-narmada-canal/articleshow/79198899.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bareilly||SHO suspended after viral audio reveals him accepting bribe and abusing seniors||Pilibhit: Superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav, on Wednesday night, suspended the station house officer (SHO) of Deuria Kotwali police station, Sanjiv Upadhyay, for striking a deal to give protection to an illegal syndicate mining mud and transporting it without paying royalty. In an audio clip that has gone viral on social media, the SHO can also be heard abusing senior police officials. An inquiry in the matter, to be conducted by the ASP, has been ordered.In the 51-minute-long audio clip, Upadhyay can be heard negotiating to increase the amount of bribe, stating that shares are to be transferred to other senior police officials as well. During the conversation with illegal miners, he can even be heard using abusive language for the SP.“Prima facie, the SHO appears to be liable for stringent action, but because the identity of the person with whom he is heard speaking is not clear in the audio clip, ASP Pavitra Mohan Tripathi has been ordered to conduct an inquiry to unveil the facts. The final action in the matter will be subject to his findings,” the SP said.He added that Upadhyay had been attached to the reserve police lines for the period of the inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sho-suspended-after-viral-audio-reveals-him-accepting-bribe-and-abusing-seniors/articleshow/79307483.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand BJP MLA Surendra Singh Jeena dies of Covid-19||Dehradun: Three-time BJP MLA Surendra Singh Jeena, 50, who represented the Salt constituency of Almora district, died due to Covid-19 at Sir Gangaram Hospital in Delhi on Thursday. Devendra Bhasin, state media head of BJP told TOI that Jeena was admitted to the Delhi hospital around a week ago. He breathed his last at 4 am. In view of the MLA’s passing away, the party's state unit deferred plans for its Diwali programme as well as celebrations scheduled for the Bihar assembly poll win on Thursday.Expressing shock at the passing away of the legislator, CM Trivendra Rawat said, “I met him at his residence recently after his wife passed away. He was always counted among our active legislators who took up the cause of the disadvantaged sections and was always concerned about his constituency's development.”State party president Bansidhar Bhagat said, “Surendra Singh Jeena was one of the most active leaders of the BJP in Uttarakhand. His popularity can be gauged from the fact that he reached the assembly for the third consecutive time. His untimely demise is a huge loss to the party.” A graduate from Delhi University, Jeena became a member of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad in 1988 and joined the BJP in 2001. He won his first election in 2007 from Bhikiyasain and in 2012, became an MLA from Salt, a seat which he retained in the 2017 assembly polls as well. He also served as chairman of Kumaon Mandal Vikas Nigam in 2009.Known as a firebrand legislator, Jeena did not hesitate to also place his own government in the dock on issues related to his constituency and the state.During an assembly session in September 2018, the MLA had raised a question on combustible resin. Not satisfied with the forest minister's reply, he had said that the information provide by the minister was “false and misleading”. He even presented some photographs through which he claimed that the resin in his constituency was lying in the open for several years and despite requests, officials were not paying any heed.His posing of a question in the assembly in December 2018 on vacant posts of teachers in secondary schools also left the BJP government red-faced.Opposition MLAs also expressed shock at Jeena’s passing away.Congress MLA from Kedarnath Manoj Rawat, who is himself recovering from Covid-19, called Jeena’s demise an "irreparable loss". “He did not shy away from raising questions on key issues, even if they were against his own government. We in the opposition, too, regarded him as a dynamic and firebrand legislator,” the Congress MLA said.Jeena is survived by his two sons. His wife had also passed away recently in Delhi following heart failure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-bjp-mla-surendra-singh-jeena-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/79197678.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 13, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Two cops on night patrol die in accident||MYSURU: Two policemen on night patrol died in a road accident in KR Nagar during the early hours of Thursday. The incident happened near Siddanakopplu when assistant sub inspector Murthy, 58 and head constable Shanthakumar, 52, were returning to KR Nagar around 1.30am. Police suspect that police jeep driver Shanthakumar may have dozed off at the wheel resulting in the accident. The duo left KR Nagar around 11pm. After visiting Bherya, Saligrama and Chunchanakatte, they were returning to KR Nagar when the tragedy happened. The jeep rammed a tree on the roadside. An investigation is being carried out to know what may have been the reason for the accident. The incident has left the entire police force of Mysuru district shattered. According to an officer, Murthy, despite his age, never missed duty during Covid pandemic. He spent most of his time working in the station. Even the head constable was a workaholic as Murthy. Murthy is from T Narasipura while Shanthakumar is from Bettadapura.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/two-cops-on-night-patrol-die-in-accident/articleshow/79198850.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||To avoid overcrowding, Eastern Railway to run 95% services during peak hours from today||KOLKATA: In a bid to ensure that passengers don’t pack themselves into the limited number of trains, Eastern Railway (ER) has decided that during peak hours, they will operate 95% of the number of trains they used to run in rush hours back in the pre-pandemic days. The higher suburban services will be started from Friday, it was decided at a meeting with state government officials at Bhavani Bhavan on Thursday. This decision was taken as trains that started running from Wednesday were getting overcrowded during the peak hours and social distancing norms were severely compromised. “We started with about 84% services during the peak hours on Wednesday. But realizing the situation, the number of services were increased. We had planned to run 615 services in the Howrah and Sealdah Divisions but ended up running 792 of them on Wednesday. This continued on Thursday as well. The number of services will be further increased from Friday,” a senior ER official said. The issue of resuming UTS mobile apps to book both daily tickets as well as Monthly Season Tickets (MSTs) was also discussed during the meeting. These apps have been suspended by the Railway Board as there are restrictions (except for women) on those, who can travel by the Mumbai suburban rail network since services resumed there. Tickets are issued there only after production of identity documents stipulated by the Maharashtra government. ER has already urged the Railway Board to make the apps operational for Kolkata. This will reduce the queues at ticket counters. Thursday’s meeting was convened by state chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay. Among the others present were H K Dwivedi, state home secretary, Anuj Sharma, commissioner, Kolkata Police, Adheer Sharma, DG (Railways) and Gyanwant Singh, ADG (Law and Order). U K Bal, PCOM, ER, noted how trains during the peak hours on Wednesday had actually carried about 1,200 passengers on an average though the plan was for only about half that number to travel. “Many people are working from home while educational institutions are closed. Yet, we are getting about 70% to 80% of the passengers we used to get before the pandemic. This can’t be controlled till the state demarcates between essential and non-essential services. People are also aware of the state’s decision of not using force to control crowds so many are taking advantage to defy social distancing norms at stations and on trains. Under the circumstances, there will be little effect even if we resume 100% services,” a senior railway official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/to-avoid-overcrowding-er-to-run-95-services-during-peak-hours-from-today/articleshow/79198940.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||Three armed men attack businessman, family; 2 held in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Three armed men barged into the house of an elderly businessman at Jogeshwari (E) and tried to injure him and his family in a daring daylight robbery on Wednesday. As the daughter fought back and yelled for help, the three were chased by police and two of them were nabbed. Police said they hailed from Delhi and had entered the house on the pretext of distributing Diwali sweets. Gangji Gala (62) was with his wife, daughter, two-month-old grandchild and two housemaids at Shiv Krupa Society. As Gala stepped out of the bathroom, he noticed three men in the house. One of them embraced him, suddenly pulled out a screwdriver and a wrench and threatened him, while the accomplices threatened the wife and housemaids with a revolver and chopper. The women screamed, which alerted the daughter, Dakshita, who was in the bedroom with her infant. When Dakshita left her baby in the cradle and came out, an accused tried to attack her with a screwdriver, but she ducked and only hurt her finger. “Dakshita pushed away her attacker and rushed back into her bedroom. The attacker followed her and snatched her gold chain. He hit her with the wrench, but Dakshita pushed him away and flung a glass of buttermilk on his face,” a police officer said. While the attacker rubbed his eyes, Dakshita pushed him out of her bedroom and locked the door from inside. She went to the balcony and screamed for help. The three panicked and dashed out, and boarded a moving auto, which passing policemen noticed. Police chased them and nabbed two of them. Those arrested were Mohammad Alim Fazil Shaikh (28) and Mustaqim Shaikh (40), while Saddam (26) is on the run. Police recovered a screwdriver, wrench, a chopper, a country-made revolver and cello-tape from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-armed-men-attack-bizman-family-2-held/articleshow/79199140.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Vadodara||Woman with learning disabilities rescued from well||Vadodara: A 20-year-old woman with learning disabilities, who had accidentally fallen into a well in Haranmad village near Padra, was rescued on Wednesday night.As it was too dark, the local administration had sought help from Vadodara fire brigade to rescue her. Fire officials said as the well was 20 foot deep and dry, it was a challenge to bring her out. There was no way some provision for lighting could be done. “We sent a makeshift ladder down inside and one of our staffers went in to bring the woman out,” said a fire official. It was only after the efforts of two hours that the woman could be brought out. The woman’s family members told fire officials that she had left from home in the afternoon. But as she had not returned till late, they searched around her in the village. When they came near the well, they heard her voice from inside. The sarpanch then sought help from the district administration and the fire department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-with-learning-disabilities-rescued-from-well/articleshow/79198942.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Woman dies, nephew critical as gas leak sparks fire in Kalighat||Kolkata: A 70-year-old woman, Biva Pal, died and her nephew, Rajib (40), an idol-maker by profession, was seriously injured when a fire broke out in their room at Kalighat’s Patuapara early on Thursday. Forensic experts said leakage from a gas cylinder caused the blaze. Rajib was admitted to SSKM Hospital.The cylinder, which was taken to the Kalighat police station, again exploded there and filled up the room with gas. “When we reached the police station with the cylinder, gas again started leaking with an explosive sound. No electrical equipment at the police station was touched for several hours till the gas cleared out. We had to call the company officials to fix it,” an officer said. Police said they were waiting for the fire department to lodge a case.The fire was reported around 4.30am on Kalighat Road, home to potters and idol-makers, who were busy adding finishing touches to Kali idols. “The family had retired for the night but a few craftsmen were still working ,” said a police officer. “Gas had leaked out of a cylinder and accumulated at one corner. It self-ignited, leading to the fire. Biva died of severe burns. Rajib, who was sleeping a little distance away, could somehow be rescued.”  Four fire engines douses the flames in one-and-a-half hours. As the area was congested and Kali idols were placed everywhere, firemen had to operate cautiously even as they rescued Rajib, an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-dies-nephew-critical-as-gas-leak-sparks-fire-in-kalighat/articleshow/79198974.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Taxi lane started at Crawford Market to keep Diwali traffic in control||MUMBAI: With Diwali shoppers causing a massive surge in traffic volumes in south Mumbai, dedicated taxi lanes and fixed passenger boarding/ alighting points have been created for the first time in the Crawford market area. Police have also been trying to clear traffic faster on P D'Mello Road by creating contraflow lanes during peak hours. Mumbai Taximen’s Union leader AL Quadros said creating dedicated lanes for all forms of public transport was welcome and should be replicated in other congested areas of the city. TimesViewDedicated taxi lanes must be extended to buses as well, something that other countries have already done. This will help shift more and more travellers to public transport and would be a boon for decongestion. However, law-enforcers must play their part and heavily penalise any other motorist who enters lanes reserved for public transport."The leftmost lane on LT Marg has been barricaded to create a dedicated space for taxis to ply towards Mohammad Ali Road. Kaali peeli taxis as well as app cabs can use this lane," said a traffic police officer. Earlier, shoppers would get off or board cabs wherever they wanted. They would also ask cabbies to wait while they fetched their purchases. "But now, passengers can alight and board taxis only at fixed point where signages have been put up. The cabs arent permitted to halt for more than a minute. We have deployed additional personnel to keep watch. As a result, evening peak hour traffic is getting cleared an hour in advance," said the officer. Tardeo RTO chief Pradeep Shinde said the City Road Safety Committee had issued directives for taking strict action against illegal parking. The traffic police have since borrowed vans vehicles from the BMC and put to use about a 1000 vehicle tyre clamps. "We will suspend driving licences of repeat offenders once their details are forwarded to us by the police," said Shinde. However activist Kamlakar Shenoy claimed that action against illegal parking on Mohammad Ali Road was rare. "Nearly four feet of space beyond the footpath has been consumed by parked vehicles on Mohammad Ali Road," he said. Viren Shah, the owner of retail chain 'Roopam,' said the footpath on LT Marg was almost entirely taken up by hawkers, forcing pedestrians to walk on the road and put their lives at risk. "The BMC takes action intermittently, but the hawkers always return later. Permanent measures need to be taken instead of short-term," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/taxi-lane-started-at-crawford-market-to-keep-diwali-traffic-in-control/articleshow/79199122.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 13, 2020||Trichy||Fresh cases slip to 172 in central dists; it’s 202 in southern TN||Trichy/Madurai: Fresh cases of Covid-19 in the central region hit a new low of 172 on Thursday even as the regional tally so far crossed 68,000 to touch 68,150. The number of patients who died during the course of treatment went to 888 with the addition of two more including a 66-year-old man from Thanjavur and a 70-year-old man from Nagappattinam. In comparison, the southern districts registered 202 cases and four deaths and a cumulative tally of 1,26,675 cases, including 1,876 active ones, 1,22,764 recoveries and 2,035 deaths. The central region had registered 146 cases on July 8 after which the cases steadily increased till October 9 when the region reported 631 cases after which it gradually dipped. Around 200 cases to 250 cases of Covid-19 were reported in the region in the past one month. It was the decrease in cases in Nagappattinam and Pudukottai that brought down the regional fresh cases on Thursday while the number of active cases also slumped to 1,814 from 1,858 on Wednesday. Nagappattinam had highest number of 330 active cases while the Perambalur had the lowest number of 49. The most number of new cases among the ten southern districts on Thursday was the 39 reported in Kanyakumari. With 404 and 326 active cases respectively, Madurai and Tuticorin continue to top the table in the region, followed by Tirunelveli (269) and Kanyakumari (252). Though Theni, Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi had only around 50 active cases in the last week, except for Ramanathapuram (54), others have close to 100 active cases. On Thursday, Madurai (32), Tirunelveli (26), Tuticorin (26), and Virudhunagar (20) reported more than 20 Covid-19 cases while all other districts recorded less than 20 cases. The four deaths reported in the southern region on Thursday were one each at Dindigul and Virudhunagar, and two at Madurai. A 67-year-old man with lung cancer and hypertension died with Covid-19 on Wednesday at Theni Medical College Hospital. In Virudhunagar, a 77-year-old woman with diabetes died with Covid-19 on Tuesday at the Virudhunagar government medical college hospital. In Madurai, the two Covid-19 deaths reported were those of a 71-year-old woman and a 56-year-old man with hypertension who died at a private hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fresh-cases-slip-to-172-in-central-dists-its-202-in-southern-tn/articleshow/79200506.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Transport Corporation may recover Rs 90 crore from employees||Dehradun: An audit team constituted on the order of the state government has reportedly detected anomalies in the Assured Career Promotion scheme for employees of the Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC). The audit team’s report, on the findings of a period of five years, has been handed over to the transport department headquarters.If the findings of the audit team are verified, the pay scale of several UTC employees may be revised, and the monthly salary may likely to be brought down. Moreover, an amount of Rs 90 crore, which was given to the employees in form of increased salary package following the promotions, may be recovered from the UTC employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-transport-corporation-may-recover-rs-90-crore-from-employees/articleshow/79197739.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Thane||Thane: Prime accused, 2 aides held for neta’s murder||KALYAN: Shivaji Nagar police arrested main accused D Mohan and two others who were on the run for the murder of Ambernath MNS vice-president Rakesh Patil. Police had earlier arrested five accused. Police on Wednesday night also held Bharat Patil and Ramesh Dobari. They were on Thursday remanded to police custody till November 20. Police are trying to find out the reason for the killing, as the victim’s family claimed Mohan had acted on behalf of a developer, against whose project Patil had launched a campaign over irregularities. Assistant commissioner of police (Ambernath division) Vinayak Narale said they would find out if Mohan acted on behalf of any builder or had some rivalry. Patil was stabbed near the Patel mart in Palegaon, Ambernath, on October 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/3-more-held-for-mns-mans-murder/articleshow/79199141.cms||Pradeep Gupta
November 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: KMSC declines invite to meet Union ministers||JANDIALA: The Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) has declined the invitation for November 13 meeting with Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and railway minister Piyush Goyal. KMSC claimed the Centre had extended the invitation to Punjab farmers’ outfits only “even though the agitation was pan India”. “The invitation talks of farmers agitation only in Punjab whereas farmers across the nation are struggling for the annulment of recently introduced three agriculture bills. By attending the meeting with the Union ministers, we don’t want to reaffirm Centre’s stand that the agitation is going on in Punjab only,” KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandhar told TOI after a marathon round of meetings here on Thursday. Another farmer leader Gurbachan Singh Chaba said not only had farmer unions from other parts of India not been invited but the Centre had not even resumed the goods train services despite farmers clearing the tracks. “NDA’s Bihar victory is not a stamp of approval for the three farm bills, as claimed by many BJP leaders,” he claimed. The Union agriculture secretary had on November 10 extended invitation 32 farmers organisations to hold discussions with Tomar and Goyal on November 13 in Delhi. KMSC is not part of the conglomerate but supports their cause. KMSC’s rail roko agitation entered 50th day on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kmsc-declines-invite-to-meet-union-ministers/articleshow/79198988.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 13, 2020||Dehradun||7 killed, 4 injured in separate accidents in Uttarakhand||Nainital/ Mussoorie / Uttarkashi: As many as seven people were killed and four suffered severe injuries in three separate accidents in Uttarakhand on Thursday. The first accident took place in Nainital where two people died and one other sustained injury, after the car they were travelling in fell into a 300-metre-deep gorge in the Lohaghat area of Champawat district on Wednesday night. The bodies were discovered on Thursday morning. According to police, accident took place around 9 pm on Wednesday. The local informed the police after they spotted the mangled car on Thursday morning. "We got a call on Thursday morning about an accident. When we reached the spot, we saw the car in the gorge. With the help of locals, the bodies were taken out. While two of them were already dead, the third person was alive and taken to a hospital," said Lohaghat station officer (SO) Maneesh Khatri. The officer added that all three men hail from Uttar Pradesh and were travelling back home when the accident happened. The deceased persons have been identified as 25-year-old Dharmendra and 30-year-old Bablu. The injured person, 30-year-old Devendra, is undergoing treatment at the district hospital. The second accident took place in Mussoorie where three people were killed and three others sustained injuries, after their car fell into a gorge on the Kimadi road near Nagmandir, about five kilometres from Mussoorie, on Thursday. The local residents informed the police about the accident around 6 am. The victims were returning from George Everest House to Dehradun when the car veered off the road and fell down the hillside. The deceased have been identified as Sachin (22), a resident of Kempty village; Ankit (27), a resident of Dehradun; and Virendra (35), whose address could not be ascertained till the time of filing of this report. According to police officials, the three injured persons were sent to Dehradun-based Coronation Hospital and are currently undergoing treatment. The third accident occurred in Bisath village of Barkot tehsil in Uttarkashi district when a pickup vehicle fell into 15-metre-deep gorge on late Wednesday night. Two people who were on the vehicle died on the spot. The deceased have been identified as 46-year-old Rajpal and 42-year-old Upendra Singh at the spot. Police reached the spot and pulled out bodies, after they got information on Thursday morning. "One of the deceased, Rajpal, was the former gram pradhan of Bisath village. Bodies of both the deceased have been sent for post-mortem examination," inspector DS Kohli, in-charge of Barkot police station, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-killed-4-injured-in-separate-accidents-in-uttarakhand/articleshow/79197746.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Chennai||Bound, hounded by their own, transsexuals fight to break free||One September morning, around 300 transgender people walked into a colony at Ariyamangalam in Trichy, where 25 other trans women were living, attacking them, and destroying their homes and possessions. They beat them mercilessly, tore their clothes and pelted their homes with stones. The reason? They had dared to walk out of the traditional transgender jamaat system, and refused to pay the monthly ‘tax’ levied by the nayak, or the jamaat head. Read the entire story on TOI+Bound, hounded by their own, transsexuals fight to break free||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bound-hounded-by-their-own-transsexuals-fight-to-break-free/articleshow/79201302.cms||Priya Menon
November 13, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab farm groups accept Centre’s invitation for meeting today||Bathinda: Exactly a month after walking out of a meeting called by the Union government, the farmer organisations of Punjab will again meet the Union ministers in Delhi on Friday. They have decided to raise the issues of farmers, especially their opposition to recently-enacted agriculture laws. The will also urge the Union ministers to resume the operation of good trains at the earliest, as Punjab needs supplies of urea and diammonium phosphate (DAP) for wheat sowing, which has already picked pace. It also needs coal supplies for thermal plants for power generation, bardana for packing paddy crop and space in godowns for storing wheat crop. The trains have been out of operation for over one and half months now, barring two days — October 22 and 23 — when 173 goods trains plied through Punjab. “Our main thrust will be to urge the Union government to either withdraw the three contentious farm legislations or pass another bill with guarantee of minimum support price (MSP) on all crops,” said farm organisations BKU (Kadian) president Harpreet Singh. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said, “We will put across points that are against the interests of farmers before the Union ministers. Our focus will be to make Union government take pro-farmer decisions and either withdraw these legislations or make amendments as desired by farmers.” The farmers have made it clear that their Delhi Chalo programme stands and if talks fail to yield positive results, they will head for the national capital in full might on tractors. Further decision will be taken in a joint meeting on November 18. Earlier, the Union government had called farmer organisations for talks on October 14/ As no minister had turned up for the meeting, the farm organisation members had walked out, refusing to discuss their issues with officers. It is only after BJP senior leader and former minister Surjit Kumar Jyani took a dig at his own party, saying it was insulting farmers by not listening to their grievances, that defence minister Rajnath Singh and Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar met him (Jyani) and scheduled a meeting with protesting farmers on Friday. Farm organisations Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee (KMSC) and BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) had not attended the meeting. While KMSC has again decided against the Delhi meeting, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) will attend it even though its members do not have any expectations of a positive outcome. Its general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said, “We had handed over a memorandum outlining our demands in the last meeting on October 14, but nothing came of it. It seems the railway minister may try to put pressure on farmers for resuming train services.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-farm-groups-accept-centres-invitation-for-meeting-today/articleshow/79198977.cms||Neel Kamal
November 13, 2020||Trichy||Mentally-ill woman reunited with family||Trichy: It was a surprising Diwali for the family members of 40-year-old Kanchana, a woman with mental illness, from Tiruttani in Thiruvallur district when she was reunited with her family with the help of Trichy police and NGO Anbalayam on Wednesday. The reunion happened at Anbalayam, a home for wandering mentally-ill people in Trichy. Kanchana was handed over to his brother Subramanian, 60, from Tiruttani in the presence of Anti-Child Trafficking Unit (ACTU), Trichy district, inspector of police P Azeem and founder of Anbalayam T K S Senthilkumar. “Subramanian lost his sister during Covid-19. She had left their home and failed to return,” Azeem told TOI. Azeem was the one who rescued Kanchana from Gundur bus stop on Pudukottai Road on April 6. She was unable to communicate properly to reveal her identity. The role of Anbalayam Senthil Kumar was crucial in rehabilitating her. “When she was brought to the home, she was violent. Treatment given to her by our visiting psychiatrists and the medicines prescribed by them gradually helped her regain her mental health considerably,” said Anbalayam Senthilkumar. After improving, both physically and mentally, she expressed her willingness to reunite with her family, but the language barrier prevented police and the home administration from fulfilling her wishes. There comes the role of a few personnel from railway protection force (RPF). The RPF personnel including Manimaran, Veerakumar, Prabu and Chandramohan visited the home and volunteered to help such people. Manimaran managed to understand the language of Kanchana, which is laced with Telugu and conversed with her to identify her address. It was also found that she was unmarried. “The credit for tracing the address of the woman goes to the RPR personnel,” said Anbalayam. Though she was better now, she should continue her medication. “We promised to send her medicines too,” said Senthilkumar. In November 2019, Trichy district police organized a programme where CISF personnel, RPF, government railway police (GRP) and volunteers from colleges conversed with the people with mental illness and helped them identify their address. Some of them could reunite with their families, while the reunion of few was stalled due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mentally-ill-woman-reunited-with-family/articleshow/79200512.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 13, 2020||Mangaluru||Manipal Academy of Higher Education holds series three of entrepreneurial insights interaction series||MANIPAL: Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) conducted series three of entrepreneurial insights interaction series. Bola Rahul Kamath, proprietor and managing director of Bola Surendra Kamath and Sons and Nishan D’Souza, founder and managing director of ‘GoDesi NN Farms’ were panellists for this series. Rahul Kamath, a third generation entrepreneur at the helm of affairs of manufacturing and exporting cashew and coffee beans shared his success mantra on dedication to work, manufacturing of highest quality of products and keeping employees satisfied. Nishan D’Souza, after spending five years as a corporate employee in India and USA, relocated to Neelavar village of Udupi and established a start-up to provide nutritionally superior A2 milk from Indian breed cows. There is a lack of awareness about the superiority of A2 milk, and this milk is expensive compared to the hybrid cows’ milk. He is on a mission to make an impact in this business where margins are low and scale up is a challenge. He shared his passion and in depth knowledge about his entrepreneurial journey. The panel discussion was part of an ongoing series to bring entrepreneurs to MAHE platform to share their experiences with MAHE and the local community. Shrihari Upadhyaya, CEO of Manipal Universal Technology Business Incubator and Raviraja N S, director, corporate relations, MAHE were the moderators for the panel discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mahe-holds-series-three-of-entrepreneurial-insights-interaction-series/articleshow/79190120.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||105 booked in Dhanbad for Rs 9.9 crore scholarship scam||SINDRI: Sindri: Nearly a week after the Centre ordered a CBI probe into an alleged scholarship scam in Jharkhand, the Dhanbad district administration booked 105 persons, including 96 school principals and operators, for siphoning off Rs 9.9 crore meant for grants to pre-matric scholarship students belonging to the minority community. Dhanbad deputy commissioner Uma Shankar Singh and ADM (law and order) Chandan Kumar said that while the four-member inquiry committee has recommended termination of welfare department clerk Vinod Kumar Paswan and computer operator Ajay Kumar Mandal for their alleged involvement in the scam, the district administration has sought the permission of the state government to lodge FIRs against the district welfare officer and a state-level politician of a national party among others. Kumar, who heads the inquiry committee, said pre-matric scholarships worth Rs 1.5 crore were distributed among 2,675 minority students of the district in 2018-19, but the numbers on paper saw a 404% rise to 13,506 in 2019-20 and a scholarship amount of Rs 11.5 crore was distributed. “Surprisingly, none of the government officials or principals or nodal officers of the schools reported any sudden increase in the scholarship amount by Rs 9.9 crore in a year to higher officials, which shows that they were involved in the scam,” he said. Kumar claimed a Chatra-based gang headed by Mohammed Sadiq, alias Shahid, Afzal and Faisal siphoned off the scholarship funds in connivance with district and state-level officials of the welfare department and different school administrations. “The gang siphoned off the funds in three ways. In the first method, they enrolled fake students by obtaining the user IDs and passwords by taking school principals or school nodal officers for the scholarship into confidence and got the money transferred into their accounts. In the second method, they got fake user IDs and passwords on the basis of forged documents from the National Scholarship Portal (NSP), without the knowledge of the schools and in connivance of the welfare department officials, and siphoned off the money. In the third method, they got scholarship funds transferred from the welfare department of Dhanbad in the name of schools located outside Dhanbad,” he said. The involvement of welfare department officials was also evident after it was found that a majority of the scholarships were withdrawn in the name of students living in school hostels and even for those schools that do not have a hostel facility. Minority students living in school hostels are given a scholarship of Rs 10,000 while day scholars are given a scholarship of Rs 7,500. The involvement of some bank officials in the scam cannot be ruled out as a majority of the bank accounts, where the scholarship amounts were deposited, are not linked to Aadhaar, said Kumar. During inquiry, Nilofar Parween, who worked for the gang, named Sadiq, Afzal, Faisal, Tarique, Sabina, Nazneen, Tausif, Tabish, Irfan, Sohail and a political leader. The district administration also recommended an FIR against Vinod paswan, Ajay Mandal, Gulam Mustafa, Pratap Jaiswara, Nilofer Parween, Santosh Vishwakarma, abdul Hameed, Jharia Lal Mahto and Kalim Akhtar besides others under Sections 409, 420, 467,468, 447, 471, 120(B) and 34 of the IPC and different sections of the IT Act. The administration has also recommended a high-level independent inquiry as the gang is learnt to have siphoned off scholarship funds from Ranchi, Bokaro, Lohardaga and Sahibganj districts of Jharkhand besides different districts of Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/105-booked-in-dhanbad-for-rs-9-9cr-scholarship-scam/articleshow/79199097.cms||Anil Ashutosh
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Curbs eased for festive travel||RANCHI: As the number of new infections continue to drop, the Jharkhand government has started relaxing anti-Covid curbs imposed on public transport and movement of flights and trains. Late on Wednesday night, the state department of transport and civil aviation allowed the Birsa Munda international airport in Ranchi to operate five more domestic flights. The airport was operating 12 flights since air travel resumed on May 25 after a two-month closure due to the nationwide lockdown. Talking to TOI, Ranchi airport director Vinod Sharma said, “We received the clearance late last night. However, the route and destinations of these additional flights will be finalized by the airliners.” The Ranchi airport authority had sought clearance to resume more flights after a recent DGCA directive, which suggested that airports can ramp up their domestic flight services to 65% of their pre-lockdown level. Before lockdown, 30 flights operated in the city every day. On November 10, transport secretary K Ravikumar had written to Ranchi’s divisional railway manager Niraj Ambasth allowing resumption of trains between Ranchi and Tatanagar and Patna and Danapur in Bihar. The department also allowed many trains passing through Jharkhand to maintain their usual stoppages that had been earlier curtailed due to the fear of Covid transmission. The trains whose stoppages were restored are plying between Howrah, New Delhi, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Puri, Barabil, Amritsar, Dibrugarh and Patna. Besides allowing trains to operate as normal, the government had earlier this week allowed inter-state bus services to resume. In a notification issued on November 6, it also allowed public transporters such as autorickshaws, buses and e-rickshaws to ferry passengers at full capacity. “The relaxations are being given keeping in mind the inconveniences being faced by the people ahead of the festive season,” Ravikumar said. On Thursday, the Ranchi division of South Eastern Railways (SER) notified a festival special train between Ranchi and Sasaram in Bihar to clear the rush of passengers ahead of Chhath. In a statement, the division said the train run six days a week between November 15 and November 30 through Ranchi-Lohardaga-Daltonganj-Japla-Dehri-On-Sone. The East Central Railways, headquartered in Hajipur (Bihar), had announced to run a festival specials between Dhanbad and Gaya, Dhanbad-Patna and Barkakana-Patna in between November 10 and November 30. The Ranchi division will operate special trains between Ranchi and Patna and Hatia-Purnea Court between November 11 and November 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/curbs-eased-for-festive-travel/articleshow/79199155.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 13, 2020||Jamshedpur||Four Covid deaths in Jharkhand, number of active cases below 4,000 after 4 months||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded four Covid deaths, 269 new infections and 606 recoveries on Thursday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,05,493. Of these, 3,668 are active cases — the lowest since July 22 — 1,00,908 have recovered and 917 have died. Ranchi, Chatra, Latehar, Palamu reported one death each. Of the 269 cases detected on Thursday, 65 were from Ranchi while East Singhbhum reported 49 and Dhanbad reported 43 patients each. The number of active cases in Latehar and Giridih fell to 18 and 19 respectively, indicating that these two districts could become Covid-free if precautionary measures are followed strictly. Ranchi and East Singhbhum too reported a decline with 1,116 and 1,012 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/4-cov-deaths-in-jkhand-active-cases-below-4k-mark-for-the-1st-time-in-4-months/articleshow/79206137.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||Four Covid deaths in Jharkhand, number of active cases below 4,000 after 4 months||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded four Covid deaths, 269 new infections and 606 recoveries on Thursday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 1,05,493. Of these, 3,668 are active cases — the lowest since July 22 — 1,00,908 have recovered and 917 have died. Ranchi, Chatra, Latehar, Palamu reported one death each. Of the 269 cases detected on Thursday, 65 were from Ranchi while East Singhbhum reported 49 and Dhanbad reported 43 patients each. The number of active cases in Latehar and Giridih fell to 18 and 19 respectively, indicating that these two districts could become Covid-free if precautionary measures are followed strictly. Ranchi and East Singhbhum too reported a decline with 1,116 and 1,012 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/4-cov-deaths-in-jkhand-active-cases-below-4k-mark-for-the-1st-time-in-4-months/articleshow/79199348.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||Two-hour window for Diwali firecrackers at pvt places||RANCHI: Despite the concerns raised by doctors and health workers about the Covid situation aggravating during the festive season, people in the state will be allowed to burst firecrackers during a two-hour windown on Diwali and other subsequent festivals . In view of the National Green Tribunal’s order to all states amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) on Thursday notified an order allowing bursting of crackers in private places between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali and Guruparv. During Chhath, the window will be from 6am to 8am and for Christmas and New Year, crackers will be allowed from 11.55pm to 12.30am. This year, a blanket ban has been imposed on crackers at public places to check air pollution, which will make things worse for Covid patients in home isolation and those who have recovered for the infection recently. In a detailed guideline, JSPCB divided the 24 districts of the state into 14 moderately polluted ones and 10 districts with good and satisfactory levels of pollution. A letter issued by JSPCB secretary Rajiv Lochan Bakshi said Ranchi, Ramgarh, Bokaro, Palamu, West Singhbhum, Seraikela-Kharsawan, Hazaribag, Giridih, Dhanbad, Deoghar, Godda, Pakur and Sahibganj have been categorised as moderately polluted cities with a pollution range of 101-200 ppm. In these 14 districts, only green crackers will be allowed. In the remaing 10 districts — Chatra, Garhwa, Latehar, Lohardaga, Gumla, Simdega, Khunti, Koderma, Jamtara and Dumka — pollution levels were recorded between 1 and 100 ppm and all kinds of firecrackers within 125 decibels will be allowed. The categorisation was made on the basis of the Air Quality Index across the 24 districts in the month of November. Last week, several doctors while talking to TOI had demanded a complete ban on crackers due to the possiblity of health complications triggered by air pollution and falling temperature. “Pollutants released from firecrackers will remain suspended in the cool, dry winter air for a longer duration. The state must choose health of the people over revenue this year. The govt can later compensate traders who will lose income because of a ban on crackers,” Dr Pradeep Bhattacharjee, head of critical care and trauma at Rims, had said. Meanwhile, the Ranchi district administration has made elaborate arrangements to ensure a smooth Diwali and deployed policemen across various locations of the city to handle any exigency. Ranchi ADM (law and order) Lokesh Mishra said, “We have deployed three dozen teams on two-wheelers and more than five quick reaction teams for security purposes during the festival. At least 57 static points have been identified where appropriate deployment of forces have been done.” On being asked about arrangements at hospitals to attend to people with burn injuries, Mishra said, “We have directed Ranchi civil surgeon to arrange for life-saving drugs and to deploy two ambulances with medical staff at the city control room. He has also been asked to ensure that emergency and other wards are kept ready at sadar hospital to attend to patients.” Recalling instances where fire tenders did not function properly during a crisis, Mishra said fire services have been informed to check the status of their vehicles and to deploy one unit with each QRT at Booty More, Albert Ekka Chowk, Piska More, Birsa Chowk and Chandni Chowk in Kanke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-hour-window-for-diwali-firecrackers-at-pvt-places/articleshow/79199288.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||Body found in BSL quarters||BOKARO: A semi-burnt body was found in a Bokaro Steel Plant (BSL) quarter in Sector-2/C under City police station on Wednesday. Police said that the deceased, Pankaj Kumar (30), hailed from Bihar and was a computer operator in a private institute here. The neighbours had informed the police after a foul smell emanated form the house. Upon reaching the quarters, police found that the door was bolted from inside. “The face was burnt beyond recognition and the body was in state of decomposition. It seems that the person had died two-three days ago,” said an official. Police are probing whether the man was murdered or if he committed suicide, said officer in-charge of City police station, Ajay Kumar. BSL authorities said that the quarter was not allotted to the deceased and police are probing how he started residing there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/body-found-in-bsl-quarters/articleshow/79199336.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Sea gets a breather; pH turns ‘normal’ first time in decades||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 induced lockdown has given the Bay of Bengal, along the Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram coastline, a much-needed breather. The pH level of the seawater in the region touched international standards for the first time in decades during this period. The pH is a quantitative measure of acidity or basicity of aqueous or other liquid solutions. Internationally, the pH of seawater is 8.2, but it can range between 7.5 and 8.5 depending on local conditions. However, the pH in the sea bordering Visakhapatnam has been between 6.5 and 7 for the last couple of decades. In fact, a survey conducted in February 2018, following idol immersion at sea, saw the seawater pH level drop to nearly 3.5. But according to a survey carried out along the coastline by four environmental scientists of Asian Marine Conservation Association (AMCA) this weekend, the pH of seawater ranged between 7.6 and 8.3. The scientists surveyed the port area, RK Beach, Sagar Nagar Beach, Rushikonda Beach and Bheemili Beach among others. Speaking to TOI, secretary general of AMCA Anupam Ghosh said, “We were surprised to see the pH level suddenly touch the normal international standard. The lockdown following the pandemic outbreak helped reduce acidification in the seawater.” The scientists who carried out the survey have pointed to a few reasons that led to this. First, because of the lockdown, industrial release was low since March. Second, local administrations imposed restrictions on idol immersion. Third, there was hardly any tourist activity in the city after the lockdown was imposed. “The pH level in the seawater in Visakhapatnam has increased dramatically. This will increase growth of planktons in seawater and thereby increase overall fish population,” said Prof P Apparao, the head of the department of microbiology at Andhra Medical College and AMCA president for Visakhapatnam. The AMCA is now looking to maintain the pH level even after all curbs are lifted. “We cannot stop industries, but can definitely find solutions amid industrial activity to keep seawater free of pollution. Visakhapatnam is all set to have the country’s first coastal resources management centre, and this will be its prime objective,” Anupam Ghosh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sea-gets-a-breather-ph-turns-normal-first-time-in-decades/articleshow/79197814.cms||Arpit Basu
November 13, 2020||World||Chinese mouthpiece calls reports on Ladakh disengagement deal ‘inaccurate’||NEW DELHI: Chinese mouthpiece Global Times (GT) on Thursday claimed that reports of India and China having finalised a detailed disengagement plan to defuse the military confrontation in eastern Ladakh were “inaccurate” at this stage even as it said momentum of recent military level talks was good. “Such reports are not helpful for the two sides to reach their established goals,” said the Chinese newspaper. Its main grouse seemed to be against Indian media reports that said the proposed troop disengagement – if finalised -- is likely to begin from the north bank of Pangong Tso, where Chinese troops have occupied the 8-km stretch from “Finger-4 to 8” since early-May. China, on its part, has for long been insisting that Indian troops should first withdraw from the heights they occupied on the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul area on August 29-30. The “momentum brought by the eighth round of corps commander talks (on November 6) is good”, said GT. But it went on to claim that “whether the disengagement of troops starts from southern or northern of Pangong Tso, how to withdraw, and with how many troops, were key topics” that are yet to be finalised by the two sides. TOI had on Thursday reported India and China had “broadly agreed” to pull back troops, tanks, howitzers and armoured vehicles from 'friction points' in the Pangong Tso-Chushul area in eastern Ladakh. The "exact modalities and sequencing of steps" as well as the joint verification process for the proposed disengagement plan, however, were still being discussed between the two sides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/chinese-mouthpiece-calls-reports-on-ladakh-disengagement-deal-inaccurate/articleshow/79201888.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rains likely in Andhra Pradesh over next 5 days: IMD||VISAKHAPATNAM: Isolated places in Andhra Pradesh may see light to heavy rain over the next five days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Thursday. The state government has alerted the public and government department to take all necessary precautions. IMD attributed this rainfall activity to the presence of two easterly waves which are very likely to influence southeast peninsular India this week. Many places in the state have seen moderate to heavy rain over the last 24 hours. According to Andhra Pradesh State Development Planning Society (APSDPS), Dagadarthi in Nellore district received the highest rainfall in the state, 190.75mm, followed by Muthukur which saw 187.25mm. Some districts of south-coastal AP districts saw heavy downpour in the last 24 hours, said K Kannababu, commissioner of APSDPS.  “We have issued a warning of heavy rain at isolated place in Rayalaseema and south-coastal AP on Thursday,” Kannababu added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rains-likely-in-ap-over-next-5-days-imd/articleshow/79197824.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 positivity rate in state stands at 9.5%||Visakhapatnam: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,728 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,49,705. For the fourth consecutive day, the state recorded less than 2,000 cases. The toll, meanwhile, increased to 6,837 as nine more people succumbed to the virus. As many as 1,777 patients were declared cured. There are currently 20,857 active cases with 8,22,011 cumulative recoveries so far in the state. The number of active cases is less than 1,000 in seven districts. East Godavari district reported 290 fresh infections, followed by West Godavari (239), Krishna (223), Guntur (212) and Chittoor (206). The other eight districts recorded fewer than 100 cases with Kurnool and Vizianagaram districts posting as low as 36 and 42 cases, respectively. Of the nine deaths, three were from Chittoor, two from Krishna and one each from Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur and West Godavari districts. AP has so far conducted 89.4 lakh tests, including 77,148 people tested for the disease on Thursday. The state’s overall case positivity rate has been on the decline and stands now at 9.5 per cent in tandem with decreasing daily infection numbers. Mortality rate remains stable at 0.8 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-state-stands-at-9-5/articleshow/79197834.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Surgery to heal python’s wound||Eluru: A 12-feet-long python, trapped inside a fishnet, was rescued by fishermen at Aswarao Peta rivulet near Jeelugumilli in West Godavari district on Thursday. The fishermen tried to get the snake out of the net but failed. Then they called a farmer working in a nearby field, who then contacted the Snake Society. A Mr Kranthi, member of Snake Society, rushed to the spot and freed the python from the net and performed first-aid. The python was taken to Jangareddigudem forest office where doctors said that it would need a surgery. Later in the day, veterinary doctors performed the surgery on the python. Veterinary doctor BR Srinivasan said that the python is now stable and will recover from the wound within two weeks. Until them, the Snake Society has decided to take care of the injured python.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/surgery-to-heal-pythons-wound/articleshow/79197850.cms||Samson Raj
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Even a month after blast, no action against bamboo board||NAGPUR: Despite serious violation of the Forest Conservation Act (FCA), 1980, the PCCF (head of forest force) office is silent on action against the Maharashtra Bamboo Development Board (MBDB), which has set up pollution units inside the Gorewada reserve forest without any mandatory permission from various institutions. After spot verification, the regional office of the Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) has recommended the closure of all MBDB units operating without consent. The Directorate of Industrial Safety & Health, too, has issued a notice. The forest department is busy communicating with the MBDB but has failed to act against the violation. A letter issued by the APCCF & nodal officer Sanjeev Gaur on November 5 to both the managing directors of MBDB and FDCM has asked to suspend activities not covered in the MoU signed on February 15, 2020 between FDCM & MBDB. This itself indicates that there have been FCA violations. Even after a month, the blast occurred in one of the units. No senior officer, including the nodal officer, has physically verified the MBDB premise to confirm violations. The MBDB was allotted 31.5ha of the reserve forest in compartment number 795 on December 12, 2019, without the approval of the state government. “We have asked the bamboo board to suspend all activities not covered in the letter issued by the PCCF (production & management) and MoU entered between FDCM and MBDB,” said Gaur. The MoU signed between FDCM and MBDB clearly states that activities undertaken will be for habitat development, soil and water conservation works only and no construction should be undertaken. It also states that the MBDB will be solely responsible for FCA violations. The Gorewada reserve forest area has received forest clearance for an international zoo and hence, there is no question of establishment of any polluting units without obtaining the mandatory clearances. Mumbai-based MPCB technical officer Pundlik Mirashe said, “We have received a recommendation from the regional office to close the units as these violate the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974 & Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. We are examining the issue and will take action.” The activities started at the MBDB are non-forestry for which no prior clearance has been obtained from the central government, leading to violation of section 2 of the FCA and therefore, liable for penalty for contravention of the provisions of the Act, which states that “whoever contravenes or abets the contravention of any of the provisions of section 2, shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a period which may extend to 15 days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/even-a-month-after-blast-no-action-against-bamboo-board/articleshow/79189168.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: SEB to prepare list of repeat offenders to curb ganja trade||VISAKHAPATNAM: The recent seizures of huge quantities of ganja from various parts of Visakhapatnam district has exposed a strong network with innovative methods of smuggling. Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials, with the support of other wings of police and other departments are now chalking out plans to prepare a list of ganja smugglers and suppliers who have come under the scanner repeatedly to identify their properties and create a strategy to prevent their illegal trade. Of the 11 mandals in Visakhapatnam Agency, cultivation of ganja is said to be taking place in eight — GK Veedhi, Chintapalle, G Madugula, Pedabayalu, Munchingput, Koyyuru, Paderu and Hukumpeta. Enforcement officials have also found that some youngsters had taken to ganja trade for easy money. While police and excise officials had identified few repeat offenders and seized their assets a few years back, the current drive came after some delay. Earlier, assets of three smugglers — Pothuraju Kumaraswamy, Udi Babji and Ghising Prem Bahudhar — were seized by authorities under section 68F(2) of the NDPS Act. “We are chalking out plans to prepare a list of repeated ganja smuggles who have been caught more than three times. The government will give some powers to the SEB to tackle ganja trade,” said SEB deputy commissioner T Srinivasa Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/seb-to-prepare-list-of-repeat-offenders-to-curb-ganja-trade/articleshow/79197872.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 13, 2020||World||Escalation in India-China tensions may be exploited by ‘other players’: Russia||NEW DELHI: Russia on Thursday warned that any escalation in India-China tensions would lead to more regional instability and it could be exploited by "other players" for geopolitical purposes. The embassy here said India and Russia were looking at further expanding defence cooperation and that they were also considering exporting BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles to third countries, starting with the Philippines. "It is clear that amid global turbulence and unpredictability, escalation between India and China would further affect regional instability in our common home — Eurasia. Escalation, as we are witnessing, can be misused by other players in geopolitical purposes," Russian deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin said, adding that Russia was naturally concerned about the Sino-Indian dispute. "We we feel it’s very important to encourage both our Asian friendly countries to be more engaged in a constructive dialogue. Recent news about their commitment to exercising restraint and maintaining communication through diplomatic and military channels to remove tensions are absolutely welcoming developments," he added. Russia this week hosted the SCO heads of state summit virtually where PM Narendra Modi hit out at Pakistan for raising bilateral issues. When asked about it, the Russian diplomat supported India's position that bilateral disputes should not be raised on the multilateral Eurasian platform. Asked about growing ties between India and the US, Babushkin said Russia did not see any problem in the relations, adding that New Delhi did not provide any reason for doubt when it came to multilateral and bilateral commitments. "New Delhi is a global power with multi-faceted and wide and diversified national interests and we respect that. India does not provide any reason for doubt when it comes to multilateral and bilateral commitments," he said. However, he made a veiled reference to the "threat" by the US to India to not go ahead with mega defence deals. "We know that there were attempts to pressure India and use unfair and illegal competition tools such as threats of sanctions and other restrictions," he said. In October 2018, India had signed a $5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/escalation-in-india-china-tensions-may-be-exploited-by-other-players-russia/articleshow/79201900.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||Escalation in India-China tensions may be exploited by ‘other players’: Russia||NEW DELHI: Russia on Thursday warned that any escalation in India-China tensions would lead to more regional instability and it could be exploited by "other players" for geopolitical purposes. The embassy here said India and Russia were looking at further expanding defence cooperation and that they were also considering exporting BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles to third countries, starting with the Philippines. "It is clear that amid global turbulence and unpredictability, escalation between India and China would further affect regional instability in our common home — Eurasia. Escalation, as we are witnessing, can be misused by other players in geopolitical purposes," Russian deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin said, adding that Russia was naturally concerned about the Sino-Indian dispute. "We we feel it’s very important to encourage both our Asian friendly countries to be more engaged in a constructive dialogue. Recent news about their commitment to exercising restraint and maintaining communication through diplomatic and military channels to remove tensions are absolutely welcoming developments," he added. Russia this week hosted the SCO heads of state summit virtually where PM Narendra Modi hit out at Pakistan for raising bilateral issues. When asked about it, the Russian diplomat supported India's position that bilateral disputes should not be raised on the multilateral Eurasian platform. Asked about growing ties between India and the US, Babushkin said Russia did not see any problem in the relations, adding that New Delhi did not provide any reason for doubt when it came to multilateral and bilateral commitments. "New Delhi is a global power with multi-faceted and wide and diversified national interests and we respect that. India does not provide any reason for doubt when it comes to multilateral and bilateral commitments," he said. However, he made a veiled reference to the "threat" by the US to India to not go ahead with mega defence deals. "We know that there were attempts to pressure India and use unfair and illegal competition tools such as threats of sanctions and other restrictions," he said. In October 2018, India had signed a $5 billion deal with Russia to buy five units of the S-400 air defence missile systems, notwithstanding a warning from the Trump administration that going ahead with the contract may invite US sanctions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/escalation-in-india-china-tensions-may-be-exploited-by-other-players-russia/articleshow/79201899.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||DGP orders units to hold back transfers||Vijayawada: In view of the impending formation of new districts, DGP D Gautam Sawang has issued a memo, instructing all police unit officers in the state to hold back transfers of all ranks until further orders. The memo, released on Tuesday, is addressed to all unit officers and other police wings such as crime investigation department, railways, intelligence, APSP battalions etc. Sources said the process of mergers and detachments of various police stations from one district police unit to the other has already begun. Proposals are being processed and finalised with the home department scrutinizing them. The process is expected to be completed by the end of this month, after which there would be a massive reshuffle of personnel of all ranks, including IPS. One of the proposal summaries indicate that Vijayawada commissionerate could be expanded with 18 police stations from Krishna district police unit. Initially, the idea was to increase the number of districts from the present 13 to 25 for administrative convenience. However, women & child welfare minister Taneti Vanitha recently said that the government is actively pursuing the proposal to increase the number of districts to 32 by adding 19 more districts. Women & child welfare minister Taneti Vanitha recently said that the government is actively pursuing the proposal to increase the number of districts to 32 by adding 19 more districts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/dgp-orders-units-to-hold-back-transfers/articleshow/79197902.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Traffic curbs in Vijawada for next 3 months||VIJAYAWADA: Traffic from Prakasam Barrage to Bhavanipuram junction was diverted through Kaleswara Rao Market, KT Road, Tunnel center and Sitara junction from Thursday onwards for the next three months to facilitate work on the six-lane road and bridge under Kanaka Durga flyover. City police commissioner B Srinivasulu issued orders diverting the traffic. Traffic towards Prakasam Barrage from Bhavanipuram is diverted via Nalugu Stambalu center, Sitara Junction, Milk project, Malleswara Rao market and VMC main office junction. Police urged public to use Kanaka Durga flyover to reduce traffic on tunnel road.The work on the bridge adjacent to Kanaka Durga temple entry gate and six-lane at head water works will be carried out in the next three months. Visitors to Kanaka Durga temple will be permitted through Maha Mandapam during this period. Police, however, said that two-wheelers will be permitted and restrictions will be on light motor vehicles and heavy vehicles. Meanwhile, Kanaka Durga flyover witnessed huge traffic on Thursday. Police deployed special pickets to clear traffic at Swathi theatre junction. Traffic towards Prakasam barrage from Bhavanipuram is diverted via Nalugu Stambalu center, Sitara Junction, Milk project, Malleswara Rao market and VMC main office junction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/traffic-curbs-in-vij-for-next-3-months/articleshow/79197927.cms||Venu Lanka
November 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Tadikonda MLA in another audio tape row||Vijayawada: Suspended YSRC functionary Sandeep released another call recording of Tadikonda MLA Undavalli Sridevi on Thursday, in which the legislator is purportedly heard making some controversial remarks against a particular upper caste. The MLA had previously lodged a complaint at Tadepalli police station claiming threat to her life from Sandeep, who is currently absconding. Sandeep was suspended from the party recently for allegedly organising and promoting gambling activities. In the purported audio recording, the MLA is heard commenting on some upper caste YSRC party leaders. “They are dangerous. They keep all the power and sideline us. The SCs and BCs have to be united and be prepared,” Sridevi purportedly said. Before this, Sandeep had released a call recording claiming that the MLA sought information on gambling dens in rural areas and whether they could help earn some quick money. After the release of the second audio tape, Sridevi issued a statement, claiming that the audio tapes were fabricated and that she did not interact with either Sandeep or Suresh, who have been suspended from the party for alleged gambling activities. On the other hand, Sandeep has countered her allegations claiming that he was absconding fearing for his life and appealed to the chief minister to order a probe into the audio tapes released by him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tadikonda-mla-in-another-audio-tape-row/articleshow/79197948.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||Ahead of Diwali, Covid cases rising in states close to Delhi||NEW DELHI: It is not just Delhi where Covid cases have shown a spike in recent days. Infections have been rising in several northern states in the Capital’s vicinity even as the overall national count has shown a slight decline so far this week. States where cases have surged in the past 10 days include Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal, Punjab, Uttarakhand and, to a lesser extent, UP. In Haryana, the seven-day average of daily cases has risen sharply from 1,570 on November 2 to 2,424 on November 12. Likewise, it has risen from 1,778 to 1,932 in Rajasthan, from 430 to 581 in Punjab, from 287 to 624 in Himachal, from 305 to 453 in Uttarakhand, and from 1,983 to 2,046 in UP during these 10 days. In Delhi, average daily cases have zoomed from 5,269 to 7,196 during this period. These aren’t the only states to show a spike in the run-up to Diwali amid a general declining trend in the rest of the country. In MP, average daily infections have gone up from 678 on November 2 to 882 on Thursday. Similarly, Gujarat has shown a rise from 943 to 1,052. Meanwhile, 44,702 cases were recorded in the country on Thursday, a slight drop from 48,034 reported last Thursday, as per data collated by TOI from state governments. Last week, cases had risen for the first time in eight weeks. The day’s death toll remained over 500 for the third day running, with 530 fatalities on Thursday. In Rajasthan, Arjun Prajapati, 60, a Padma Shri awardee sculptor, was among 13 who died of Covid in the state on Thursday. Prajapati was internationally known for his art. Maharashtra saw 4,496 fresh cases — its fourth consecutive day of reporting fewer than 5,000 cases — taking its overall tally to 17,36,329. Over 55,000 cases have been reported in the 12 days of November, one-third of cases reported in the first 12 days of October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahead-of-diwali-covid-cases-rising-in-states-close-to-delhi/articleshow/79201932.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
November 13, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Rain forecast, pandemic worry dampen AP’s Diwali spirits||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the government restricting the timing of bursting of crackers to two hours (8 pm to 10 pm) on Diwali night, Vizagites seem to be in a dilemma on whether or not to burst crackers this year. Meanwhile, the weather department has predicted that light to moderate rains are likely to continue till the weekend, including Diwali. While this may be a dampener for people, doctors consider it a blessing in disguise and have been advising against bursting of crackers, as the toxic smoke generated may enhance Covid-19 cases besides worsening the condition of recovered patients by affecting their lungs. Dr K S Phaneendra Kumar, pulmonologist from Kims Icon hospital, said smoke in any form is bad for general population and particularly for those who have recently recovered from Covid-19 or are suffering from chronic lung diseases like bronchial asthma. “Patients who have recovered from Covid-19 should absolutely avoid bursting crackers this year as the virus causes extensive damage to the lungs and patients may have to take readmission in hospitals. They may again experience shortness of breath and tightness of chest,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rain-forecast-pandemic-worry-dampen-aps-diwali-spirits/articleshow/79197962.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 13, 2020||Vijayawada||Jewellery stores in Andhra Pradesh pin hopes on Dhanteras||VIJAYAWADA: With gold prices witnessing a fall in the last five days, bullion merchants are expecting a bumper sale for Dhanteras, which falls on Friday. Jewellery stores across the state have made big arrangements for the special day, as buying gold on Dhanteras is considered auspicious. The price of gold shot to record heights post lockdown, with 10 grams of 24-carat gold costing Rs 56,500 in August. Many jewellers even closed shops due to poor response from buyers. However, gold prices have come down in the last five days and was Rs 51,400 on Wednesday. “The fall in the stock market affected gold prices as investors rushed to buy gold when the Sensex nosedived during the Covid-19 lockdown. Gold prices have now more or less stabilised and may come down further as the Sensex has recovered. We are expecting good sale during Dhanteras this year,” said Dogiparthi Suman, a Vijayawada jeweller. It is believed that buying gold on Dhanteras day gets prosperity and wealth. Women prefer to buy at least one gram of gold on this day. Most gold shops are offering discounts to attract consumers. Civic authorities and police have directed the jewellery stores to ensure physical distancing and Covid-19 guidelines are followed at their premises on Dhanteras day. Police have warned that stringent action will be initiated against overcrowded shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/jewellery-stores-pin-hopes-on-dhanteras/articleshow/79197981.cms||Venu Lanka
November 13, 2020||India||FM grants Rs 900cr for vaccine research||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharman on Thursday announced a Rs 900 crore grant to the Department of Biotechnology for COVID-19 vaccine research. “We are providing Rs 900 crore for research and development of Covid-19 vaccine.  This is being provided for Covid Suraksha Mission purely for R&D but this money goes to Department of Biotechnology for research purposes,” she said. Sitharaman said the grant does not cover the actual cost of vaccine and distribution expenses, which will be made separately as and when the vaccine is available. “The actual cost of the vaccine or logistics required for distributing the vaccine is totally different and whatever is required for that, as and when it is required will be provided,”she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/fm-grants-rs-900cr-for-vaccine-research/articleshow/79201939.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||Centre to frame rules to check digital content||NEW DELHI: Amid mixed reactions over the government’s decision to regulate content on OTT platforms, the Centre is planning to frame rules that will govern digital content on such platforms and social media. This will be done after due consultations with stakeholders. The government is looking at the change on business rules that brings the platforms within the purview of the information and broadcasting ministry as required in order to plug several loopholes where content on OTT platforms as well as news circulated or broadcast through social media was not being subject to any scrutiny. Government sources said bodies like the film certification board, Press Council of India and the News Broadcasters’ Association exercised jurisdictions which were, however, not applicable to OTT platforms and social media. “When a search engine picks up news and circulates it, then it is also a publisher, and must be accountable. Also, it not only circulates news, but often prioritises it,” a source said. Even as government officials said it is too early to speculate over how the regulation of digital content is likely to pan out, it also remains as yet unclear whether the government plans to tweak the existing Programme Code for TV and extend it to cover digital platforms, or if a separate legislation or autonomous body is to be proposed to oversee digital platforms and the content they curate and stream. Sources said the proposed media council that could be an over-arching regulator is still in the works, and will need more consideration. Meanwhile, guidelines of the platforms that “fell in the gap” would be finalised. Earlier this week, the Centre ordered that all digital content, both in the area of news and entertainment, will be brought under the jurisdiction of the information and broadcasting ministry. This would include online news portals that offer a range of news and comment. Earlier this year, 15 OTT platforms had come together as signatories for adopting a Universal Self-Regulation Code. The move, though in the works for some months, triggered talk of governmental censorship, and is seen as going against the government’s earlier assertion where it had favoured self-regulation by OTT platforms instead of intervention by the state. and even agreed to set up a Digital Content Complaints Committee on the lines of a similar committee for broadcasting content. This was, however, rejected by the government on grounds that there was no clear code of ethics and the definition of prohibited content was also unclear. On Thursday though, questions about whether there are plans afoot to set up a CBFC-like model to certify online films and TV series yielded no clear answers. The demand for regulation of digital content has grown on social media for several months, with some opposing the foul language and others running down the alleged "culturally offensive" content on OTT platforms. Some of the complainants have been pro-Hindutva groups. Among some filmmakers who questioned the decision were Vikramaditya Motwane. Shortly after the decision was announced, Motwane, the executive director of web series Sacred Games, quoted the Supreme Court’s observation during the hearing of Republic Editor Arnab Goswami’s bail plea that “if you don’t like a channel, don’t watch it”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-to-frame-rules-to-check-digital-content/articleshow/79201944.cms||Swati Mathur
November 13, 2020||India||Two lynched for killing man||Two men were lynched at a village in Patna district while trying to flee after they shot dead another man on Wednesday evening. The incident took place at Sabbalpur. SHO Sakendra Kumar said that the deceased Munna Das and Ajeet Kumar murdered Jitendra Sahni when he refused to let them join a card game. SP (rural) Kantesh Kumar Mishra said Munna’s identity was ascertained within hours of the incident, but Ajeet was identified only on Thursday. “Munna was accused in several criminal cases...Additional force has been deployed in the area for maintaining law and order,” Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-lynched-for-killing-man/articleshow/79201965.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||TN varsity drops Arundhati book after ABVP plaint||MADURAI: ABVP, whose complaint allegedly prompted Manomaniam Sundaranar University in Tirunelveli to remove a book by Arundhati Roy from its MA (English literature) course, has decided to seek a review of the syllabus in all universities in Tamil Nadu to ensure “wrongful content is not taught to students.” Last week, the university received a written complaint from ABVP joint secretary C Vignesh, saying ‘Walking with the Comrades’, based on Roy’s visit to Maoist-dominated regions in the country, was objectionable and glorified the movement. It was included in the university syllabus in 2017. “A committee was set up and after careful consideration we decided to replace the book with naturalist M Krishnan’s ‘My Native Land: Essays on Nature’,” vice-chancellor K Pitchumani said. He said that Roy’s book had been included before his tenure at the university began last year. Many political parties and academicians have condemned the move.  Roy said: “When I heard of the university’s decision to remove my book following pressure from the ABVP, I was more happy than sad because I had no idea that it was in the curriculum in the first place. I am glad it has been taught for several years... I am not in the least bit shocked or surprised that it has been removed from the syllabus now...This narrow, shallow, insecure attitude towards literature displayed by our current regime is not just detrimental to its critics. It is detrimental to millions of its own supporters.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tn-varsity-drops-arundhati-book-after-abvp-plaint/articleshow/79201970.cms||Padmini Sivarajah
November 13, 2020||India||Spl court rejects bail petition of Deepak Kochhar||A special court hearing money laundering matters on Thursday rejected the default bail plea of Deepak Kochhar, husband of former ICICI Bank CEO, Chanda Kochhar, a week after the ED submitted chargesheet against him. Of the 11 accused in the case filed by the ED, he is the sole arrested. Last January, the CBI had registered a cheating and criminal conspiracy case under the IPC and criminal misconduct under the Prevention of Corruption Act against Kochhar and his wife among others for allegedly causing losses to ICICI Bank by sanctio-ning loans to Videocon Group in contravention of the bank’s rules and policies. Additional sessions Judge PP Rajvaidya rejected the plea and posted the case for November 23, for reply from the ED to a bail plea on grounds of merits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/spl-court-rejects-bail-petition-of-deepak-kochhar/articleshow/79201973.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||9 arrested over mowing down of Agra cop||Police in UP’s Agra district have arrested a man who is alleged to have run over and killed a 24-year-old police constable after he tried to stop his tractor-trolley laden with illegally- mined sand on Sunday near UP-Rajasthan border. Apart from the main accused, Prakash, eight others allegedly involved in illegal sand mining and part of his gang were also arrested from different parts of the district on Wedne-sday. District police are now mulling invoking stringent Gangster Act against them. SP rural (west), Agra, Ravi Kumar said that all the accused are suspected to have criminal records, and they are residents of Rajasthan. Police said that Prakash had also opened fire at them in a bid to flee while he was being arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/9-arrested-over-mowing-down-of-agra-cop/articleshow/79201977.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Professor reunites elderly man with family, helps two girls continue studies||BENGALURU: A college professor went out of his way to reunite a 67-year-old man with his family members in the middle of a nationwide lockdown and also helped two young girls continue with their studies. Professor Vinay Yadav, head of department of Hindi at Bishop Cotton Women’s Christian College, got in touch with several other individuals and organisations to assist these people in the last few months. While he helped the senior citizen return home, he also assisted his 14-year-old granddaughter continue education seamlessly. It all began in April last week when Yadav, a resident of Horamavu, Banaswadi noticed an old man aimlessly roaming around near his home. The man asked Yadav for help. “He looked troubled and lost. He told me he had been fired from his job as a security guard and couldn’t find his way back home,” Yadav said, adding that the man had no phone with him. Realising that the man, K Krishnamurti, was not mentally ready to explain where he had to go, Yadav offered him dinner and a place to stay at a temple next door. “I provided three meals and bedding to him for the next two weeks and then got to know he actually had a piece of paper with his wife’s number on it,” said Yadav. When Yadav called Krishnamurti’s wife, Kupamma, she told him they had lost a son recently and since then her husband was mentally disturbed and would wander off without notice. She also told him that they lived in Anchepalya in RR Nagar. With lockdown in place, Yadav continued to look after Krishnamurti and informed local cops about the situation. He even added his own contact number and name to the paper that the man carried. The next day, Yadav saw that Krishnamurti had again wandered off and received a call from some strangers. “They told me they found Krishnamurti and I requested them to either help him get back to me or drop him to his home in Anchepalya. Thankfully, a good Samaritan had a car and agreed to drop him there,” said Yadav. Kupamma called back Yadav to thank him and later reached out to him for help. “She told me that she had rice but needed other essentials. Incidentally, I was heading towards Jnanabharathi campus in May-June and decided to pay them a visit,” said Yadav. “I carried a month’s ration with me, and found that their 14-year-old granddaughter was living with them. Her mother had remarried and she had nowhere to go. Kupamma said she needed some support for her granddaughter Rachna’s studies. The girl was in grade 9,” he said. When a friend mentioned about an initiative by a city-based company to sponsor a child’s education, Yadav thought of Rachna. “My friend Amrit Kaur asked me to identify a girl child for Innomonk Technologies’ initiative. Though they were looking for someone near Bannerghatta, they considered Rachna after visiting her and seeing her condition,” said Yadav. Soon, Rachna was given a computer and amenities for a year. Yadav also got in touch with her school — St Benedict’s CBSE School — and got to know she is a bright child. “I approached another friend, Gyanchand Marmag from Lion’s Club Sarakki, JP Nagar for support and they agreed to bear the child’s education expenses till she completed class 10,” he said. In another instance, he stumbled upon Bharagavi, a final-year degree student at Government Degree College, Chamarajpet, who was forced to sell flowers to make ends meet. Yadav co-ordinated between Innomonk Technologies and the student for support. “She was sitting on the pavement near BMS College, selling flowers but immediately stood up and saluted my colleague, who was her NSS leader. I was struck by her discipline,” says Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-professor-reunites-elderly-man-with-family-helps-two-girls-continue-studies/articleshow/79201971.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 13, 2020||Kochi||CET.Speaking to bash regressive thoughts||Openly addressing issues in the online space, whether it is bashing regressive views or propagating ideas like feminism, has been creating a revolution of sorts. When four girls from the College of Engineering, Trivandrum (CET), felt that their campus too can benefit from the same, they launched an online platform called CET.Speaking. From openly discussing one’s difficulties in and around the campus to organising sex education sessions with experts, Shreya Sajeev, Smruthi Gopan, Fabi K P and Fazna Harees have been striving to initiate some changes around their campus. Second year student Shreya Sajeev says it was instances of eve-teasing and harassment around the campus, faced by herself and a few others, that led to the formation of CET.Speaking. “My friend Anntrinitta said that if we had a forum that discussed such issues, it could help. That’s when I spoke to Fazna, Fabi and Smruthi about it. Our former chairperson, Anjuradh T R also felt it would help. Then, we approached the Kerala State Women Development Cell (KSWDC) wing in our college and with its support, started a non-political platform, naming it CET.Speaking, around June.” Its page on Instagram began with anonymous confessions by CET students on moral policing, physical harassment, patriarchal experiences faced in the campus and soon, regardless of gender, the youngsters went on to share their experiences, for about four months, says Shreya. Soon, sensing that their fellow students will benefit from online sex education classes from experts, the four began such a series. Fazna says, “Our first session was by Dr Bebeto Thimothy, Resident Medical Officer at National Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation and RJ Salim, both of whom are also social media influencers. They spoke on healthy relationships and cleared students’ doubts too. Now, we also have sessions coming up by social activist Maitreyan, Dr Veena J S and more, about virginity, sex in real life and other such topics.” First year student Navaneeth Madathil from Perinthalmanna, who attended the talk, says, “Being a first-year student, I haven’t been to campus yet and came to know about it through our class’ WhatsApp group. I took part with great interest and it was a helpful session. Often, such initiatives are rare on engineering campuses, compared to arts colleges. They will definitely help improve the campus atmosphere.” Another student Reshma S Nair from Thiruvananthapuram, says, “Through friends, we know that campuses still celebrate terms like ‘theppu’ and more, and suffer from issues like homophobia, slut shaming, lack of understanding about consent, inability to take rejections in relationships and more. In my opinion, all of our colleges should have similar forums. It’s only through them that we can make things better at least for the next generation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cet-speaking-to-bash-regressive-thoughts/articleshow/79201948.cms||Deepa Soman
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Less than 1,000 Covid cases in Vidarbha for 6th day in a row||NAGPUR: Covid-19 wave seems to have has settled down in Vidarbha with fewer new cases and steady recoveries. On Thursday, the region reported 753 new cases, less than 1,000 cases for the sixth day in a row. On the other hand, 800 patients recovered in a day. With this, 1.93 lakh patients in Vidarbha have recovered of the 2.08 lakh cases. The recovery rate of the region increased further to 92.51% which is almost equal to the national average. The region reported 12 deaths on Thursday, with 8 of them from Nagpur district alone. These include 2 deaths from Nagpur city and 2 from rural. Other 4 were patients who came from other states/divisions and tested positive in the city. Bhandara, Wardha, Gondia and Chandrapur reported 1 death each while no district in Amravati revenue division reported death for the second consecutive day. Even cases are reducing rapidly in Amravati division which is an indicator of better control of Covid. Even as the death count is under 15 since the last three days, the average case fatality rate of Vidarbha is still above 2.70% which is way higher than national average of 1.48% and state’s 2.63%. The new cases came from Nagpur (234), Chandrapur (103), Buldhana (95), Bhandara (69), Wardha (55), Gondia (46), Amravati (39), Gadchiroli (38), Washim (28), Yavatmal (26), and Akola (20) with the total reaching 2,08,906. The recoveries were from Nagpur (210), Chandrapur (168), Gadchiroli (93), Buldhana (78), Yavatmal (58), Bhandara (54), Amravati (52), Gondia (28), Wardha (23), Akola (20), Washim (16) taking the total to 1,93,269. Buldhana: The district received 1,025 reports of which 95 tested positive taking the case count to 10,122. Total 78 patients recovered in a day. This took the number of recovered patients to 9,608. Buldhana’s recovery rate is about 95%. However, about 4,444 reports of tests are yet to be received. No death was reported on Thursday. The toll remained at 131. The district has 383 patients under treatment. Bhandara: A patient died on Thursday taking the total death toll to 232. Total 69 new cases were identified while 54 patients recovered in a day. Total cases in Bhandara have reached 9,333 while 8,348 patients recovered. The recovery rate is 89.44% while case fatality rate of Bhandara is 2.48%. Total 753 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported death of a 65-year-old patient from Deori village on Thursday. This took the death toll to 141. With 46 new cases, total cases reached 10,596 while 28 patients recovered in a day taking the total number of recovered patients to 9,813. There are 642 patients under treatment in Gondia. Its recovery rate is 90.94%. Gadchiroli: The district reported 38 new cases taking the caseload to 6,733. On the other hand, 93 patients recovered taking the total number of recovered patients to 6,024. No death was reported on Thursday. Total 642 patients are under treatment in the district. Recovery rate is more than 89% while the death rate is 1%. Washim: The district reported 28 new cases while 16 patients recovered in a day. This took the cases in the district to 5,852 while 5,534 of them have recovered till date. No death was reported for sixth day in a row. Total 174 patients are under treatment. Akola: Total 20 patients recovered while 20 new patients were detected on Thursday. No death was reported. The district now has 8,620 cases, 8,114 recoveries and 283 deaths. Total 223 patients are under treatment. Yavatmal: Fortunately, Yavatmal recorded no deaths on Thursday also. Out of the 357 test reports, 26 were found positive. 301 are active positive patients under treatment in the district. 10,659 were positive so far of which 9805 were discharged, including 58 discharged on Thursday. Amravati: Witnessing no deaths for the third day on the trot, the district recorded 39 new cases to take its Covid count to 16,826 on Thursday. Recoveries were better than new cases. In all, 52 recovered to take the overall total to 16,021 for a percentage of 95.22. This has left 436 active cases. Wardha: A 68-year-old man from Selu died due to coronavirus during treatment on Thursday while 55 new patients were reported positive and 23 were discharged. Around 818 test reports were received and 55 of them (28 men and 27 women) tested positive. The cases were reported from Wardha (41), Selu (6), Deoli and Karanja (3 each) and Hinganghat (2). The caseload of the district increased to 6,899 and recoveries 6205 while active positive patients under treatment are 477. District recorded 217 deaths due to coronavirus so far. Chandrapur: There was a single death reported during the day while the Covid cases climbed up by 103 on Thursday. There were also 168 recoveries taking the cured cases up to 14, 675. While the death toll stands at 260, total Covid caseload reached 17, 378. There are now 2443 active patients under treatment in Chandrapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-1k-cases-in-vid-for-6th-day-in-a-row/articleshow/79196173.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 13, 2020||India||Two central ministers to hold talks with farmers||NEW DELHI: A month after holding unsuccessful talks with protesting farmers at the bureaucratic level, the Centre has decided to send Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar and Piyush Goyal to hold discussions with them over the new farm laws on Friday. Representatives of as many as 30 farmers’ unions may attend the meeting where agriculture minister Tomar and railway minister Goyal may ask them to allow rail services in Punjab. The meeting will be held in the backdrop of the protesting farmers’ plan to march towards Delhi on November 26-27, demanding repeal of the central laws. The Centre has, however, denied them permission. Representatives of farmers’ organisations had on October 14 walked out from a meeting, chaired by Union agriculture secretary, citing the Union minister’s absence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/two-central-ministers-to-hold-talks-with-farmers/articleshow/79202000.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||5 yrs on, CBI set to end Vyapam probe; no big fish in its net||BHOPAL: Almost five years after the Supreme Court asked CBI to take over the Vyapam scam probe from Madhya Pradesh police, the central invstigating agency is all set to wind up its investigation. CBI has filed 155 chargesheets against over 3,500 people, but the whistleblowers have termed the probe ‘disappointing’. Investigation is pending against 300 people in the pre-medical test-2013 and PMT-2012 cases, where some influential people are among the accused, say officials. “We have got clearance to file chargesheets in three cases in which investigations have been completed. Only two cases are pending,” said a CBI officer. When the agency took over probe from the MP STF on July 13, 2015, opposition parties and whistleblowers had expected swift action. Initially, a 40-member team was formed by the CBI director. It wasn’t long before some officers began asking to be sent back to their parent posting, claiming that it would take two decades to get to the bottom of India’s biggest recruitment scam. Even when the Vyapam branch — constituted by shifting two anti-corruption (AC) branches — was constituted, few officers had shown interest to join it, say sources. CBI had to eventually hand-pick officers from various branches and send them to Bhopal. “The branch started with around 170 officers. Now, other cases are also being assigned to the Vyapam branch,” said another officer. The branch handed 155 criminal cases and 15 inquiries with the Supreme Court order on July 9, 2015, which included many mysterious deaths related to the scam. However, CBI’s findings were no different from what police probe had found. “We were happy when SC shifted the probe to CBI, but the end results are very disappointing. CBI is not looking into complaints we have made against the high and mighty involved in the scam,” said Gwalior-based Ashish Chaturvedi, a whistle-blower. Dr Anand Rai, another whistleblower, agreed. “Have they brought any big name on their records?” he said. As if the Vyapam scam itself wasn’t complicated enough, CBI had run into a language barrier also. More than 100 of the accused demanded copies of the chargesheet against them in Hindi, leaving the agency stumped. CBI had then moved a special leave petition in Supreme Court, seeking reversal of earlier orders by Gwalior bench of MP high court and some lower courts to provide the accused chargesheets in Hindi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-yrs-on-cbi-set-to-end-vyapam-probe-no-big-fish-in-its-net/articleshow/79202024.cms||P Naveen
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||Even 50% crackers will make Mumbai’s air ‘very poor’ on November 15||MUMBAI: The city’s air quality the day after Diwali (November 14) could be the worst in six years even if the firecracker emissions are just half of the average 2016-18 levels—due to ban over Covid— the System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) has warned. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to Safar, Mumbai’s air quality index (AQI) on November 15 could be 338, considered ‘very poor’ and which could pose a health risk to its citizens. “Even with 50% cracker emissions scenario, the prevailing weather conditions will aggravate the high smoke level and push air quality to ‘very poor’. The AQI is expected to improve to ‘poor’ or ‘moderate’ by November 17,” says the forecast. Andheri, Mazgaon and Chembur are expected to be the most polluted areas. The AQI on November 15 is likely to be 267, which is considered ‘poor’ (201-300), if there are no firecracker emissions. Last year, after Diwali, rains kept air quality index in ‘good’ rangeThe city’s AQI on Thursday was 204. The AQI for the day after Diwali last year was 96 (satisfactory). However, last year’s ‘good’ air quality can be attributed to the widespread rainfall and the influence of Cyclone Kyarr in the Arabian Sea. The most polluted day after Diwali was in 2017, when the city reported an AQI of 319. Safar’s advisory suggests that when the AQI is ‘very poor’, everyone should reduce heavy exertion and people with heart or lung diseases, older adults and children should avoid longer exposure as it results to a significant increase in respiratory problems. The highest levels of PM10 and PM2.5 are expected between 1am and 4am on the night of November 14-15. The PM 2.5 concentration is expected to be 170 µg/m3 (microgramme per cubic metre) for 50% firecracker emissions and 110 µg/m3 with no firecrackers. The 24-hour safe limit for concentration of PM 2.5 in the air is 60 µg/m3.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/even-50-crackers-will-make-mumbais-air-very-poor-on-november-15/articleshow/79201987.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 13, 2020||India||350 nominees in fray for J&K phase-I council polls||SRINAGAR/JAMMU: Over 350 nominations have been received for 43 seats going to polls in the first phase of the District Development Council (DDC) elections in J&K, voting for which will take place on November 28, officials said on Thursday. A total of 352 candidates have filed their nomination papers, they said. Of the 43 seats, 25 are in the Kashmir Valley and 18 in the Jammu region. In the Kashmir division, 183 nominations has been filed, while in Jammu division, the number stands at 169. For the panchayat by-elections, the official said, 360 candidates have filed the papers for sarpanch seats, while 1,761 nominations were received for panch seats. Most of the nominations were received in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district, where 196 candidates filed their papers for the DDC polls and vacant seats of sarpanch and panch constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/350-nominees-in-fray-for-jk-phase-i-council-polls/articleshow/79202034.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: A drive for Green cracker awareness||BENGALURU: Fire and Emergency Services, home guards, state disaster management and Civil Defence Force personnel took out an awareness rally on green crackers on Thursday, from Vidhana Soudha to National College Grounds, Basavanagudi. At the flag-off by home minister Basavaraj Bommai, seven fire services officials were awarded for rescue operations at the chemical factory godown fire on Tuesday. ‘We will assess situation in Dec and take a call’It’s too early to jump the gun. We’ll see the situation in December and take a call,” said Sudhakar. If the proposal gets the green signal, it’ll be the first time that public celebrations in the central business district will not happen. Every New Year’s Eve, thousands of people converge at the MG Road-Brigade Road junction. Prasad said: “Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru have come down in recent days. We need to look at decreasing positivity and fatality rates. It would be difficult to follow social distancing and monitor mask wearing during celebrations. There is a serious concern of further spread of infection. We’re recommending everyone celebrate New Year’s Eve at home.” Another civic official said: “It’ll be extremely difficult to enforce health protocols such as social distancing and wearing of masks during New Year revelry. That’s why we’ve suggested a ban on public celebrations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-a-drive-for-green-cracker-awareness/articleshow/79202028.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Goa||Congress got coal-handling, double-tracking to Goa: BJP||PANAJI: As the groundswell is going against the ruling dispensation over the Mollem projects, BJP tried to turn the tables on the opposition saying that it was the Congress that had allowed coal-handling in the state and had approved double-tracking projects. BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade on Thursday said BJP is winning “election after election on development issues but it is unfortunate that development is opposed in the state”. Tanavade told TOI that people should put coal on the faces of Congress leaders as these are the same people behind coal-handling. “BJP was not in power when permission for coal handling was given. At that time Congress was in power in the state and at the Centre also,” Tanavade said. Tanavade said that people should accept such projects, but when any project comes to Goa some people oppose it. “This kind of opposition is being instigated by political parties. This should not happen.” He also said that political parties should decide about supporting development work but that it was unfortunate that in Goa political parties stop development. BJP said that when Francisco Sardinha was a member of parliament he had got the approval for double-tracking in the state and at that point the then chief minister Digambar Kamat had congratulated Sardinha in the state assembly. “People who have been congratulated for double-tracking are now the same people who are opposing the project after the government changed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-got-coal-handling-double-tracking-to-state-bjp/articleshow/79200103.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Goa||CM Pramod Sawant betrayed Goans over coal issue: Goencho Avaaz||MARGAO: Goencho Avaaz, one of the organisations leading the anti-coal agitation, on Thursday accused the Goa government of betraying the people of Goa “on its promise to gift the people on Diwali, by stopping coal transportation and the destructive infrastructure works, like double tracking, expansion of national highways, laying of the 400KV transmission line, etc”. Pointing out that chief minister Pramod Sawant, during a meeting with Goencho Avaaz on October 13, had assured that he would not allow coal transportation through Goa nor would he allow the double tracking, Viriato Fernandes, co-convenor of the organisation, told reporters. “Based on this assurance, Goencho Avaaz had requested the chief minister to give a Diwali gift to the children of Goa on November 14 which, incidentally, is also the Children’s Day. If at all the government was serious in scrapping the anti-people destructive projects, the CM could have announced the same in an unambiguous manner and issued a notification to the same, instead of saying that he was ready to rethink.” Accusing the government of “double talk” and “changing of goal post”, Fernandes said that it was a ploy by the government to “just buy time and fool the people of Goa”. He added, “This goes to prove the control and influence that crony capitalists are having over the government of Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-betrayed-goans-over-coal-issue-goencho-avaaz/articleshow/79200136.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Centre’s sincerity on MPT issue doubtful’||MARGAO: Referring to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement that the Union minister for shipping has given verbal assurance that coal handling capacity of Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) would be reduced, Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginald Lourenco has cast doubts over the sincerity of the assurance, given that the Centre had earlier ignored letters written by former chief minister Manohar Parrikar asking that no permission be given to MPT for enhancing the coal berth capacity. In a letter written to Sawant and environment minister Nilesh Cabral, Lourenco pointed out that Parrikar was very clear that the state government led by him “had taken a consistent and clear stand that no expansion be allowed” to M/s South West Port Ltd (SWPL) “for enhancing the cargo handling capacity for the grant of Environmental Clearance (EC) by the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC)” and written to the Centre over the issue on two occasions. Referring to Cabral’s statement that he would write to the Centre, Lourenco said, “If Parrikar’s two letters were not given any weightage whatsoever and literally consigned to the dustbin, I wonder what value your letter would hold on the aforesaid subject.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centres-sincerity-on-mpt-issue-doubtful/articleshow/79200156.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Goa||41k sign anti-Mollem projects’ petition||Panaji: Calling for the cancellation of the clearances given to three infrastructure projects at the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park, netizens have started the ‘Let India Breathe’ petition addressed to the Union minister of environment and forests, Prakash Javadekar and Goa leaders chief minister Pramod Sawant and environment minister Nilesh Cabral. The online petition has received over 41,000 signatures in less than 48 hours. “For every hour that this most recent petition has been live, approximately 850 individuals have signed it, as voices for Mollem and for an adherence to science and law in the state grow louder,” petitioners said. Over the past six months, citizens have raised their voice against the projects through petitions, letters, and protests in the state. Scientists, teachers, artists, writers, architects, lawyers, students and doctors have all written to local and national leaders urging reconsideration of the projects, and lamenting the lack of transparency at every stage of execution. Resistance to the projects has rapidly grown as Goans have questioned the government about the need for such projects and their devastating effects to environment, health, livelihood, and accelerated climate change. November 2 saw more than 5,000 participate in a peaceful, all-night protest at Chandor, where held a candle-light vigil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/41k-sign-anti-mollem-projects-petition/articleshow/79200185.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 13, 2020||Goa||Goa: Governor gives nod for additional borrowing||PANAJI: The state government moved an ordinance to increase the state’s borrowing limit beyond the existing 3% to 5% of the gross state domestic product in view of the revenue crunch faced by states due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari has approved the ordinance. The Centre in May allowed states to borrow up to 5% of the GSDP. “Due to the unprecedented Covid-19 pandemic, the revenue sources of the state have been adversely affected, and in order to augment the state revenue sources, the government of India has allowed additional borrowing subject to carrying out the necessary amendments to the Goa Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act, 2006,” stated the notification moved by the law department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/governor-gives-nod-for-addl-borrowing/articleshow/79200198.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Buses to Tamil Nadu will operate till Monday||BENGALURU: To cater to the festive rush, KSRTC resumed services to Tamil Nadu on Wednesday but only till Monday. The Tamil Nadu government allowed KSRTC to operate its buses — which were suspended since the lockdown — only during the festive season. The transport utility will thus run 150 buses to the neighbouring state as against the 400 it used to operate earlier. Tickets can be booked on www.ksrtc.in or at for KSRTC/franchisee advance reservation counters. Wearing of masks and maintaining social distancing are mandatory. KSETC is operating regular services to other states — Kerala, Maharashtra, Goa, Puducherry, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/buses-to-tamil-nadu-will-operate-till-monday/articleshow/79202060.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Power staffers on strike on Diwali||NAGPUR: Staffers of all three government-run power companies will strike work on Diwali on Saturday over failure of government to pay bonus to them. All the 21 power unions have decided to participate in the strike. Mohan Sharma, a senior power staffer union office-bearer, said the staffers had asked for bonus against their performance in 2019-20 but energy secretary Aseem Gupta refused to give any assurance regarding it. “In 2019-20, MSEDCL staffers had worked hard to collect Rs 82,000 crore revenue. The discom had earned a profit of Rs 150 crore while Mahatransco had earned Rs 130 crore. In spite of this, the state government refused to sanction Rs 120 crore for bonus of one lakh power staffers,” said Sharma. The union leaders have asked all staffers including officers to gather in front of company offices at 8am on Diwali and stage a dharna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/power-staffers-on-strike-on-diwali/articleshow/79197734.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Nagpur||East side exit for railway passengers||NAGPUR: In a big relief, railway passengers can now exit from the east side of the station. Earlier, this facility was restricted to passengers boarding Vidarbha and Nagpur-CSMT Duronto Express only, which departs from platform number 8. The move has been hailed by Braj Bhushan Shukla, a former member of zonal railway users’ consultative committee (ZRUCC). Recently, a five-member delegation led by Shukla had raised the demand with the Central Railway divisional railway manager’s (DRM) office. “Till now, other than the above two trains, passengers were not allowed to exit from the east side of the station. This caused a lot of inconvenience to passengers, especially those living in east and central Nagpur localities. Autorickshaws not only charge heavily as they have to take a long route but passengers also face traffic snarls,” said Shukla, who is also the founder of Rail Yatri Sangh (RYS). Railway officials admit that as Vidarbha and Duronto Express depart from platform 8, passengers were allowed to enter and exit. “The restriction on exit from the east side of the station was due to Covid-19 protocols. After Unlock-4, we were planning to allow exit from Santra Market side,” said railway officials. Shukla said before October 9, when Duronto and Vidarbha Express restarted, passengers were a more harried lot as they had to enter and exit from the west side of the station only. “Now they have been granted some relief,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/east-side-exit-for-rly-passengers/articleshow/79197727.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||Lockdown may worsen diabetes cases: Maharashtra doctors||MUMBAI: The Covid-19 pandemic could have a severe and adverse impact on blood sugar levels among diabetes patients across the country, said doctors ahead of the World Diabetes Day on November 14. Complete coverage: Covid-19 pandemicDuring the lockdown, several patients had either not followed their medical regime well or exercised enough to keep sugar levels in check. “People became sedentary and unmindful of what they ate,” said endocrinologist Dr Shashank Joshi, dean, Indian College of Physicians who is a member of Maharashtra state task force on Covid-19. The effect of Covid-19 on India’s diabetes control was noticeable in IMPACT India campaign’s results announced last week. The campaign found that the HbA1c (an indirect marker for diabetes) graph, which kept reducing from November 2018, started rising as the lockdown began. Live updates: Coronavirus pandemic‘Covid-19 could have long-term diabetes effect’We expect a tsunami of diabetes cases and higher blood sugar levels due to the Covid crisis,” said endocrinologist Dr Shashank Joshi, dean, Indian College of Physicians, who is a member of Maharashtra state task force on Covid-19. Read AlsoHow long before you can get a Covid-19 vaccine?Human trials for the much-talked-about vaccine in development by Oxford University and AstraZeneca have been paused after a participant had an adverse reaction in the UKThe 1,000-day IMPACT India campaign, supported by pharma major Novo Nordisk, aimed at bringing down levels of HbA1c (an indirect diabetes marker) by 1%—from 8.6% in November 2018 to 7.6% in July 2021, thereby sharply reducing the risk of diabetes-related stroke, heart attack and kidney failure. The IMPACT findings at the end of two years showed the HbA1c graph, which kept reducing from 8.6% in November 2018, started rising as the lockdown began. In the July-September quarter, the average HbA1c count for all-India stood at 8.5%. In Mumbai, the HbA1c count, which dropped to 8.1% in April-June 2019, climbed to 8.2% in July-September period. When the pandemic struck in March, doctors noted several critically ill patients had elevated levels of blood sugar levels. “In the first Covid-19 peak in Mumbai in May, many patients brought to hospitals for admission had sugar levels over 400,” said a public hospital doctor. Data from across the world shows diabetes is directly associated with severity and deaths in Covid-19 patients. A doctor said Covid could have a long-term effect on diabetes as some needed more medication and insulin. Watch Covid-19 lockdown may have worsened diabetes cases, say doctors||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lockdown-may-worsen-diabetes-cases-maharashtra-doctors/articleshow/79202085.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||‘40% festive bonus of Tata Steel staff will reach market’||Jamshedpur: Festive shoppers in the Steel City have started loosening their purse strings for Dhanteras and Diwali bringing cheers to traders who have been looking for a turnaround in their businesses since the lockdown began in March. Many of the shoppers, who are employees of Tata Steel, were seen buying festive items from segments ranging from automobile, gold, electronic appliances and utensils among others on Thursday and some said they will do so on Friday. Sunil Gupta, who owns an electronic appliance shop at Kamani Centre in Bistupur said, "A major chunk of people here are employees of Tata Steel and they received Rs 250 crore annual bonus during Durga Puja. However, a small fraction of their bonus money was spent as the Puja was a low-key affair. They have saved it for Dhanteras and Diwali." Expecting 40% of the bonus amount to reach the market, the traders said their business so far is encouraging. Shailesh Tiwary, an HDFC car loan department official, said, “Going by the bookings, we are expecting sales of over 300 cars by Diwali.” He further said before the pandemic, car showrooms sold 400 plus units during Dhanteras and Diwali. "This time, many customers have also cancelled their bookings as the manufacturers could not provide the models and choice of the customers on time as their factories were hit Covid-19," he added. Meanwhile, the city's leading electronic appliance shop, National Electronics, said items like LED TVs, refrigerators and ACs are in high demand like every year. Kitchen appliances and utensils are also in very good demand. Raja Singh, the owner of the shop, said, "Till Diwali day, people book their items and we deliver the products at their doorstep at the earliest." Sale of mobile phones has also seen a jump on Dhanteras. "The online classes conducted by schools and colleges triggered the high demand for smartphones," said Cosmic mobile phone shop owner Sunny Singh. Commenting on the improved business, the Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) said with the trend of online shopping increasing, the retail sale is gradually on the downside but after a lull since March, the traders have seen a spike in their retail sales because of Dhanteras. CAIT functionary Suresh Sonthalia said, "Traders, who suffered losses in the past several months, will be compensated by the improved business." Steel utensils shopkeeper Santosh Agarwal said Dhanteras has begun from Thursday evening and will continue till Friday. "People will be buying on both the days," he said. Jamshedpur Chamber of Commerce and Industry (JCCI) functionary Alok Chaudhary said the city will see Rs 130 crore plus transactions during the ongoing festive season this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/40-festive-bonus-of-tata-steel-staff-will-reach-market/articleshow/79198304.cms||B Sridhar
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip’s convoy attacked in Alipurduar, BJP hits streets||Alipurduar/Kolkata: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh’s convoy was shown black flags and pelted with stones in Alipurduar on Thursday, sparking protests in Kolkata and the districts. Ghosh had set out on a motorbike at 11am for a BJP rally at Jaigaon’s Khoklabari — after his chai baithak programme at Madarihat — when police stopped the convoy of 150-odd motorbikes and some cars at Dalsinghpara in Kalchini block. The convoy reversed its route and while passing by Mangalbari was shown black flags by people on the roadside who also raised “go back” slogans. A few from the crowd threw stones at the convoy, breaking windshields of three cars, one belonging to BJP’s Kalchini MLA Wilson Champramari. Police brought the situation under control. The Bengal BJP president saw the hand of Trinamool and its “friends” in the attack. “I have come under attack several times in the past. BJP is gaining strength in the state; Trinamool and their friends are getting desperate as they can sense defeat in the upcoming assembly polls. Trinamool and police perpetrated the attack. Such tactics won’t work, people are with us,” Ghosh said. Locals suspect Gorkha Janmukti Morcha (Bimal Gurung) supporters, among others, were part of the crowd that showed black flags. GJM’s Man Dosh Lama denied the allegation. BJP seniors targeted Trinamool, citing the attack on Ghosh as a glaring instance of Bengal’s “appalling law and order”. BJP national secretary Arvind Menon tweeted: “From a booth level worker to state president, each and every BJP worker is being targeted by TMC goons.” BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy said: “People of the state will give a befitting reply to the anarchic state government and BJP will fight till the end.” Taking the cue, BJP Yuva Morcha, led by Bishnupur MP Soumitra Khan, took out a protest rally from the Kolkata party office and demonstrated at Central Avenue, where the chief minister’s effigy was burnt. Party supporters in Bolpur, Cooch Behar, Balurghat, Howrah, Baruipur and Murshidabad hit the streets, demanding arrest of the culprits. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar expressed concern over continuing attacks on the opposition despite his repeated messages to the administration. Trinamool denied a hand in the attack. Party district leader Sourav Chakraborty instead blamed BJP for trying to foment trouble in north Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilips-convoy-attacked-in-alipurduar-bjp-hits-streets/articleshow/79200635.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Talks on after Becharam resigns as MLA||Singur: Trinamool Congress’s Haripal MLA and convener of Krishi Jami Raksha Committee during the Singur land stir in 2006, Becharam Manna, on Thursday put in his papers as MLA to West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee. Trinamool state president Subrata Bakshi said: “Becharam Manna had come to the party office after putting in his papers in the Assembly. The matter will be sorted out.” It was fine till Sunday when TMC announced the new district committee from Chinsurah in which Becharam loyalist Gobindo Dhara was named the new Singur block president. The decision didn’t go down well with Singur MLA Rabindranath Bhattacharya, who threatened to explore political options. On Wednesday, Manna got a call from chief minister Mamata Banerjee, asking him to call off the Bijoya Sammilani. Sources said the CM asked Manna to work with Mahadeb Das, one of the key organizers in the Singur stir, as president instead of Dhara. The other directive was to work with Samiran Mitra as Trinamool Haripal block president instead of Debashis Pathak. Manna couldn’t swallow either.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/talks-on-after-becharam-resigns-as-mla/articleshow/79200669.cms||Falguni Banerjee
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cellphones return to hospital Covid wards||KOLKATA: From banning the use of cellphones at Covid wards to encouraging patients to call up home, city hospitals have made a complete turnaround in ward protocol in a span of six months. This is not only helping patients stay in a better frame of mind and hastening recovery, but also keeping relatives — many of whom are quarantined at home — informed about their treatment, say hospital officials. The policy reversal is true even of government hospitals, which were the first to impose a cellphone ban in their Covid units in April. The decision was soon implemented by most private health facilities. “We are allowing our Covid patients at the wards to use phones. While it has been difficult to restrict its use, keeping in touch with family and friends certainly helps. It’s extremely gloomy inside Covid wards and there’s minimum interaction even with the healthcare staff, which can be psychologically taxing,” said a senior medic at the Institute of Post-Graduate Medical Education & Research. While phones are now allowed at the Covid wards of AMRI Hospitals, patients still can’t use them at ICUs. The hospital is, in fact, using robots to help those without a phone to call up their kin. “We had been using these robots as a long-distance tool to help doctors collect information from patients without having to venture close to them. These are controlled by the nurses. Now, these are also being used to let patients communicate with their families. It serves the dual purpose of avoiding the risk of transmission through a phone and helps patients stay in touch with their families,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. He added that the hospital also uses tablets to help patients make video calls. At Peerless Hospital, too, Covid patients in the ward can use their phones to stay in touch. This has helped to keep them in a better mental state, said CEO Sudipta Mitra. “It can be stressful inside the Covid ward where everyone is in PPE and you rarely get to see a human face, leave alone communicate. Previously, use of phone was restricted due to fear of transmission but now we have changed the policy. The more they speak to their loved ones the better. It is helping recovery,” Mitra said adding that they would have liked even ICU patients to communicate with family members “but that could be difficult due to the critical condition of some patients”. At RN Tagore International Insitute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), Covid patients are allowed to keep their mobile phones with them but the hospital ensures “strict practices” on using them. “While this has helped in keeping the families comfortable when they aren’t able to physically meet the patients, the latter, too, are feeling connected. We only ensure that proper phone etiquette is maintained and nobody speaks loudly in the wards. Clicking pictures and shooting videos is also prohibited to ensure safety and privacy of other patients in the ward. We do not allow mobile phones in the ICU,” said zonal director R Venkatesh. Woodlands Hospital, too has moved away from its earlier rule that barred phones at the Covid wards. “It helps communication and improves patients’ experience,” said CEO Rupali Basu. There is, however, a flip side to keeping patients connected with their families. A private hospital representative said the number of complaints at their Covid ward has gone up since phones were allowed. “Patients are calling up their kin and complaining about minor things like the water jug being too small and the curtains being unclean. Since we are short of staff, it’s not possible to address every complaint,” said a hospital representative. According to Medica Superspecialty Hospital chairperson Alok Roy, restricted use of phones would have been the best option. “Intially, we were not sure if phones would be safe. But with time, all have realized that it’s best to let patients stay connected so that they are comfortable. But those who have monitors attached are not allowed to use phones,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cellphones-return-to-hosp-covid-wards/articleshow/79201025.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||Bokaro traders expect Rs 15 crore worth business||BOKARO: Markets in Bokaro remained abuzz with shoppers on Dhanteras on Thursday and traders hope to do Rs 15 crore worth business on the occasion. Among the sectors which are doing brisk business, automobile is on the top. Gopal Lodha, the owner of Hindustan Auto Agency, said, "Our business today was good. Majority of customers had made advance bookings and we delivered about 100 cars. Another 400 cars will be delivered on Friday. The car sale this year was good than last year.” The high demand for cars was also pushed by the Covid-19 pandemic as people wanted to use private vehicles and avoid public transport to keep the virus at bay. Customers also flocked at jewellery shops which are offering lucrative discounts and add-ons. So far, gold merchants in different areas of the district are believed to have done business worth Rs 7 crore. Suresh Kumar of Trimurti Jewellers said, "Gold sales was almost the same as last year as many preferred ornaments made of the yellow metal, platinum and diamond on Dhanteras. Moreover, gold and silver coins were also in huge demand." Electronic and electrical goods also see a sharp rise in demand. People were seen flocking to mobile phone showrooms, shops selling TVs, geysers, washing machine and other household items. Manoj Kumar, a resident of Sector-2, said, “I have purchased a mobile handset on this auspicious day and I am paying it through easy EMIs." Meanwhile, the police have made elaborate security arrangements in the market areas to prevent any unwanted incidents and to ensure the Covid rules are followed. DSP (city) Gyan Ranjan said, "Additional police forces were deployed in the market areas apart from increasing the patrolling."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-traders-expect-rs-15cr-worth-business/articleshow/79198322.cms||Divy Khare
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Dhanteras pushes sales graph north||RANCHI: Marketplaces in the state's capital city were teeming with customers on Dhanteras, leading to a rise in the sale of several products ranging from automobiles to jewellery and from utensils to electrical appliances. Many traders reported higher sales than their expectations given the prevailing Covid-19 situation. The marriage season, which will follow Dhanteras and Diwali, is also likely to boost their business. The shopkeepers have now stocked up a wide range of products ranging from electronic devices to household items in anticipation of high demand. Sumit Jain, who is in the automobile sector, said the sales were good ever since the unlock process began and people opted for own vehicles to ensure the social distancing norms. He added, “Dhanteras has enhanced the market by 30% compared to the previous month, but sales are less than last year. Customers are generally opting for pre-booking to avoid last-moment hiccups.” Arya Mayank, a jeweller, said, “We have products to suit the budget of every section of society. Initially, there was a slight confusion among people regarding the timing and date of Dhanteras. But the auspicious occasion has started from 5 pm on Thursday and we are expecting a large turnout of people till Friday." Similarly, sale of decorative lights head of Diwali has increased even though many people are also opting for diyas. Jharkhand Chambers of Commerce and Industries president Kunal Ajmani said the market needed to revive during the festive season. “There are several sectors which would have suffered big setbacks if they had a bad business during this season,” he added. Many traders also said with weddings postponed from the last summer because of Covid-19, the marriage season during November and December is going to witness a significant increase of brides and grooms tying the knot, which in turn will lead to increased sales across all sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/dhanteras-pushes-sales-graph-north/articleshow/79198290.cms||Sanjay Sahay
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Kishor calls on Sisir at his home, dials son Suvendu||Kanthi/Ghatal: Election strategist Prashant Kishor visited Trinamool Purba Midnapore chairman Sisir Adhikari’s Hatabari residence in Kanthi on Thursday in a bid to broker peace with his rebel son Suvendu while the latter was touring Paschim Midnapore’s Ghatal and Hooghly’s Mahanad. The duo had talks for over two hours. Meanwhile, Kishor also spoke with Suvendu over the phone, Trinamool Congress sources said. The development comes a week ahead of two scheduled rallies in Purba Midnapore’s Ramnagar on November 19, one to be addressed by Suvendu and the other by TMC’s Ramnangar MLA Akhil Giri. Giri claimed he was not aware of Kishor’s visit. “I came to know about it from the media. I can only say that it happened with the consent of the highest Trinamool leadership,” he said. “It is one thing to fight on a party banner. But it is not the same to fight elections without the party symbol. People are coming to rallies. They are judging leaders because they have experience too,” he added. Earlier in the day at the Ghatal Bijoya Sammilani gathering, Suvendu talked about his political past, fondly recollecting how he worked for the “party” and carried out directives of his leader Mamata Banerjee without naming her. “My leader led the second freedom struggle in 2011. I was the Tamluk MP then. My party gave me the responsibility in Ghatal, Chandrakona and Kharagpur,” he said, sending out signals that he hasn’t mentally dissociated from Trinamool. Suvendu recounted his political past to emphasise how he was associated with people in Paschim Midnapore. “I have been coming to this place since my student days. I had been to Ghatal as a councillor in 1995 and also as a member of the district planning committee. Things were not like they are today. Do you all have blessings for this village boy?” he asked. The defiance showed up on his face when the rebel leader remembered the illustrious son of Midnapore Deshpran Birendra Sasmal who “didn’t bow down to the British”. The crowd was in for a surprise when Suvendu referred to a popular Bengali saying etched on the back of trucks — ‘dekhbi ar jolbi, luchir moto fulbi’. If the Bengali saying has any connection with neighbour’s envy, owner’s pride-type of a logo, he didn’t elaborate The Trinamool-run Malda zilla parishad sabhadhipati has come under the party’s scanner. Malda Trinamool leaders have reason to believe that sabhadhipati Gour Mandal had been to Digha along with at least eight zilla parishad members on November 10 when Suvendu was holding a meeting in Nandigram. Mandal has denied the charge. Trinamool MP Mousam Noor said: “Party members breaking party discipline won’t be spared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kishor-calls-on-sisir-at-his-home-dials-son-suvendu/articleshow/79200668.cms||Suman Mandal
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Civic volunteers can’t deal with troubled minors: Cal HC||Kolkata: Observing that it would be a sad day for the judiciary if unnatural custodial deaths went unnoticed and perpetrators were not dealt with with an iron hand, the Calcutta High Court on Thursday banned deploying civic volunteers to deal with minors in conflict with law in West Bengal and directed that such cases be only dealt with by specialised officers. The court asked the state’s home secretary to present by November 25 a report on whether all police stations in Bengal had a child-friendly corner and CCTV coverage. It also sought a status report on Special Juvenile Police Units (SJPU) and designated child welfare officers state-wide. The HC, which prima facie found lapses in the report the Birbhum police superintendent filed on the October 29 Mallarpur custodial death case, sought the ongoing judicial inquiry report and asked the SP to specifically inform it of the action taken against negligent officers. In an eight-page order, a division bench of justices Harish Tandon and Soumen Sen said: “Custodial death is one of the worst crimes in a civilised society governed by the rule of law. The incident shocked the conscience of every responsible citizen more particularly the irresponsible behaviour and lack of sensitivity of the police officers who have the solemn responsibility to protect the rights of a citizen, more particularly the right recognized and guaranteed for the minors in conflict with law.” “It is an ardent duty of the court to deal with such cases in a realistic manner and with sensitivity in order to uphold the confidence of a common citizen reposed upon the judiciary. It will be a sad day for judiciary if such unnatural custodial deaths are unnoticed and the perpetrators are not dealt with the iron hands,” it added. The child, the HC said, ought to have been attended to in the police station, and it belied logic that he could have got access to a wire of an audio-system — kept in the police station for Covid awareness announcements — and hanged himself from a toilet’s shower pipe. “If we assume that what is stated to be correct, then it is a serious lapse and a culpable negligence,” the court said. The HC questioned the SP’s report for being silent on non-functional CCTVs in the police station and why the child was detained there for over six hours. “On the basis of the affidavit filed before us by the superintendent of police, Birbhum, a prima facie culpable negligence if not anything further is clearly attributable to the cause of death of the child,” the HC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-volunteers-cant-deal-with-troubled-minors-cal-hc/articleshow/79200624.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||No grand celebrations on Statehood Day this year||Ranchi: All the districts have been instructed to not host any major programme on the occasion of Statehood Day on November 15 in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Every year, Statehood Day is celebrated on a grand scale in Ranchi and elsewhere in the state with a series of programmes, ranging from sporting activities to cultural and entertainment events to mark the anniversary of the creation of a separate state of Jharkhand. A statement on the order was issued by the state cabinet and the coordination department. Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan told TOI: “On Statehood Day, chief minister Hemant Soren and other dignitaries will pay floral tributes to the statues of Bhagwan Birsa Munda in Kokar and Birsa Chowk. Major government buildings will also be decorated with lights to celebrate the occasion. However, no other programme will be organized.” An official with the state information and public relations department (IPRD) said: “We will not host any big programme on Statehood Day in the interest of public health.” State finance minister Rameshwar Oraon, who is recuperating from Covid-19 at a city hospital, said that the state government has tried to provide Statehood Day gift to tribals by passing a resolution in favour of Sarna Adivasi Code in the assembly. “The CM had promised that a resolution demanding a separate Sarna Code in the census would be passed before the Statehood Day. On Wednesday, it was finally passed,” said Oraon, who is also the state Congress president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-grand-celebrations-on-statehood-day-this-year/articleshow/79198428.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Look into migrants’ no-job claim: Calcutta HC to govts||Kolkata: Calcutta High Court on Thursday asked the Union and Bengal governments to look into claims by migrant workers, who returned to Malda during the nationwide lockdown, that they had been left out of the 125-day livelihood scheme — ‘Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan’ — rolled out by the Centre on June 20. The petitioners claimed that over 2 lakh migrants had returned to Malda over the 25,000 cut-off before the March 30 deadline to be eligible for this scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/look-into-migrants-no-job-claim-calcutta-hc-to-govts/articleshow/79200699.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Ranchi||Oxygen outage at Rims Covid ward ‘kills’ patient||RANCHI: The oxygen supply at the Covid-19 ward of the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) got disrupted on Tuesday night, putting at risk the lives of some 20 patients and reportedly killing one. The hospital authorities, however, have claimed that no patient died owing to the supply disruption. According to hospital sources, oxygen supply at the New Trauma Centre of Rims stopped abruptly around 11pm on Tuesday after the main oxygen cylinder ran dry. The Covid-19 ICU is located on the third floor of the building. The in-charge of the Trauma Centre, Dr Pradeep Bhattacharya, arranged 10 oxygen cylinders from the paying ward of the hospital on an emergency basis to ensure supply of oxygen at the Covid ward. Hospital authorities said that there were around 20 critical patients at the Covid-19 ward and they require high-flow oxygen support, and if the supply of oxygen gets disrupted for more than 15 minutes then it can prove fatal. “A major incident was averted owing to Dr Bhattacharya’s presence of mind. The situation could have gone out of control had he not ensured alternative arrangements within such a short span of time,” said a junior doctor who was on duty at the ICU. Meanwhile, the Rims administration blamed the supply agency for the supply disruption. “The agency was asked to supply a minimum of 50 oxygen cylinders daily, but it did not do that on Tuesday. We are investigating the matter and those responsible for the incident would be pulled up,” Dr Vivek Kashyap, the medical superintendent of Rims, said. Kashyap also refuted the allegations made by the kin of a deceased patient and said that the patient concerned did not die due to lack of oxygen supply. A senior doctor at the Trauma Centre seconded Kashyap and said that the patient was critical and he passed away due to viral infection and other co-morbidities. The kin of another patient said they were scared after Tuesday’s incident. “My brother-in-law is on high-flow oxygen support and his oxygen levels dipped alarmingly after supply stopped on Tuesday. By god’s grace he is currently stable,” Mahfuz Alam of Koderma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/oxygen-outage-at-rims-covid-ward-kills-patient/articleshow/79198273.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 13, 2020||---||Made no claim to CM’s post, NDA will decide, says Nitish||PATNA: JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar said on Thursday that NDA would be forming the next government in Bihar as people have given their mandate to the four-party alliance while adding that he had not made any claim to the chief minister’s post. While interacting with mediapersons here after his meeting with the newly-elected MLAs of his party, when asked who will be named the CM, Nitish said: “I have made no claim, the decision will be taken by the NDA.” Complete coverage: Bihar assembly electionsHowever, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had endorsed a fresh term for Nitish when he said at BJP headquarters in Delhi on Wednesday: “We shall… fulfil promises made to the people of Bihar under the leadership of Nitishji.” While it is widely speculated in BJP and JD-U circles that the swearing-in could take place on November 17, a day after Bhai Duj, the possibility of the ceremony taking place after the Chhath Puja is also not ruled out. Read AlsoYou got it wrong, Nitish tells scribes when asked about 'last poll' remarkBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Thursday sought to clarify his recent "aakhiri chunaav" (last poll) remark which had triggered intense speculations, and claimed that it was an utterance made by him whenever he wrapped up an election campaign, but it was "misunderstood" this time.In his first interaction with mediapersons after NDA’s win in the assembly polls, Nitish said: “Decision on the date of swearing-in will be taken after an informal meeting with NDA partners tomorrow (Friday). It is not decided yet when the oath ceremony will take place, whether after Diwali or Chhath puja.” While Diwali falls on November 14 this year, the four-day Chhath Puja in Bihar will conclude on November 21. In 2015, Nitish had taken CM’s oath on November 20. Bihar BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel said the parliamentary board of BJP alone is empowered to take decisions on crucial matters like government formation. Meanwhile, responding to a query on the role of the LJP in the election, Nitish said BJP would decide whether to retain LJP in NDA or not. Watch Made no claim to CM’s post, NDA will decide: Nitish Kumar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/made-no-claim-to-cms-post-nda-will-decide-says-nitish/articleshow/79202094.cms||Madan Kumar
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Gifts this Deepavali are about designer masks and sanitisers||BENGALURU: This Deepavali, Bengalureans are gifting each other thoughtful presents like face masks and sanitisers along with the usual sweets and savouries. Divith R, a techie, says he had already planned to gift everyone in his team a face mask along with the usual box of sweets. “When we meet friends and family during festivals, it is not just to celebrate but to show that we care about them. What better way to show that we care than gifting them something they can use and stay safe!” he says. Homemaker Shruti Balaji said this Deepavali is a unique one and considering that masks have become an important part of our lifestyle, she has ordered for them in bulk to gift her family. “Not only will I be reminding them to stay safe, but every time they use the mask, they will think about me. I am happy about it,” she says. Shruti has also added spray sanitisers to the gift packs along with her designer masks that come with embroidery and Ikkat prints. “I prefer spray sanitisers over the gel-based ones. I know that my friends will love them,” she says. Sending greetings remotelySome Bengalureans, who are still wary of meeting people due to the virus scare, are using Dunzo to send their gifts. Renuka, a business analyst, says the thought of the virus is worrying and she is taking baby steps to feel confident while being cautious. “Until recently, I would not even order food from outside, but have slowly started now. That’s given me the confidence to parcel gifts to my friends, who live in the city, via Dunzo. We may meet next month, but this Deepavali, I’ll send my love remotely,” she chuckles. Renuka’s gift boxes include homemade laddoos, a colourful bottle of sanitiser from a Japanese store and a handwritten note. Social media platforms are abuzz with videos of people donning masks that are lined with lights, controlled by a small switch. While denizens lauded the innovative face covers, some commented in jest, wanting to know if they are ‘shock-free’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-gifts-this-deepavali-are-about-designer-masks-and-sanitisers/articleshow/79202086.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 13, 2020||India||India gives food aid to China’s def partner Djibouti||NEW DELHI: India is currently delivering food aid to Djibouti, an important state in the Horn of Africa and host to the only offshore Chinese naval base in the region. In a statement, MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said that India had decided to provide “humanitarian aid” in the form of food to Sudan, South Sudan, Djibouti and Eritrea. He said INS Airavat left Mumbai on October 24 on a visit to the region with aid comprising wheat flour, rice and sugar. “In Djibouti, the ship has delivered 50 tonnes of food and will depart from there today. Next, it will reach Mombasa (Kenya) on November 20 to deliver 70 tonnes of food aid meant for South Sudan,” Srivastava added. Earlier, the ship delivered 100 tonnes of food aid after reaching Port Sudan on November 2. Thereafter, it reached Massawa Port in Eritrea on November 6 and delivered 50 tonnes of food aid meant for that country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-gives-food-aid-to-chinas-def-partner-djibouti/articleshow/79202044.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Kolkata||Constable assaulted in Lansdowne parking row||KOLKATA: A constable from Lalbazar, who was drawing parking lines on road, was allegedly assaulted by a local tough in the wee hours of Wednesday. The incident was reported from the Paddapukur Road-Sarat Bose Road Crossing around 1.30am. A case has been registered with the Ballygunge police station. While the cops alleged that the accused had picked up a fight as he was drunk and wanted to throw his weight before a cop, locals said the accused became angry after suspecting that the constable’s action was aimed at “extorting money”. The accused, Tinku Singh (28), was later arrested by the police for deterring a public servant from carrying out his duty. The case was recorded on the basis of a letter of complaint by complainant Maniraj Ghosh (34) from the traffic wing at Lalbazar headquarters. “The accused used criminal force upon the complainant and deterred him from discharging his duty while the complainant was drawing white line — marking on Paddapukur Road near Paddapukur Road and Sarat Bose Road crossing. During investigation the FIR-named accused person was arrested,” the FIR stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/constable-assaulted-in-lansdowne-parking-row/articleshow/79199291.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt can reserve 80% ICU beds in 33 private hospitals: HC||NEW DELHI: Faced with a severe shortage of hospital beds as the city bears the brunt of a third Covid-19 wave, the AAP government got a breather from the Delhi high court on Thursday after being allowed to temporarily reserve 80% of ICU beds for coronavirus patients in 33 private hospitals. "We are of the opinion that in view of the present situation in Delhi where cases of Covid-19 infection are spiralling daily... the interim order ought to be vacated," a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad observed, vacating the stay imposed by a single-judge bench on September 22. However, the HC questioned why the government was "doing everything under the sun to 'unlock' things" at a time when cases are spiking. Court: There has been a sea change in ground realityThe government must keep a finger on the pulse of the city to be able to deal with the situation effectively,” the bench cautioned. While vacating the stay, the court pointed out that “given the fact that there has been a sea change in the ground reality when the order was issued by Delhi government, a time when the number of Covid-19 infections in Delhi was hovering around 3,000 to 4,000 patients per day, the said figure has more than doubled as on date, and it was expected of Delhi government to have kept abreast of the situation and monitor the same closely.” However, hte bench also stressed that “no person suffering from a health emergency should be made to run from pillar to post if there is an ICU bed available in a particular hospital”, and asked the state government if nodal officers are deputed in each district where these 33 private hospitals are situated for being in constant touch with the hospital authorities to streamline availability of beds to patients. It underlined that a blanket order passed three months ago to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid-19 patients may not be in the best interest of other patients in need of critical care and support. However, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain assured the court that 33 nodal officers have been deputed to coordinate with these hospitals, to which the bench replied that the nodal officers should be empowered to relax the 80% rule depending on the need for ICU beds by non-Covid patients. It also wondered why the state government chose these 33 private hospitals and not the remaining 82. All need to chip in during a health emergency, the court stressed. It listed the matter again before the single-judge bench for November 26, making it clear till then the reservation will continue. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing the association of which the 33 hospitals are members, opposed the government’s appeal saying if there is a compulsion of reserving 80% ICU beds, the hospitals will have to keep beds vacant in the absence of a Covid-19 patient, jeopardising the life of other non-Covid patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-can-reserve-80-icu-beds-in-33-private-hospitals-hc/articleshow/79202139.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 13, 2020||World||Pakistan not sincere about bringing 26/11 terror accused to justice, says India||NEW DELHI: India again slammed Islamabad on Thursday for not including the names of key Mumbai attacks conspirators in Pakistan Federal Investigative Agency’s (FIA) updated list on most wanted terrorists, saying Pakistan was yet to show any sincerity in bringing the accused to justice. While the list includes a select few members of Pakistan based UN designation terror group LeT, including the crew members of the boats used to execute 26/11, it glaringly omits the mastermind and key conspirators of the terror attack, said the government in a statement. “It’s a matter of serious concern that, despite its own acknowledgement as well as the availability of all necessary evidence, Pakistan is yet to deliver justice to the families of 166 victims, even as we near the 12th anniversary of the attacks,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. There has been no progress in the Mumbai trial in Pakistan despite India offering to host a judicial commission from Pakistan to examine witnesses in Mumbai. As first reported by TOI last month, India has also asked Pakistan to book Pakistan-American Mumbai plotter David Headley for his role. JuD chief Hafiz Saeed has also not faced any action for his role in the attacks. “It’s a fact that the 26/11 terror attack was planned, executed and launched from Pakistan’s territory. The list makes it clear that Pakistan possesses all the necessary information and evidence on the conspirators and facilitators of the Mumbai terror attack based in Pakistan,” added the official. The spokesperson recalled that India has repeatedly asked Pakistan to give up its “obfuscation and dilatory tactics” in discharging its international obligations in the Mumbai terror attacks trial. “Several other countries have also called upon Pakistan to expeditiously bring the perpetrators of the dastardly terror attacks to justice,” he said. On reports of minorities being killed in Pakistan, the government said it was unfortunately a sad reflection of the state of minorities in the country. “Over a period of time, we have seen the space for people from the minority community to practise their religion shrink continuously. Besides, their condition remains deplorable. We have been consistently raising the issue of the safety, security and well-being of minority communities with the Government of Pakistan,” said the spokesperson. An 82-year-old Ahmadi man was believed to have been shot and killed by some gunmen, apparently because of his faith, in Peshawar. The remark was in response to a question on the killing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-not-sincere-about-bringing-26/11-terror-accused-to-justice-says-india/articleshow/79202142.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||Pakistan not sincere about bringing 26/11 terror accused to justice, says India||NEW DELHI: India again slammed Islamabad on Thursday for not including the names of key Mumbai attacks conspirators in Pakistan Federal Investigative Agency’s (FIA) updated list on most wanted terrorists, saying Pakistan was yet to show any sincerity in bringing the accused to justice. While the list includes a select few members of Pakistan based UN designation terror group LeT, including the crew members of the boats used to execute 26/11, it glaringly omits the mastermind and key conspirators of the terror attack, said the government in a statement. “It’s a matter of serious concern that, despite its own acknowledgement as well as the availability of all necessary evidence, Pakistan is yet to deliver justice to the families of 166 victims, even as we near the 12th anniversary of the attacks,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. There has been no progress in the Mumbai trial in Pakistan despite India offering to host a judicial commission from Pakistan to examine witnesses in Mumbai. As first reported by TOI last month, India has also asked Pakistan to book Pakistan-American Mumbai plotter David Headley for his role. JuD chief Hafiz Saeed has also not faced any action for his role in the attacks. “It’s a fact that the 26/11 terror attack was planned, executed and launched from Pakistan’s territory. The list makes it clear that Pakistan possesses all the necessary information and evidence on the conspirators and facilitators of the Mumbai terror attack based in Pakistan,” added the official. The spokesperson recalled that India has repeatedly asked Pakistan to give up its “obfuscation and dilatory tactics” in discharging its international obligations in the Mumbai terror attacks trial. “Several other countries have also called upon Pakistan to expeditiously bring the perpetrators of the dastardly terror attacks to justice,” he said. On reports of minorities being killed in Pakistan, the government said it was unfortunately a sad reflection of the state of minorities in the country. “Over a period of time, we have seen the space for people from the minority community to practise their religion shrink continuously. Besides, their condition remains deplorable. We have been consistently raising the issue of the safety, security and well-being of minority communities with the Government of Pakistan,” said the spokesperson. An 82-year-old Ahmadi man was believed to have been shot and killed by some gunmen, apparently because of his faith, in Peshawar. The remark was in response to a question on the killing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pakistan-not-sincere-about-bringing-26/11-terror-accused-to-justice-says-india/articleshow/79202141.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||Didn’t join RCEP as it doesn’t address concerns: MEA||NEW DELHI: As 15 countries prepare to sign the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) on Sunday, the world’s largest free trade bloc, India on Thursday said that it is committed to “deepening our trade relations with Asean”. MEA’s secretary (east) Riva Ganguly Das said, “Our position is known. As far as India is concerned, we did not join RCEP as it does not address our outstanding issues and concerns.” In a statement, Malaysia’s international trade and industry minister Mohamed Azmin Ali announced that the 15 nations “have concluded negotiations and will sign the RCEP agreement this Sunday”. According to a news report, membership to the group would not be open for a while, with the exception of India which could join at its will. India has been a participant in the RCEP negotiations since 2013, but in November 2019, the Modi government pulled out of the last round. India’s decision was a tough call and deliberated at the highest levels of the government. India feared the agreement would become a free trade deal with China through the back door, even through other countries, which is one of the reasons New Delhi is currently reviewing a number of Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/didnt-join-rcep-as-it-doesnt-address-concerns-mea/articleshow/79202145.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt issues rules for hospitals to prepare for a 2nd Covid wave||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra public health department has issued a detailed set of guidelines, including a formula to deduce number of Covid beds to be kept operational, in anticipation of a second wave of infections. Based on positivity rate and the existing Covid graph, the state said districts should keep 20-60% of their Covid beds operational. The circular issued on Wednesday says districts with a positivity rate of less than 7% should keep a minimum 5-7 dedicated Covid hospitals running, which would translate into 20% of total Covid beds. Districts with a positivity rate of more than 7% and upto 10% should keep at least 40% Covid beds available by reserving government medical colleges and one hospital each in a taluka. For districts with a positivity rate of 11-15%, upto 60% Covid beds are to be operational. And in those with a positivity rate of 16-20%, authorities have been asked to activate all multispecialty hospitals, besides keeping upto 60% beds functional in Covid centres. Describing these as broad guidelines, Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said districts could make their own arrangements depending on daily trends. “Given that numbers are declining every day, many private hospitals have begun to approach collectors to convert Covid hospital into non-Covid hospitals. Hence, we have given this formula so districts can continue minimum bed allocations in case we see a spurt,” he said. The state anticipates a surge either post-Diwali or sometime in January. The state has also asked districts to ensure that 50% of medicine stocks required when cases were at their highest are kept available along with buffer stock for an additional 15 days at the least. Districts have also been asked to ensure that oxygen requirement and supply should be monitored closely. Oxygen requirement of private hospitals too should be taken into account if they are treating Covid patients, say the guidelines. And contact numbers for ambulances are to be available to the public. A senior FDA official said oxygen requirement has dropped drastically since September-end. “Also, most medical colleges have installed liquid oxygen tanks in their premises,” he said. The state has also asked local administrations to ensure that all those who have reported co-morbidities during door-to-door surveys be monitored. The state had found over 23lakh people out of 11.92crore surveyed living with diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, cancer, among other ailments. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is prepared for a second wave. He, however, urged compliance with Covid protocols to ensure the spike in cases is minimal. "We have seen 25,000 cases in a day during the spike in the state. We are prepared to handle 10-20% more cases if required,” said Tope. He added that with unlocking, people are stepping out for work but they are following masking and social distancing norms. He said there is little chance that the state will see a second wave, but due to the dip in temperatures, it is necessary to be alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-issues-rules-for-hospitals-to-prepare-for-a-2nd-covid-wave/articleshow/79202150.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 13, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra govt issues rules for hospitals to prepare for a 2nd Covid wave||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra public health department has issued a detailed set of guidelines, including a formula to deduce number of Covid beds to be kept operational, in anticipation of a second wave of infections. Based on positivity rate and the existing Covid graph, the state said districts should keep 20-60% of their Covid beds operational. The circular issued on Wednesday says districts with a positivity rate of less than 7% should keep a minimum 5-7 dedicated Covid hospitals running, which would translate into 20% of total Covid beds. Districts with a positivity rate of more than 7% and upto 10% should keep at least 40% Covid beds available by reserving government medical colleges and one hospital each in a taluka. For districts with a positivity rate of 11-15%, upto 60% Covid beds are to be operational. And in those with a positivity rate of 16-20%, authorities have been asked to activate all multispecialty hospitals, besides keeping upto 60% beds functional in Covid centres. Describing these as broad guidelines, Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said districts could make their own arrangements depending on daily trends. “Given that numbers are declining every day, many private hospitals have begun to approach collectors to convert Covid hospital into non-Covid hospitals. Hence, we have given this formula so districts can continue minimum bed allocations in case we see a spurt,” he said. The state anticipates a surge either post-Diwali or sometime in January. The state has also asked districts to ensure that 50% of medicine stocks required when cases were at their highest are kept available along with buffer stock for an additional 15 days at the least. Districts have also been asked to ensure that oxygen requirement and supply should be monitored closely. Oxygen requirement of private hospitals too should be taken into account if they are treating Covid patients, say the guidelines. And contact numbers for ambulances are to be available to the public. A senior FDA official said oxygen requirement has dropped drastically since September-end. “Also, most medical colleges have installed liquid oxygen tanks in their premises,” he said. The state has also asked local administrations to ensure that all those who have reported co-morbidities during door-to-door surveys be monitored. The state had found over 23lakh people out of 11.92crore surveyed living with diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, cancer, among other ailments. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is prepared for a second wave. He, however, urged compliance with Covid protocols to ensure the spike in cases is minimal. "We have seen 25,000 cases in a day during the spike in the state. We are prepared to handle 10-20% more cases if required,” said Tope. He added that with unlocking, people are stepping out for work but they are following masking and social distancing norms. He said there is little chance that the state will see a second wave, but due to the dip in temperatures, it is necessary to be alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-govt-issues-rules-for-hospitals-to-prepare-for-a-2nd-covid-wave/articleshow/79202151.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 13, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra govt issues rules for hospitals to prepare for a 2nd Covid wave||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra public health department has issued a detailed set of guidelines, including a formula to deduce number of Covid beds to be kept operational, in anticipation of a second wave of infections. Based on positivity rate and the existing Covid graph, the state said districts should keep 20-60% of their Covid beds operational. The circular issued on Wednesday says districts with a positivity rate of less than 7% should keep a minimum 5-7 dedicated Covid hospitals running, which would translate into 20% of total Covid beds. Districts with a positivity rate of more than 7% and upto 10% should keep at least 40% Covid beds available by reserving government medical colleges and one hospital each in a taluka. For districts with a positivity rate of 11-15%, upto 60% Covid beds are to be operational. And in those with a positivity rate of 16-20%, authorities have been asked to activate all multispecialty hospitals, besides keeping upto 60% beds functional in Covid centres. Describing these as broad guidelines, Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said districts could make their own arrangements depending on daily trends. “Given that numbers are declining every day, many private hospitals have begun to approach collectors to convert Covid hospital into non-Covid hospitals. Hence, we have given this formula so districts can continue minimum bed allocations in case we see a spurt,” he said. The state anticipates a surge either post-Diwali or sometime in January. The state has also asked districts to ensure that 50% of medicine stocks required when cases were at their highest are kept available along with buffer stock for an additional 15 days at the least. Districts have also been asked to ensure that oxygen requirement and supply should be monitored closely. Oxygen requirement of private hospitals too should be taken into account if they are treating Covid patients, say the guidelines. And contact numbers for ambulances are to be available to the public. A senior FDA official said oxygen requirement has dropped drastically since September-end. “Also, most medical colleges have installed liquid oxygen tanks in their premises,” he said. The state has also asked local administrations to ensure that all those who have reported co-morbidities during door-to-door surveys be monitored. The state had found over 23lakh people out of 11.92crore surveyed living with diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, cancer, among other ailments. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is prepared for a second wave. He, however, urged compliance with Covid protocols to ensure the spike in cases is minimal. "We have seen 25,000 cases in a day during the spike in the state. We are prepared to handle 10-20% more cases if required,” said Tope. He added that with unlocking, people are stepping out for work but they are following masking and social distancing norms. He said there is little chance that the state will see a second wave, but due to the dip in temperatures, it is necessary to be alert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-govt-issues-rules-for-hospitals-to-prepare-for-a-2nd-covid-wave/articleshow/79202152.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 13, 2020||Hyderabad||Diwali 2020: Why Diwali shopping became a sacred ritual this year||At a time when everything about the future seems uncertain, there are few things as comforting as nostalgia — an emotion as sweet as cotton candy, filling you with a warmth and yearning that’s comforting and cathartic all at once. And thanks to the lockdown that kept us away from malls, sales, and a whole lot of needless online shopping for the better part of 2020, the whole experience of heading out for Diwali shopping this year has become like a nostalgic walk down memory lane, say millennials, who are left reminiscing the simple joys of childhood back in the 80s-90s. “While growing up, the new clothes we got for Diwali were so special, ’cos it was the last festival of the year and ergo, the last chance that year to get new stuff. That Diwali outfit would then be repurposed again and again as wedding wear, special outing wear, ‘party’ wear... We’d have to wait until Sankranti next year without getting any new clothes in between, so that would make us cherish these clothes even more. The pandemic has brought back that feeling since we were forced to stay away from shopping for a good six months at the least,” says Aniket Bangre, an event manager from Hyderabad. When you look at it like that, the 80s and 90s seem like a different era altogether. It was a time when everything was accounted for — where you spent your money, how many minutes you spoke on the telephone, how many times you used the dial-up to connect to the internet and of course, how many sets of clothes you got per year. So, apart from all the mithai and good food, festivals also meant the mandatory new clothes. There would be that one shop in your neighbourhood that your ammamma or nanamma would take you along to, to buy you one dress per festival. Birthdays, of course, were the only exception. It’s because of this that every piece of clothing you owned had a meaning; had a story behind it, reckons Dr Nandita Kaviti, a medico-cum-model from Vizag. “Spending time at home this lockdown has made me fall in love with heirloom pieces in mom’s wardrobe. Buying clothes without much thought has been the norm for me, but browsing through my mom’s collection of gorgeous pattu sarees has made me appreciate conscious shopping. She would lovingly caress each piece as she narrated the story behind how she got it and the special memories associated with it. How many of can say every item in our wardrobe has a story behind it?,” she wonders. All this time for reflection has made Diwali shopping a wee bit more sacred for many. The memory of older folk insisting we wear only new clothes on festival day, blessing those clothes with a tiny pasupu bottu to bring good luck before we slipped into them... it’s little rituals like these that made Diwali, or any other festival, special. And actor Ramya Pasupuleti of Hushaaru fame sees that coming back into her life. “For the past few years, I’ve been making do with langa vonis and saris I already have, just so I don’t have to buy another set of traditional clothes that I won’t wear again. Still, amma would insist I buy a new dress so she can put pasupu bottu on it. This year, I’ve not shopped at all, so I thought let me do it her way. I ordered them online, but we made it special by letting amma choose my clothes like she did when I was a child.” Preethi Singh, a student of NIFT, too admits Diwali shopping was an emotional experience this year. “When I was a child, my mom would insist on me wearing only breathable fabrics while bursting crackers instead of synthetic ones. So to hear her insist the same this year when I went shopping almost made me well up,” she says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/diwali-2020-why-diwali-shopping-became-a-sacred-ritual-this-year/articleshow/79188590.cms||Neeshita Nyayapati
November 13, 2020||Bengaluru||Cabinet nod to raise Rs 7.4k crore for Bengaluru suburban rail||BENGALURU: Moving a step ahead in implementation of the much-awaited Bengaluru suburban rail project, the state cabinet on Thursday gave the green signal for the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) to borrow Rs 7,438 crore from the market. The cabinet approved the proposal to avail loans from lending agencies to implement the project which will provide alternative public transport. The cost has been downsized to Rs 15,767 crore from Rs 18,621 crore as the government adopted a PPP model for procurement, operation and maintenance of rolling stock. The project covers four corridors with a total route length of 148km and 62 stations. The government also approved the revised estimation of Rs 18.7 crore for the Church Street upgrade under the TenderSure scheme. Law and parliamentary affairs minister JC Madhuswamy said the road will get LED streetlights on international standard. The cabinet decided to hand over maintenance of 12 high density roads in Bengaluru to BBMP. These include state roads that run into the city and are being maintained by the Karnataka Road Development Corporation. The cabinet also decided to offer 50% rebate on interest for institutions and organisations if they clear all dues with regard to civic amenities sites taken on lease from the Bengaluru Development Authority. According to sources, BDA has leased around 500 CA sites across all its layouts in Bengaluru. For solid waste management, the state cabinet gave administrative approval for a private firm to set up a 1,000 tonne capacity plant at Mavallipura to generate compressed natural gas. Cabinet approves AI & robotics park at IIScThe cabinet gave administrative approval for establishment of an Artificial Intelligence and Robotics Technologies Park at Indian Institute of Science. The park will help create and maintain next generation AI, robotics and advanced communication facilities besides curating technology innovation projects. It will also develop skill training modules and run technopreneurship programmes to help create startups in AI and robotics systems. The project cost is expected to be around Rs 210 crore and the central government will support it with Rs150 crore over the next five years. The state will contribute Rs 60 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabinet-nod-to-raise-rs-7-4k-crore-for-bengaluru-suburban-rail/articleshow/79202129.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's second smog tower at Gandhi Nagar market||NEW DELHI: East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir on Thursday inaugurated Delhi's second anti-smog tower at the Gandhi Nagar market to help improve air quality in the area. The tower stands at a height of 12 feet and is supposed to cover an area of 1,000 sqms - delivering 2 lakh metre-per-cube of clean air each day, officials said. Gambhir had installed a similar air-purifying tower in Lajpat Nagar in January. "I know that these air purifiers will not solve the problem completely but something has to be done," said Gambhir while inaugurating the tower alongside Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-second-smog-tower-at-gandhi-nagar-market/articleshow/79202154.cms||---
November 13, 2020||India||CID to probe Assam journalist’s death||DIBRUGARH: Parag Bhuyan, a senior journalist from Assam’s Tinsukia district, passed away on Thursday after being hit by a speeding vehicle in the Kakopathar area the previous night. CM Sarbananda Sonowal quickly ordered the CID to investigate the incident. “Saddened to learn about the untimely demise of Parag Bhuyan, a reputed journalist and vice-president of Tinsukia District Journalists’ Association,” Sonowal tweeted, adding: “My sincere condolences to his bereaved family members and well-wishers.” Bhuyan (52) worked as a reporter of Pratidin Time, a Guwahati-based news channel. The accident occurred while he was walking on the road in front of his residence at 8.30pm on Wednesday. He was admitted to a private hospital in a critical condition and passed away at 9.40am. Tinsukia police managed to nab the absconding driver and helper of the vehicle from Arunachal’s Namsai area.The vehicle , which was used for supplying tea leaves, is owned by a resident of Namsai. Bhuyan’s death had triggered speculation that he may have been a victim of a larger conspiracy as he had brought incidents of corruption of political leaders to light. However, the allegations of pre-planned murder were refuted by Tinsukia SP Shiladitya Chetia. “We suspect that the journalist was murdered as he had been doing a series of stories exposing corruption around Kakopathar. Parag had received threats for his reports,” said Pratidin Time’s editor-in-chief, Nitumoni Saikia. Bhuyan’s death had triggered speculation that he may have been a victim of a larger conspiracy as he had brought incidents of corruption of political leaders to light.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cid-to-probe-assam-journalists-death/articleshow/79202155.cms||Rajib Dutta
November 13, 2020||India||Bikru fallout: UP suspends senior IPS officer||LUCKNOW: The UP government on Thursday suspended senior IPS officer Anant Deo Tewari for his alleged role in posting and shielding of police officials who were hand-in-glove with slain don Vikas Dubey, a prime accused in Kanpur’s Bikru massacre in which eight police personnel were killed on July 3, reports Pathikrit Chakraborty. Anant Deo is at present posted as DIG PAC, Moradabad unit. He was Kanpur SSP just before the Bikru carnage and STF DIG when the incident took place. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said action against other officers would be taken later. Anant Deo is the 16th IPS officer to have been suspended since Yogi Adityanath took over as CM in March 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bikru-fallout-up-suspends-senior-ips-officer/articleshow/79202167.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
November 13, 2020||India||Congress veteran blames brass for poor show||NEW DELHI: Senior Congress leader and Bihar veteran Shakeeluzzaman Ansari has accused central party managers of election mismanagement and irregularities, holding them responsible for the Mahagathbandhan “snatching defeat from the jaws of victory”. Ansari said there were serious problems in the way tickets were distributed while the election management committee never met to discuss strategy and rectify problems during the poll process, reasons he said alienated party workers in the state and discouraged them from owning up the campaign. A day after the poll results in Bihar, Ansari shot off a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi demanding that she send a probe panel to the state to enquire into the reasons behind the defeat which he said were very serious and also why the party was facing a political slide nationally. He named Bihar screening committee chairman Avinash Pande, Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil and special poll emissary Randeep Surjewala for the “mess” in the election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-veteran-blames-brass-for-poor-show/articleshow/79202171.cms||---
November 13, 2020||Vijayawada||AP: Greenlight for tenders for 1st phase of Machilipatnam Port||VIJAYAWADA: The state government has decided to go for tenders for the first phase of the prestigious Machilipatnam port. The government authorised Andhra Pradesh Maritime Board to go for tenders. The government also authorised financial assistance of Rs 1000 crore for the project to begin the works. Minister for transport Perni Venkatramaiah told media persons that the Maritime Board has prepared the groundwork based on the detailed project report (DPR), which was also cleared by the government. The government also authorised the Maritime Board to acquire 225 acres land required for the first phase. The Maritime Board would spend Rs 90 crore for land acquisition, the minister said. The government also authorised the Maritime Board to raise Rs 4,745 crore for the project. New ports to be developed in phasesThe YSRC government has taken up three new ports and one existing port for development. While the existing Kakinada Port in East Godavari would get a facelift, new ports at Bhavanapadu in Srikakulam district, Machilipatnam in Krishna and Ramayampet in Prakasam district would be started in a phased manner. The first phase of the Machilipatnam Port will have five berths – four general cargo and one container berth – developed in 800 acres of land. The first phase of the port would have to be completed in 36 months, the government said. Earlier in February 2019, the then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu had laid foundation stone for the port. Then it was proposed on 2,800 acres near Tapasipudi village near Machilipatnam and the work was assigned to the Navayuga Group. However, the YSRC government cancelled the tender and went for re-tendering for which the fresh DPR for phase-wise project was approved on November 10. The project was first started with the late chief minister Y S Rajasekhara Reddy, who laid the first foundation stone in April 2008, just before his second election in 2009. He had then given the work to Maytas Infra, a firm headed by B Ramalinga Raju, chairman of the Satyam Computers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-greenlight-for-tenders-for-1st-phase-of-machilipatnam-port/articleshow/79202172.cms||Gopi Dara
