November 14, 2020||World||Trump says might 'stop by' at supporters' rally Saturday||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said Friday he might attend a rally planned on Saturday in Washington by supporters of his unsubstantiated claim that the US election was rigged against him. "Heartwarming to see all of the tremendous support out there, especially the organic Rallies that are springing up all over the Country, including a big one on Saturday in D.C. I may even try to stop by and say hello," Trump tweeted. Heartwarming to see all of the tremendous support out there, especially the organic Rallies that are springing up a… https://t.co/eEg02NFGuh— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1605292554000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-says-might-stop-by-at-supporters-rally-saturday/articleshow/79215961.cms||---
November 14, 2020||World||Trump says might 'stop by' at supporters' rally Saturday||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump said Friday he might attend a rally planned on Saturday in Washington by supporters of his unsubstantiated claim that the US election was rigged against him. "Heartwarming to see all of the tremendous support out there, especially the organic Rallies that are springing up all over the Country, including a big one on Saturday in D.C. I may even try to stop by and say hello," Trump tweeted. Heartwarming to see all of the tremendous support out there, especially the organic Rallies that are springing up a… https://t.co/eEg02NFGuh— Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 1605292554000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-says-might-stop-by-at-supporters-rally-saturday/articleshow/79215916.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Noida||#LocalWaliDiwali: Rangoli colours, earthen diyas and Diwali décor: Head to Noida’s Indira Market for last-minute festive shopping||Local vendors and small businesses have been affected the most due to the pandemic. Even a day or two before Diwali, many small vendors in markets across the city were still waiting for people to turn up to shop for the festival. With our #LocalWaliDiwali series, we bring you a glimpse of the Indira Market in Sector 27, Noida, where vendors have been struggling and wishing for a happy Diwali. Sant Ram, a 62-year-old, who has been selling rangoli colours in the market from last 10 years, shares, “Even couple of days before Diwali, there were no people in the market. Rangolike colours waise bhikam log lete hain, aur ab woh bhi nahi hai. If people don’t buy rangoli colours on Diwali, then how can I earn? We get these colours from Rajasthan, par iss baar kuch bika hi nahi.” The market has so many wares to offer, but barely any customers this yearIt is not just Sant Ram, who has been facing the crisis, most of the local vendors in the market have had no work during the festive season. Sant Ram, a rangoli seller, says that the pandemic has badly hit his sales and there were literally no customers during this festive seasonAasim, a 22-year-old diya seller, says, “ Kaam hai hi nahi toh kharcha kaise chalega. Jitni rakam lagayi hai, woh bhi wapas aane ki umeed nahi hai. Last year, we were really busy during this time. If I had earned Rs 1,000 on a daily basis last year ahead of Diwali, then was I earning Rs 200 this year. How will we survive like this?” Aasim, a young diya seller, shares that while last year he would earn around Rs 1000 on days ahead of Diwali, this time it was barely Rs 200 a day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/localwalidiwali-rangoli-colours-earthen-diyas-and-diwali-dcor-head-to-noidas-indira-market-for-last-minute-festive-shopping/articleshow/79211596.cms||Riya Sharma
November 14, 2020||Goa||Motivated to win titles, not Golden Boot: Valskis||PANAJI: Nerijus Valskis didn’t really know what to expect from India when he packed his bags to join Chennaiyin FC, although he never really forgot what Andrija Kaluderovic told him. Kaluderovic spent a season at Delhi Dynamos FC and knew about the Indian Super League (ISL). Like many foreign players, he had good things to say: about the facilities, the fans, and even the money. But for Valskis – and we know how goals are football's currency – it was what he said about the ‘goals’ that stayed with him. “I didn’t know anything. When I asked about India, Kaluderovic told me ‘if you score goals, people will love you, you will enjoy.’ That’s exactly what happened to me,” said Valskis, now with Jamshedpur FC. Valskis took some time to get into the groove but Chennaiyin’s bet on a player who had experience of playing in many countries was worth it. Once the Lithuanian striker got going, it only ended with the Golden Boot, thanks to his 15 goals and six assists in 20 matches. For many, it came as a surprise. For Valskis, he simply believed in himself; after all, he’s the same player who once scored 27 goals in the A Lyga -- Lithuania's top division -- and has experience of playing in Belarus, Romania, Poland, Latvia, Thailand and Israel. “I expected to have a good season here but didn’t expect to win the Golden Boot. The top target was always to get into the playoffs,” said Valskis That Valskis – initially not approved by the ISL as a foreign player – won the Golden Boot ahead of celebrated strikers like Ferran Corominas, Bartholomew Ogbeche and Roy Krishna speaks volumes of his persistence on the field. And now that he has moved to Jamshedpur on a two-year deal, the goals have remained unchanged. “The motivation for me is to take Jamshedpur FC to the playoffs, and then anything can happen. Winning the ISL title motivates me, not the Golden Boot,” said Valskis. For different reasons since their debut in 2017, Jamshedpur have not managed to qualify for the playoffs. They started well last season, even defeated league champions FC Goa away at Fatorda, but then injuries crippled them. They tried, never really recovered. This time with the inspirational Owen Coyle at the helm of affairs and an impressive mix of foreign players – led by former Motherwell FC defender Peter Hartley – Jamshedpur look as good as anyone else. Valskis agrees. “We have a good team. We have Owen, the most important factor why I came here. We have a very good project. It’s possible that we can drive Jamshedpur to the top four. Then everything is possible,” said Valskis. If he strikes the same form that took Chennaiyin from the bottom to the final, Jamshedpur should brace themselves for their most impressive season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/motivated-to-win-titles-not-golden-boot-valskis/articleshow/79216757.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
November 14, 2020||Goa||Partnership with Leipzig can take FC Goa forward: Puskur||PANAJI: That FC Goa does many things right needs no reminding. FC Goa are the most consistent team in the Indian Super League (ISL), making it to the playoffs for a record five times in six editions. The Goan club have not yet won the ISL title – despite two final appearances -- but topping the league stage last season and qualifying for the AFC Champions League remains a feather in the cap. For the last three seasons, the Spanish influence at FC Goa is more than obvious. Then there is the style of play, Spanish coaches and an overwhelming number of foreign players from the land of tiki taka. So with the club joining hands with Bundesliga’s youngest but fast rising club, RB Leipzig, will things be different? Not really, if you ask FC Goa’s director of football Ravi Puskur. “RB Leipzig are the leaders in world football. With their assistance, we will try and make more advancements on how we look at the on-field and off-field preparations. Will the style of football change? Probably not. “We will continue to play on the front foot. RB Leipzig, as we have seen from the past couple of seasons, have been doing the same. I don’t see much changing. We can now rely on the experience and innovations of Leipzig to take us to the next level,” said Puskur. Puskur accompanied club president Akshay Tandon to several clubs in Europe. They held talks with many European giants but it were Leipzig who impressed them the most. “It was always clear that they were keen and had a similar way of doing things like we did. We fit like a glove, and then took the conversation forward. It took us two years to get this over the line,” said Puskur. Leipzig are making heads turn with their high-octane style of football, championed by Julian Nagelsmann, 33, the youngest manager in Champions League history to reach the knockout stages. They suffered an embarrassing 0-5 defeat against Manchester United in the Champions League, but their win over PSG early this month and qualification to the semifinals last season proves they are Europe’s emerging power. All this in just 10 years of inception. So what does this strategic partnership mean for the German side? “The cooperation starts step by step,” said Christopher Vivell, technical director at RB Leipzig. “It can start with helping each other. We can also learn something. There are different mentalities, different mindsets and India is a country of 1.3 billion people.” While many have started discussing Leipzig’s involvement with the senior team, future investments and even a player being scouted, the German club has made it clear that their focus is elsewhere. “We want exchange, we want to help, have conversations and we want to get to know this very exciting club. They had a great vision and we want to help them. What the result will be remains to be seen,” said Vivell. The first goal for the strategic partners will be to start soccer schools across the country, particularly in places where interest exists but opportunities don’t. "That will allow us to focus on the grassroots. From there we will try and build to the youth programmes and then steadily we will take it to academy level,” said Puskur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/partnership-with-leipzig-can-take-fc-goa-forward-puskur/articleshow/79216791.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
November 14, 2020||World||Biden solidifies US victory over Trump, 306-232 electoral votes||REHOBOTH BEACH/WASHINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden solidified his victory over President Donald Trump on Friday after the state of Georgia went his way, leaving Trump little hope of reversing the outcome through legal challenges and recounts. Edison Research, which made the call, also projected that North Carolina, the only other battleground state with an outstanding vote count, would go to Trump, finalizing the electoral vote tally at 306 for Biden to 232 for Trump. The numbers gave Biden, a Democrat, a resounding defeat over Trump in the Electoral College, equal to the 306 votes Trump, a Republican, won to defeat Hillary Clinton, a 2016 victory that Trump called a "landslide." While Trump had yet to concede, Biden officials reiterated they were moving ahead with transition efforts regardless. Although the national popular vote does not determine the election outcome, Biden was ahead by more than 5.3 million votes, or 3.4 percentage points. His share of the popular vote, at 50.8%, was slightly higher than Ronald Reagan's share of the vote in 1980 when he defeated Jimmy Carter. Trump, a Republican, has claimed without evidence that he was cheated by widespread election fraud and has refused to concede. State election officials report no serious irregularities, and several of his legal challenges have failed in court. To win a second term, Trump would need to overturn Biden's lead in at least three states, but he has so far failed to produce evidence that he could do so in any of them. States face a Dec. 8 "safe harbor" deadline to certify their elections and choose electors for the Electoral College, which will officially select the new president on Dec. 14. A Michigan state court rejected on Friday a request by Trump to block the certification of votes in Detroit, which went heavily in favor of Biden. And lawyers for Trump's campaign dropped a lawsuit in Arizona after the final vote count rendered it moot. Federal election security officials have found no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, "or was in any way compromised," two security groups said in a statement released on Thursday by the lead US cybersecurity agency. Trump was set on Friday afternoon to make his first public remarks since Biden was projected as the election's winner on Nov. 7. The White House said he would address the nation on the efforts by the government and drugmakers to develop effective treatments for the coronavirus pandemic. TRANSITION TALK Biden officials said on Friday they would press forward with the transition, identifying legislative priorities, reviewing federal agency policies and preparing to fill thousands of jobs in the new administration. "We're charging ahead with the transition," Jen Psaki, a senior adviser to Biden's transition team, said on a conference call on Friday, while stressing that Biden still needs "real-time information" from the Trump administration to deal with the resurgent pandemic and national security threats. Psaki urged Trump's White House to allow Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris to receive daily intelligence briefings on potential threats around the world. “With every day that passes on, it becomes more concerning that our national security team and the president-elect and the vice president-elect don't have access to those threat assessments, intelligence briefings, real-time information about our engagements around the world," Psaki said. "Because, you know, you don’t know what you don’t know." Biden will be briefed by his own group of national-security experts next week, she said. He met with transition advisers again on Friday at his Delaware beach house where he is mapping out his approach to the pandemic and prepares to name his top appointees, including Cabinet members. Trump's refusal to accept defeat has stalled the official transition. The federal agency that releases funding to an incoming president-elect, the General Services Administration, has yet to recognize Biden's victory, denying him access to federal office space and resources. Fox News correspondent Geraldo Rivera, a Trump confidant, said he had spoken to the president by phone on Friday and that Trump had given him the impression that he would follow the US Constitution and surrender his office after every vote was counted. "He told me he's a realist. He told me he would do the right thing," Rivera said in an interview with Fox. "I got no impression that he was plotting the overthrow of the elected government. He just wants a fair fight."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-solidifies-us-victory-over-trump-306-232-electoral-votes/articleshow/79216950.cms||---
November 14, 2020||World||Biden solidifies US victory over Trump, 306-232 electoral votes||REHOBOTH BEACH/WASHINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden solidified his victory over President Donald Trump on Friday after the state of Georgia went his way, leaving Trump little hope of reversing the outcome through legal challenges and recounts. Edison Research, which made the call, also projected that North Carolina, the only other battleground state with an outstanding vote count, would go to Trump, finalizing the electoral vote tally at 306 for Biden to 232 for Trump. The numbers gave Biden, a Democrat, a resounding defeat over Trump in the Electoral College, equal to the 306 votes Trump, a Republican, won to defeat Hillary Clinton, a 2016 victory that Trump called a "landslide." While Trump had yet to concede, Biden officials reiterated they were moving ahead with transition efforts regardless. Although the national popular vote does not determine the election outcome, Biden was ahead by more than 5.3 million votes, or 3.4 percentage points. His share of the popular vote, at 50.8%, was slightly higher than Ronald Reagan's share of the vote in 1980 when he defeated Jimmy Carter. Trump, a Republican, has claimed without evidence that he was cheated by widespread election fraud and has refused to concede. State election officials report no serious irregularities, and several of his legal challenges have failed in court. To win a second term, Trump would need to overturn Biden's lead in at least three states, but he has so far failed to produce evidence that he could do so in any of them. States face a Dec. 8 "safe harbor" deadline to certify their elections and choose electors for the Electoral College, which will officially select the new president on Dec. 14. A Michigan state court rejected on Friday a request by Trump to block the certification of votes in Detroit, which went heavily in favor of Biden. And lawyers for Trump's campaign dropped a lawsuit in Arizona after the final vote count rendered it moot. Federal election security officials have found no evidence that any voting system deleted or lost votes, changed votes, "or was in any way compromised," two security groups said in a statement released on Thursday by the lead US cybersecurity agency. Trump was set on Friday afternoon to make his first public remarks since Biden was projected as the election's winner on Nov. 7. The White House said he would address the nation on the efforts by the government and drugmakers to develop effective treatments for the coronavirus pandemic. TRANSITION TALK Biden officials said on Friday they would press forward with the transition, identifying legislative priorities, reviewing federal agency policies and preparing to fill thousands of jobs in the new administration. "We're charging ahead with the transition," Jen Psaki, a senior adviser to Biden's transition team, said on a conference call on Friday, while stressing that Biden still needs "real-time information" from the Trump administration to deal with the resurgent pandemic and national security threats. Psaki urged Trump's White House to allow Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris to receive daily intelligence briefings on potential threats around the world. “With every day that passes on, it becomes more concerning that our national security team and the president-elect and the vice president-elect don't have access to those threat assessments, intelligence briefings, real-time information about our engagements around the world," Psaki said. "Because, you know, you don’t know what you don’t know." Biden will be briefed by his own group of national-security experts next week, she said. He met with transition advisers again on Friday at his Delaware beach house where he is mapping out his approach to the pandemic and prepares to name his top appointees, including Cabinet members. Trump's refusal to accept defeat has stalled the official transition. The federal agency that releases funding to an incoming president-elect, the General Services Administration, has yet to recognize Biden's victory, denying him access to federal office space and resources. Fox News correspondent Geraldo Rivera, a Trump confidant, said he had spoken to the president by phone on Friday and that Trump had given him the impression that he would follow the US Constitution and surrender his office after every vote was counted. "He told me he's a realist. He told me he would do the right thing," Rivera said in an interview with Fox. "I got no impression that he was plotting the overthrow of the elected government. He just wants a fair fight."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/biden-solidifies-us-victory-over-trump-306-232-electoral-votes/articleshow/79216946.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||31-yr-old in top 2% of world scientists’ list teaches kids in remote J&K town||NEW DELHI: Of the 2,313 Indians in Stanford University’s list of top 2% scientists in the world, a major chunk is from well-known institutes like the IITs and the IISc. But sharing the prestigious space with them is a 31-year-old scientist from J&K, Dr Shakeel Ahmed, who turned down plum posts in varsities to teach at a remote degree college along the Line of Control (LoC). “I wanted to give back to the community. I know the struggle for a good education. My father passed away when I was barely a year-old. I was able to complete my studies only through scholarships. It didn’t help that I grew up in Rajouri, a backward area where there weren’t many options,” said Ahmed, assistant professor of chemistry at the Government Degree College Mendhar (Poonch district) and a first-generation learner in his family. Ahmed was a post-doc fellow at IIT-Delhi in 2017 when the opportunity to teach students in his hometown presented itself. “I didn’t think twice. This is what I wanted to do — go back home and encourage students to take up science in higher education,” Ahmed told TOI on Friday. His efforts have yielded results. Three years ago, there were few students who chose to specialise in chemistry. “Today, we have large batches of students studying chemistry and 50% of them are girls,” said Ahmed, who often doubles up as a career coach for his students. When not teaching, Ahmed’s research work takes up most of his time. Currently, he is focused on developing polymers which are biodegradable. “Polymers that we use at present are mainly synthetic and cause pollution. For example, in food packaging we use conventional polymers. I am developing green materials which are biodegradable. Their properties have been changed at nano-particle levels,” he said. But to conduct his research work in well-equipped labs, Ahmed has to travel to Delhi and to his alma mater, Jamia Millia Islamia, squeezing in these visits between official holidays. “Cost of setting up a state-of-the-art lab can run into crores, we don’t have the funds for it here,” he said, adding that since he completed his PhD in Jamia and research in IIT-Delhi, he is allowed access to labs in both institutes where he also leads collaborative research efforts. With over 30 published papers in reputed international journals on polymer chemistry and 18 reference books to his name, Ahmed has become an established name in the scientific fraternity. He is also a member of the American Chemical Society and the Royal Society of Chemistry. And yet, his inclusion in the list of top scientists in the world took Ahmed by complete surprise. “A friend of mine from Delhi called up and informed me. I thought he was joking because I’m quite young, in fact, my career has just begun. I didn’t believe it until I saw the list myself,” said Ahmed. Dileep Kumar Raina, principal of GDC, Mendhar, said Ahmed’s dedication to teaching had inspired many students to perform better. “The recognition of his work in the Stanford list is well-deserved. It’s an honour for all of us,” he told TOI. Ahmed now has plans to start an NGO with his wife Dr Anu Choudhary, a professor at a degree college in Samba, to boost education in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/31-yr-old-in-top-2-of-world-scientists-list-teaches-kids-in-remote-jk-town/articleshow/79217333.cms||Shobita Dhar
November 14, 2020||India||It’s a lonely Diwali for health workers||It began this March. Ananta Shah, a lab technician at Civil Hospital in Gurgaon, has since then been collecting samples of Covid-19 patients every day. It’s been relentless. The numbers are overwhelming and there are always more samples to collect than the slots can accommodate. But Shah stays focused on checking off the list he is handed every day and will spend Diwali doing more of the same, racing from collection points to the lab. He doesn’t know when he can go home, to Malda in West Bengal, next. Time permitting, he will perhaps see his family — wife and 15-year-old daughter, who he last met more than a year ago — on a video call on Diwali day. "I wanted to go home this March, but the pandemic changed everything," said Shah (37). "I collect more than 60 samples daily from several places, which is a crucial part of the process. It is risky, too, because chances of contracting the virus increase. But I play my part for society. I am not going home because I cannot leave my work under the present circumstances. Besides, there is also the fear of infecting my family members," he added. Dr Nadia Qazi (34), resident medical officer at Fortis Hospital in Gurgaon, has also not met her parents, who live in Srinagar, for a year. "My parents are worried about me. But we have been getting more patients so we can’t take leave," she said. This Diwali, many health workers across Delhi-NCR are burning the candle from both ends, working extra hours as cases have surged, but refraining from going home to meet their loved ones. The festive season for them has been endless toil at hospital wards, OPDs, laboratories and ambulances. Come Christmas and New Year, they expect the same routine. If Covid-19 cases decrease by then, it will bring a degree of satisfaction. Perhaps smiles too, and with some luck, a bit of family time. Dr Ram Prakash Rai, an epidemiologist based in Gurgaon, said on the day of Diwali, he, along with the team of frontline health workers, will visit several areas in the city for a screening exercise. "Cases have been rising. We cannot take a break. There are a number of contacts to be traced and any delay could mean more infections," he said. "This is the first Diwali that I am away from home. My family is worried about me but the right step is to stay away," added the doctor, who hails from Bihar. At Delhi’s Lok Nayak Hospital, Dr Richa Narang, senior resident in the anaesthesia department, said her Diwali will be spent away from loved ones, who stay in Ghaziabad’s Kaushambi, as she will be on ICU duty on Saturday. "My mother would want me to come home, even if briefly. But she also realises that it is important for me to be in the hospital to be able to save lives," she said. Dr Keshave Singh, the president of the resident doctors association at Maulana Azad Medical College, also hasn’t met his family in several months. "I am working on Diwali. But that’s not something unusual. Doctors work regardless of festivals," he said. Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, medical superintendent of Sharda, an L3 Covid hospital in Greater Noida, told TOI, "We usually go to Purnia and meet our extended family during the festive season. But this year, my son and daughter-in-law could not travel from the US due to Covid-19 and I’ll be working on Diwali as we have nearly 130 patients in the hospital, out of whom 32 are in the ICU. This is a hard and unusual time for us. Even to rejoice we need to be healthy and safe, and that’s something we can’t take for granted anymore." Dr Abhinav Singh Verma, junior resident, neurosurgery, at AIIMS, will be on duty at the institute’s trauma centre. "My family lives in Vasundhara, Ghaziabad. But I haven’t met them in the last nine months. There are so many cases and admissions due to Covid-19. It is difficult for us to think about anything other than treating patients," Dr Verma said. "Our children, of course, want us to go to the market to buy candles, diyas and firecrackers and spend time with them on festivals," added Harish Kajla, nursing officer at AIIMS. "But duty is more important." Gurgaon’s chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav, told TOI he has not taken a single day off since March. He’s also not visiting his parents, who live in Faridabad. "My parents are old and have co-morbidities, due to which I avoid going home. We are in a war-like situation and we can’t let our guard down," he said. Many health workers working on the frontlines have seen their colleagues get infected. They are never sure if they aren’t carrying the virus and don’t want to put their families at risk. "I am staying at a guesthouse and haven’t been home for six months. Some people in my team are infected and I don’t want to take the risk of going home," said Devender Kumar, who manages the ambulance fleet at Gurgaon’s Civil Hospital. Sanjay Yadav, a lab supervisor with Ghaziabad’s TB department, said he will celebrate Diwali on his mobile phone. "I am on round-the-clock duty as directions to shift a Covid patient could come any time. There is not a single night when one or two calls have not come to admit patients to hospitals," he said. Since the beginning of the pandemic nine months ago, health workers have been among the most vulnerable groups facing exposure to the novel coronavirus.Nearly 650 doctors have succumbed to Covid across the country. In Gurgaon,101 health workers have contracted the virus so far.According to Dr Vinay Aggarwal, a member of the Indian Medical Association, more than 24 doctors have died of Covid in Delhi. "The situation is very serious. There aren’t enough beds available. People should stay indoors and follow all precautionary measures to save themselves and to mitigate the hardship faced by healthcare workers to treat patients in such situations," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/its-a-lonely-diwali-for-health-workers/articleshow/79217362.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 14, 2020||India||Work begins on third integrated Nepal checkpost||Looking to boost trade and connectivity with Nepal, India continues to develop integrated checkposts on either sides of the border and systematise movement of cross-border cargo trucks by bringing customs and immigration facilities under one roof. A ground-breaking ceremony to mark the beginning of the construction of such a post at Nepalgunj was held virtually by the two governments this week. Checkposts at Birgunj and Biratnagar were jointly inaugurated and operationalised in April 2018 and January 2020 respectively by the Indian and Nepal PMs. The intergrated checkposts are designed to promote systematic approach to cargo handling and, therefore, will result in saving of time and inconvenience to visitors and reduce overall transaction costs for cross-border trade and commerce, said Indian officials. During the construction period, the ICP Nepalgunj project is expected to create local employment and boost local economy by creating jobs and facilitating supply of essential raw materials and items from local markets. Overall, the facility created under the project is envisaged to promote cross-border trade and economic activities between India and Nepal, said the Indian embassy in Kathmandu in a statement. "In line with ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy, the Government of India is committed to enhance connectivity with Nepal, including facilitating and promoting border trade and economic activities," it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/work-begins-on-third-integrated-nepal-checkpost/articleshow/79217494.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||BIS may soon come under commerce ministry||NEW DELHI: The consumer affairs department is now initiating a proposal for transfer of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) to commerce ministry, barely eight months after it had opposed a similar proposal from the commerce ministry. While opinions are divided with regard to the merits of the proposal, the Prime Minister’s Office has sought details about the BIS and its functions. Sources said the process started after Union minister Piyush Goyal directed the department officials to take quick action to transfer BIS to the commerce ministry. Goyal took charge of the food and consumer affairs ministry in addition to railways and commerce after his predecessor Ram Vilas Paswan passed away. Paswan had opposed the proposal from Goyal’s ministry. “It’s up to the government to take a call and soon it wants to do this. This only requires change in allocation of business rules,” said a source. The earlier avataar of BIS, Indian Standards Institute (ISI) was set up in September 1946 as per a resolution of the Department of Industrial and Supplies. The BIS came into existence under an Act of Parliament in 1986 and it was put under the consumer affairs department. “The standards are made for products and the end user is the consumer. The BIS also functions as a regulator. How can these factors be ignored? Going by the same logic heavy industries ministry should deal with all the vehicle standards and regulations,” pointed out a government source who did not wish to be named. However, some of the former BIS officials told TOI that the proposal was long overdue as the agency is primarily responsible for making standards for industrial goods. “In most of the countries, agencies making standards for industrial goods are under the trade and commerce departments. Only in recent years we started setting standards for services. Bringing BIS under commerce will help us go a long way to make India Atma Nirbhar, which is the government's focus,” said one of these former senior BIS officials. Another official said this should not be seen as a turf issue. A former top official in the consumer affairs department said transferring the BIS to commerce won’t mean that consumers will be taken for a ride considering the strong new Consumer Protection Act. “The Act has provisions for product recall, product liability and class action suits. These can be exercised, if consumer rights are violated,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bis-may-soon-come-under-commerce-ministry/articleshow/79217515.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Five cooperative societies to open generic medicine outlets||Mangaluru: Five cooperative societies in the undivided Dakshina Kannada distirct will be given nod to open generic medicine outlets in the coast. M N Rajendra Kumar, chairman of South Canara District Central Cooperative (SCDCC) Bank, told reporters that cooperation minister S T Somashekar will inaugurate the state-level Cooperative Week programme themed on ‘Cooperative marketing, consumer, transformation and value addition’ at TV Ramana Pai Hall here on November 15. “The central government has allowed Karnataka State Co-operative Marketing Federation to sell generic medicines, and the same has been formally launched by Union minister D V Sadananda Gowda on November 6. The cooperation minister will hand over the approval letters to open generic medicine outlets in the undivided Dakshina Kannada distirct to cooperative societies during the inaugural ceremony of the Cooperative Week,” Kumar said. The programme will be presided over by Kota Shrinivas Poojari, minister for religious endowment and fisheries. Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel will distribute awards to best cooperative societies, while Mangaluru city South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath will hoist the Cooperative Week flag. Mangaluru MLA U T Khader will release the special edition of ‘Sahakara Pathrike’, while Mangaluru city North MLA Dr Y Bharath Shetty will honour best Navodaya self-help groups. Mayor Diwakar will inaugurate the cooperative stalls at the programme venue, Kumar said, adding that the programme will be held strictly adhering to Covid-19 protocol of the central and the state governments. “Cooperative banks in the district have recovered from the Covid-induced slowdown, and their business has seen a significant rise, especially in lending car and two-wheeler purchases. SCDCC Bank has achieved 11% increase in deposits during the Unlock phases. We have also noticed an increase in recoveries” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/five-cooperative-societies-to-open-generic-medicine-outlets/articleshow/79213751.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Rajkot||‘Ayurveda has gained immense global acceptance’||Rajkot: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday said that Ayurveda played a key role in helping the country tackle the coronavirus pandemic and this ancient knowledge has gained immense acceptance worldwide, which is evident from the surge in exports of several spices like turmeric.Speaking after dedication of two future-ready Ayurveda institutions in Jaipur and Jamnagar to the nation via video conferencing on the occasion of the 5th Ayurveda Day, Modi said that exports of Ayurvedic products increased by about 45% in September this year compared to the previous year.“The significant increase in export of spices like turmeric, ginger, considered as immunity boosters, shows the sudden boost in confidence in Ayurvedic solutions and Indian spices in the world. In many countries, the use of turmeric drinks is also increasing and the world's prestigious medical journals are also seeing new hope in Ayurveda,” the PM said.The two institutes unveiled at the event include Ayurveda Institute of Teaching & Research in Ayurveda (ITRA) in Jamnagar and the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA) in Jaipur.He said that the prices of herbs like ashwagandha, giloy and tulsi have increased amid the pandemic, which has ultimately helped the growers. “The price of Ashwagandha has more than doubled compared to last year and farmers are reaping the benefits,” he said.He also called upon startups and the private firms to analyze global trends and demands and ensure their participation in the sector.Modi said that during the coronavirus period, the focus was not only limited to the use of Ayurveda alone but also on research related to AYUSH in the country and the world."On one hand, India is testing vaccines, on the other, it is also increasing international cooperation on Ayurvedic research to fight Covid-19," he said.Stressing on bringing ayurveda knowledge out of books, scriptures and home remedies and developing this ancient knowledge as per modern needs, Modi said new research is being done in the country by combining information received from modern science of the 21st century with India's ancient medical knowledge.Modi also said that the two institutes now have an increased responsibility to prepare syllabus for Ayurveda which meets international standards.He also suggested that the education ministry and UGC exploure new avenues in disciplines like Ayurveda ohysics and Ayurveda chemistry.Modi also mentioned about research going on in more than a 100 places including at the All India Institute of Ayurveda in Delhi which has conducted research related to immunity on 80,000 Delhi Police personnel. It could well be the world's largest group study and the results are encouraging results, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ayurveda-has-gained-immense-global-acceptance/articleshow/79216287.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Trichy||Surge in demand for special buses in Trichy||Trichy: The patronage for special buses launched by the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) connecting Trichy with the rest of the state has seen a gradual surge since Thursday night. Around 200 special buses were launched by TNSTC Trichy to cater to the needs of commuters heading home to celebrate Diwali. The mofussil buses connecting Thanjavur and Madurai with Trichy had seen a substantial increase in patronage, TNSTC sources said.Apart from operating 900 regular buses from Trichy region, 200 additional buses were operated to Tiruppur, Dindigul, Coimbatore and other districts. Although the footfall of passengers was not on par with the festive season in the previous years, TNSTC sources said that the response from public had picked up since Thursday night.Claiming that social distancing is ensured to the maximum possible extent, TNSTC sources said that standees were not allowed in the buses at the originating point. “Most of the passengers while boarding the buses are wearing face masks. The rush is nowhere near what is usually witnessed during the festival season but the patronage is improving,” an official with TNSTC said.A couple of temporary bus shelters are established at Williams road (for buses going to Thanjavur) and Mannarpuram (for buses going to Pudukkottai and Madurai) to prevent overcrowding in the Central bus stand. TNSTC said that an adequate number of circular city buses were being operated between the temporary bus stands and Central bus stand and Chathiram bus stand.The transport corporation anticipates the need for special buses till Sunday night as a large number of people are returning to their native places from major cities. Authorities said that the temporary bus shelters will be active till November 17, 2020. To prevent traffic bottlenecks in the temporary bus shelters, the city police has provided a WhatsApp helpline to report traffic violations at 96262-73399.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/surge-in-demand-for-special-buses-in-trichy/articleshow/79216487.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Rajkot||Man clubs younger brother to death in Gadhada||Rajkot: A man was booked for allegedly clubbing his younger brother to death in Gadhada of Botad district on Thursday night.Police said the accused, Mangaru Bhisariya (45), had hit his younger brother Kishor Bhisariya (40) with a bat over hurling abuses on Thursday evening.After the attack, Kishor was first taken to Gadhada primary health centre from where he was shifted to Sir T Hospital in Bhavnagar where he succumbed to his injuries late Thursday night. “The incident occurred when Mangaru was hurling abuses at Kishor. When Kishor asked Mangaru to stop hurling abuses, both the brothers fought. Mangaru picked up a bat and thrashed Kishor, who received multiple fractures in his hands, feet and head. His skull was also fractured,” said an official from Gadhada police station. Mangaru was booked on the complaint of his elder brother Amaru Bhisariya, who took Kishor to the hospital. Meanwhile, the police have launched a manhunt for Mangaru who has gone absconding after committing the crime. ASSAULT VICTIM DIES An assault victim Raman Khant (45) succumbed to his injuries at Rajkot Civil Hospital on Thursday night. Police said Khant was clubbed allegedly by Arif Saiyed (30), following a fight over a trivial issue of eating paani puri in Bela village of Morbi taluka on November 9. “Khant’s nephew Shankar (22) had a fight with Saiyed over who should be served paani puri first. When Saiyed started hitting Shankar, Khant intervened. It was then that Saiyed hit Khant with a bat,” said an official from Morbi taluka police station. Saiyed was arrested on November 10 for assault and causing grievous injuries. But after the death of Khant, charge of murder was included against Saiyed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-clubs-younger-brother-to-death-in-gadhada/articleshow/79216326.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Trichy||Press owners musn’t print anonymous posters: Cops||Trichy: The Trichy police have warned the printing press owners in the city against printing anonymous content with intent to confuse or mislead public, which may cause law and order issues.Deputy commissioner of police, law and order, Trichy, A Pavan Kumar Reddy called for a meeting of 40 printing press owners on Friday and asked them to print publishers name and phone numbers in every poster to avoid action under the Press and Regulation of Books Act 1867.Only registered printing press that submitted declaration with concerned government officers are permitted to operate and any violation will invite fine or jail term. Defacing public places with objectionable posters and advertisement banners besides posters without proper permission are punishable offence. Further, printing of anonymous or suspicious posters that might mislead public will invite legal action, Reddy said.Presses that print posters or banners with content targeting a particular organization, caste or religion will face music, he added. Publishers were also asked to print their material with a registered and licenced printer to avoid action.New presses should operate only after getting duly registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/press-owners-musnt-print-anonymous-posters-cops/articleshow/79216503.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Rajkot||Centre for traditional med to come up in India: WHO||RAJKOT: The World Health Organization (WHO) announced on Friday that it will set up a Global Centre for Traditional Medicine in India in its efforts to strengthen the evidence, research, training and awareness of traditional and complementary medicine. “Traditional systems of medicine such as Ayurveda can play an important role in integrated people-centric health services and healthcare, but they have not received enough attention,” said WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus in a video announcement during the dedication of two future-ready Ayurveda institutions in Jaipur and Jamnagar to the nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The institution will support WHO’s efforts to implement the traditional medicine strategy 2014-2023, he said. WHO aims to support countries in developing policies and action plans to strengthen the role of traditional medicine. Modi said, “It is a matter of pride for all Indians that the WHO has chosen India for establishing this centre. I would like to thank the WHO and particularly its DG Tedros for shouldering this responsibility on India. I am confident that just like India has emerged as the pharmacy of the world, in the same manner this centre for traditional medicine will become the centre for global wellness.” Ghebreyesus also lauded the PM for his commitment to the universal coverage under Ayushman Bharat and evidence-based promotion of traditional medicines to achieve health-related objectives. In-charge vice-chancellor of Jamnagar-based Gujarat Ayurved University, Anup Thakkar, said, “This is a big announcement by WHO in the field of Ayurveda.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/who-centre-for-traditional-med-to-come-up-in-india/articleshow/79216489.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Patna||Supporters float Kameshwar Chaupal’s name for Bihar deputy CM’s post||PATNA: BJP senior Sushil Kumar Modi has been the Bihar deputy CM in all the four NDA governments headed by Nitish Kumar, but the name of the party’s Dalit face and Hindutva hardliner Kameshwar Chaupal on Friday suddenly popped up as the likely candidate for the post. As Chaupal has been a well-known face actively associated with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) since the mid-1980s as its state organization secretary and also with the Ram temple movement, the news took the political circles by surprise. The man who had laid the first brick for the ‘shilanyas’ of Ram temple at Ayodhya on November 9, 1989 and has been made a member of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for its construction this year, was greeted with slogans of “deputy CM kaisa ho, Kameshwar Chaupal jaisa ho’ by his supporters on his arrival at Patna airport from Delhi on Friday. Chaupal, who had lost to Ram Vilas Paswan in the 1991 parliamentary election and again remained unsuccessful in the 1995 assembly election, was MLC from 2002 to 2014. He had lost the 2014 parliamentary election from his home district Supaul. When asked if he was an aspirant for the deputy CM’s post in the NDA government to be headed by Nitish, Chaupal told the media at the airport amid chanting of Jai Shri Ram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai slogans: “I am just a ‘sipahi’ (worker) of the organization (read BJP). Whatever responsibility the party gives me I will fulfil it.” However, repeated attempts to contact him failed as his mobile phone had stopped responding. Some BJP leaders said, preferring anonymity, that it “ambiguous and baseless claim planted by some interested group”. However, insiders felt that some well-placed “interested groups” within the BJP wanted to throw a “red herring at Nitish” as Chaupal has been associated with the Ram temple movement. “Those around Nitish have also been insisting on the post of state assembly Speaker for the JD(U). Since November 2005, Nitish has always had a JD (U) man as Speaker — first Uday Narayan Choudhary and then Vijay Kumar Choudhary,” a state BJP insider said. “Therefore, BJP will like to have two posts of deputy CM for itself — one for Chaupal and another for Sushil Kumar Modi,” he said, adding that the “final outcome” would be clear on November 15 at the joint meeting of the NDA legislators. Incidentally, senior state BJP leaders have already been tipped to be present in Delhi on Saturday, when the parliamentary board will meet to resolve all the issues regarding the NDA government formation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/supporters-float-chaupals-name-for-deputy-cms-post/articleshow/79214295.cms||Abhay Singh
November 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s Covid-19 recovery rate increases to 96.79%||PATNA: The state’s Covid tally mounted to 2,26,081 on Friday with 581 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Officially, seven fresh Covid deaths in the last 24 hours took the state’s toll to 1,174. However, with 2,18,828 people recovering from the virus so far, active cases in the state stood at 6,077 on Friday. According to the health department, two fresh deaths were reported in Patna on Friday. With tius, the district’s Covid toll has risen to 292. Araria, Arwal, Rohtas, Nalanda and Madhubani districts accounted for one death each in the last 24 hours. At AIIMS-Patna, four Covid patients died in the last 24 hours. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 24 patients were admitted to the hospital and 11 discharged on Friday. “Among the 149 Covid patients undergoing treatment at the hospital, 64 are in ICU, including 25 on ventilator support,” Dr Kumar added. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, five patients were admitted and two discharged on Friday. The hospital did not record any fresh death on Friday. Of 581 new Covid-19 cases in the state, Patna accounted for 179. The district’s Covid tally has jumped to 38,907. However, with 37,021 recoveries and 292 deaths, there are 1,594 active cases in Patna. Among other districts, Muzaffarpur recorded 31 new cases, Purnia 25, Bhagalpur 23, Nalanda 22 and Aurangabad 21 on Friday. As per the health department, 1,35,607 samples were tested in the state in the last 24 hours. “So far, over 1.26 crore samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March this year. The state’s recovery rate has touched 96.79%,” the health department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-19-recovery-rate-increases-to-96-79/articleshow/79214181.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 14, 2020||Business||Tatas in talks to sell Dutch steel biz||Mumbai: Tata Steel on Friday confirmed that it is in discussions with Sweden’s SSAB for a potential sale of part of its European business. This is the Indian company’s second major attempt to reduce its exposure to the beleaguered European business. The company’s board, which met for four and a half hours on Friday, has decided to split the European business into two — the UK and the Netherlands units, as it has different restructuring plans for each. TOI had reported in its November 11 edition that Tata Steel’s board was expected to take a call on the European business on Friday. Tata Steel is in talks with SSAB for the Dutch IJmuiden steel mill and related downstream assets, which have a 7.3-million-ton capacity and employ about 10,000 people. For the British unit, the company is reviewing options to “make the business self-sustaining without the need for any funding support from it in the future”. Tata Steel has been in a dialogue with the Boris Johnson government to secure financial support for the UK unit, Port Talbot plant. Meanwhile, Liberty Steel, which is owned by Ludhiana-born British businessman Sanjeev Gupta, has also shown interest in the UK plant. In 2017, Liberty acquired Tata Steel’s UK speciality business for 100 million pounds. The restructuring moves will help Tata Steel curtail losses incurring out of the European business and ease its debt burden of Rs 1.14 lakh crore. In the September quarter of fiscal 2021, the European business reported an operational loss of Rs 462 crore. Between the UK and the Netherlands units, Port Talbot has been a bigger drag ever since Tata Steel acquired the two in 2007. The Indian company has written down losses of over 2 billion pounds on the European business, which it bought for 6.2 billion pounds by outbidding Brazil’s CSN. SSAB has said it has been part of several discussions concerning consolidations in the European steel industry, which has been impacted due to Covid-19. “The discussions with Tata Steel are ongoing, but no decisions have been made. There can be no certainty that any transaction will materialise, nor as to the terms of any such potential transaction.” Earlier, Tata Steel had planned to hive off the entire European business into an equal joint venture with Germany’s Thyssenkrupp. But the deal was blocked by the European region’s anti-trust regulator on concerns that the joint venture would push up prices and reduce competition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tatas-in-talks-to-sell-dutch-steel-biz/articleshow/79217125.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ajit Sharma made Congress legislature party leader||PATNA: Newly-elected Bhagalpur MLA Ajit Sharma was on Friday chosen Congress legislature party (CLP) leader. Afaque Alam, who won the election from Kasba in Purnia, will be the deputy CLP leader. The names of CLP leader and his deputy were declared by Chhattisgarh CM Bhupsh Bhagel and party’s screening committee chairman Avinash Pandey. The duo held a meeting with newly-elected MLAs and also talked to them individually. State Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said Rajesh Kumar Ram had been appointed as chief whip of the party and Chattrapati Yadav and Pratima Kumari Das as deputy chief whip. MLA Anand Shankar Dubey has been made the treasurer of the CLP. All MLAs, except two, attended the meeting. The two absentees were Abidur Rahman, who has been elected from Araria, and Manohar Prasad Singh from Manihari (SC). “Both had come to the party office on Thursday and were even present at the meeting convened by Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at 10, Circular Road residence of former CM Rabri Devi. However, they left for their hometowns as the Friday’s meeting was finalized later. It was not possible for them to come again,” Rathore said. Asked about rumours that some Congress MLAs are planning to leave the party, Rathore said, “All our 19 MLAs are loyal to the party.” MLAs’ supporters clash at Cong office: Supporters of two newly-elected Congress MLAs – Siddhartha Saurav (Bikram) and Vijay Shankar Dubey (Maharajganj) – clashed with each other when the meeting of MLAs was in progress at the state Congress headquarters in Patna on Friday. “Supporters of both the MLAs wanted their leader to be chosen as the leader of the legislature party. One of the supporters started using abusive language and it snowballed into a clash,” a party functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ajit-sharma-is-congress-legislature-party-leader/articleshow/79214365.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 14, 2020||---||Bihar: Ajit Sharma made Congress legislature party leader||PATNA: Newly-elected Bhagalpur MLA Ajit Sharma was on Friday chosen Congress legislature party (CLP) leader. Afaque Alam, who won the election from Kasba in Purnia, will be the deputy CLP leader. The names of CLP leader and his deputy were declared by Chhattisgarh CM Bhupsh Bhagel and party’s screening committee chairman Avinash Pandey. The duo held a meeting with newly-elected MLAs and also talked to them individually. State Congress spokesperson Rajesh Rathore said Rajesh Kumar Ram had been appointed as chief whip of the party and Chattrapati Yadav and Pratima Kumari Das as deputy chief whip. MLA Anand Shankar Dubey has been made the treasurer of the CLP. All MLAs, except two, attended the meeting. The two absentees were Abidur Rahman, who has been elected from Araria, and Manohar Prasad Singh from Manihari (SC). “Both had come to the party office on Thursday and were even present at the meeting convened by Tejashwi Prasad Yadav at 10, Circular Road residence of former CM Rabri Devi. However, they left for their hometowns as the Friday’s meeting was finalized later. It was not possible for them to come again,” Rathore said. Asked about rumours that some Congress MLAs are planning to leave the party, Rathore said, “All our 19 MLAs are loyal to the party.” MLAs’ supporters clash at Cong office: Supporters of two newly-elected Congress MLAs – Siddhartha Saurav (Bikram) and Vijay Shankar Dubey (Maharajganj) – clashed with each other when the meeting of MLAs was in progress at the state Congress headquarters in Patna on Friday. “Supporters of both the MLAs wanted their leader to be chosen as the leader of the legislature party. One of the supporters started using abusive language and it snowballed into a clash,” a party functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ajit-sharma-is-congress-legislature-party-leader/articleshow/79218572.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Pinarayi Vijayan in opposition’s crosshairs after Kodiyeri Balakrishnan steps down||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Opposition parties urged chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to emulate Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who they said set an example by relinquishing his position in the party. But, CPI state secretary Kanam Rajendran, who termed Friday’s event as an internal matter of CPM, said there was ‘nothing wrong in a leader availing leave for treatment’. “It was the chief minister who should have resigned first since the involvement of his office in the gold smuggling case has been proved beyond doubt. The resignation of the party secretary will be insufficient. CM should follow suit,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. He alleged that CPM is going through its worst crisis and if the chief minister is not ready to quit, the party will have to face much more insult in public. The party secretary has resigned and it cannot be termed a leave. The party secretary had gone to the US for treatment and he hadn’t availed leave then. He was forced to step down as his son is in jail now for alleged links with the ganja mafia, he added. “There is a difference of opinion within the party and this led to Balakrishnan’s ‘leave’. He was saying that the party and his son are two unrelated entities. However, all these claims have become futile and he was forced to admit that he too had a responsibility in the matter,” alleged Chennithala. BJP state president K Surendran said Balakrishnan was left with no other option. “The chief minister should accept his party secretary as a role model. It is unfortunate that the chief minister is continuing in office even when the investigation in the gold smuggling case has reached CMO. Instead of clinging to power, CM should step down. Kodiyeri had to resign since his son is in jail for links with ganja mafia. But, CM is challenging the people of Kerala even after his principal secretary was arrested and his additional private secretary summoned for questioning in gold smuggling case,” he said. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said Balakrishnan should have stepped down much earlier to avoid insult. "His decision to step down was a delayed one. He could have avoided controversies if he was willing to relinquish his post when the controversy involving his son arose," he said. Youth Congress state president Shafi Parambil said Balakrishnan’s action is a message for the CM “Pinarayi Vijayan should understand that his political health even worse than the party secretary,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pinarayi-in-oppositions-crosshairs-after-balakrishnan-steps-down/articleshow/79215424.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Rajkot||Bootlegger shot at, caught after 2km car chase in Gujarat's Patdi||RAJKOT: In a cinematic chase reminiscent of 1980s Bollywood potboilers, a bootlegger was caught after he was shot in his leg in a retaliatory firing by the police in Malvan village of Patdi taluka in Surendranagar district on Thursday night. A total of 239 bottles of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 23,900 were seized during the operation. According to the details of the incident, the police had received a tip-off that a car carrying IMFL bottles was scheduled to pass by Malvan village on Ahmedabad-Kutch highway. “When the car with the description given to us arrived we tried to stop it. However, it sped away, forcing us to chase it. After chasing the car for two kilometres, we overtook and made it stop. The accused suddenly opened fire at us,” said V N Jadeja, sub-inspector with Bajana police station, who had used a private car for the operation. After firing one round on the police, when the bootleggers tried to drive in reverse, their way was blocked by a truck coming from behind. “The bootleggers then took a U-turn and tried to flee. However, their car went off the road and crashed against the boundary of a farm,” described Suresh Mundhava, a constable with Bajana police station. There were two bootleggers in the car who jumped out of the car and fired two more rounds at the cops while running away from them. Sub-inspector Jadeja first fired two rounds in the air. However, when the bootleggers did not stop, he shot one of the bootleggers in his leg. “The bootlegger fell down and was caught by the cops. He identified himself as Bismillahkhan Jatmalek, a resident of Kherva village of Patdi taluka. The bootlegger who managed to escape was identified as Abidkhan Jatmalek, a native of Gedia village of Patdi taluka,” said Jadeja. The police took Bismillahkhan to Malvan primary health centre from where he was shifted to Surendranagar Civil Hospital where the police deployed security to guard him. Meanwhile, the police launched a manhunt for Abidkhan who dropped his country-made pistol with two spent cartridges in the farm during the chase. The police have seized the firearm and the cartridges. Abidkhan is a member of the Gedia gang involved in highway heists. He faces 13 cases including robberies, bootlegging and thefts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bootlegger-shot-at-caught-after-2km-car-chase-in-patdi/articleshow/79216298.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Surat||Diamond baron pays tribute to Fr Valles with PhD scholarship||SURAT: To pay tribute to Father Carlos Gonzales Valles, Santokbaa Awardee and an eminent Gujarati author who left his imprint on his readers’ minds with 78 precious books during his five decades’ stay in India, Shree Ramkrishna Exports in Surat has instituted endowed scholarship programme in his remembrance. SRK Knowledge Foundation (SRKKF) an initiative of the leading diamond company in Surat, aims to support education initiatives including PhD research work related to Gujarati literature and Mathematics in India with the fund. The scholarship is expected to benefit academically brilliant students from poor sections of the society in the country. The late Jesuit priest from Spain, who distinguished himself in diverse areas such as Mathematics and Gujarati literature, was better known as ‘Savaaya Gujarati’, which means better than a Gujarati. Father Valles passed away in Madrid, Sapin on November 9 at the age of 96. He has authored over 70 renowned books in Gujarati including Sadachar, Vyakti Ghadtar, Lagnasagar, Atmakathana Tukda and Shabdlok among others. He also contributed towards a new style of writing in Gujarati, using short sentences and conversational style. Father Valles was bestowed with the prestigious Santokbaa Humanitarian Award by the SRK foundation along with Lord Bhikhu Parekh and Sudha Murthy for their exemplary contributions in respective sector which have very positively impacted the society and encouraged competitive ideologies amongst the youth in 2015. Santokbaa Humanitarian Award, is a special award designed along the ideals of Santokbaa, mother of SRK chairman, Govind Dholakia for the aspiration of rising from the soil, positivity, love, care and collective growth. The award, instituted in the year 2006 honours the altruists from various fields who work tirelessly for the humankind. Talking with TOI, SRK chairman, Govind Dholakia said, “We are deeply saddened at the loss of this gem from literature and Mathematics community. We believe that the best way to honour Father Valles is to help those pursuing the same subject of work, as this way he will continue to live on among us.” Dholakia further said that the scholarship will support education initiatives including PhD research work related to Gujarati literature and Mathematics.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/diamond-baron-pays-tribute-to-fr-valles-with-phd-scholarship/articleshow/79216273.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Surat||Four, including two minors, held for robberies||SURAT: The detection of crime branch (DCB), Surat city, arrested four persons including two minors in connection with a series of robberies in the city last week. “Acting on a tip off, we have arrested Vijay alias Wanted alias Kalia Vaghela, 19, a resident of Sainath Society in Kapodra and Ravindra alias Ravi Chauhan, 19, a resident of Janta Apartment in Varachha area in the city. Vijay is a native of Sarkhadiya village in Sihor taluka of Bhavnagar and Ravi is a native of Bhojavadar village in Umrala taluka of Bhavnagar district. We have also arrested two juveniles. We nabbed them after receiving a tip off that the accused were roaming near Canal Road in Puna area in the city,” said a crime branch official. Police seized three mobile phones, a knife and a motorbike from their possession. “They adopted a modus operandi of intercepting commuters using a motorbike during night and would rob them at knifepoint. There were six persons involved in these crimes. Two accused have been identified as Sagar alias S D Solanki and Zahir alais Jaylo Pathan,” said police. Police said that the accused had chosen Amroli and Kamrej areas to target commuters, mostly two-wheelers, during night. The cops became vigilant and launched a search for the accused after a series of such incidents in these areas during the festival time. “During interrogation, the accused have confessed of having committed five robberies last week in Amroli and Kamrej areas,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/4-including-two-minors-held-for-robberies/articleshow/79216312.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mysuru||Those who have lost land for Nisarga Layout will be given sites, says Somanna||Mysuru: Housing minister V Somanna has said that sites will be given to people who have given their land for the formation of KRS Nisarga Layout at Yelwala hobli. Addressing reporters at Govt Guest House here on Friday, Somanna said that those who had parted with their land for the layout were disappointed at being deprived of sites. “Land losers have met me several times and demanded sites. After discussions with the authorities and the elected representatives, it was decided to give them sites,” he said. Somanna said Nisarga Layout at Gungral Chatra village in Yelwala hobli has been developed on 496acre land by spending Rs 686 crore. “It will have 6,309 sites, 207 houses, 18 CA sites, 12 commercial sites and 54 parks,” he said. Speaking on the recent rain and floods which had damaged properties and affected hundreds of people in the state, Somanna said more than 65,000 houses have been damaged. “The government has released Rs 1,710 crore for the rescue and rehabilitation work of the flood-affected regions. In the first instalment, the government provided Rs 1 lakh to each of those affected by the floods. The second instalment is taken by 7,000 house owners,” he said, adding that the government will ensure that all those affected by floods are duly compensated. “There is no dearth of funds for rehabilitation works. We have constructed new houses for people who have lost everything in floods. But some of them are not ready to relocate to new house,” he said. The government is contemplating on developing satellite towns across the state, he said. Answering a query on the recent remark by BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal on the change in guard — where he had said that B S Yediyurappa will not remain chief minister for long — Somanna said that they are small differences among the party leaders. “Yediyurappa, who is an undisputed leader, is our CM. Yatnal is a senior party leader and a close friend of mine. The differences have been resolved,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/those-who-have-lost-land-for-nisarga-layout-will-be-given-sites-says-somanna/articleshow/79213718.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ludhiana||2 die, 85 contract the virus||tnnLudhiana: Two residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 85 tested positive on Friday. The district casualties included an 88-year-old woman of Samrala, who had coronary artery disease, and a 45-year-old man of Chandigarh Road with urinary tract infection and chronic kidney and artery diseases.The day also saw a patient from outside the district succumbing to the virus and 13 outsiders testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the Ludhiana fatality figure was 859 and that of outsiders 346.Of the 85 new cases, 39 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), seven positive cases’ contacts, 23 from OPD, 12 through tracing process, one severe acute respiratory infection case, and two undertrials.The district case count is 21,245.So far, 19,663 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.55% of the total cases.There are 720 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-die-85-contract-the-virus/articleshow/79214166.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Surat||Talati and aide caught taking Rs 1,000 bribe, both detained||Surat: Sleuths of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB), Surat city, caught Palanpore village talati-cum-mantri Hiral Dholakia and her middleman Kanti Patel taking a bribe of Rs 1,000 on Friday. The ACB sleuths immediately detained both the accused and launched a probe. According to ACB officials, Hiral, a resident of Harikunj inVarachha area in the city, is posted at Polanpore village and holds an additional charge of Adajan village too. “She demanded a bribe for Rs 1,500 initially and later settled for Rs 1,000 from a complainant for preparing property records for his friend. The complainant did not want to give the bribe and approached the ACB office. Acting on this complaint, the ACB officials laid a trap at the Adajan city talati office where her aide Kanti was caught accepting the Rs 1,000 bribe. After the trap, the ACB detained both accused - Hiral and Kanti - and launched a probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/talati-and-aide-caught-taking-rs-1000-bribe-both-detained/articleshow/79216253.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Trichy||332 RTE seats filled in Trichy pvt schools, but 2,200 still vacant||A total of 332 seats under the right to education (RTE) act were filled in private schools in Trichy district on Thursday at the end of the second phase of admissions to the seats. This means, there were no takers for 2,207 RTE seats in the district that will go vacant if the state government decides to not go for yet another round of admission. Out of the total 4,207 RTE seats across 313 private schools in the district this year, 1,668 seats were filled in the first phase of admission. Since 2,539 seats were vacant, the state government decided to invite application again by extending RTE admissions. A total of 810 applications were received from October 12 to November 7 in the second phase. Since 60 schools received more applications than the seats available, random admission was conducted in these schools based on lot system. Admission was made on the spot in schools where the number of applications received was less than the available RTE seats. A senior official of the Trichy district chief education office said that 332 seats were filled at the end of second phase of admission. “Roughly, 500 were applications were rejected as they were deemed ineligible,” said the official. Asked on the 2,207 vacant seats, the official said the government will take a call on extending RTE admission to the third phase or leaving the seats vacant. Though it was anticipated that there would be good demand for RTE seats this year due to the pandemic, things did not turn out as expected. A good number of applicants were rejected for not residing within one km of the schools. The distance norm was two to three kilometres last year but the one-km norm was strictly adhered to this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/332-rte-seats-filled-in-trichy-pvt-schools-but-2200-still-vacant/articleshow/79216490.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 14, 2020||Business||Baring PE leads Rs 1,566cr round in RBL, buys 9.4%||Mumbai: RBL Bank (formerly Ratnakar Bank) has raised Rs 1,566 crore from private equity (PE) investors. These were led by Baring Private Equity Asia (BPEA), which will now hold a 9.44% stake in the bank. Following the mop-up, the bank’s total capital adequacy ratio has gone up to 18.7% and core equity tier-1 ratio to 17.4% Last month, RBL Bank reported a 165% jump in its September quarter net to Rs 144 crore. The bank had also said it has the RBI’s nod to sell a stake of up to 9.9% to Baring Asia’s Maple fund through a preferential issue. BPEA has made the investment through its vehicle Maple II BV, which has invested Rs 999 crore. The other investors in the preferential allotment were ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, which invested Rs 330 crore, Gaja Capital (an anchor investor in the bank since 2010, through its investment arm Gaja Capital India AIF Trust and Gaja Capital Fund II) invested Rs 150 crore, and CDC Group, a shareholder of the bank since March 2014, invested Rs 86 crore. The management of the 77-year old regional bank, with origins in Kolhapur, Maharashtra, changed hands in 2010 with veteran banker Vishwavir Ahuja taking charge as MD & CEO. Since then, it has expanded operations to cover nearly 88 lakh customers through a network of 398 branches and 402 ATMs spread across 28 states and Union territories. “The completion of the fund-raise strengthens the bank’s balance sheet and, at the same time, it allows us to further accelerate our investments in enhancing our capabilities and delivery platforms — both in digital and physical infrastructure. We are very well positioned to capture growth in our existing businesses, invest in newer products like affordable mortgages, which will strengthen our semi-urban and rural offering, and also potentially capture other interesting opportunities that may arise as we navigate the future. We are extremely well placed on capital, liquidity and distribution to now regain our momentum as we emerge out of the Covid-19 pandemic with greater resilience,” said Ahuja According to BPEA MD Jimmy Mahtani, India’s banking sector is at an inflection point where well-capitalised and tech-enabled banks have an advantage and potential to gain market share in the post-Covid recovery cycle. “RBL Bank scores highly on both measures. It has a market-leading position in its target segments, a best-in-class digital presence, and a strong management team that together make it one of the fastest-growing new-age banks in India. We are pleased to partner with RBL Bank in its next phase of growth,” said Mahtani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/baring-pe-leads-rs-1566cr-round-in-rbl-buys-9-4/articleshow/79216884.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Business||Sebi suspends Anugrah Broking||Mumbai: Markets regulator Sebi on Friday ordered scam-tainted Anugrah Stock Broking to stop its operations and barred its promoters Paresh Kariya and Sadhana Kariya from the market. The orders came on the back of an NSE forensic report that found the broker to have violated several market rules including misstatement about debtors and creditors, shortfall of client funds and securities, payments made to clients having running debit balance and discrepancies in maintenance of records. The broking house was illegally offering assured return schemes to its investors through which it lured several investors across India and eventually failed to meet its promises. According to some estimates, The scam could be up to Rs 1,000 crore. “Anugrah Stock Broking is suspended till the completion of the enquiry proceedings,” Sebi order said. The broking house, its directors, Teji Mandi Analytics (an authorised person of the broking house), the directors of Teji Mandi Analytics and Om Sri Sai Investments are directed not to dispose of any assets, the regulator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-suspends-anugrah-broking/articleshow/79217234.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Patna||Set up rest house for war widows in Patna: Ex-Army officers||PATNA: The Bihar Ex-servicemen Association (BESA) is hopeful that the next NDA government in the state will take initiative to set up a rest house for war widows in the state capital. “Rest houses have been set up for martyrs’ widows and their dependents in states like Punjab, Delhi and Maharashtra. In Bihar, war widows who come to Patna for different paper works have no place to stay,” BESA president Col (retd) V K Singh said. Singh said there are about 10,065 widows of the army men in Bihar as per the data available with the army headquarters in Danapur. “Of 10,065 army men’s widows in Bihar, at least 156 have been given the status of ‘veer naris’. The number of ex-servicemen is about 9,295 in Patna district alone,” he said. According to Singh, of 50,000 soldiers presently deployed in Ladakh, 5,000 are from Bihar regiment performing their duty at a height of 15,000 feet in zero degree temperature. He praised the move of the Telangana government to grant an ex gratia of Rs 5 crore to the Galwan Valley martyr of the 16th Bihar Regiment battalion Col Santosh Babu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/set-up-rest-house-for-war-widows-ex-army-officers/articleshow/79214148.cms||Kumod Verma
November 14, 2020||Patna||Oxford, LSU ex-students fail to win votes in Bihar||PATNA: The educational qualification of candidates seems to have made as little difference this election as it has in previous polls. Several highly educated but little-known candidates tasted defeat this time, making it evident that electors place their faith in familiar faces or vote along caste lines. Pushpam Priya Chaudhary, alumna of the London School of Economics and daughter of JD(U) functionary Binod Chaudhary, who floated her own party ‘The Plurals Party’ on International Women’s Day, received only 5,189 votes from Bankipur in Patna and 1,521 votes from Bisfi in Madhubani. An official of the party said voters were unable to think beyond caste politics. “All our candidates are educated. However, it will take time for people to accept change. Our party will work at the grassroots to connect with the people. We will prepare ourselves for the next assembly elections,” the official said. Manish Barriar, an alumnus of Oxford University who also contested the elections from Bankipur as an Independent, received even fewer votes than Chaudhury — 207 votes or only 0.15% of the total votes cast in the assembly segment. Both candidates had promised to improve the education system in the state and promote industrialisation. Nikhil Mandal, the grandson of BP Mandal, who contested the election for the first time from Madhepura on a JD(U) ticket, lost to Chandra Shekhar of RJD by a margin of 15,072 votes. Nikhil, who has a master’s degree in law from The Open Global University, Nagaland, has worked in the corporate sector and has also served as a financial adviser with IDBI. He practised in the Patna high court, before joining JD(U) as a spokesperson. Rajeev Kumar, convener of Bihar Election Watch, told TOI that lack of expectation from candidates and widespread ignorance among voters were the main reasons for people not being able to judge candidates on their educational qualification or the merit of their policies. “Caste is another important issue in Bihar elections. People want to vote for candidates who belong to their caste, irrespective of their background,” he said. Shaibal Gupta, a social scientist and founding member-secretary of Asian Development Research Institute in Patna, said all candidates have to spend time in Bihar and work at the grassroots in order to succeed. “Such intellectuals have to give time to the people to accept them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/degree-of-defeat-oxford-lsu-ex-students-fail-to-win-votes/articleshow/79214387.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 14, 2020||Patna||ECR GM reviews status of ongoing railway projects||PATNA: The general manager (GM) of the East Central Railway (ECR), L C Trivedi, has asked the officials concerned to expedite track doubling work on the Rajendra Pul near Mokama so that the huge traffic flow on the rail bridge can be streamlined. At a recent meeting held with the heads of different departments and the officials of the agencies involved in various railway projects, the GM laid emphasis on their completion within the stipulated time. ECR’s chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper on Thursday that the officials of the Ircon International Limited, Rail Vikas Nigam Limited and Dedicated Freight Corridor Corporation attended the review meeting and assured the GM that all the projects would be completed in time. “The GM asked the officials concerned to expedite track doubling work on the Rajendra Pul. At present, track doubling work is being carried out on the Hajipur-Bachhwara, Kiul-Gaya and Jayanagar-Kurtha routes and third line work on the Son Nagar-Patratu route,” the CPRO said, adding that work on new lines on the Neora-Daniyawan and Barbigha-Sheikhpura routes were going on in full swing. The railways is also carrying out work on construction of MEMU shed in Gaya at a cost of Rs 100 crore. “On completion, the Gaya MEMU shed will help in smooth maintenance of the MEMU rakes,” Rajesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-gm-reviews-status-of-ongoing-railway-projects/articleshow/79214393.cms||Kumod Verma
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Policemen give a second livelihood to sex workers in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Garima (name changed), a 35-year-old sex worker at Garrison Bastion Road, was having a tough time making ends meet during the pandemic. Lack of customers had made survival almost impossible. But now she has got help from an unlikely quarter — Delhi Police. Around 200 sex workers were roped in to paint diyas (clay lamps) this Diwali for the police force as a source of livelihood. They were taught to paint diyas in a three-day camp. Subsequently, a programme was organised on Tuesday and policemen from Central district purchased around 2,000 diyas worth Rs 50,000 from them. Besides this, each worker was given Rs 500 as a reward, along with a certificate, sweets and gifts. A community hall is being built near GB Road police post to give training in vocational courses to those women keen on learning new things and switching to alternative means of livelihood. DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said, “The sex workers were handed vouchers for medical check-up. The programme — Hunar Jyoti — was organised in coordination with District Legal Services Authority. Some of the women even showed interest in learning sewing.” “ASI Kiran Sethi, the in-charge of GB Road police post, has been regularly visiting several brothels and interacting with the women who don’t want to just stay dependent on sex work,” added Bhatia. GB Road has hundreds of brothels housing around a thousand sex workers. With no customers during the lockdown, life become tough for them. Even after restrictions were lifted and movement of people was allowed, they didn’t get many customers due to the Covid-19 scare. Sethi, who became in-charge of the police post a month ago, began with organising yoga sessions for the sex workers. “Initially, they were hesitant, but gradually some of them started coming forward. Some even said they tried to return to their families, but were not accepted. My aim is to ensure that more women get another form of employment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/policemen-give-a-second-livelihood-to-sex-workers/articleshow/79216507.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Surat||Man held for Rs 113 crore ITC fraud in Surat||SURAT: The Central Goods and Service Tax’s (CGST) Surat zone have unearthed a racket of shell companies fraudulently claiming Input Tax Credit (ITC) to the tune of Rs 113 crore. Officials on Friday arrested one person owning about half a dozen shell firms that fraudulently claimed ITC from the government exchequer. CGST officials said that Arshad Mohammed Nizam, mastermind of the racket was arrested on Friday and was produced before the chief judicial magistrate court in Surat after corona examination. About 47 premises were searched across the country including Surat, Ahmedabad and Mumbai, out of which most of the firms were found to be non-existing at the declared places of business and were found only on paper transactions. Preliminary investigation revealed that these firms received only fake invoices from other firms existing only on paper, without receipt of goods, but have availed ITC. Few firms owned by the accused such as AK Traders, Ram Trader, Naaz Traders, Al Qudus Traders etc. generated fake ITC to the tune of Rs 10 crore involving using bogus billing to the tune of Rs 55 crore and passed on the same to other entities. Sources said that the accused was booked under the section 132(1)(b) and 132(1)(c) of the CGST Act, 2017 which is punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years with fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/man-held-for-fraudulently-availing-rs-113-cr-in-itc/articleshow/79216380.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Ban on traffic announced for November 16||RAJKOT: In a notification issued on Wednesday, Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal banned the movement of two-wheelers, three-wheelers and four-wheelers on November 16.There will be a blanket ban on the vehicles from Dhebar Chowk to Sanganava Chowk, from Juni Khadpith to Lakhajiraj Road, from Sanganava Chowk to Garedia Kuva Road till Para Bazaar, from Dharmendra Road to Para Bazaar Road, from Ghee Kanta Road to Gandhi Chowk, from Lakhajiraj Road to Kandoi Bazaar Road, from Prahlad Cinema to Darji Bazaar, from Prahlad Cinema to Premila Road, from Dena Bank Chowk to Raiya Naka Tower on Mahatma Gandhi Road and from Karansinhji Chowk to the statue of Mahatma Gandhi. The vehicles will be allowed to ply from Luvana Para Main Road to Raiya Naka Tower, from Kotharia Police Chowky, Palace Road and Mochi Bazaar Post Office to Dena Bank Chowk, Dhebar Chowk and RMC Chowk, from Central Point Karansinhji Chowk to Bhupendra Road, from Diwanpara Police Chowki to Juni Khandpirth Nava Naka Chowk, Danapith Road and Ghi Pith Road. Two-way traffic will be allowed from Luvanapara one-way Mochi Bazaar to Nava Naka one-way road. The road between Kavi Nanalal Marg and Karansinhji Chowk will be closed and the traffic will be diverted via Central Point on Karansinhji Road. There will be no parking from 5 pm to 10 pm from Jilla Panchayat Chowk to the statue of Vivekanand on Yagnik Road. Four-wheelers will be allowed to be parked on Dr Homi Dastoor Marg and Dharmendra College Compound. Police vehicles, ambulances and the vehicles of the Fire Brigade will be exempted from this notification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ban-on-traffic-announced-for-nov-16/articleshow/79216374.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Rajkot||27-year-old bootlegger maligns girl for revenge||RAJKOT: A 27-year-old man, who was rejected by his girlfriend after he was caught in a case of bootlegging, decided to take revenge on her by maligning her image on social media. Accused Babudin Ansari of Varshamedi village of Anjar taluka in Kutch district circulated the 25-year-old woman’s objectionable pictures and video clips on WhatsApp and social media and also sent these to her family. Police said the accused was caught after the woman filed a rape complaint against Ansari. “The accused and the survivor used to work together in a firm in Anjar. The survivor broke up with Ansari after he was booked in a bootlegging case. After the break-up, Ansari decided to take revenge and created a bogus ID in the name of the survivor and sent her pictures and clips to her family members including her brother,” said an official from Anjar police station. “Ansari has been detained at present. He will be formally arrested once he undergoes the mandatory Covid-19 test,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/27-yr-old-bootlegger-maligns-girl-for-revenge/articleshow/79216362.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Rajkot||Gujarat: Festival of lights dispels darkness from lives of orphans||PALANPUR: The festival of lights is dispelling darkness from the lives of 100-odd orphans in North Gujarat’s Banaskantha district. On Friday, Banaskantha district collector Anand Patel distributed a kit comprising of clothes, sweets and crackers at Palanpur’s Nutan school and announced that 102 orphans will be given Rs 3,000 a month as support. On the lines of some developed countries, the state government has rolled out foster parenting scheme to promote adoption of orphans. The amount is given to foster parents of the orphan child. “Diwali is a festival of lights. Let the poor and the unfortunate feel that there is someone to care for them,” Patel told TOI. After Patel’s persuasion, an Ahmedabad-based donor came forward to distribute sweets, clothes and crackers to 600 families of sweepers in temple town Ambaji. In Patan, Gordhan Thakkar, continued spreading happiness in lives of poor and downtrodden for the 12th consecutive year. Thakkar brings poor and orphans from railway station area, footpath and market areas to shelter home where all are provided proper bath, haircut and later fed. This year, Thakkar received support from Beba and Lakshman Patni from Patni Mandal. “Unlike others, I do not worship wealth on Dhanteras. Instead, I do my best to help the poor and orphans as serving the poor is akin to worshipping god and the happiness you get by serving them is inexpressible,” said Thakkar, who brought festive fervour in the lives of 25 orphans this Dhanteras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/festival-of-lights-dispels-darkness-from-lives-of-orphans/articleshow/79216229.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Surat||GIDC urged not to vacate plots given to automobile sales SME units||SURAT: The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has urged the Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) to not vacate the plots allotted to the automobile sales and service SMEs in south Gujarat. In a representation to the GIDC managing director M Thennarasan, SGCCI stated that the GIDC authorities have been issuing notices to the automobile sales and service SMEs across south Gujarat for vacating the plots allotted to them, considering them as under commercial category. According to the National Industries Classification (NIC)-2008 and the MSME Act, 2006, the automobile sales and services units in the GIDC falls under the category of manufacturing and service activities, said SGCCI. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI said, “We received representation from the unit owners from south Gujarat regarding the notices issued by the GIDC for vacating the plots. We have sought legal advice into the same and that the GIDC can’t force such units considering them under the commercial category.” Navadiya added, “We have urged the GIDC authorities to revoke their decision and allow the units to operate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gidc-urged-not-to-vacate-plots-given-to-automobile-sales-sme-units/articleshow/79216390.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Patna||BJP, JD(U) bag four out of 7 council seats in Bihar||PATNA: BJP and JD (U) have won four out of the seven seats in the state legislative Council from the teachers and graduates’ constituencies. The results were declared on Thursday and Friday. The result of the Darbhanga graduates’ constituency is still awaited. The polling took place on October 22. The CPI retained both their seats. According to the results declared by the Election Commission, while Neeraj Kumar of JD (U) got elected from Patna graduates’ constituency, Nawal Kishore Yadav won from Patna teachers' constituency. Yadav has been elected for the fifth term. Neeraj defeated his nearest rival Azad Gandhi of RJD by a margin of around 8,252 votes. An estimated 39% of the 1,11,462 electors had exercised their franchise in Patna graduates’ constituency. Nawal Kishore Yadav (BJP) defeated his rival Narain Yadav by a margin of 1,296 votes. As per EC’s data, 53.83% of the total 13,755 electors had cast their votes in Patna teachers’ constituency. Similarly, Madan Mohan Jha of Congress emerged victorious from Darbhanga teachers’ constituency. He defeated BJP’s Suresh Prasad Roy by a margin of 689 votes. Jha is the state president of Congress. An estimated 71.73% of the total 13,344 electors had cast their votes. JD (U)'s Devesh Chandra Thakur defeated his rival Manish Mohan of RJD from Tirhut graduates’ constituency. Almost 46.33% of the 90,526 electors had turned up at polling booths to cast their votes in Tirhut graduates’ constituency. Sanjay Kumar Singh of CPI defeated Narendra Prasad Singh of BJP in Tirhut teachers’ constituency. An estimated 63.77% of the 8,205 electors exercised their franchise in Tirhut teachers' constituency. Kedar Pandey of CPI was re-elected from Saran teachers' constituency. An estimated 69.77% of the 11,408 electors cast their votes. N K Yadav of BJP emerged victorious in Kosi graduates’ constituency. The biennial legislative council elections for eight Council seats were held in four graduates’ constituencies of Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi and four teachers’ constituencies of Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Saran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-jdu-bag-four-out-of-7-council-seats/articleshow/79214249.cms||Ramashankar
November 14, 2020||Business||Citi offers home loans from 6.75%||Mumbai: Citibank has joined the mortgage rate war by offering home loans starting from 6.75%, which is lower than what some of the leading home finance companies and banks are offering. Citi has also waived processing fees on home loans up to December 31, 2020. Unlike other lenders that have linked their home loans to the Reserve Bank of India’s repo rate, Citi’s are linked to the yield on the 91-day treasury bill. So far, since the RBI made it mandatory to use external benchmarks, the treasury bill has been more effective in transmitting rates. While the RBI’s repo has fallen 115 basis points (100bps = 1 percentage point) from 5.15% to 4%, the treasury bill-linked rate has fallen from 5.12% to 3.16% — a decline of 196bps. “Citi was the first to launch a market-linked home loan rate in 2018. Those customers who opted to avail the 3-month treasury bill rate-linked loan have benefited significantly from the benchmark rate,” said Rohit Ranjan, head of secured lending at Citibank India. The flip side is that the transmission is more effective even when rates rise Citi announced its home loan rates as part of its festival season offers, which include double the reward points for all debit card customers and special rates on loan products. “We are prioritising offers for products and services that we have found are of most relevance to our customers and are also giving them special rates to support their aspirations. Customers are also starting to take time off to spend time with their families and so we have lined up some exciting domestic travel and stay options,” said Citi India CEO Ashu Khullar. In other special rates, the bank is offering personal loans at below 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/citi-offers-home-loans-from-6-75/articleshow/79217122.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 14, 2020||Trichy||Butterfly park in Trichy reopens after seven months||Trichy: The tropical butterfly conservatory Trichy (TBCT) opened for the public on Thursday after a gap of seven months. Kids below 10 years and adults above 60 years will not be allowed entry considering their safety amid Covid-19 pandemic. Staggered entry has also been introduced as only 100 people would be allowed to enter the premises per hour to prevent crowding at one place. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district forest officer D Sujatha said that about 150 people visited the conservatory on Thursday. The numbers may shoot up significantly in the next few days because of Diwali holidays.On the arrangements made by the forest department to check Covid-19 spread,She said visitors will have to wash their feet with mild disinfectant before entering the conservatory. Masks have been made compulsory, hand sanitizers and hand wash arrangements have been made at various spots inside the conservatory. “We were eagerly waiting for the reopening of the conservatory,” said S Naveen, an engineering college student, who visited the conservatory on Thursday. “The last few months were hectic considering the pandemic and online classes. Since it is not too far from the city with considerable green cover, we found the visit refreshing,” he added. Forest department was receiving frequent inquiries for the possible date of reopening ever since the lockdown norms were eased. A proposal was sent to the state government by the forest department informing the preparatory measures taken to prevent Covid-19 spread in case public are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/butterfly-park-in-trichy-reopens-after-seven-months/articleshow/79216521.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Dhanteras: City takes shine to gold, silver coins||Ludhiana: Confusion prevailed on the date of Dhanteras because of which some people observed it on Thursday and some on Friday. And a huge rush was witnessed in the markets on both the days. This Dhanteras, gold and silver jewellery and items were the first choice of residents, though there were crowds at home appliances and utensil stores as well. However, the festival didn’t remain favourable for the automobile sector, as several dealerships reported very low sales against the earlier trend. Mala Dhanda, managing director of Dhanda Jewellers, said, “There has been a change in the buying pattern of customers. In the past few years, the trend of buying silver, gold and jewellery had started declining. But now residents are more inclined towards savings and feel that the best and the safest thing is investment in precious metals. Many residents, who earlier spent huge amounts on crackers, turned to buying gold coins of 1 gram and 2 gram, which cost less than what they spent on fireworks.”Big stocks of gold and silver coins arrived for this Diwali at city’s jewellery showrooms. Maximum sale was recorded for 1 gram, 2 gram, 4 gram and 8 gram gold coins, and silver coins of all available sizes. Presently, a 1-gram gold coin is available for around Rs 5,700, while silver coin options start from Rs 1,000 and a 100-gram silver bar is available for about Rs 7,500.However, all jewellers were not satisfied with the sudden rush, as they said it would not benefit local jewellers, but only the brands. Anand Sikri, president of Ludhiana Jewellers’ Association, said, “The biggest beneficiaries of spurt in gold and silver coins’ and biscuits’ sale are the brand showrooms. Besides, the coins are also available online on several e-commerce websites. There was a lukewarm response for jewellery.”Automobile dealerships didn’t see good times on Dhanteras. The owner of a dealership said, “Very low sales were witnessed this time as against the previous years. Record sales were witnessed in October across India, as due to lockdown several people had postponed vehicle buying. So we can say overall, there has been a boom since October.”Amit Bakshi, manager of a home appliances showroom, said, “There has been a huge turnout of people since Thursday. The good response is helping us sail over the gloomy pandemic period. We also got many orders from corporates and other businessmen for buying home appliances as gifts for their employees.”Simaranjot Singh, owner of an electronics’ store, said, “There were few customers in the beginning of this week, but the footfall has increased since Thursday. Maximum people are opting for mobile phones, followed by LED TVs, washing machines and microwave ovens.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/dhanteras-city-takes-shine-to-gold-silver-coins/articleshow/79214185.cms||Mohit Behl
November 14, 2020||---||Oxford, LSU ex-students fail to win votes in Bihar||PATNA: The educational qualification of candidates seems to have made as little difference this election as it has in previous polls. Several highly educated but little-known candidates tasted defeat this time, making it evident that electors place their faith in familiar faces or vote along caste lines. Pushpam Priya Chaudhary, alumna of the London School of Economics and daughter of JD(U) functionary Binod Chaudhary, who floated her own party ‘The Plurals Party’ on International Women’s Day, received only 5,189 votes from Bankipur in Patna and 1,521 votes from Bisfi in Madhubani. An official of the party said voters were unable to think beyond caste politics. “All our candidates are educated. However, it will take time for people to accept change. Our party will work at the grassroots to connect with the people. We will prepare ourselves for the next assembly elections,” the official said. Manish Barriar, an alumnus of Oxford University who also contested the elections from Bankipur as an Independent, received even fewer votes than Chaudhury — 207 votes or only 0.15% of the total votes cast in the assembly segment. Both candidates had promised to improve the education system in the state and promote industrialisation. Nikhil Mandal, the grandson of BP Mandal, who contested the election for the first time from Madhepura on a JD(U) ticket, lost to Chandra Shekhar of RJD by a margin of 15,072 votes. Nikhil, who has a master’s degree in law from The Open Global University, Nagaland, has worked in the corporate sector and has also served as a financial adviser with IDBI. He practised in the Patna high court, before joining JD(U) as a spokesperson. Rajeev Kumar, convener of Bihar Election Watch, told TOI that lack of expectation from candidates and widespread ignorance among voters were the main reasons for people not being able to judge candidates on their educational qualification or the merit of their policies. “Caste is another important issue in Bihar elections. People want to vote for candidates who belong to their caste, irrespective of their background,” he said. Shaibal Gupta, a social scientist and founding member-secretary of Asian Development Research Institute in Patna, said all candidates have to spend time in Bihar and work at the grassroots in order to succeed. “Such intellectuals have to give time to the people to accept them,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/degree-of-defeat-oxford-lsu-ex-students-fail-to-win-votes/articleshow/79218597.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 14, 2020||Patna||Trader shot at, robbed of Rs 5 lakh in Hajipur||PATNA: A salt trader was shot at and robbed of Rs 5 lakh by two motorcycle-borne criminals at Hathsarganj under the Town police station area in Hajipur on Friday. The trader, Anuj Kumar alias Chotu (32), who sustained gunshot injury, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hajipur. Anuj owns a wholesale salt shop in Gudri Bazaar locality of Hajipur. Sadar SDPO Raghav Dayal said the incident took place around 10am when the trader was on way to the State Bank of India’s Anjanpir branch to deposit the money. “As the criminals intercepted him, Anuj fled towards a nearby shop with the bag containing money by abandoning his bike. The criminals opened fire targeting Anuj. He fell down near the shop and forced by the criminals to hand over the bag containing money. The criminals fled after committing the crime,” the SDPO added. Dayal said police have started an inquiry into the incident. “Efforts are on to identify the criminals with the help of CCTV camera footages,” the SDPO said. In another incident, criminals shot at a jewellery shop owner, Preetam Sah (30), on Mahnar main road near Bidupur market when he was returning home after closing his shop around 9.30pm on Thursday. Dayal said Sah, who sustained four bullet injuries, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Patna. “Criminals had opened fire with an intention to kill Sah. Three empty cartridges were recovered from the spot. Preliminary investigations revealed that an extortion was demanded from Sah earlier,” the SPDO said, adding one suspect has been detained in connection with the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trader-shot-at-robbed-of-rs-5l-in-hajipur/articleshow/79214315.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Trainee DSP arrested on rape, blackmail charges||PATNA: A trainee deputy superintendent of police was arrested for allegedly raping his cousin several years back besides blackmailing and mentally harassing her after coming into service. Bhagalpur police arrested Somesh Kumar Shivkumar Mishra from his father’s railway quarter at Jharna Colony under Jirwawadi police station area of Sahebganj district in Jharkhand on Thursday and produced him in a Bhagalpur court before forwarding him to jail. Mishra was undergoing training at Bihar Police Academy (BPA) in Rajgir (Nalanda). The home department had suspended Mishra on September 29 this year after prima facie finding him guilty of indiscipline, dereliction of duty, corrupt practises and moral lapses. He was directed to report to Shahabad range DIG office and a departmental proceeding had been initiated against him. Mishra had cleared the combined entrance examination of Bihar Public Service Commission in 2018 after which he was selected for the DSP post in Bihar police. Women’s police station SHO Rita Kumari on Friday told TOI over phone that the victim had written to senior officers at state police headquarters alleging that Mishra had started harassing and blackmailing her. “Her three-page complaint to the police headquarters was forwarded to Bhagalpur police. An FIR on that basis was lodged with Women’s police station on March 20 this year,” Ritu said, adding that the victim hails from Bhagalpur. She said the victim provided their WhatsApp conversations besides CCTV camera footages proving that Mishra had reached Kolkata last year to threaten her. “She alleged that Mishra had raped her way back in 2009 after spiking her drinks during her visit to Delhi. That time, the accused had also recorded video of the incident, she alleged. Mishra again started harassing her after joining the police service last year. Then only she approached the senior police officers,” the SHO said. She said Mishra visited Sahebganj more than a month back to inform her that he had contracted Covid-19. When asked, Bhagalpur SSP Ashish Bharti said, “Mishra contacted the woman after joining the training though she had got married in 2015,” he said. Bharti said the departmental inquiry found the allegations labelled against Mishra prima facie true. “Even the police investigation after registering an FIR found the allegations against Mishra true after which an arrest warrant was procured a week back and he was arrested from Sahebganj,” Bharti said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/trainee-dsp-arrested-on-rape-blackmail-charges/articleshow/79214211.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 14, 2020||---||BJP, JD(U) bag four out of 7 council seats in Bihar||PATNA: BJP and JD (U) have won four out of the seven seats in the state legislative Council from the teachers and graduates’ constituencies. The results were declared on Thursday and Friday. The result of the Darbhanga graduates’ constituency is still awaited. The polling took place on October 22. The CPI retained both their seats. According to the results declared by the Election Commission, while Neeraj Kumar of JD (U) got elected from Patna graduates’ constituency, Nawal Kishore Yadav won from Patna teachers' constituency. Yadav has been elected for the fifth term. Neeraj defeated his nearest rival Azad Gandhi of RJD by a margin of around 8,252 votes. An estimated 39% of the 1,11,462 electors had exercised their franchise in Patna graduates’ constituency. Nawal Kishore Yadav (BJP) defeated his rival Narain Yadav by a margin of 1,296 votes. As per EC’s data, 53.83% of the total 13,755 electors had cast their votes in Patna teachers’ constituency. Similarly, Madan Mohan Jha of Congress emerged victorious from Darbhanga teachers’ constituency. He defeated BJP’s Suresh Prasad Roy by a margin of 689 votes. Jha is the state president of Congress. An estimated 71.73% of the total 13,344 electors had cast their votes. JD (U)'s Devesh Chandra Thakur defeated his rival Manish Mohan of RJD from Tirhut graduates’ constituency. Almost 46.33% of the 90,526 electors had turned up at polling booths to cast their votes in Tirhut graduates’ constituency. Sanjay Kumar Singh of CPI defeated Narendra Prasad Singh of BJP in Tirhut teachers’ constituency. An estimated 63.77% of the 8,205 electors exercised their franchise in Tirhut teachers' constituency. Kedar Pandey of CPI was re-elected from Saran teachers' constituency. An estimated 69.77% of the 11,408 electors cast their votes. N K Yadav of BJP emerged victorious in Kosi graduates’ constituency. The biennial legislative council elections for eight Council seats were held in four graduates’ constituencies of Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Kosi and four teachers’ constituencies of Patna, Tirhut, Darbhanga and Saran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-jdu-bag-four-out-of-7-council-seats/articleshow/79218522.cms||Ramashankar
November 14, 2020||---||Supporters float Kameshwar Chaupal’s name for Bihar deputy CM’s post||PATNA: BJP senior Sushil Kumar Modi has been the Bihar deputy CM in all the four NDA governments headed by Nitish Kumar, but the name of the party’s Dalit face and Hindutva hardliner Kameshwar Chaupal on Friday suddenly popped up as the likely candidate for the post. As Chaupal has been a well-known face actively associated with the Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) since the mid-1980s as its state organization secretary and also with the Ram temple movement, the news took the political circles by surprise. The man who had laid the first brick for the ‘shilanyas’ of Ram temple at Ayodhya on November 9, 1989 and has been made a member of the Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust for its construction this year, was greeted with slogans of “deputy CM kaisa ho, Kameshwar Chaupal jaisa ho’ by his supporters on his arrival at Patna airport from Delhi on Friday. Chaupal, who had lost to Ram Vilas Paswan in the 1991 parliamentary election and again remained unsuccessful in the 1995 assembly election, was MLC from 2002 to 2014. He had lost the 2014 parliamentary election from his home district Supaul. When asked if he was an aspirant for the deputy CM’s post in the NDA government to be headed by Nitish, Chaupal told the media at the airport amid chanting of Jai Shri Ram and Bharat Mata Ki Jai slogans: “I am just a ‘sipahi’ (worker) of the organization (read BJP). Whatever responsibility the party gives me I will fulfil it.” However, repeated attempts to contact him failed as his mobile phone had stopped responding. Some BJP leaders said, preferring anonymity, that it “ambiguous and baseless claim planted by some interested group”. However, insiders felt that some well-placed “interested groups” within the BJP wanted to throw a “red herring at Nitish” as Chaupal has been associated with the Ram temple movement. “Those around Nitish have also been insisting on the post of state assembly Speaker for the JD(U). Since November 2005, Nitish has always had a JD (U) man as Speaker — first Uday Narayan Choudhary and then Vijay Kumar Choudhary,” a state BJP insider said. “Therefore, BJP will like to have two posts of deputy CM for itself — one for Chaupal and another for Sushil Kumar Modi,” he said, adding that the “final outcome” would be clear on November 15 at the joint meeting of the NDA legislators. Incidentally, senior state BJP leaders have already been tipped to be present in Delhi on Saturday, when the parliamentary board will meet to resolve all the issues regarding the NDA government formation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/supporters-float-chaupals-name-for-deputy-cms-post/articleshow/79218653.cms||Abhay Singh
November 14, 2020||Patna||Prohibition law should be amended in Bihar: Jharkhand BJP MP||PATNA: Days before formation of the new NDA government in Bihar, BJP MP from Godda in Jharkhand Nishikant Dubey on Friday made an appeal to JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar to amend prohibition law as those who want to drink are taking the roads to Nepal and Bihar’s neighbouring states, causing revenue loss to the state. Dubey tweeted that many booze lovers from Bihar often visit Nepal, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh just to consume liquor. “Total prohibition in Bihar has hit state’s revenue apart from encouraging corruption in police and excise departments,” Dubey tweeted. Total prohibition was enforced in Bihar by the then Nitish Kumar-led Mahagathbandhan government on April 1, 2016. The RJD and Congress had also promised prior to the just concluded Bihar assembly elections to review the state’s prohibition law if elected to power.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prohibition-law-should-be-amended-in-bihar-jharkhand-bjp-mp/articleshow/79214273.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 14, 2020||Patna||Tension after clash during victory procession, 2 held||PATNA: Tension prevailed in Jamua village of East Champaran following a group clash during a victory procession taken out by the supporters of BJP candidate Pawan Kumar Jaiswal after the election result of Dhaka constituency announced Tuesday night. A mosque was partially damaged in stone pelting during the clash, in which four persons were injured. Two persons have been arrested in this connection. The village is part of Dhaka assembly constituency from where Jaiswal garnered 99,792 votes to defeat his nearest rival Faisal Rahman of RJD, who got 89678 votes. An FIR was lodged with Dhaka police station on the written complaint by one Mohammad Nizamuddin. Dhaka police station SHO Abhay Kumar on Friday told TOI that the situation was peaceful and no further untoward incident took place in the village where a police officer and 15 policemen were deployed to maintain law and order. Kumar said those in the victory procession had pelted stones on the mosque. “The clash took place when people in the procession were asked not to play loud music and raise slogans as namaz was being offered inside the mosque. Initially there were very few people in the procession, but later their number increased to about 150. He said Pawan Sah and Vinod Sah, both in their early 20s from Jamua and named accused along with 29 others in the FIR, were arrested. He said the other accused are also from the same village and evading arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tension-after-clash-during-victory-procession-2-held/articleshow/79214352.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 14, 2020||Varanasi||STF brings fraudster arrested in MP to Varanasi on transit remand||VARANASI: The Varanasi field unit of STF brought a fraudster, arrested in Ratlam district in Madhya Pradesh, to Varanasi on transit remand on Friday. The STF nabbed the absconding member of an interstate gang of cheats, Rajesh Kumar alias Santosh Dubey, carrying a reward of Rs 50,000 on his head from his home district Ratlam on November 11. According to the STF, the gang was involved in cheating people in the name of providing them jobs in foreign countries. An FIR was lodged against the gang members at Varanasi Cantt police station under sections 420, 406, 323, 342, 506, 386 and 120B of IPC in November 2019. Three other members including the kingpin Rajveer Yadav of Azamgarh, Kapil alias Bhashkar alias Bhatia of Nepal and Pawan Gandhi of Kolkata had already been arrested earlier. Acting on a tip-off, the STF team led by inspector Anil Kumar Singh, went to Ratlam and arrested Rajesh in Gandhi Nagar locality. The investigation revealed that the gang used to advertise job offers in countries like the USA and Canada through social media platforms. Then the aspirants were asked to pay Rs 15 lakh to 20 lakh through hawala only after getting the job abroad. After negotiation the aspirants were called to Varanasi in the name of boarding the flight but on reaching the city the aspirants were made captive and compelled to talk to family members on gun point demanding for payment of the promised amount. After collecting the payments, the aspirants were freed near the railway station. During interrogation it came to light that so far about 40 persons got trapped in the gang’s net. An Ahmadabad resident Naresh Chunnilal Modi had lodged an FIR with Phoolpur police station in Varanasi in 2017. He said that he had paid Rs. 14 lakh to them. Another victim, Tushar V Patel of Ahmedabad also lodged an FIR with Varanasi Cantt police station on December 3, 2019. He had also paid Rs. 20 lakh for getting a job abroad. Further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/stf-brings-fraudster-arrested-in-mp-to-city-on-transit-remand/articleshow/79216699.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||Mahoba case: Suspended IPS declared absconder||LUCKNOW: A special court in Lucknow on Friday declared suspended IPS officer and former Mahoba SP, Manilal Patidar, and two other policemen absconders in case of abetment to suicide of a trader Indrakant Tripathi. Investigation officer of the case, ASP (crime), Prayagraj, Ashutosh Mishra said that special judge (anti-corruption) Gaurav Sharma on Friday passed an order proclaiming Patidar, suspended inspector Devendra Shukla and constable Arun Yadav as absconders under Section 82 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). On September 8, trader Indrakant Tripathi had uploaded a video on social media accusing then Mahoba SP Manilal Patidar of extortion. He claimed that Patidar should be held responsible if something happens to him. Hours later, Tripathi was found in his car with a gunshot injury on his neck. He was admitted to a hospital where he died on September 13. Patidar was suspended and booked for attempt to murder. However, on the directions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, an SIT was formed which claimed that Tripathi had allegedly shot himself. Police had filed an application before the court demanding that Patidar and two others be declared absconders and action be initiated against him on the ground that he was evading arrest despite a warrant issued by the court on October 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mahoba-case-suspended-ips-declared-absconder/articleshow/79217084.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ludhiana||With arrest of three, inter-state gang of vehicle-lifters busted||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police busted a gang of vehicle-lifters, with the arrest of three on Thursday. The city cops have brought the accused here from Pune on a production warrant.The police claimed to have solved at least five incidents of vehicle lifting in Ludhiana, Chandigarh and Panchkula with the arrest of Deepak Khanna, 40, of New Delhi, Harpreet Singh, 32, of Patiala, and Manjit Singh, 32, of Pune.Three SUVs and a car have been recovered from them.The accused mostly stole luxury cars, took those to Pune, dismantled them and sold their parts. They had stolen six cars from Ludhiana, Chandigarh and Panchkula between September 6 and October 8. Of them, four have been recovered.Deputy commissioner of police (DCP-detective) SPS Dhidhsa said, “After we received a tip-off, we alerted the Pune police who nabbed the accused. As the gang has also lifted vehicles from Ludhiana, we brought them here on production warrant for questioning.”Harpreet is a BTech and good in using technology for executing thefts. “He can hack car security systems and open their locks. They would drive the stolen cars to Pune, where Manjit owns a workshop. After dismantling them in the workshop, they would sell their parts. They have also sold some of the stolen cars using documents of vehicles that were damaged in accidents. After executing the thefts, they would stay at a rented accommodation in Zirakpur. They have links with gangs of vehicle-lifters in Pune and Uttar Pradesh,” he added.Deepak was already facing trials in 35 cases. Harpreet and Manjit were booked in 10 and 15 cases, respectively, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/with-arrest-of-three-inter-state-gang-of-vehicle-lifters-busted/articleshow/79214196.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Agra||In a first, prisoners in UP will not be able to meet their sisters on Bhai Dooj||AGRA: For the first time, the jail authorities in Uttar Pradesh have banned inmates from meeting their sisters and relatives on Bhai Dooj on November 16. The ban imposed in the wake of Covid-19 will be applicable in all the 71 prisons of the state. According to the jail authorities, the sisters and relatives can leave packed sweets and other items for their brothers in the prisons. Helpdesks have also been set up outside the jails. The directives issued by the director-general (prisons) Anand Kumar mentioned that the gift items received from the relative of the prisoners should be kept in an envelope. The name of the prisoner, father’s name and relative’s detail should be mentioned on it. All the items should be properly checked and sanitized before being handed over to the prisoners on November 16. The senior official has also directed for the arrangement of special food for the prisoners on the occasion. Agra district jail superintendent Shashikant Mishra said, “Every year around 2,500 people visit Agra district jail to meet their relatives in jail on Bhai Dooj. Unfortunately, due to the ongoing Covid-19pandemic, no meeting can be allowed in the jail. On Friday, gifts were received for over 200 prisoners. The process will continue till November 14." So far, over 1,500 prisoners have tested Covid-19 positive in overcrowded prisons of UP. However, the majority of them have recovered from the infection. Mishra said, “Besides providing special food to the prisoners, we will be organizing kirtan in the jail premises. Their favorite songs will also be played on jail radio”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-a-first-prisoners-in-up-will-not-be-able-to-meet-their-sisters-on-bhai-dooj/articleshow/79214216.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 14, 2020||Agra||Mathura court rejects bail plea of 3 ‘CFI’ men, accused to move high court now||AGRA: A court in UP’s Mathura on Friday rejected the bail plea of three men who were booked and arrested along with a Kerala journalist while they were going to a village in Hathras to meet the family members of an alleged gang-rape and murder victim. Initially detained under section 151 of the CrPC on suspicion on October 5, all the four men were later booked under stringent sedition charges. They were also booked under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). UP Police claimed that all the four men were part of Popular Front of India (PFI) and Campus Front of India (CFI). Bail applications of Atiq-ur-Rahman, Masood Ahmad and Mohammad Aalam were rejected by additional district and sessions judge Mayur Jain. The judge cited “the nature and gravity of the charges against the accused” while nixing the applications. All the four accused, including the Delhi-based journalist Siddique Kappan, are currently lodged in Mathura jail. Defence lawyer Madhuvan Chaturvedi told TOI that the accused will now approach the high court for the bail. “A habeas corpus petition of the three men is already listed in Allahabad high court. The hearing will take place on November 17,” he said. While journalist Kappan’s habeas corpus petition is listed in Supreme Court, and its hearing is likely to take place on November 16, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-court-rejects-bail-plea-of-3-cfi-men-accused-to-move-high-court-now/articleshow/79214205.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Trichy||Two murdered in Pudukottai, Karur districts||TRICHY: A daily wager and a 23-year-old man were murdered in two different incidents in Pudukottai and Karur districts on Friday. They were identified as Veeraiah, 45, of Arimalam in Pudukottai and Madanraj of North Ganapathypalayam in Karur. Veeraiah has been missing since Wednesday evening prompting his wife to lodge a complaint with K Puthupatti police. He was last spotted boozing with some of his friends in the village. On Friday morning, the body of a middle-aged man was found at an isolated place near Paambaru in Arimalam. K Puthupatti police recovered the body and sent it for post mortem to Pudukottai medical college hospital. The body had signs of torture and the mouth was stuffed with cloth, police said. They said the deceased could have been killed by his friends following a spat and that a search is on for the person who found him. In the Karur murder, 23-year-old Madanraj was hacked to death over a financial dispute. Police said he was involved in some financial dealings with Mohanraj of Venkateswara street, Thanthonimalai in the district. Madanraj went to Mohanraj’s place on Friday morning along with his friend Boopathy. As a heated argument turned into physical assault, Mohanraj took a machete and attacked Madanraj and Boopathy. Madanraj suffered serious injuries and died on the spot whereas Boopathy rushed to hospital with serious injuries. Thanthonimalai police arrested Mohanraj and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-murdered-in-pudukottai-karur-dists/articleshow/79216529.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM bets on A Vijayaraghavan’s diplomacy||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: “It is a philosophical question; not a logical one”. This was the answer given by A Vijayaraghavan to a reporter who had asked if the arrest of Bineesh Kodiyeri would weaken Kodiyeri Balakrishnan as he would now seem to be a leader who cannot even lead his family on the right path. The tit for tat reply, accompanied by his trademark wry smile, took the fizz out of the aggressive scribe’s words. Vijayaraghavan, who was once a firebrand student leader, now enjoys diplomacy. As the LDF convener, he handles myriad complaints, of both constituents and allies, tactfully. The channel of dialogue he opened brought two major allies from the opposition camp to the Left fold without much hassles. When the party had to look for a moderate Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, it was natural that the mantle fell on Vijayaraghavan than the tough leader MV Govindan. The leader from Malappuram has been a trusted lieutenant of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan since early 2000s when infighting between Pinarayi and VS had rocked the party. “As a member and chief whip of the party in Rajya Sabha, Vijayaraghavan was closely associated with CPM’s central leadership. He was based in Delhi and had effectively conveyed the position of Pinarayi group, in the ongoing infighting, to the leaders. In central committee meetings, he was the voice of Vijayan, who minced no words to attack VS and followers,” said a CPM leader on condition of anonymity. In 2010, when his second term in Rajya Sabha ended, Vijayan wanted him to shift base to Thiruvananthapuram. Soon, he replaced Vaikom Viswan as the LDF convener. As CPM state secretariat member, he was given the responsibility which Vijayan held before taking over as CM. In 1989, when he was just 36, Vijayaraghavan won Lok Sabha election from Palakkad by defeating senior congress leader V S Vijayaraghavan. Coming from a modest background, Vijayaraghavan completed BA and LLB from Calicut University. He was hard working, and his academic pursuits helped him shine in Rajya Sabha debates. He had raised his voice for the farmers in the House as the leader of All India Agricultural Workers’ Union. Vijayaraghavan, 67, is married to R Bindu who is the vice-principal of Kerala Varma College. She is active in politics too and had served as the mayor of Thrissur. The couple have a son. His last electoral debacle was in Kozhikode Lok Sabha seat when he had lost to Congress leader MK Raghavan. Five years later, his nasty comment about UDF candidate in Alathur Ramya Haridas had triggered a wave of criticism and it added to the rout of CPM in Lok Sabha polls. In the coming days when CPM faces an acid test, he will have to watch his words that usually comes to his rescue during a crisis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cpm-bets-on-vijayaraghavans-diplomacy/articleshow/79215437.cms||B Sreejan
November 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Man found murdered near Sidhwan Canal||tnnLudhiana: An unidentified man was found murdered on the railway tracks near Sidhwan Canal on Thursday evening.A passerby sounded the police on spotting the body.Atam Nagar police post in-charge ASI Sukhdeep Singh said, “The deceased seems to be around 40 years old. Prima facie investigation suggests that the accused first slit the man’s throat with a sharp-edged weapon and then hit a heavy stone or a brick on his face to disfigure it. The accused did it to conceal the identity of the deceased. No cellphone or identity proof was found on or near the body.” The police are trying to identify the deceased. “He was wearing a grey-blue t-shirt, grey trousers and slippers and had a tattoo of ‘OM’ on right hand. We are checking the missing persons’ complaints lodged in the city police stations,” the ASI added. A case has been registered under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-found-murdered-near-sidhwan-canal/articleshow/79214208.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||No dark Diwali: PCL assures 24-hour power in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) has charted an exhaustive plan to ensure there will be no power outages in the state on Diwali. Additional chief secretary, energy, Arvind Kumar, said the corporation will supply 24-hour power to the entire state for three days — from Dhanteras till Diwali. He said this has become possible due to significant drop in the demand in the wake of pleasant weather conditions. “Therefore, power availability is no issue,” he said. “Still, if needed, we would light up power plants which are under reserve shut down because of the drop in demand,” Kumar told TOI. He said UPPCL had managed to supply 24,000MW power during peak period earlier this year. “At present, the state demand is at only 15,000MW, which can be easily fulfilled,” he added. Kumar said all divisions have been alerted for preventive maintenance of power distribution infrastructure for swift redressal of power outages during the festival. This includes maintenance of power distribution transformers through oil top up and electricity load balancing. At the same time, UPPCL has asked the distribution companies to expedite the work of providing power supply under the Saubhagya scheme. “Many houses which did not have power supply would thus get illuminated during the festival of lights,” he said. Also, isssuing of power connections under Jhatpat scheme and Nivesh Mitra would also be expedited, Kumar said. The distribution companies have been asked to report the number of connections given during Diwali to UPPCL. “For this we are also using social media platforms to get the feedback from the ground level,” he said. For instance, the Paschimanchal distribution company provide 1,000 new connections in the last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-dark-diwali-pcl-assures-24-hr-power/articleshow/79217090.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Locals denied fee concession at Mathur toll gate in Chennai||CHENNAI: Toll gate at Mathur in Chennai’s suburbs stopped offering concessions in fee for local vehicles without any prior announcement, triggering a protest on Friday by truckers, who take the road frequently to reach Ennore Port. The said toll plaza, which is located on Manali-Ennore national highway, was established in October 2018 and orders were issued allowing the concessionaire to collect toll fees till the capital cost of Rs 600 was recovered. Ever since commercial operations began at the toll in February, locals were affected because of the traffic congestion and long vehicle queues. While National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) rules allow concession for those residing within a 20-km radius of the toll, the operators of the Mathur toll plaza offered no such exemption to locals. The residents had protested earlier, after which the NHAI ensured they were provided a concession. Accordingly, a local multi-axle truck (registered in the Tiruvallur district of Tamil Nadu) was asked to pay Rs 95 for a single journey. For those registered outside the district, the toll was Rs 185. But since Tuesday, the staff have been demanding Rs 185 from local vehicles too, said S Yuvaraj of Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners Association. “When asked why the sudden toll hike, there was no proper explanation from the staff,” said Yuvaraj, who along with the association members, staged a flash protest on Friday morning. When contacted, a NHAI senior official said a new concessionaire was roped in since last week and they have done away with concession for local vehicles without the authority’s consent. The NHAI has instructed them to adhere to rules and warned against action in case of future violation, he added. Ezhumalai, point of contact for the new concessionaire, said local vehicles were given concession in toll since February (by pervious operator) and that there was some confusion in the past three days. He assured to sort it out and added that there will be no interruption in vehicle movement from Saturday. A total of 13,400 vehicles cross the stretch daily, of which around 30% are local vehicles, according to official data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/locals-denied-fee-concession-at-mathur-toll-gate/articleshow/79215430.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 14, 2020||Goa||Kala Academy theatre college gets nod for new premises||Panaji: The Kala Academy college of theatre arts has received the green signal for its new premises in the heritage building situated along the Rua de Ourem creek. The state government has ordered Imagine Panaji Smart City Development Ltd (IPSCDL)to hand over the vacant premises of the old PWD building to the general administration department, secretariat in Porvorim. “The premises admeasuring 2,294 sq mts is placed at the disposal of the Kala Academy Goa for the functioning of the college of theatre arts,” the order signed by the under secretary, Shripad Arlekar read. The Imagine Panaji has been given seven days to “handover the vacant and peaceful possession” of the premises. TOI had earlier reported that the new Kala Academy college of theatre art is expected to shift there. “We will be able to develop this space as an ideal institute for performing arts and as an addition to the cultural space of the city,” principal of the college, Ramrao Wagh told TOI. In August, the PWD issued permission to the Kala Academy college of theatre arts to allot them their vacant premises for a period of two years, with the condition that it must be renewed after every two years. The Kala Academy College of Theatre Arts that is now in its third year is likely to be moved there in this academic year itself as soon as the colleges shift from the online module to physical classes, as per MHA guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kala-academy-theatre-college-gets-nod-for-new-premises/articleshow/79216632.cms||Nida Sayed
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Fewer opt for Covid tests at Kolkata’s private hospitals||KOLKATA: The number of Covid tests has come down sharply across Kolkata’s leading private hospitals over the last one week. At least two hospitals have seen an almost 50% slide while at another private facility, the drop has been around 30%. While the number of affected has dropped steadily, experts and hospitals suspect that asymptomatic young patients have stopped taking the Covid test, preferring instead to remain in precautionary home quarantine. They, however, warn that the number of tests could see a spurt in another week’s time when the consequences of resuming suburban train services are felt. At Peerless Hospital, which had been testing around 170 samples daily till October-end, merely 81 tests were done on Thursday. The number had been marginally higher at 89 a day ago. The hospital also seen a drop in positivity rate from around 32% to 28%. “We have seen a sharp drop in the number samples post-Puja. A reason could be that the asymptomatic patients are avoiding tests, choosing instead to remain in quarantine. With time, the fear of the disease has also receded,” said Peerless Hospital microbiologist Bhaskar Narayan Choudhury. At AMRI Hospitals, that test samples at the Dhakuria and Mukundapur units, the number of tests a day has slid from 400 to around 350/360 since the last 10 days. “The trend has changed after the Pujas. Now, mostly the elderly and the co-morbid are getting tested. Younger patients, it seems, are now avoiding the test. They might have now grown more confident about handling Covid while earlier every suspect would get tested and hospitalized,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. The drop has been almost 30% at Medica Superspecialty Hospital which never saw a dip in samples since the pandemic began. Medica collects around 100 samples a day from patients’ homes. “The number of daily tests has come down to around 500 from 700 over the last 8-10 days. As the days go on, people will tend to avoid tests unless the symptoms are severe. This is a natural progression,” said chairperson Alok Roy. Choudhury pointed out that the positivity rate would have dipped further if the asymptomatic and those with mild symptoms got tested. “Our positivity rate has been high since those with severe symptoms tend to visit hospitals for tests. It has dropped with the number of tests dipping but still remains high since the more vulnerable — who have a higher chance of testing positive — are getting tested now,” he explained. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) has seen a marginal decrease in testing in the last two days. But that could be due to a decrease in outpatient footfalls around Diwali, felt zonal director R Venkatesh. “We used to do approximately 210-220 tests per day, whereas the last two days we have done about 150-160 tests,” he said. The drop is not surprising, said pulmonologist Raja Dhar. “The pandemic is now eight months old and people have realized that Covid is not fatal for the asymptomatic or even the moderately symptomatic. Since getting tested or hospitalized is no longer mandatory, the younger lot is preferring home quarantine and skipping tests,” said Dhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fewer-opt-for-cov-tests-at-citys-private-hosps/articleshow/79215464.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Mar Thoma Church’s new head is a Guru scholar||KOTTAYAM: A Sree Narayana Guru-scholar, the new head of the Malankara Mar Thoma Syrian Church acknowledges the role played by the Hindu religious teacher and reformer in shaping Kerala society. Geevarghese Mar Theodosius, who will be installed as the 22nd metropolitan in a function at the church headquarters in Thiruvalla, on Saturday, did his doctoral research in ‘Change and continuity in the religious life of Ezhavas of southern Travancore during the time of Narayana Guru’ from McMaster University, Canada. This was after a year at Visva-Bharati University, Shantiniketan, studying comparative religion. Born in Ashtamudi, Kollam, the boy who would grow to be Theodosius had many friends from the Ezhava community. This would later inspire him to delve deeper into the community. “When I studied Hinduism of the last 100 years, I realized that it was Guru who had influenced Kerala society the most during this period,” he said. “The movement initiated by Guru was rooted neither in Sanskritization nor westernization. It was a process of modernization without religious conversion. I tried to explain the characteristics of this movement,” he said. Theodosius has been involved with the Navodaya Movement, a project of the church, started in 2012, aimed at the upliftment of transgender people. “In 2017, as part of the birth centenary celebrations of Philipose Mar Chrysostom, valiya metropolitan, the movement expanded from Kerala to touch many other parts of the country, especially Mumbai. Vocational training programmes aimed at empowering the community were held,” the 71-year-old bishop said. Theodosius believes the time will come when transgender people will be ordained as priests in the church. “It is quite possible. But don’t expect this all of a sudden. It may take time, but it is likely.” Like other church heads, he is ready to take an active role in resolving the dispute between Orthodox and Jacobite churches. Theodosius joined Leonard Theological College and completed his bachelor’s degree in divinity in 1972. He was consecrated as episcopa on December 9, 1989 along with Mar Athanasius and Mar Coorilos. He was raised to the title of suffragan metropolitan in July this year by the then metropolitan, Joseph Mar Thoma. Theodosius assumes charge as head of the church after Joseph Mar Thoma passed away last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/mar-thoma-churchs-new-head-is-a-guru-scholar/articleshow/79215468.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Labour court directs MTC to pay Rs 12 lakh to sacked conductor||Chennai: A city labour court has directed the Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) to pay Rs 11.6 lakh in back wages to an employee it terminated from service more than 10 years ago. The petitioner was working as a conductor and was attached to the Avadi depot when he was terminated in 2008. According to the petition moved by M Sathishkumar, 48, he joined the MTC as a conductor in November 1992 and served in Avadi depot until he was dismissed in November 2008. As per the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, the corporation had to get an approval from the labour commission for the dismissal but the MTC has failed to get one till date, which makes the dismissal invalid, Sathishkumar’s counsel submitted and sought Rs 26 lakh compensation, which included back wages, dearness allowances among others. In response, the transport corporation submitted that the petitioner was terminated after he got into a quarrel with a co-worker and was also involved in various misconducts during service. The MTC submitted that the petitioner has suppressed facts while filing the petition, which itself has been filed more than a decade after the termination, and hence liable to be dismissed. The labour court noted the corporation’s contention about the delay in filing this petition and observed that it is not convinced of the conduct of the petitioner, who did not approach the corporation within a year seeking re-employment since it failed to get the approval for his termination. The court held that even when the termination is set aside by a competent court, the claim for back wages and benefits is not automatic. After perusing the submissions, the court held that the petitioner is entitled only for back wages, not other benefits such as gratuity and bonuses, and directed the MTC to pay Rs 11.6 lakh to the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/labour-court-directs-mtc-to-pay-rs-12-lakh-to-sacked-conductor/articleshow/79215459.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Gang planning cattle theft nabbed||Mangaluru: A gang planning to steal cattle was intercepted by police near Addoor checkpost late on Wednesday evening. While police managed arrest a gang member, others escaped. A car, ropes, a knife and other lethal weapons were seized from the gang. Police on night rounds stopped the car with Maharashtra registration at around 11pm. They managed to arrest Tanveer while four others of the gang fled the scene leaving the car behind. Police suspect that the gang was planning to steal cattle. A case has been registered at Bajpe police station. OTP fraud: Man lost Rs 96k A person lost Rs 96,600 to an online fraudster after sharing his OTP. The fraudster called Sheik Sahil Saheb from Padil and told him that his ATM card would expire and hence in order to renew it, he should share the OTP sent to his phone. The moment he shared his OTP, Rs 96, 600 was withdrawn from his account. A case has been registered at city cyber police station. Sandalwood stolen from university campus Parameshwara, who is the estate officer of Mangalore University, has complained to Konaje police that miscreants have illegally chopped sandalwood trees on the MU campus and made away with logs. The incident took place between October 15 to October 17. The trees are said to be worth Rs 5,000, the complainant told Konaje police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/gang-planning-cattle-theft-nabbed/articleshow/79214222.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Patients recovering from Covid breaches 2 lakh mark||JAIPUR: The overall tally of patients recovering from Covid-19 breached the two lakh mark on Friday after 1,827 patients were declared cured. The count of those recovered now stands at 2,01,770. The state's overall recovery rate also rose to 91%. However, in November (till 13th) the recovery rate is 89%, which is well below the 108% reported in October. While more persons recovered compared to new infections in October, more people are reporting positive in November. So far, 21,786 persons have recovered in November while 24,478 have tested positive. “The recovery rate in the state is more than 91%. We have expanded heathcare and treatment facilities for Covid patients,” said a senior health department official. The department has developed a system to monitor health of patients in home isolation. As for patients with moderate and severe patients, the department has provided beds in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patients-recovering-from-covid-breaches-2-lakh-mark-in-state/articleshow/79216576.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh CM clears 32-year-old backlog, promotes 5,759 PAC personnel||LUCKNOW: Making Diwali celebrations special for police department, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday announced promotions of 6,500 personnel of the Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and civil police. Promotions were due in PAC cadre since 1988, says ADG, PAC, Binod Kumar Singh. Promotions announced on Thursday have cleared the backlog till 1994. The CM also organised a function at his official residence to congratulate promoted PAC jawans and felicitated 14 PAC personnel for their performance and promotion. In all, 5,759 PAC personnel and 739 in other police wings were promoted to various ranks. In his address, the CM said timely action was necessary to maintain the morale and efficiency of the country’s largest state police force. “Everyone should get the opportunity to rise in stature according to the structure laid down in government machinery. With promotions of PAC personnel, their major problem has been solved,” Yogi said, adding that it was for the first time that so many promotions had been announced in the police department. “Police force should work efficiently to protect the people and maintain law and order,” he said. “After the BJP came to the power in 2017, defunct companies of PAC were restored and necessary recruitment process was completed. Now, all PAC companies are functioning with full potential. State Disaster Relief Force (SDRF) was also constituted for disaster management in UP,” he said. The CM said cops should get necessary facilities for their contribution. “Infrastructure facilities for police personnel like barracks and residential facilities are being set up on priority. No compromise will be made on budget and quality is being maintained in construction of barracks and residential facilities,” he added. Yogi said time-bound arrangement was being made to ensure ex gratia and jobs to dependents of police personnel who laid down their lives in the line of duty. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-clears-32-yr-old-backlog-promotes-5759-pac-personnel/articleshow/79217107.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan schools to remain shut for now: Government||JAIPUR: In an order issued on Friday, the government has indicated that schools in the state will remain shut for a longer period. While the government made it clear that they had no plans to open schools for students till classes VIII, for those in classes IX to XII, the decision will be taken later depending on the evolving Covid-19 situation. As per the government order, a new programme called ‘Chalo Ghar Se Paden’ (Let's study From Home) has been initiated, which shows that the administration is keen on letting students study from home. The specific programme is for Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) students. According to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, the government is trying to motivate students to focus on their studies. ‘No one will be promoted like last academic year’Jaipur: According to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, the government is trying to motivate students to focus on their studies as no one will be promoted from their respective classes as was done this year. “For classes till VIII, we have no plans to open schools as of yet. We have noticed that some students have become negligent as the schools are not functioning and think they don't have to take examinations. But we have made it clear in the order that students from classes I to IX and XI must study at home. Examinations will be conducted next year when the situation becomes better,” Dotasra said. He said that when the government issues an order to reopen schools, it would include CBSE, RBSE, IB and other educational boards of the state. Earlier, there were speculations about the reopening of schools. The education department had proposed a plan to open them in a phased manner. In the first phase, classes IX to XII were to be opened from November 1, classes VI to VIII from December 1 in the second phase, and the rest from January, 2021. But senior officials stated that the plan was dropped following the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state. According to the order issued by the directorate of secondary education, Bikaner, the SMILE programme (online classes in RBSE schools) will continue on WhatsApp groups and through YouTube tutorials. After Diwali vacation, teachers will be available in schools for students to clear doubts. An earlier order had let students in classes IX to XII to go to schools for clearing doubts. However, very few students are going to schools. Students have also been asked to create a portfolio of homework given to them through online classes to help teachers assess learning outcomes. State govt withdraws order on third languageUnder pressure, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Friday withdrew an order dated September 2 and 5 stating that there can be only one third language in classes VI to VIII. The order, experts said, was giving benefit to Sanskrit language, which is by default third language in government schools. Ameen Kaimkhani, president of Rajasthan Urdu Teachers Association, said the order is welcome, but they have not re-opened Urdu schools which were closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-schoolsto-remain-shut-for-now-govt/articleshow/79216606.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||UP begins cold chain prep for Covid vaccination programme||LUCKNOW: While trials for Covid-19 vaccine are underway in different countries of the world and also in India, the Uttar Pradesh government has launched a massive exercise to put systems and mechanism in place to store the Covid-19 vaccine so that it can be administered to the population when the time comes. As part of the exercise, a mega gap-analysis was undertaken to assess infrastructure available and additional space required for storage of the vaccine at the state, divisional, district and sub-district levels. Assuming that the state may receive about 4 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine in the initial phases, the UP government has roped in Unicef to conduct the assessment. Based on the findings that used the National Cold Chain Vaccine Management and Resource Centre’s cold chain space calculation tool, funds to the tune of Rs 2.6 crore have been sanctioned by the National Health Mission (NHM) for construction of additional storage space and procurement of equipment like deep freezers. Mission director NHM UP Aparna U directed officials in 22 districts to undertake construction of cold chain rooms in their domains. The list includes Agra, Varanasi, Jhansi, Gorakhpur and Prayagraj among others. Health officer, Unicef UP, Dr Praful Bharadwaj, who led the assessment, said: “The logic behind the exercise is the kind of challenge that would emerge once the vaccination programme for Covid-19 gets cracking. The state’s population size can only help in understanding the size of the challenge that lies ahead.” He added that the bigger challenge is to maintain the cold chain of the vaccine from start to finish so that it remains as efficacious as expected. “Cold chain consists of a series of storage and transport links, all of which are designed to keep the vaccines at the recommended temperature from the point of manufacture until it reaches the target beneficiary,” he explained. Insiders revealed that since crucial details like the size of the vial are not available, certain assumptions about the vaccine vial size, target population and exact space required by each vial has been assumed. Officials revealed that the Covid-19 vaccination programme will take place in a phased manner. The National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 led by Dr Vinod Paul is working to form groups of people who would receive the vaccine first. “One obvious group would comprise health workers. UP has prepared a list of about 8 lakh people who belong to this group. Likewise, about 3.75 crore people have been placed in the 50-plus age group while 1.5 crore have been placed in the 40-50 age group. Similar groups might include pregnant women and children below 10 years of age,” said sources. The Union health ministry has lauded UP for its proactive role on the front. “UP has led by example. The assessment is complete and construction has begun. It has already cleared the first steps towards implementation of the country’s biggest vaccination campaign. Other states on the other hand are wondering where to begin from,” said a Union health ministry official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-begins-cold-chain-prep-for-covid-vaccination-prog/articleshow/79217112.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 14, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan schools to remain shut for now: Government||JAIPUR: In an order issued on Friday, the government has indicated that schools in the state will remain shut for a longer period. While the government made it clear that they had no plans to open schools for students till classes VIII, for those in classes IX to XII, the decision will be taken later depending on the evolving Covid-19 situation. As per the government order, a new programme called ‘Chalo Ghar Se Paden’ (Let's study From Home) has been initiated, which shows that the administration is keen on letting students study from home. The specific programme is for Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) students. According to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, the government is trying to motivate students to focus on their studies. ‘No one will be promoted like last academic year’Jaipur: According to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, the government is trying to motivate students to focus on their studies as no one will be promoted from their respective classes as was done this year. “For classes till VIII, we have no plans to open schools as of yet. We have noticed that some students have become negligent as the schools are not functioning and think they don't have to take examinations. But we have made it clear in the order that students from classes I to IX and XI must study at home. Examinations will be conducted next year when the situation becomes better,” Dotasra said. He said that when the government issues an order to reopen schools, it would include CBSE, RBSE, IB and other educational boards of the state. Earlier, there were speculations about the reopening of schools. The education department had proposed a plan to open them in a phased manner. In the first phase, classes IX to XII were to be opened from November 1, classes VI to VIII from December 1 in the second phase, and the rest from January, 2021. But senior officials stated that the plan was dropped following the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state. According to the order issued by the directorate of secondary education, Bikaner, the SMILE programme (online classes in RBSE schools) will continue on WhatsApp groups and through YouTube tutorials. After Diwali vacation, teachers will be available in schools for students to clear doubts. An earlier order had let students in classes IX to XII to go to schools for clearing doubts. However, very few students are going to schools. Students have also been asked to create a portfolio of homework given to them through online classes to help teachers assess learning outcomes. State govt withdraws order on third languageUnder pressure, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Friday withdrew an order dated September 2 and 5 stating that there can be only one third language in classes VI to VIII. The order, experts said, was giving benefit to Sanskrit language, which is by default third language in government schools. Ameen Kaimkhani, president of Rajasthan Urdu Teachers Association, said the order is welcome, but they have not re-opened Urdu schools which were closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-schoolsto-remain-shut-for-now-govt/articleshow/79218890.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan schools to remain shut for now: Government||JAIPUR: In an order issued on Friday, the government has indicated that schools in the state will remain shut for a longer period. While the government made it clear that they had no plans to open schools for students till classes VIII, for those in classes IX to XII, the decision will be taken later depending on the evolving Covid-19 situation. As per the government order, a new programme called ‘Chalo Ghar Se Paden’ (Let's study From Home) has been initiated, which shows that the administration is keen on letting students study from home. The specific programme is for Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) students. According to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, the government is trying to motivate students to focus on their studies. ‘No one will be promoted like last academic year’Jaipur: According to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, the government is trying to motivate students to focus on their studies as no one will be promoted from their respective classes as was done this year. “For classes till VIII, we have no plans to open schools as of yet. We have noticed that some students have become negligent as the schools are not functioning and think they don't have to take examinations. But we have made it clear in the order that students from classes I to IX and XI must study at home. Examinations will be conducted next year when the situation becomes better,” Dotasra said. He said that when the government issues an order to reopen schools, it would include CBSE, RBSE, IB and other educational boards of the state. Earlier, there were speculations about the reopening of schools. The education department had proposed a plan to open them in a phased manner. In the first phase, classes IX to XII were to be opened from November 1, classes VI to VIII from December 1 in the second phase, and the rest from January, 2021. But senior officials stated that the plan was dropped following the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state. According to the order issued by the directorate of secondary education, Bikaner, the SMILE programme (online classes in RBSE schools) will continue on WhatsApp groups and through YouTube tutorials. After Diwali vacation, teachers will be available in schools for students to clear doubts. An earlier order had let students in classes IX to XII to go to schools for clearing doubts. However, very few students are going to schools. Students have also been asked to create a portfolio of homework given to them through online classes to help teachers assess learning outcomes. State govt withdraws order on third languageUnder pressure, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Friday withdrew an order dated September 2 and 5 stating that there can be only one third language in classes VI to VIII. The order, experts said, was giving benefit to Sanskrit language, which is by default third language in government schools. Ameen Kaimkhani, president of Rajasthan Urdu Teachers Association, said the order is welcome, but they have not re-opened Urdu schools which were closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-schoolsto-remain-shut-for-now-govt/articleshow/79218888.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan schools to remain shut for now: Government||JAIPUR: In an order issued on Friday, the government has indicated that schools in the state will remain shut for a longer period. While the government made it clear that they had no plans to open schools for students till classes VIII, for those in classes IX to XII, the decision will be taken later depending on the evolving Covid-19 situation. As per the government order, a new programme called ‘Chalo Ghar Se Paden’ (Let's study From Home) has been initiated, which shows that the administration is keen on letting students study from home. The specific programme is for Rajasthan Board of Secondary Education (RBSE) students. According to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, the government is trying to motivate students to focus on their studies. ‘No one will be promoted like last academic year’Jaipur: According to education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, the government is trying to motivate students to focus on their studies as no one will be promoted from their respective classes as was done this year. “For classes till VIII, we have no plans to open schools as of yet. We have noticed that some students have become negligent as the schools are not functioning and think they don't have to take examinations. But we have made it clear in the order that students from classes I to IX and XI must study at home. Examinations will be conducted next year when the situation becomes better,” Dotasra said. He said that when the government issues an order to reopen schools, it would include CBSE, RBSE, IB and other educational boards of the state. Earlier, there were speculations about the reopening of schools. The education department had proposed a plan to open them in a phased manner. In the first phase, classes IX to XII were to be opened from November 1, classes VI to VIII from December 1 in the second phase, and the rest from January, 2021. But senior officials stated that the plan was dropped following the rising number of coronavirus cases in the state. According to the order issued by the directorate of secondary education, Bikaner, the SMILE programme (online classes in RBSE schools) will continue on WhatsApp groups and through YouTube tutorials. After Diwali vacation, teachers will be available in schools for students to clear doubts. An earlier order had let students in classes IX to XII to go to schools for clearing doubts. However, very few students are going to schools. Students have also been asked to create a portfolio of homework given to them through online classes to help teachers assess learning outcomes. State govt withdraws order on third languageUnder pressure, state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra on Friday withdrew an order dated September 2 and 5 stating that there can be only one third language in classes VI to VIII. The order, experts said, was giving benefit to Sanskrit language, which is by default third language in government schools. Ameen Kaimkhani, president of Rajasthan Urdu Teachers Association, said the order is welcome, but they have not re-opened Urdu schools which were closed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-schoolsto-remain-shut-for-now-govt/articleshow/79218887.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kanpur||Rs 15,000 reward for Nepal’s ex-poll official’s missing cat||GORAKHPUR: Former election commissioner of Nepal, Ila Sharma, who is also wife of India’s former election commissioner, SY Quraishi, has put up psters and distributed flyers at Gorakhpur railway station and other areas of the city urging everyone to contact her if they found her two-year-old pet cat Hiver with a brown spot on its nose and green-coloured eyes. Sharma has also announced Rs 15,000 as reward money for whoever finds and brings the cat to her. “On Wednesday night, Sharma was waiting for a train to Delhi at platform number 6 of Gorakhpur railway station when her cat, hearing the loud sound of a train, ran away out of fear,” said GRP inspector Brijbhan Pandey. Sharma then distributed flyers and pasted posters about the missing cat with the help of her daughter Sachi and driver Surinder. “Earlier, she offered Rs 11,000 as reward money for the person who finds the cat, and later increased it to Rs 15,000. We are searching for the cat but haven’t found it so far,” added the inspector. “No FIR has been lodged in this regard as Sharma hasn’t registered any written complaint against anyone,” said Pandey. As per the posters and flyers, the cat has a brown spot on its nose and green-coloured eyes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/rs-15k-reward-for-nepals-ex-poll-officials-missing-cat/articleshow/79216723.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Agra||In big boost to conservation, Agra bird sanctuary declared Ramsar site||AGRA: The city of Taj has added another feather to its cap with Soor Sarovar, a scenic lake, also called Keetham, just outside Agra on the Agra-Delhi highway (NH 2), being declared a “Ramsar site” on the list of wetlands of international importance. This is the eighth wetland in Uttar Pradesh to be declared as a Ramsar site in India. A Ramsar site is a wetland site designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention – an intergovernmental environmental treaty established in 1971 by Unesco, which came into force in 1975. Declared a national bird sanctuary in 1991 by the state forest department, the entire lake – pentagonal in shape – is formed in a catchment area of 7.13 square km. With artificially created islands for shelter and breeding grounds to the migratory birds, the lake is home to more than 106 species of migratory and resident birds. The site is important for bird species which migrate on the Central Asian flyway, with over 30,000 water birds known to visit the reservoir annually. Besides supporting numerous resident and migratory birds, the sanctuary has around 300 pythons and more than 60 species of fish. Talking to TOI, Diwakar Srivastava, deputy conservator of forest, National Chambal Sanctuary project in Agra, said that though there will not be much change, the site will surely be recognised internationally. The UP government is also making a plan to develop the bird sanctuary as an eco-tourism site, state forest and environment minister Dara Singh Chauhan had said while addressing a gathering of bird watchers on the occasion of World Wetlands Day on February 2 this year. Six other UP wetlands which had been declared Ramsar sites in the beginning of this year include Nawabganj in Unnao, Parvati Aranga in Gonda, Saman in Mainpuri, Samaspur in Raebareli, Sandi in Hardoi and Sarsai Nawar in Etawah. However, the upper Ganga stretch from Brijghat to Narora was the state’s first Ramsar site in 2005. Agra city will now have four internationally recognised spots for tourists— three Unesco world heritage sites, including the Taj Mahal and one wetland. Tourism industry is likely to get a boost because of this. Rajeev Saxena, vice-president of Agra Tourism Guild, said the newly recognised Soor Sarovar wetland offers significant tourism opportunities which can be an important source of income for communities around.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/in-big-boost-to-conservation-agra-bird-sanctuary-declared-ramsar-site/articleshow/79214265.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 14, 2020||India||India to push its vision at East Asia Summit today||NEW DELHI: Foreign minister S Jaishankar will represent India at the East Asia Summit to be held on Saturday in a virtual format. India expects to push its Act East and Indo-Pacific vision at the summit, which will see participation by all 18 EAS members. The summit will be chaired by Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc. “India believes that the Asean-led frameworks, of which EAS is an important part, are at the core of the regional security architecture and need to be strengthened further,” a MEA readout said. “The summit will discuss ways and means to strengthen the EAS platform and to make it more responsive to emerging challenges on its 15th anniversary. The leaders will exchange views on issues of international and regional interest including the Covid-19 pandemic and the cooperation among EAS participating countries to achieve an expeditious and sustainable economic recovery,” the MEA spokesperson said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-push-its-vision-at-east-asia-summit-today/articleshow/79217524.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kanpur||Jhansi mayor, wife & 33 others test Covid +ve||JHANSI: One person died of Covid-19 while 34 new cases, including Jhansi mayor and his wife, surfaced on Friday. With one death, the toll has gone up to 170. As per the medical bulletin released by Jhansi DM Andra Vamsi, 34 new cases were found after testing 1,709 people. Also, the recovery rate was 94.30%. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 8,820. Of this, 7,026 have been discharged till now, including 19 on Friday itself. As per Jhansi DM, the district has crossed three lakh testing mark. Presently, active positive cases in the district are 332. Of these, 73 are symptomatic. The cases include eight severe, 49 moderate and 16 mild in nature while rest are asymptomatic. The total number of Covid-19 related deaths in the district is 170, having a case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.9. Presently, 1,292 patients are in home isolation in the district. With a brief lull, there has been a surge in the positive cases in the district post Dussehra. Despite the fact, people are reluctant in following the Covid safety protocol including wearing mask and maintaining social distancing. On top of it, all the markets are packed with people doing Diwali shopping. The deceased is a 48-year-old police personnel from Police Lines, Nawabad who was admitted to Jhansi Medical College on September 11 with Covid-like symptoms and died on September 20 though it was reported on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jhansi-mayor-wife-33-others-test-covid-ve/articleshow/79216786.cms||Arindam Ghosh
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Apologise to doc: WBCERC to patient’s kin||Kolkata: The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission, in an interim order, has asked CMRI to make a fixed deposit of Rs 1 lakh in the name of an infant whose mother had died at the hospital soon after giving birth to the boy. It has also asked the deceased’s husband to tender a written apology to the doctor who was assaulted following the death in February this year. The case pertains to the death of 33-year-old Rinki Bhattachraya, who had died in the wee hours of February 20. Her husband slapped the gynaecologist and obstetrician Basab Mukherjee who had conducted the C-section. “This is an interim order as we took up the case today. We have asked opinion of gynaecology head of RG Kar Medical College Arup Majhi on the medical treatment part and CMRI has been asked to submit treatment documents. We will seek autopsy report from the police,” said Justice (retired) Ashim Kumar Banerjee. The commission also asked BM Birla Heart Research Centre to refund 50,000 to the son of a patient who had undergone treatment, including angioplasty. Belle Vue Hospital was directed to give Rs 23,142 discount to a patient. IQ City Durgapur was told to give discount of Rs 25,000 to a patient who alleged overbilling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/apologise-to-doc-wbcerc-to-patients-kin/articleshow/79215495.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Students celebrate as village gets mobile tower||Mangaluru: The families of 14 students and a lecturer from Perla in Shibaje village of Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada district are a relieved lot after a mobile tower was activated on Friday. For these students, it had been an everyday hike to a nearby hilltop to access the internet for online classes. There are about 150 houses with around 400 people, including 100 students, in the area. The residents had been demanding a mobile tower for more than a decade, and had even petitioned the Prime Minister’s Office about four years ago. “Finally, MLA Harish Poonja acted on it and the tower has been activated,” said Soundarya Kairanda, lecturer at Arasinamakki Govt Junior College. “On Friday morning, we started receiving 2G network. By evening, we got access to 4G network from the Airtel tower. Excited over the development, they called one other,” she added. On July 26, TOI had highlighted the plight of the students in the report ‘Students log in for classes from a hilltop tent in Mangaluru’. The hilltop resembled a campsite with a makeshift tent being setup using tarpaulin and saris to protect themselves from rain. The students were faced with a lot of problems due to poor network issues. Following the TOI report, sports goods retailer Decathlon and its staff from the Mangaluru store donated two tents and 14 bags to the students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/students-celebrate-as-village-gets-mobile-tower/articleshow/79214268.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Kishan Reddy lying on paddy MSP: Harish Rao||HYDERABAD: Finance minister T Harish Rao on Friday said Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy is lying on the MSP for fine variety of paddy. Releasing a letter issued by the Food Corporation of India which said state governments need not pay extra amount for paddy and that it would not procure such produce, Harish Rao said: “The Centre’s orders are a stumbling block. How can Kishan Reddy ask us to pay more MSP for fine variety of paddy,” he said. Addressing farmers after inaugurating the Cotton Corporation of India’s (CCI) purchasing centre and maize procurement centre at Gajwel agriculture market, the minister asked the farmers to utilise the CCI purchasing centres. “The government has announced an MSP of Rs 5,775 for every quintal of cotton that have less than 8% moisture content,” Rao said, adding that the CCI was not willing to buy cotton that has 12% moisture content. The minister said the government is ready to buy maize from farmers at Rs 1,800 per quintal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kishan-lying-on-paddy-msp-harish/articleshow/79215507.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Fraudster arrested, stolen assets worth Rs 18.5 lakh recovered||HYDERABAD: A fraudster known for attention diversion was arrested and stolen assets worth Rs 18.5 lakh recovered from him. A south zone task force team along with Charminar police arrested Aftab Ahmed Shaik, 39, a fruit vendor from Phoolbagh in Chandrayangutta. Police recovered 33tola gold, a bike and Rs 20,000 cash. Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said the accused committed 23 offences in Hyderabad, Nizamabad and Karimnagar since 2007. Aftab was also imprisoned at Kolhapur jail in Maharashtra in a rape case. “He would sell utensils with a lucky draw offer. In the guise of giving gifts, he diverted victims’ attention and steal their ornaments,” Kumar said. After leaving prison, Aftab committed 14 attention diversion offences. “We are seeking legal opinion to initiate proceedings under Preventive Detention Act,” Kumar said. The accused was handed over to Charminar police. He was produced before court and placed in judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fraudster-arrested-stolen-assets-worth-rs-18-5-lakh-recovered/articleshow/79215508.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Varanasi||Vantangia village gets all decked up to welcome CM Yogi on Diwali festival||GORAKHPUR: Vantangia village Tinkonia number-3 under Chargawan block is ready to welcome chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Like previous years, he will celebrate Diwali with Vantangia people in the village on Saturday. In the presence of officials, cleaning of interlocked roads and sanitization of the village has been done and an NGO has distributed items for cleaning and personal hygiene to the villagers. Likewise, AIIMS has organized a health camp in the village. “The roads have been washed with water and each nook and corner of the village is now sparkling,” said district panchayati raj officer Himanshu Shekhar. He appealed the people to follow proper Covid-19 protocol, wear masks and maintain at least two-feet distance. The panchayti raj department and the Heritage Foundation distributed hygiene packs consisting of a sanitizer, two soaps, three masks and sanitary napkins among 250 women, said Anil Kumar Tripathi of the Heritage Foundation. AIIMS, Gorakhpur organized a health camp at Tinkonia number -3 on Thursday and will hold another camp on Saturday, said AIIMS director Dr Surekha Kishore. “Being healthy is not only necessary but also the right of every citizen. Health check-up of more than 200 people was done in the camp. Also, free medicines were distributed on Thursday,” she added. The Chargawn block health education officer informed the villagers about the right way of cleaning hands and its benefits. Similarly, villagers were given paediatric and women healthcare tips by medical experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vantangia-village-gets-all-decked-up-to-welcome-cm-yogi-on-diwali-festival/articleshow/79216735.cms||Arjumand Bano
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Soumitra very critical; docs conduct CT scan & EEG||Kolkata: Actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition turned very critical on Friday even as his neurological response dwindled, forcing doctors at Belle Vue Clinic to conduct a CT scan. While the scan has not revealed any bleeding or infarction, an EEG revealed ‘very little cerebral activity’ which is a matter of concern, said doctors. Chatterjee’s cardiac condition, too, was poor and his oxygenation requirement, too, has gone up. The 85-year-old had been admitted to hospital on October 6 after he tested Covid-positive. “His neurological condition has worsened, the worst that we have seen ever since he got admitted. His heart rate, too, has gone up and had to be contained. His blood pressure has been fluctuating and needs assistance. This is also a first time during his stay at the hospital,” said Belle Vue critical care head Arindam Kar. He added that it could be ‘difficult for him to come out of this’. “It seems our best may not be adequate for his recovery. But we will continue the effort……it seems difficult for him to be able to come out,” said Kar. Doctors will be screening Chatterjee very closely for the next 12-24 hours — a period that could be very crucial. A neuro board has been formed to suggest measures to revive his cerebral condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soumitra-very-critical-docs-conduct-ct-scan-eeg/articleshow/79215500.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Kanpur||‘Identify areas with most Covid cases’||Kanpur: Divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar on Friday directed the chief medical officer (CMO), Dr Anil Kumar Mishra, to pinpoint the areas where most of the Covid-19 cases were found in the last fortnight and take appropriate action. He also asked the CMO to conduct ‘dense checking’ through surveillance and ensure every measure to safeguard the public from Covid-19 pandemic. The divisional commissioner on Friday visited the GSVM medical college and inspected the newly raised Covid hospital and its isolation ward where he also communicated with a patient. In a specific direction, he asked the officials to conduct antigen and thereafter RT-PCR test of patients having flu-like symptoms to identify Covid-19 cases so that proper treatment could be given. Raj Shekhar also asked the CMO to ensure antigen test of all persons, either in home quarantine or in hospital, after collecting data from ICCC so that they could be treated accordingly. Regarding four deaths, the doctors said that they were having co-morbidities. The divisional commissioner asked the principal of the medical college, Dr RB Kamal, to analyse the positive cases coming through the community medicine and preventive medicine department, prepare a daily report and provide it to the CMO and the district magistrate so that proper and best medical aid could be arranged. During the inspection, the CMO, principal of the medical college and chief development officer/in-charge district magistrate Dr Mahendra Kumar were present with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/identify-areas-with-most-covid-cases/articleshow/79216775.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Seven bike thefts in a week in Kolkata; cop’s 2-wheeler stolen from RG Kar||KOLKATA: Two-wheeler thefts have seen a sudden rise across the city in the run-up to Diwali. In the last week, seven bike thefts were reported from different parts of the city. On Thursday, a constable who was on duty at the RG Kar police outpost, lodged a complaint that his bike had been stolen from a spot on the hospital premises, which was covered by CCTV. The constable, Dipak Mondal (50), a resident of Serampore in Hooghly, stated in the complaint that the theft might have happened between 5.30pm on Wednesday and 8am on Thursday while he was on duty at the hospital. The constable had parked his bike near the Gas Gully on the hospital campus. Tallah police are investigating the case and going through CCTV footage of the area. Similar thefts have been reported at night from outside a Baghajatin apartment, a Kasba complex, Karaya Road, Hastings Hospital lane and Temple Street. Scooterette and their batteries have now become the targets of some thieves as the pandemic has made many people buy and use two-wheelers to maintain social distancing. Lalbazar officers, though, said the comparative figures from previous years show that there is no hike in bike theft cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/7-bike-thefts-in-a-week-cops-2-wheeler-stolen-from-rg-kar/articleshow/79215509.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad woman’s throat slit by ‘jilted’ lover||HYDERABAD: A 37-year-old woman was murdered by her lover at an isolated place in Bhuvanagiri on Wednesday. Police retrieved the body and sent it for post-mortem on Thursday. The victim was a private security guard working at Nandi Nagar in Banjara Hills. The police said, 18 years ago, the victim lost her husband and she brought up three children while working in the city. Two days ago, the victim went to her native place at Dharmagadda Thanda in Devarpula mandal of Jangaon. On Wednesday, her lover, A Kumar, 25, a cab driver from Hyderabad — a native of the same place — also went there . At around 11am, the victim and Kumar left for Bhuvanagiri. From Bhuvanagiri they went to Yadgirigutta and later returned. Kumar purchased liquor, and the duo reached an isolated spot on Hyderabad-Warangal highway near Bhuvanagiri in an auto. The accused had liquor. “Kumar then slit the victim’s throat with a blade and bludgeoned her with a boulder suspecting that she had married a man from Mahbubnagar without telling him,” said a Bhuvanagiri police official. Early Thursday, the police shifted the body to a mortuary for post-mortem. The victim’s 22-year-old daughter lodged a complaint with the police on Thursday. “My mother met Kumar two years ago. Kumar had been harassing my mother physically and mentally for two months and she started avoiding him. On Wednesday, she did not return home till late. We tried contacting her, but her phone was switched off. At around 2.30am we came to know of her death through the police,” the victim’s daughter alleged in the police complaint. Bhongir police reportedly took the accused into custody and a case was registered against him under section 302 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-womans-throat-slit-by-jilted-lover/articleshow/79215506.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Decision on kambala after Centre issues fresh guidelines, say MP, minister||Mangaluru: A decision on organising kambala, the traditional sport involving cattle in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, would be taken only after the central government’s issuance of its fresh set of guidelines, said Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar Kateel and endowments minister Kota Shrnivasa Poojari on Friday. The two elected representatives on Friday met the delegation of kambala organisers led by Dakshina Kannada District Kambala Samiti president PR Shetty, its vice-president Naveenchandra Alva and honorary president Barkur Shantharama Shetty. The organisers impressed on the MP and minister the cultural heritage of the sport in Tulunadu. They requested that the sport be conducted in keeping with the Covid-19 guidelines. Pooajari informed the organisers that the government was eager to hold the event, while the MP pointed to the revival of the country’s economy, to which the Centre was responding by easing more restrictions. “The central government is expected to issue fresh guidelines. We will decide on whether or not to hold kambala once they are issued. Holding kambala will also give a fillip to the tourism sector in the coastal districts. We are committed to supporting the sport,” Nalin said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/decision-on-kambala-after-centre-issues-fresh-guidelines-say-mp-minister/articleshow/79213981.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Repair Chorla road or face agitation: Cong||Valpoi: Citing the bad condition of the road at Chorla, the Valpoi block Congress committee has threatened to block the Goa-Belagavi highway via Chorla if the government doesn’t undertake road repair work immediately. Congress members on Thursday submitted a memorandum, giving the public works department (PWD) roads section a 15-day ultimatum for repairing the road. Congress block president Dasharath Mandrekar said the entire stretch of the road at Chorla Ghat has developed potholes, posing a risk to lives of commuters and badly damaging vehicles. “We have urged the state government to take steps to avoid accidents. If PWD officials overlook this issue, we will stage a protest and block the highway,” Manrdrekar said. Meanwhile, Valpoi PWD (roads) assistant engineer Devendra Velingkar assured that immediate remedial measures would be taken. He said the PWD has already issued directions for repair work and that the contractor would soon begin the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repair-chorla-road-or-face-agitation-cong/articleshow/79216641.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||Ayodhya breaks own Guinness feat with 6.07 lakh diyas||AYODHYA: As lakhs of diyas illuminated the Saryu ghats, moments after the sun sank beneath the horizon, the spectacle was both surreal and sublime as flickering lamps cast a magnificent glow over the landscape. And Ayodhya again entered the Guinness book by beating its own record of last year with lighting of 6.07 lakh earthen lamps. The stunning feat in time of pandemic, underlining the state government’s pollution-free Diwali mission, was witnessed by a seven-member Guinness team, apart from select volunteers and invitees and crores of devotees on digital platforms. While congratulating the people, chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced Deepotsav in 2021 would create a new record with lighting of 7.51 lakh diyas and urged seers to make this possible. Confirming the new record, Nishchal Barot, member of Guinness record team, told TOI that “6,06569 diyas were lit this year, overtaking last year’s record of 4,04126 diyas on Saryu banks.” Awadh University, Faizabad, was the nodal department which handled the lighting of earthen lamps. Talking to TOI, nodal officer Paresh Pandey, said, “We deployed more than 8,000 volunteers from Saket College, Awadh University and members of NGOs to achieve the new record.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said, “We set an example by organising a pollution-free digital Diwali and citizens of Ayodhya need to be complimented.” Governor Anandiben Patel, the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues lit Saryu Maiya's Aarti by lighting a lamp. Due to Covid protocol, different aarti sites were prepared for dignitaries at Naya Ghat. The CM also launched Saryu Maiya's Aarti along with Vasudevacharya Vidyabhaskar Maharaj, while Governor Anandiben Patel and deputy chief minister duo of Keshav Prasad Maurya and Dinesh Sharma, BJP state president Swatantra Dev Singh and tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari worshipped Saryu at different locations. Seven platforms were set up on the ghats for lighting of lamps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-breaks-own-guinness-feat-with-6-07l-diyas/articleshow/79217120.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 14, 2020||Kanpur||Scribe’s body found on rail tracks in Unnao, 3 booked||KANPUR: Body of a 25-year-old journalist of a Hindi daily was recovered under mysterious circumstances from railway tracks in the Sadar Kotwali police station area in Unnao district on Thursday. The police said prima facie it appeared to be a case of suicide. The scribe’s mother Lakhsmi Devi, however, has accused a woman sub-inspector Sunita Chaurasia and a constable Amar Singh of conspiracy and alleged that they had murdered the journalist and dumped his body at the railway tracks. “On the complaint of the family, an FIR against the woman sub-inspector (SI), a constable and an unidentified person has been registered at the Sadar Kotwali police station under sections 302, 120 B and 506 of IPC and an investigation has been initiated,” said SP Unnao Anand Kulkarni. The deceased journalist’s mother Lakshmi Devi has alleged that SI Sunita Chaurasia was Suraj’s friend and used to visit their house frequently. She has alleged that constable Amar Singh, who was earlier a jeep driver for an Inspector, called Suraj on his phone on November 11. “Suraj’s mother alleged that Amar Singh misbehaved with Suraj after mentioning the name of SI Sunita Chaurasia and also allegedly threatened him with dire consequences over the call,” said the police. The complaint further alleged that Suraj after receiving a call on his phone had left the house on November 12 morning. “After that, his whereabouts remained unknown. His mobile phone was also found to be switched off,” said the police The journalist’s body was later found on railway tracks near the liquor manufacturing unit on Thursday evening under mysterious circumstances, said the SP Unnao. “The autopsy was carried out later in the night. However, going by the preliminary findings, it appears that the journalist had committed suicide. The injuries found in the post-mortem report are similar to those suffered in a train accident. However, police are working on all possible angles,” he added. Meanwhile, the scribe’s family demanded police to cross-check CCTV footages so that the person with whom he was spotted last could be questioned with regard to his death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/scribes-body-found-on-rail-tracks-in-unnao-3-booked/articleshow/79216755.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: CBI case against 3 bank officials, others for Rs 12-crore loss||HYDERABAD: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) registered a case against eight persons, including three Syndicate Bank officials, for allegedly causing Rs 12.2 crore loss to the bank. The CBI conducted searches at the offices and houses of the accused at Musheerabad, Secunderabad, Kodad and Kukatpally on Friday. “We have recovered some incriminating documents,” said a CBI official. The accused are: B Renuka, then assistant GM, regional office, Syndicate Bank, Nizamabad; Srinivasa Rao Malladi, then chief manager of Syndicate Bank, Chanda Nagar; Shruthi Gupta, then manager of Syndicate Bank, Chanda Nagar; and others — Korrapati Subbaiah, Konda Sugreeva, Ramakrishna Rentachintala, S Subramanyam and Ganta Nageshwar Rao, approved valuer. In their complaint to CBI, the bank officials alleged that a civil contractor has approached Syndicate Bank’s Chanda Nagar branch and took Rs 5 crore loan as working capital and Rs 5 crore as bank guarantee in 2016-17 to meet the expenses of his contract works. “It was further alleged that the loan account slipped to a non-performing asset (NPA) in June 2017, with an approximate outstanding loan of Rs 87 crore,” said a CBI official. “The bank authorities alleged that some of the assets mortgaged to the bank were non-existent and valuation reports submitted by valuers with respect to certain properties appeared to be inflated. Due to the fraud, the bank suffered a loss of Rs 12.2 crore,” the official added. Bank authorities alleged that some of the assets mortgaged to the bank were non-existent and valuation reports submitted by valuers with respect to certain properties appeared to have been inflated||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cbi-case-against-3-bank-officials-others-for-rs-12cr-loss/articleshow/79215510.cms||Mahesh Buddi
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Vehicle thieves held, 30 bikes recovered||HYDERABAD: Rajendra Nagar police arrested seven members of a gang of vehicle thieves and recovered 30 bikes worth Rs 20 lakh. Cyberabad police commissioner V C Sajjanar said, the accused — P Raj Kumar (19), a catering worker of Katedan, S Rohit Kumar (19), a labourer from Katendan, S Sagar (22), a hotel worker from Attapur and four juvenile offenders — committed 30 bike thefts in the city. In four months, the gang lifted bikes from Rajendranagar, Banjara Hills, Tappachabutra, Kulsumpura, Asif Nagar and Langar Houz. A police team kept analysing the CCTV camera footage and arrested the accused at Hyderguda in Rajendranagar on Friday. Police found out that all the offenders were childhood friends and had dropped out of school. Raj Kumar was the kingpin. “The accused are addicted to liquor and ganja. After committing bike thefts, the gang members used to sell them to known persons in Degloor, Nanded and Anegaon in Maharashtra for Rs 15,000 to Rs 30,000 by hiding that they were stolen vehicles,” Sajjanar said. The gang members also tried to break open an ATM kiosk of SBI at Janapriya Complex in Hyderguda in January. “But as the alarm went off, they escaped,” he said. The accused were produced before the court and sent to judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vehicle-thieves-held-30-bikes-recovered/articleshow/79215513.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC set to add more beds & ventilators at Covid units||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) is going to increase the capacities of the Covid centres and hospitals anticipating a 10% rise in Covid cases in the next wave of the pandemic. Civic chief Kadambari Balkawade said that in comparison to the ongoing Covid crisis, the next wave will see a 10% rise in the number of cases. “Accordingly, we are going to increase beds, ventilators and medicines stocks. We have shut the centres temporarily but if required, more such centres will be opened. I have asked all health officials to be prepared,” Balkawade said. The directorate of state health services has issued guidelines to all the local bodies to prepare to face the next wave of Covid infections effectively. The guidelines cited the observation of the pandemic cycle in European countries and said that it is anticipated that the next wave of cases will be in January and February. One of the instructions is to keep testing the Covid suspects — at least 140 individuals per 1 lakh population. The directorate also said that the authorities must keep surveying persons who come in contact with a large number of people every day. “We have been requesting citizens to follow the rules. Right now, there is crowding in the markets. We will be forced to initiate a lockdown if the situation continues ,” added Balkawade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-set-to-add-more-beds-ventilators-at-covid-units/articleshow/79213369.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Agra||Day before Diwali, Agra’s AQI improves from 'very poor' to 'poor'||AGRA: A day before Diwali, city’s air quality improved as Air Quality Index (AQI) turned from "very poor" to "poor" category. The AQI was recorded at 274 on Friday as compared to 309 a day earlier. Track the pollution level in your cityProlonged exposure to "poor" AQI causes respiratory ailments. Though the UP government has banned sale and use of all types of firecrackers in 13 districts in the National Capital Region, including Agra, the threat of air quality reverting to hazardous level exists due to changing weather conditions and also how much pollution is caused on Diwali night, said experts. According to data provided by Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), out of 13 cities in the state monitored by them, eight cities have recorded “poor” and five have recorded “very poor” air quality. Besides Agra, other cities in the "poor" category were Bulandshahr (291), Muzaffarnagar (284), Kanpur (274), Lucknow (264), Moradabad (258), Hapur (232), and Varanasi (219). While Baghpat, Ghaziabad, Greater Noida, Meerut, and Noida were in the "very poor" category. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 “severe". The major pollutant in the air was recorded particulate matter — PM 2.5, which is the minutest and finest particle that is able to travel deep into the respiratory tract. The 24-hour permissible level is 60 micrograms per cubic meter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/day-before-diwali-agras-aqi-improves-from-very-poor-to-poor/articleshow/79214296.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||‘Ayodhya on way to become world’s most beautiful city’||LUCKNOW: Heaping effusive praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for making it possible to start work on the Ram Temple during the Covid-19 pandemic, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that Ayodhya, which for years had to suffer humiliation and injustice, was finally on its way to becoming the best and most beautiful city in the world. Speaking at the occasion of Deepotsav on the eve of Diwali, the first after the foundation of Ram Temple was laid in Ayodhya after decades of court battle when more than 5.51 lakh diyas were lit on the banks of the Saryu, the CM said that there was no injustice with anyone in Ram’s work but it was also necessary for Ayodhya to get its true identify. “This year is very significant for us. Lakhs of people have spent their lives in the hope of the Ram Temple and it has finally been possible because of PM Modi. For centuries, Ayodhya has had to suffer humiliation but now there will be no delay in giving it its true identify. Our generation is lucky that because of PM Modi we are getting to see this day when work on the temple has started,” he said. Had it not been for Covid-19, the CM said, the government would have organised a massive event to mark Diwali this year but he announced that in 2021, 7.51 lakh diyas would be illuminated in Ayodhya, breaking the record of over 5.51 lakh diyas that were lit on Friday. The CM said that earlier people used to be scared of visiting Ayodhya and the name was often used as an abuse. When he raised the issue of Ayodhya after coming to power, Yogi Adityanath said, his own ministers were happy but officials were shocked. “People asked whether the government would visit Ayodhya and I said why not. Now the whole world wants to come to Ayodhya,” he said. Giving credit to the PM for bringing about Ram Rajya in the country, the CM said that for the first time after independence was a government working for people, and not giving benefits on the basis of caste, community or religion. The government’s schemes, he said, were meant for women, children, youth etc and were reaching out to everyone. Despite being in the thick of a pandemic, there has been no slowing down in economic activity and while ensuring safety for everyone, many development projects were implemented. “Earlier when I came to Ayodhya, I came with the purpose of linking the city with development. However, every single person here told me not to talk of work but tell them when the Ram Temple would be built. PM Modi has fulfilled the resolve of five centuries and in this time of Covid-19, he personally came down to Ayodhya to initiate the construction of the temple, giving a clear message of Ram Rajya for which he has been working tirelessly for the past six years,” the CM said, adding that this was the first time a PM had come to Ayodhya and prostrated himself before Lord Ram. Crediting the government at the centre and state for working with a vision of development, the CM said that the PM had linked Thailand, Korea, Fiji, Nepal etc with Ayodhya. When Ram brought Sita to Ayodhya after their marriage, the journey took several days but now with the new bus service and better roads, it would be completed within 5-6 hours. When Bharat went to Chitrakoot to meet Ram, it took him several days but we are going to start work on the Ram Van Gaman Marg which will reduce the travel time from Ayodhya to Chitrakoot to about three hours, the CM added. “All thanks to PM Modi, we are developing the Ramayna circuit for both tourists and devotees. Where earlier governments used to stop parikramas, our government is making it easier for devotees to undertake parikramas. Earlier, Ram ki Paidi was a mess and devotees could not take a dip in the water. Now it has been revived and its banks are illuminated with lakhs of diyas. We are going to develop all places linked with Lord Ram,” the CM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhya-on-way-to-become-worlds-most-beautiful-city/articleshow/79217150.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Not possible to reduce crowd even with more services: Eastern Railway||KOLKATA: Eastern Railway (ER) ran over 50% suburban services on Friday to reduce crowding and ensured that the numbers run during peak hours are nearly 95% of those scheduled before the pandemic. With the Diwali and Kali Puja weekend approaching, fewer people used the services on Friday but officials believe that the crowds will return from Monday. Maintenance of social distancing has turned very difficult for authorities. “We have started running nearly 750 services in the Sealdah and Howrah Divisions. This is more than 50% of total services. But, we have been increasing the number during peak hours after Wednesday. Very soon, we plan to take it to 100% but this may not really help if nearly the same number of people who used to travel before the pandemic use the services now,” an official said. The logic is that there was no concept of social distancing before the pandemic and trains during peak hours used to be crowded. It didn’t matter too much then though people complained of discomfort. With nearly the same number of people traveling during the peak hours now, the situation remains the same save for the fact that passengers are getting exposed to the risk of contracting the disease. While agreeing that people are traveling to Kolkata from suburbs to earn a living, the official said some, with no emergency work in the city, are also using the services. “The key is to identify essential services. Unless this is done, overcrowding will persist, no matter how many peak-hour services we run. This used to happen before the pandemic and will continue during it as well,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/not-possible-to-reduce-crowd-even-with-more-services-rlys/articleshow/79215547.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 14, 2020||Bareilly||After losing cub to attack by male tiger, Dudhwa tigress struggles to save the rest||BAREILLY: As the body lay cold, she could not pull away. The tigress, Beldanda, had given birth to five last year. All of them are lost or dead by now. This year, she gave birth to four. But on Thursday, one of them was killed by a male tiger. Moments later, she arrived where the cub lay, nuzzled the body and lingered, before hurrying off with the rest of her cubs in a desperate attempt to save them. While Dudhwa Tiger Reserve officials can’t intrude on what is a natural process, they are trying to do their bit, closing off the area to tourists so the tigress can move around with her cubs without at least the human intervention to deal with. Part of the Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary inside the reserve, where she lives, had also been closed off last year when she had given birth to five cubs to keep them safe. “But they were all lost … This time, we were 50 metres away. It was heart-rending. She stood there, mourning her cub. We did not allow our staff to move the body and let her grieve,” said Sanjay Pathak, director of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve. “Moving the body might disturb her.” In a series of camera trap images, the six-year-old tigress can be seen standing by the body of her cub, and then carrying the rest of her cubs by the scruff one by one. “There are some 17 tigers in Kishanpur. For every male tiger, cubs are a threat — once they grow up, they could challenge them for territory,” said Pathak. The male tiger sighted in the area had killed a female tigress a year ago. Beldanda may have mated with him to save her cubs, in what is known as "false mating," Pathak added. Keeping the cubs safe is difficult for other reasons as well. “Right after giving birth, the tigress is weak but has to get food for them, protect them from other predators and even large herbivores … Sometimes, even wild boars attack cubs because they know they will grow up to become predators,” said Pathak. “There is a great risk even when she takes them to a watering hole.” The forest officials have dug up more watering holes to make sure there are enough within her reach. By closing off the range which she will cover, officials also have the safety of people in mind. “She may attack humans, considering them a threat to her cubs,” said Pathak. Kishanpur anyway has a long-standing encroachment problem. “There are 13 villages inside the core forest. It disturbs the wildlife. Because of the limited forest area, the fight over territory is greater among tigers that live here,” said wildlife expert Siddharth Singh, who has been trailing Beldanda for a few years now and was the first to photograph her with five cubs last year. “The forest department should vacate the villages within the sanctuary, like Madhya Pradesh has done.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/after-losing-cub-to-attack-by-male-tiger-dudhwa-tigress-struggles-to-save-the-rest/articleshow/79214311.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 14, 2020||Goa||GSPCB confirms borewells in Cuncolim fish processing units||Margao: The Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB), during an environment audit conducted by it of several fish meal and fish processing units at the Cuncolim Industrial Estate, Cuncolim, indicated the presence of borewells within the premises of these units. The findings have given credence to complaints that the bore wells have been dug by these units to discharge untreated effluents. On Friday, a team of GSPCB officials, during a physical verification, confirmed the detection of borewells at some of the units and collected samples of the water discharged into the them for analysis. The GSPCB had on November 5 and 6 conducted a Ground Penetration Radar (GPR) survey of four fish meal and fish processing units located in the Cuncolim industrial estate – United Marine Products, Quality Foods, Sagar Feeds and Food Processing Industries and Indotech Ice and Cold Storage. In a notice addressed to the four units, GSPCB said that during the GPR survey, chambers/pits/pipes were identified to be located underground within their premises. For physical verification of the GPR reports, the GSPCB on Friday conducted an inspection and excavation of the identified locations of some of the units in the presence of the factory representatives. The GSPCB records stated that at the Indotech Ice and Cold Storage six borewells were detected, while at Sagar Feeds and Food Processing Industries, three borewells were found dug. Water samples of each of these borewells have been collected for analysis. At the United Marine Products, 10 suspected locations for borewells/chambers/pipes were located within the premises during the GPR survey. However, on Friday, the factory management prevented the GSPCB officials from digging the locations within the premise by producing a stay order issued by the court. United Marine Products had earlier moved the court anticipating that the GSPCB would demolish certain structures of the unit. The environmental audit was conducted by the GSPCB team led by member secretary Shamila Monteiro, along with professor R Jayashakila, Tamil Nadu Fisheries University, professor Manjare, BITS Goa, and consultants Hemant Rane and Sanjay Amonkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gspcb-confirms-borewells-in-cuncolim-fish-processing-units/articleshow/79216705.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Open spaces fixed for sale of green firecrackers||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has fixed open spaces for vendors who want to set up stalls to sell green firecrackers. Stalls set up at any other place, especially along the roadside, will be removed by the police, a civic official said. “ Also, the KMC has issued notices to the 50 firecracker sellers to sell only green crackers. Also, people should burn crackers only between 7pm and 9pm,” he said. Ranjit Chile, the chief fire officer, said, “We have identified areas like Irwin Ground, Rajarampuri gchool ground, Dudhali, Nirman Chowk ground, Sasane ground for the vendors to set up their stalls. We have deployed fire tenders and firemen at these places to address any fire disaster. No permission has been given for seasonal vendors to set up stalls at residential societies or along the road.” As per the district collector’s order, only green crackers are allowed to be sold and used. The crackers have green mark on the packets. Chile said that the citizens should prefer only green crackers and inform the authorities if they come across anyone selling hazardous crackers. “Upon the instructions of civic chief Kadambari Balkawade, there will total ban on burning fire crackers near hospitals. For the health of Covid patients the decision to ban burning of crackers has been taken. No fire crackers will be allowed to be sold or used near the hospitals, especially Covid hospitals. The police have deployed teams to search and shut the fire crackers shop set up in the vicinity of the hospitals,” Chile said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/open-spaces-fixed-for-sale-of-green-firecrackers/articleshow/79213379.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu: Profiling of elephants gets under way in Gudalur forest division||UDHAGAMANDALAM: The forest department has initiated profiling of elephants in the Gudalur division of forests in the district in a bid to curb human-elephant conflicts. The profiling includes photograph, nature, movement and behaviour of the elephants. Two people, including a woman, were killed by jumbos in Gudalur division in the last 10 days. The Gudalur division has seen a decrease in human-elephant conflicts in the past two years. “Since September 2019, there has been no report of human loss due to elephant attack in the division,” said Sumesh Soman, district forest officer, Gudalur division. Last case of elephant attack reported was in September 2019, wherein a man from Devarshola was trampled to death by a jumbo. He added, “But jumbos trampled two people to death in our division in the last 10 days. It is a cause for concern.” According to the official, the Gudalur division is highly fragmented with about 155 reserve forests. Human habitats are located between the pockets of reserve forests and some within the forests. Hence, the elephants must cross human habitats, inevitably, to reach another reserve. Also, the Gudalur division is surrounded by Mudumalai Tiger Reserve, Vyanadu forest and Nilambur forests. Besides the native elephants, jumbos from surrounding forests of other states tend to cross the Gudalur division. “Hence, we have started profiling elephants roaming in the vicinity of human habitats. Forest guards and foresters have been given training in this connection recently,” the DFO said. “The profiling such as photograph, nature, movement and behaviour of the elephants would help us to draw a plan to reduce man-elephant conflict in the division. The exercise is underway,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/profiling-of-elephants-gets-under-way-in-gudalur-forest-division/articleshow/79215514.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Special teams visit stubble burning spotsin New Town||Kolkata: The resistance group teams, formed to prevent stubble burning that has been causing heavy air pollution in New Town, inspected on Friday the places in Action Area -II, from where such incidents were being reported in the past few weeks. Officials from the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA), along with civic volunteers and locals, found stubble burning at two spots near the Silicon Valley plot. “The grass was being burnt behind a road side stall. Locals doused it as soon as we reached the spot. There was another spot a few metres away, from where some smoke was billowing out,” said Kingshuk Chakraborty, a local who accompanied the team. Six to eight volunteers will be moving on bikes across New Town, especially the surrounding area of Silicon Valley land and Action Area II, where most stubble burning cases are being reported. They will be provided with NKDA uniforms for their identity. Awareness drives through announcements will be conducted on behalf of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a New Town-based NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/special-teams-visit-stubble-burning-spotsin-new-town/articleshow/79215516.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Man held for raping minor girl with learning disability||KOLHAPUR: A 26-year-old man has been arrested by Solapur police for raping a minor girl with learning difficulties. According to police, the suspect was arrested and was produced before a local court that has remanded him in police custody till November 17. Assistant police inspector Ashutosh Chavan said that the suspect is the neighbour of the survivor and police had a tough time in zeroing in on the suspect owing to the girl’s inability to speak — a birth defect. “The incident came to the light when the girl complained about stomach ache a few days ago. The family took the girl to the hospital for treatment where they found that the girl was pregnant,” the officer said. “The girl’s family immediately went to the police station and lodged a complaint. It was difficult to get any information from the girl as she could not speak. We got all the information of the family and people living in the area. The photographs of all the short-listed suspects was shown to the girl and among them she identified the suspect following which we arrested him,” he added. Police investigation revealed that the girl was undergoing sexual abused since June 2020. The suspect used to visit the home of the survivor when she was alone and rape her. The girl was few months pregnant when the incident came to the light. “The suspect and victim’s family know each other. The suspect used to work in farms,” Chavan said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-held-for-raping-minor-girl-with-learning-disability/articleshow/79213390.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||WHO lauds UP’s contact tracing measures for coronavirus control||LUCKNOW: UP’s strategy to control Covid-19 during the peak has been lauded by the World Health Organization. Profiling the state’s contact tracing mechanism in a special feature published on Thursday, the WHO noted that ‘early and systematic tracking of high-risk contacts helped Uttar Pradesh step up the fight against Covid-19’. “When the cases surged post lifting of restrictions, as part of its surveillance response activities with support from WHO, the state government put in place a mechanism to evaluate the status and quality of contact tracing to guide policy level decision making for an informed public health response,” it said, noting that being the most populous state its fight against Covid-19 has been particularly challenging. Acknowledging that contact tracing was an essential public health tool for controlling disease outbreaks, WHO India representative Dr Roderico Ofrin said: “The UP government’s strategic response to Covic-19 by stepping up contact tracing efforts is exemplary and can serve as a good example for other states.” “A huge workforce of more than 70,000 front-line health workers listed the contacts of Covid-19 positive cases. In all, they were able to record a 90% of achievement,” said Dr Vikasendu Agarwal, state surveillance officer, UP. “ However, the state wanted to evaluate the quality of contact tracing for which the WHO was roped in as an independent evaluation agency when the trend of Covid-19 cases was rising,” Agarwal added. Accordingly, the WHO trained over 800 field monitors to aid the process and also list out the gaps if any. The strategy – an algorithm-based work protocol – targeted early tracking of high risked contacts including family members of those who tested positive. The well-trained 800 field monitors – prepared by WHO National Public Health Surveillance Project (NPSP) -- conducted telephonic interviews of laboratory-confirmed positive cases through a predetermined set of questions developed by the WHO team to maintain a uniform response. The objective included checking the testing status of the family members, reasons for non-testing and information on clinical symptoms. Data were collected daily at the state office for analysis to list out trends and study patterns and shared with the government regularly for their review. “The recommendations of this special group helped us tailor our response strategy accordingly to address the challenges,” Dr Agrawal said. WHO NPSP regional team leader, UP, Dr Madhup Bahpai said that the interview findings revealed that the average number of high-risk contacts per positive case was 3.5. A total of 1,63,536 high-risk contacts were identified during this exercise by field monitors and 93% of the high-risk contacts had been contacted and tested for Covid-19. “The missed 7% high-risk contacts strengthened the conclusion that early and systematic tracking of contacts through a proper mechanism is imperative to put up a responsive public health response to contain the pandemic,” Dr Bhapi added. Field monitor, WHO NPSP, Ajay Srivastava, who was involved in the exercise, said that sometimes it was difficult to obtain information as some respondents were apprehensive about sharing their details, considering the stigma and fear associated with the virus. As an additional awareness effort on infection prevention and control measures, the team also used this opportunity to educate respondents about the key safety measures to fight against Covid-19 to ensure their safety and the safety of their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/who-lauds-ups-contact-tracing-measures-for-coronavirus-control/articleshow/79217186.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Alone at store, woman fights off history-sheeter trying to steal cash||KOLKATA: A 42-year-old woman, who for the first time in her life, had stepped out to work eight months ago during the lockdown, after her husband was rendered bedridden, thwarted a dacoity at the store she worked in. As one of the accused made towards the till, Mousami Dey leapt at him and caught hold of him. Though he managed to wrest himself free after assaulting her and escaped with his accomplice, she raised an alarm, alerting locals who caught the fleeing accused. Dey, a mother of a teenaged boy, was all alone at the department store around 4pm on Wednesday, when the incident took place at Ramkrishna Nagar close to the Garia crematorium under the Bansdroni police station. “The accused — Amit Mondal (28) alias Gas Amit and Rahul Das (27) — are Narendrapur residents and have been involved in crime since 2016. During the lockdown, they were accused of snatching multiple times between Netaji Nagar and Garia,” said an officer in the south suburban division. “Two youths in their late 20s came on a bike and stopped outside the shop. One of them waited outside and the other walked in and asked for 20 packets of potato chips. The one standing outside also asked for 10 packets of chips but didn’t step in. I later realized that he was trying to distract me. When I climbed up a ladder to fetch some extra packets of chips from the store room, I saw the person in the store move towards the cash counter,” Dey said. “Even as I reached for the packets, I told him not to go towards the counter, but he lunged at the till and tried to grab some the cash. Around Rs 4,500 was in the box. I rushed down and grabbed him by the collar. He twisted my arms and tried to put his hand in his pocket. I feared there could be a weapon in his pocket and did not let go of his arm. He then hit me and managed to escape. I was in pain but kept shouting for help.” Her screams alerted locals, one of them a biker, who chased the two men and intercepted them 70 metre away. “The biker struck the motorcycle on which the two accused were fleeing and they were thrown to the ground. Immediately, others in the area caught hold of them and called the cops from the Bansdroni police station,” said an investigating officer. The police later found that the man who had entered the shop had managed to get hold of only Rs 800 . “We have slapped a case of dacoity against the two after the woman identified them,” said an investigating officer. The motorcycle used to commit the crime had no number plate. It was seized. “It seems the bike was stolen as well. The robbed money has been recovered,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alone-at-store-woman-fights-off-history-sheeter-trying-to-steal-cash/articleshow/79216756.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Couple held for cheating women of Rs 33 lakh||KOLHAPUR: Jaysingpur police in Kolhapur district have arrested a couple for allegedly cheating several women to the tune of Rs 33 lakh under the pretext of setting up a self-help group. The couple was absconding for the past few months, but was arrested from Pune. Police said that the suspects — Shivaji Tukaram Dhamdhere (46) and his wife Mandarani (43), both residents of Pimpalgaon — floated an organization (Shivjeet Success) and promised the women loans at attractive interest rates and higher interest on their deposits. The couple asked the women collected and deposited the money from 2016 to 2018. They had collected around Rs 33 lakh and deposited it in various accounts. Later, the women did not get the promised returns and realised that they have been cheated. Following this they lodged a police complaint. After registering the complaint, police were searching for the suspects. Recently they got information that the couple was hiding in Pune. Accordingly a team was sent to Pune to nab them. They were brought to Kolhapur and presented before a local court that remanded them in police custody till Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/couple-held-for-cheating-women-of-rs-33-lakh/articleshow/79213410.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Bareilly||SHO, constable ask for bribe for felling trees, suspended||BAREILLY: A station house officer (SHO) and a police constable were suspended and a departmental probe ordered by Kheri SSP after a video clip purportedly of them seeking money from a local contractor for allowing him to chop a few more teak trees was widely shared on social media. The probe will be conducted by Dhaurahra circle officer while Rajkumar Verma has been appointed as temporary in-charge of the police station. The accused SHO was deployed at Tikunia police station in Kheri district. Notably, a contractor had taken permission from the forest department for chopping 10 teak trees from a field in Tikunia. When he visited the local police station for a final nod, SHO Hanuman Prasad allegedly asked for money for chopping more trees. In the video he could be seen advising the contractor to chop extra trees beyond the permissible limit and he would "take care of all the formalities". Thereafter, constable Durgesh Kumar was given the responsibility to accept the money and "help the contractor". SSP Vijay Dhull said, “Prima facie, the video seems to be genuine. So, I have suspended the SHO and the constable. An FIR would be registered against them under the Prevention of Corruption Act once the departmental probe is complete.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sho-constable-ask-for-bribe-for-felling-trees-suspended/articleshow/79214350.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 14, 2020||Erode||Tribal women in STR turn invasive species into furniture, make a living||For the forest department, lantana plants are a threat to the ecosystem of jungles. But for the tribal women of hamlets in and around the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Erode district, they are a source of livelihood. These women use the plants that forest officials would otherwise destroy to make beautiful furniture that would add a touch of luxury to your home decor. When jobs are rare, this has helped the tribal women of Burgoor forest range to keep earning in this time of crisis, says V P Gunasekaran, state executive member, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association (TNTPA). They also make other materials with these plants. An invasive species, lantana plants often chock the growth of other plants near them. Some species, if consumed, would cause the death of wild animals like elephants. Hence, forest officials often do their best to contain the growth of these plants by chopping them off at regular intervals. Gunasekaran says, “It is a win-win situation for both the forest department and the tribal women. While cutting the plans will keep their growth in check, tribal women could earn by making furniture using them.” A Chitra, 26, of Thamaraikarai village near Burgoor, says they were given hands-on training to make tables, chairs, book shelves and cots, to name a few, with lantana plants. “TNTPA had taken 15 of us to Madeswaran hills in Karnataka for a two-month training Now, we are experts at making nearly 10 materials using lantana plants.” Meanwhile, Siragugal, a local NGO, has pitched in with a helping hand. “They had placed orders for 100 fencings to save trees from domestic animals such as cows and goats. We sold them at Rs 120 each,” says Chitra. According to Gunasekaran, tribal people at Burgoor are totally dependent on agriculture to make a living. They usually work as farm labourers for six months a year and sit idle for three months during the monsoon. “Now, they could earn irrespective of the weather conditions at the comfort of their houses.” He requested both the district administration and the state government to allow the tribal women to chop lantana plants from the STR to make furniture. “The government also can provide them job opportunities under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/tribal-women-in-str-turn-invasive-species-into-furniture-make-a-living/articleshow/79215549.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Vendors line up, ask new waste management firm to clean their mess||CHENNAI: A day after the new solid waste management contractor took over Teynampet zone, several private trucks lined up outside transfer stations at places like Saidapet and Mandaveli and other locations, asking the contractor to open the locked gates and allow them to dump the waste. An investigation found these private vendors had an unwritten agreement with the previous contractor to dump waste at these transfer stations from where it would be transported to landfills. The previous contractor was paid by Greater Chennai Corporation on the basis of the quantity of waste transported. Bulk waste generators such as malls and hospitals are levied separate handling charges to escape which vendors simply transferred them to city yards illegally all these years. A representative of Ramky Enterprises told TOI the trucks must have collected waste from industries and offices. “It is true we did transport waste collected by some vendors but we did so with the approval of the civic body. For the past one year, we stopped collecting from vendors and only those approved by the corporation dumped the waste at transfer stations. The allegation of having an agreement is all false…,” he said. The new contractor, Urbaser-Sumeet, has complained to the corporation. “We have closed all transfer stations and plan to convert them into parking spaces for the battery operated vehicle. We will use them as dumping grounds only in emergencies. These trucks began asking us to transport waste to Perungudi and Kodungaiyur. We refused and informed the civic body,” said Hari Balaji of Urbaser-Sumeet. Roadside bins get filled within half an hour of being placed in certain locations as these vendors dump industrial and commercial waste, he added. I Priyadarshini of Wastewinn foundation, a private solid waste management company, said the corporation last year asked all vendors to get empanelled. Only 30-odd companies came forward and only 18 renewed licences this year. “Unless the civic body brings in laws to ensure only empanelled vendors are given contracts by people and commercial establishments, illegal dumping in bins and water bodies will continue,” she said. Some of the empanelled companies told TOI they used to call corporation compactor vehicles to transport rejected waste. As private vendors charge ₹25,000-₹50,000 a month for waste collection and disposal, many dump it indiscriminately. G Veerappan, superintendent engineer (solid waste management), said private vendors should set up their own storage, disposal and composting facilities. “They cannot use corporation facility. We will look into the issue.” Residents of the Metrozone apartment complex near Anna Nagar have been complaining for the past six months that private trucks illegally dump garbage including medical waste on the Cooum river banks. Ravi Nandyala, president of Jeth Nagar Residents Association, said placement of bins was the main problem. “The civic body initially planned a binless city. If bins are placed, public and vendors will dump waste in them. We worked hard and removed bins from our area but the new contractor has brought them back. The civic body needs to decide based on the local problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/vendors-line-up-ask-new-waste-management-firm-to-clean-their-mess/articleshow/79215552.cms||Komal Gautham
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ex-minister, singer among 3 MLC picks||HYDERABAD: Telangana government has nominated folk singer and lyricist Goreti Venkanna, former minister and BC leader Basvaraj Saraiah and Arya Vysya leader Boggarapu Dayanand for three MLC vacancies under governor quota. The state cabinet on Friday cleared the names and sent them to governor Tamilisai Soundararajan for approval on Friday. The MLC slots fell vacant following completion of term of Nayani Narsimha Reddy and Karne Prabhakar a few months ago. Another MLC seat vacancy was necessitated following disqualification of Ramulu Naik, who switched loyalties to Congress before December 2018 assembly elections. Though there were two dozen aspirants for the MLCs, TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao surprisingly chose two BC leaders and one OC. Party sources said Venkanna’s name was considered as his songs on rural folks, helped to showcase the pathetic conditions of the rural Telangana during the separate statehood for Telangana. Venkanna, who worked as a sub-divisional cooperative officer, became popular with his song ‘Palle kanneeru peduthundo’. He penned several books like Ekunadam Motha, Relapoothalu, etc, and is the recipient of several awards. Saraiah hails from Warangal district and served as minister for BC welfare in the Congress government in the united AP government between 2012 and 2014. The 59-year-old leader belongs to the washerman (Rajaka) BC community. Dayanand (66) belongs to Vysya community and worked as a deputy director in the protocol department. He took voluntary retirement in 2003 and joined the TDP in the same year and held various positions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-minister-singer-among-3-mlc-picks/articleshow/79215586.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 14, 2020||Kolhapur||Realty tax scam: Dept chief shunted out||Kolhapur: Property tax department chief Sanjay Bhosale has been transferred to the internal auditor’s department for his alleged involvement in the property tax scam. Bhosale had filed a police complaint against former property tax superintendent Diwakar Karande and four others for allegedly causing loss of Rs 3.15 crore to the KMC exchequer by charging less to the commercial properties. However, a corporator has alleged that Bhosale himself has been involved in the alleged scam. Congress corporator Bhupal Shete has consistently alleged that Bhosale has charged less tax to the malls as against the actual property tax. A senior KMC official, requesting anonymity, said, “We received the complaints regarding the alleged irregularities from a corporator. We have set up an inquiry panel. Also, we had asked Bhosale to explain the alleged scam by earlier staff, but he could not do so properly. Therefore, the decision has been taken to take the charge away from him till the enquiry is completed.” Assistant commissioner Vinayak Aundhkar has been given additional charge of property tax superintendent. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/realty-tax-scam-dept-chief-shunted-out/articleshow/79213424.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Bareilly||Pilibhit police make short film on 'mission Shakti'||PILIBHIT: With an aim to drawing attention towards UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s "mission Shakti" campaign on ensuring safety and dignity of women and girls, the Pilibhit police department has made a short film on the action taken by anti-Romeo squads at ground zero. The concept of a short film was the brainchild of Pilibhit superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav. The film was shot in the busy city market of Bisalpur. Three police constables, including two women personnel, acted in the film. The sound and video mixing has done by local videographers. SP Yadav said such films would be made in other parts of the district to instill confidence among women and girls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-police-make-short-film-on-mission-shakti/articleshow/79214373.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Biomedical waste found in roadside bin in Royapettah||CHENNAI: Corporation staff emptying bins on Avvai Shanmugam Salai in Royapettah were in for a shock as they found garbage bags from a city hospital on Thursday night. The workers immediately informed corporation officials who raised a complaint with the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. On Friday, the officials visited the hospital and conducted an inquiry. Hari Balaji, a representative from Urbaser-Sumeet, the contractor that has taken over the Teynampet zone from November 9, said he was informed about the biomedical waste. “I visited the spot and even opened one of the bags and found a few PPE kits. We immediately raised a complaint with the Greater Chennai Corporation,” he said. R Mahesan, chief engineer of the solid waste management department said that he informed the TNPCB officials in charge of bio-medical waste. “We will take appropriate legal action against the vendors if found guilty,” he said. TNPCB official Umayakunjaram told TOI that he was sent pictures of PPE kits. “But when I reached the spot, I didn’t find any medical waste. Usually as per biomedical waste management rules, blue and yellow covers are used to dispose of biomedical waste. Green covers are used for solid waste. However, since the corporation contractor claimed that there were PPEs, we are investigating the matter. We are yet to submit the report,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/biomedical-waste-found-in-roadside-bin-in-royapettah/articleshow/79215587.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kanpur||After serving 8 years in Pakistan jail, ‘Indian spy’ set to reach home||KANPUR: A joint team comprising a district official, sub-inspector (LIU) and sub-inspector (civil police) has left for Amritsar to bring back Shamshuddin, the 62-year-old man from Beri Ka Hata under the limits of Bajaria police station of Kanpur who served eight years’ in a Pakistani prison since 2012 on charges of being an ‘Indian spy’. He had crossed into India from the Attari-Wagah border after his release from Karachi Jail on October 26 and is presently lodged at a quarantine centre in Amritsar. A Pakistan court had sentenced Shamshuddin for allegedly possessing a fake passport. Expert in making shoe uppers, Shamshuddin was lodged in Karachi Jail after his sentencing on October 24, 2012. His eight-year jail term ended on October 26, informed police sources adding that Amritsar authorities had quarantined him at a rehabilitation centre at Narayangarh in the district. The Amritsar administration, after ascertaining his family’s whereabouts in Kanpur, is now preparing to hand him over to his family members, who had reached there on Tuesday. “A team comprising a district official, besides SI (LIU) and SI (Civil Police) has left for Amritsar to bring back Shamshuddin to Kanpur after completing all legal formalities there,” said SP West Anil Kumar. Police sources further informed TOI that his (Shamshuddin) brother Faheemuddin and brother-in-law Dilshad had reached Amritsar on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/after-serving-8-yrs-in-pak-jail-indian-spy-set-to-reach-home/articleshow/79216778.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Lookout notice grounds Sujana Chowdary, Telangana HC lets him fly||HYDERABAD: After being prevented from flying abroad on Thursday due to a lookout notice by the CBI and ED, former Union minister and BJP Rajya Sabha member YS Chowdary moved Telangana HC on Friday. The court allowed him to go to New York on a personal trip after giving an undertaking to the CBI that he would return to India within two weeks and report to the authorities. The MP, also known as Sujana Chowdary, had challenged the action of immigration officials and moved HC urging it to set aside the lookout notice. The MP’s counsel argued that a lookout notice could be issued only when the authorities fail to trace a person. “The authorities have to first get an arrest warrant issued. If they are still unable to trace him, then they have to take recourse to the lookout notice,” he said. Sujana has been appearing before the probe agencies and there is no need for a lookout notice, he contended. At this, CBI counsel K Surender said the lookout notice was extended for one more year. Justice Challa Kodanda Ram, however, said the CBI counsel had not produced any evidence to show that the lookout notice was extended for one more year and allowed the MP to fly to the US. The MP’s counsel further said, “There were pressing personal needs for my client. He has two uncles in New York. One of them has died and the other is terminally ill.” The CBI and the ED registered cases against Best and Crompton Engineering Projects Limited (BCEPL) for financial frauds it allegedly committed. BCEPL along with other group companies of Sujana Group were functioning under the chairmanship of Sujana. The investigation by the ED into the allegations of Rs 6,000-crore bank fraud against the companies owned by Sujana revealed that all the directors of various Sujana Group companies acted under the instructions of Sujana, ED said. The CBI had also registered cases against the MP in February 2017. The MP, who was with TDP since its inception, joined the BJP in June 2019 along with three other MPs — CM Ramesh, TG Venkatesh and G Mohan Rao. The MP was once a director in BCEPL, but later claimed that he came out of the company. The probe agencies initially called him as a witness but later started confronting him with more material against him. He started questioning the summons issued by the probe agencies in Delhi and Telangana high courts which asked the probe agencies not to take coercive steps against him. CBI counsel Surender said the MP had never extended cooperation to the investigation. “We came across more evidence against his role in the financial irregularities of the company,” he said. At this, Sujana’s counsel argued that the lookout notice was issued in April 2019 and was valid for only one year. “There was no response to our representation to the Centre to withdraw this notice,” he said. Sujana served as minister of state for science and technology in Modi government from 2014 to 2108 till his parent party, TDP, broke ties with NDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lookout-notice-grounds-sujana-hc-lets-him-fly/articleshow/79217411.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 3 MLCs will be ex-officio members of GHMC||HYDERABAD: The three newly nominated three MLCs under governor quota will be registered as ex-officio members in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). The decision has been taken by the government as ex-officio members hold vote and play key role in the election of mayor after the elections. Since the GHMC election notification is expected in the next few days and members cvannot be nominated while model code of conduct is in effect, the cabinet has nominated the MLCs. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao reportedly discussed about registrations through Dharani integrated land management portal and directed the officials to start non-agriculture property registrations in the next two weeks. Officials reportedly informed that the state government may not go for enhancement of MSP to super fine variety of paddy in the current form. The state cabinet has given approval for regularisation of some contract posts also.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-mlcs-will-be-ex-officio-members-of-ghmc/articleshow/79215603.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Good response to digital life certificate scheme in Nashik||Nashik: The Jeevan Praman (Digital Life Certificate) facility launched by the Department of Post is getting encouraging response as over 500 pensioners have taken the benefit of this facility till date in the city. A senior official of the Nashik head post office said the facility was started across India on November 1. “As per government norms it is necessary for a pension holder to submit his life certificate in the month of November and December to keep getting the pension,” he said. Pensioners usually submit the life certificate by going to their respective banks. If the life certificate is not submitted, the pension authority can keep the pension on hold of the concerned pensioner. Hence, for the benefit of the pensioners, the department of post, through India Post Payment Bank, launched the facility to provide the certificate at the doorstep of the pensioners. “This comes as a huge relief for pensioners in the current scenario. Pensioners need to contact their beat postman and request for the same. They can also download the Postinfo mobile app and register their request through the service request section. The postman will then service their request at their doorstep through Aadhar-enabled biometric authentication,” the official said. Pensioners need to inform the postman about the type of pension, sanctioning authority, disbursing agency, PPO (pension payment order) number, pension account number, mobile number and Aadhar number. They also need to ensure that their Aadhar number is linked to the PPO and that the disbursing agency accepts the digital certificate. Thus, pensioners would no longer have to visit the bank for submitting the life certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/good-response-to-digital-life-certificate-scheme-in-nashik/articleshow/79213435.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||LMC’s Rs 200 bonds lapped up at BSE in a minute, over-subscribed by 225%||Lucknow: The Rs 200 bonds floated by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) were lapped up within a minute at the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) on Friday. In fact, the launch, which attracted 21 bidder companies, saw an over-subscription of 225%, giving LMC an opportunity to negotiate lowest possible interest rates for investment. According to senior officers, bonds worth Rs 100 crore were put up for bidding in a regular process and another set of Rs 100 crore were offered under ‘greenshoe option’. Within a minute, the bidding reached the target of Rs 200 crore. As more investors came in, the overall bidding shot to Rs 450 crore in next 20 minutes. “This gave us a room to negotiate the interest rate given to investors in return. We settled at a coupon rate (the rate of interest paid by bond issuers on the bond’s face value) of 8.5% for a 10-year bond, which is among lowest in comparison to bonds floated by other municipal corporations so far. Earlier, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation bonds were issued at 8.7%,” said municipal commissioner Ajay Kumar Dwivedi. It was a historic moment as LMC became the first civic body in north India and first from UP to issue bonds under Atal Mission of Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). The launch took place at BSE in the presence of urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon, principal secretary to CM, Sanjay Prasad, principal secretary for urban development, Deepak Kumar and Lucknow municipal commissioner. The huge response to LMC bonds was because they were rated ‘AA’ by India Ratings and ‘AA(CE)’ by Brickwork Ratings. These ratings show that the bonds were considered to have a high degree of safety with low credit risk as they are backed by a strong structured repayment mechanism from the civic body’s revenue. The redemption of the 10-year bonds will be in seven annual instalments starting from the end of the fourth year, said officers. “Of the Rs 200 crore raised through these bonds, Rs 194 crore will be invested in the housing project at Aurangabad Khalsa and Rs 5 crore on a water supply project in Jankipuram among others. Further, LMC will also get the incentive of Rs 26 crore from the central government for issuing municipal bonds under AMRUT”, said Dwivedi. Later, addressing media persons in Lucknow, the urban development minister said, “Over-subscription of bonds shows that businessmen from other states are looking for investing in UP which is growing under the guidance of the prime minister and chief minister. It was also a demonstration of the transformation of LMC into a model for urban governance and financial management.” Officers said that the process to float bonds started in 2018 with the PM’s announcement at the Investors’ Summit in 2018. Thereafter, UP CM Yogi Adityanath took it as a challenge. Now, the state government is helping municipal corporations of Ghaziabad, Varanasi, Agra and Kanpur to issue such bonds in the coming months. In India, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation was the first to issue Rs 100-crore bond in 1998. Since then, municipal corporations of Hyderabad, Indore, Surat, Bhopal and Pune and Andhra Pradesh Capital Development Authority among others have issued bonds worth around Rs 3,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmcs-rs-200-bonds-lapped-up-at-bse-in-a-minute-over-subscribed-by-225/articleshow/79217214.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Action sought against use of crude bombs to kill animals||Poinguinim: Goenkar, an NGO, has submitted a letter to deputy speaker and Canacona MLA Isidore Fernandes calling for immediate action against those planting crude bombs to kill or trap wild animals entering their plantations and farms. On Wednesday, a police complaint was filed by a person, stating that his pet dog was killed in a crude bomb explosion at a farm in Gulem. “For the past few weeks, some persons engaged in farming near the forest areas have been laying crude bombs as traps to tackle the menace of wild pigs. But by doing this, they not only harm the pigs but also other animals, including endangered species,” Jack Fernandes, president of Goenkar, said. Fernandes has also stated in the letter that such incidents were reported earlier, but “till date no action has been taken”. “If this continues, one day we may even hear of a child or a grown-up person getting hurt by such bombs, which can be fatal,” Fernandes said. The Biodiversity Management Committee (BMC) of Shristhal also visited the Canacona police station and handed over a memorandum to PSI Rifha Barretto, as the area comes within the jurisdiction of Shristhal village panchayat. While demanding that necessary steps be taken to avoid such unwarranted incidents, which endangers animals and humans, the committee’s chairman, Vinay Tubki, said that they are willing to help authorities in creating awareness and sensitising people about the ill-effects of planting bomb traps. The committee also submitted a memorandum to range forest office at Pissonem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/action-sought-against-use-of-crude-bombs-to-kill-animals/articleshow/79216724.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Sub-inspector booked for sexual assault, cheating||Mangaluru: A woman has filed a case against a Chamarajapete police sub-inspector for sexual assault and cheating at the Dharmasthala police station on Wednesday evening. The accused has also filed a counter complaint, accusing the victim of blackmailing him for money. Police said that a woman from Bengaluru filed a complaint against Vishwanath Biradar, a PSI attached to the Charmarajapete police station. In her complaint, she has alleged that she had gone to file a complaint regarding her laptop being stolen at Charmarajapete police station, after which in the guise of conducting an investigation, Biradar used to invite her to the police station every now and then. They later got into a relationship. The accused had promised to marry her, and took her to Dharmasthala for the same. The victim alleged that instead of marrying her, the accused sexually assaulted her at a lodge. Man booked for faking his religion to befriend girl The Dakshina Kannada district police have registered a complaint against a man who faked his religion to win a girl’s friendship on Friday. The girl has filed a complaint against him at the Uppinangady police station. According to police, accused Razaq,24, a resident of Mardhala in Kadaba taluk, had created a Facebook account with a fake name, Khusik, and was sending requests to young girls. In his account, he had mentioned that he was an orphan, and wanted the company of good friends. A girl from Kaukrady village fell prey to his tactics, and befriended him. He made her believe that he was a Hindu. Later, they later started communicating over WhatsApp. In November, the two of them had planned to visit Dharmasthala temple and other religious places. He had clicked photos and posted them on social media, with tilak on his forehead, which was noticed by his Muslim friends. They objected to his post as it was against their religion, after which the victim learnt about his religion. The police have registered a complaint under IPC sections 419 (punishment for cheating by personation) and 509 (intention to insult the modesty of a woman, as well 66 (D) of the IT Act. The accused has been arrested and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/sub-inspector-booked-for-sexual-assault-cheating/articleshow/79213804.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chennai||No Diwali rush as 3 lakh board buses home from Chennai||CHENNAI: A day ahead of Diwali, more than three lakh people left the city for their native places in government buses on Friday, but there was no mad rush at the Koyambedu bus terminus and other bus pickup points unlike the previous years. The Tamil Nadu transport department announced that 1,580 special buses will be operated in addition to the 2,000 regular bus services from Chennai on Friday. Of these, 2,438 buses were operated till 8pm, including 611 special buses. “Other buses will be operated based on demand. Given the trend, we don’t feel the need to operate more buses,” said a State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) official. Enough buses will ply to ferry all the 92,800 people who have reserved tickets online. SETC expects at least four lakh people to have left the city by the end of the day. Last year, around 6.7 lakh people left the city in buses. “This year, even when there were not enough trains due to Covid restrictions, fewer people commuted. This could be because either people stayed back in Chennai or left a day earlier in order to avoid rush,” the SETC official said. Thermal scanners were in place at all entry points in Koyambedu and no passenger was allowed to board a bus without a mask. Most of the private buses travelling to distant places such as Madurai, Coimbatore or Tirunelveli had left the city on Thursday. The ticket fee was 50% higher than the usual fare on Friday but the crowd was thinner with demand high only to nearby places such as Vellore or Salem which can be reached within 6 hours, said Karthick, a private bus operator. A transport department official said complaints received on helpline were addressed and cases were booked against private buses for fleecing passengers. Late evening rain resulted in water stagnation on roads causing traffic congestion in Tambaram and West Anna Nagar. “There were not enough police at the Thirumangalam signal to manage the traffic,” said R Sadish, who reached the bus terminus after a 30-minute delay. Demand for taxis was very high with few drivers signing in for duty. Autorickshaw drivers made a killing with fares from Anna Nagar to Koyambedu being Rs 200, 50% more than usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/no-last-minute-mad-rush-at-city-bus-stands-for-diwali/articleshow/79215641.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 14, 2020||Bareilly||Cyclist, 75, hit by biker, dies on the spot in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT: A 75-year-old man was killed after being hit by a motorcycle in Pilibhit’s Sherpur village on Friday afternoon. The cyclist, Amardeep, fell on the road and died on the spot while the biker fled, police said. SHO SK Singh said that the rider fled from the spot while the motorcycle was impounded by the police. An FIR under section 304-A (death caused by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees or over) of IPC was lodged against the accused, who is yet to be identified. Meanwhile, a 37-year-old man, who was hit by an anonymous vehicle 12 days ago, died on Friday morning in a private hospital at Bareilly. He was a resident of Kahlora village. The SHO of Neuria police station, Jagat Singh, said that the FIR that had earlier been lodged against the anonymous vehicle driver under various sections of IPC had additional section 304 A (death caused by negligence).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cyclist-75-hit-by-biker-dies-on-the-spot-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79214389.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 14, 2020||Goa||Tourism policy aims to make Goa safe for travellers||PANAJI: Goa tourism policy 2020, approved by the Cabinet last month, was notified on Friday. The policy which aims to make Goa one of the safest tourist destinations, lays thrust on providing fast, reliable, affordable and comfortable travel, transport and support services that will ensure a seamless experience for tourists travelling in and out of Goa. While aiming to promote Goa as a global tourist destination, it also talks about showcasing “uniquely Goan” historic, ethnic, natural, cultural locations and attractions of Goa to provide a wholesome experience for tourists. The policy also aims to redevelop and rebrand Goa as a diversified tourism destination that offers a combination of culture, eco-tourism, heritage, nature, coastal and entertainment-based attractions. It aims to set out a regulatory framework that would help implementation of Goa tourism master plan over the next 25 years. Broadly it targets to attract healthy mix domestic and international tourists to Goa on a sustainable basis. Through this policy the government also wants to promote Goa’s hinterland and eco-tourism which has remained neglected as beaches have been in focus all the time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-policy-aims-to-make-goa-safe-for-travellers/articleshow/79216761.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Can’t enjoy Diwali at flat owners’ cost: HC Bombay to builder||MUMBAI: The Bombay HC has rapped a developer who has gone to celebrate Diwali in Mahabaleshwar while residents of a Santacruz housing society which is to be redeveloped by him have been awaiting transit rent for six months. “You are at Mahabaleshwar. These people are suffering here. You deposit the money in court,” a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Abhay Ahuja said on Novemeber 10 while hearing a petition by three members of Juhu Co-op Housing Society, Santacruz (W), comprising four buildings with 32 members. The observation came after Suresh Shroff of Sunvision Estates sought time to pay Rs 1.9 crore, saying he will be in Mahabaleshwar for Diwali. He said he had Rs 65 lakh and needed time to arrange the remaining amount. The judges told him to deposit Rs 1.9 crore within a week. Shroff said it won’t be possible as he had to pay his employees on Diwali. In a lighter vein, Justice Kathawalla said, “If you cannot spend on Diwali, give them (employees) on Holi.” He added, “They (society members) also have a right to enjoy Diwali. You cannot enjoy Mahabaleshwar and Diwali at their cost. Enjoyment is much more than Rs 1.9 crore?” Deposit Rs 1.9 crore on Nov 24: HC to builderThe society had appointed Kamla Landmarc Properties Pvt Ltd, which entered into a joint venture in December 2013 with Sunvision Estates. Kamla went into liquidation. The society terminated both developers. Due to numerous problems the project got delayed. Three members moved HC in December 2019 to direct others to vacate buildings which BMC had declared dangerous and for which it had served demolition notices. In February, at an election conducted by an HC-appointed official, Sunvision was appointed by a majority. The court was told on November 3 that all members had vacated. Society’s advocates Akansha Agarwal and Himanshu Kode told the court on November 10 that the developer was delaying executing the agreement for permanent alternative accommodation and had not paid Rs 1.9 crore towards six months’ transit rent. Sunvision’s advocate Sarosh Bharucha said the developer wanted time to pay. Questioned by the judges, Shroff said he would be in Mahabaleshwar for Diwali. When Bharucha said Shroff will deposit the amount, the judges asked, “Why is he dragging his feet?’’ Bharucha said Shroff will deposit the amount before November 25. The judges directed Shroff to deposit Rs 1.9 crore with HC on November 24 irrespective of whether the members signed/executed the permanent alternative accommodation agreement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cant-enjoy-diwali-at-flat-owners-cost-hc-to-bldr/articleshow/79217233.cms||Rosy Sequeira
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||SC softens HC ban, allows green crackers for 2 hours in Telangana||HYDERABAD: The Supreme Court on Friday modified the Telangana high court’s blanket ban on firecrackers and allowed their bursting for two hours from 8-10pm on Diwali. The bench of Justice A M Khanwilkar and Justice Sanjiv Khanna, however, made it clear that revellers can celebrate with only green crackers. The judges also said that the relaxation has been given only in those areas where air quality is considered moderate and better than moderate. The top court directed the Telangana government to follow the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) November 9 order on the issue. The vacation bench of the Supreme Court gave the direction after hearing an urgent petition moved by the Telangana Fire Workers Dealers’ Association (TFWDA) which challenged the high court’s order based on a PIL filed by advocate P Indra Prakash. The advocate had sought a blanket ban on sale and use of firecrackers during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. He had argued that the virus attacks the lungs and those affected by it would be worse off if bursting crackers pollutes the air. The traders argued before the apex court that they would incur heavy losses if their seasonal trade is not allowed for a limited period. Scores of families that are dependent on the trade too would suffer because of the sudden ban, they said. The NGT, in its November 9 order, had asked states and their pollution control boards to regularly monitor air quality in their states and take steps accordingly. The restraint order on firecrackers would stand good even for Christmas and New Year celebrations. Diwali enthusiasts say that Hyderabad and all parts of Telangana come under either a moderate or better than moderate category of air when compared to densely polluted cities like Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sc-softens-hc-ban-allows-green-crackers-for-2-hrs-in-t/articleshow/79217415.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress’ big worry: Retaining cadre in Dubbak||HYDERABAD: After faring badly in Dubbak, Congress is facing a tough challenge to retain its cadres. With many workers at the grassroots level joining either TRS or BJP before Dubbak poll, Congress is now desperately looking to protect its flock ahead of the GHMC polls. Thanks to this strategy it adopted in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, the party won Malkajgiri Parliament seat where a lot of settlers’ votes were key to the outcome of the poll. The party fared poorly in 2016 GHMC elections with only two wards (Patancheru and Boudhanagar) in its kitty. Congress won 52 wards in 2009 election when it was in alliance with AIMIM, which bagged 43 wards. In that election, TDP bagged 45 wards, while the BJP won just five wards. Facing a series of reverses in polls and most of its leaders and cadres jumping over to TRS or BJP, the Congress leadership is telling the local leaders to keep the cadres in good humour. The party faced a similar predicament when it lost the Huzurnagar bypoll. “However, we are not like TDP which has been tagged as an Andhra party. We will work hard and take the slogan of granting statehood to Telangana among people,” a Congress leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congs-big-worry-retaining-cadre/articleshow/79215707.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 14, 2020||Kanpur||BJP’s dishonesty, not Modi magic worked in Bihar: SP chief||Kanpur: Samajwadi Party (SP) president Akhilesh Yadav on Friday alleged that “it was not the magic of Prime Minister Narendra Modi by which the BJP won Bihar Assembly polls as is being claimed.” “It was not Modi’s magic as is being claimed, but the magic of dishonesty that helped BJP win Bihar Assembly polls. After trailing Mahagathbandhan in the first round of counting, all of a sudden they (BJP) started taking the lead. Same was with us here in UP, wherein votes were arranged at the behest of official machinery,” alleged Akhilesh in Kakore village in Auraiya while paying tributes to Mulayam Singh Yadav, member of Legislative Council and veteran Samajwadi Party leader, who had passed away recently. He further said that the BJP is very expert in repackaging. “Everybody knows in whose regime development has happened and at present who is doing repackaging of our party’s schemes,” he added. Talking about the 2022 assembly elections in UP, Akhilesh said, “We will fight the 2022 poll with a proper strategy. AIMIM can field its candidate from here too, but it won’t be able to make any difference and SP will form the next government on its own in UP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/bjps-dishonesty-not-modi-magic-worked-in-bihar-sp-chief/articleshow/79216747.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Drunk techie rams Mercedes into bike of couple out for Diwali shopping, kills one||HYDERABAD: A private club manager died and his wife was severely injured after a software professional driving a Mercedes Benz hit the couple’s motorbike near Cyber Towers junction at Madhapur in the early hours of Friday. The accused, Kashi Vishwanath (29), was allegedly driving under the influence of liquor at the time of the accident. This is the third incident in the city in recent times involving drunk driving leading to fatalities. Madhapur police said Gautam Dev (33) and his 32-year-old wife Swetha Sravani were on their way to Kondapur when the accident occurred at 1.15 am. Vishwanath, who was heading towards Kukatpally from Bio-diversity junction, jumped the red signal and rear-ended the bike. Gautam died on the spot. Sravani suffered grievous injuries and was rushed to a private hospital. Sravani had gone shopping late on Thursday night and was picked up by Gautam before they headed back to their Kondapur residence. Police said the Mercedes was seized and Vishwanath taken into custody. “When the accused underwent the blood alcohol count (BAC) test, he was found heavily drunk. His BAC count was 150 mg,’’ Madhapur police inspector R Ravindra Prasad told TOI. The permissible BAC limit is 30 mg/100 ml. The techie was booked under IPC sections of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and relevant sections of the IPC and the Motor Vehicles Act. Police said Vishwanath along with a passenger, who is now allegedly at large, were heading to Kukatpally to have food after consuming liquor in Jubilee Hills. The accused is a resident of Bachupally. “The car belongs to Vishwanath’s friend who is presently in Kurnool. After causing the accident, the accused hid himself in a hotel room. Based on information gathered during the investigation, cops went to the hotel and arrested him,” Prasad said. The car was recovered close to the accident site. When asked about the car’s missing number plates, the inspector said they were detached recently after the vehicle had gone for a servicing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-techie-rams-merc-into-bike-of-couple-out-for-diwali-shopping-kills-one/articleshow/79217418.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Business||Samvat 2076: Sensex up 11% amid high volatility and a record crash||MUMBAI: Friday saw the end of one of the most volatile years in Dalal Street’s history as the sensex closed 86 points higher at 43,443, its all-time closing peak, after the stock market broke several records during the last twelve months, thanks mainly to the Covid-19 pandemic. During the year, India VIX, the most watched gauge for volatility which is also called the fear index, scaled an unprecedented 84% on March 24, but finally ended the year at 19%. Such never-seen-before volatility came on the back of a series of record-breaking intra-day slides in the market with the highest ever recorded on March 23 when the sensex crashed a little over 4,000 points. The year also witnessed the sensex crashing to a multi-year low at 25,639 points on March 24, but what was remarkable was that it closed at an all-time high with investors’ wealth, measured by BSE’s market capitalisation, also at an all-time peak of Rs 167.2 lakh crore. According to Arun Kejriwal, director, KRIS, an investment advisory firm, the sensex finally settling 11% or about 4,400 points up on the year reflects the remarkable resilience of the Indian market since in mid-year, it had gone down to 25,600 level. “The market’s recovery from the Covid-induced hardships is significant since the macro-economic picture has not improved much,” Kejriwal said. The market has mainly rallied on the back of a global deluge of liquidity with foreign funds net pumping in over Rs 1 lakh crore into the stock market over the year.The quarterly numbers by India Inc have also shown very strong growth, mainly on the back of tough measures to cut costs at all levels, market players said. “This recovery has come on the back of several measures put forward by the government, aimed at kickstarting the economy through a string of incentives, reliefs and stimulus. The impact of all these will not be felt instantly but over the medium and long term,” Kejriwal said. Some of the industries have shown a sharp recovery in the last few months, after the nationwide lockdown was relaxed in June, while some are being helped by the government. For example, there was a revival of the auto sector, mainly two-wheeler and entry-level cars, primarily because of the need for personal safety during the pandemic, analysts said. This buoyancy could continue for 3-4 quarters, they said. On the other hand, the government on Thursday announced a string of measures that could boost the revival of the real estate sector, which is under tremendous pressure in most of the metros. Once construction resumes in earnest, it would generate demand for workers and also give a boost to construction materials, industry players said. In Samvat 2077, market players now expect some measures to boost sectors like tourism, travel, airlines, etc. On an individual corporate level, Samvat 2076 will be remembered as a stand-out year for Reliance Industries and its chairman Mukesh Ambani. During the year, RIL became the first Indian entity to break within the top 50 most valued company in the world while Ambani’s personal networth had placed him among the top five richest globally. It also saw investments by two of the global technology giants, Facebook and Google, along with several other large sovereign funds and private equity majors. The year also saw TCS, the flagship of the Tata Group, become the most valued technology services company in the world, ahead of Accenture and IBM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/samvat-2076-sensex-up-11-amid-high-volatility-and-a-record-crash/articleshow/79217261.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Ateli MLA’s son, associates assault constable, booked||Chandigarh: The police have booked a BJP MLA’s son and his associates for allegedly assaulting a constable of the Haryana Police in Ateli suburban town in Mahendragarh district. Based on a complaint filed by aggrieved constable Bhupinder Singh, Parveen Yadav, son of Ateli MLA Sita Ram Yadav, and four others including a nephew of the legislator, have been booked at the Ateli police station under relevant sections of the IPC. Besides assaulting and manhandling him, Bhupinder Singh has also accused Parveen and his associates of tearing off and disrespecting his uniform, sources said. In the complaint, Bhupinder, posted at Ateli police station, has stated that the incident took place around Thursday noon when he stopped a pickup van during a routine checking of vehicles. The MLA’s nephew, who was driving the van, misbehaved with him and questioned his authority to stop him. “As I objected to his behaviour, he threatened me and called Parveen there. Parveen tried to hit me with his car, and he and others also abused and threatened me of dire consequence. Later, they called up some senior officials and asked them to send me to his office to resolve the issue. When I reached there, they abused and assaulted me with a cable wire,” Bhupinder alleged. While the Mahendragarh superintendent of police (SP) remained inaccessible for his comments, Ateli station house officer Vijay Kumar confirmed registration of a case in connection with the incident and said an investigation is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ateli-mlas-son-associates-assault-constable-booked/articleshow/79215718.cms||Manvir Saini
November 14, 2020||Hubballi||Five sentenced to life imprisonment for raping minor||Belagavi: A local court on Friday sentenced five accused to life imprisonment in connection with the gang-rape of a minor girl in 2017. They were also fined Rs 5 lakh each. The five — Sanju Daddi, 24, Suresh Daddi, 24, Sunil Dummagol, 21, Mahesh Shivannagol, 23, Somashekar Durabundeshwar, 23— raped the minor girl who was out on a picnic with a male friend at Muttyanatti hill. The accused initially subjected the two to unwanted questioning. They then beat up the boy and raped the girl and recorded the act on the cellphone and threatened to circulate it if she revealed the crime to anyone. However, the survivor and her parents mustered courage and filed a rape case at Kakati police station. Judge Manjappa Annayyannavar pronounced the verdict under the Pocso act. CPI Ramesh Gokaka who had arrested the five accused provided the court with all the vital evidence needed to sentence them in the heinous case. Public prosecutor LV Patil argued in favour of the survivor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/five-sentenced-to-life-imprisonment-for-raping-minor/articleshow/79213460.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mysuru||Cops lock gate to prevent unauthorised cracker dealers||Mysuru: Devaraja police on Friday had locked the gates of JK grounds to prevent dealers from entering the grounds to sell crackers ahead of Diwali. In a recent order, the government has banned the sale of crackers at one place as a precaution to prevent crowding, which otherwise would spread Covid-19 virus. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa has also announced that only green crackers (with less emission) would be allowed to be sold this festival season. Devaraja police said since cracker dealers are yet to get permission from the Mysuru city police commissioner to carry out business at JK grounds. Policemen have been stationed there to check any unauthorised entry. Only dealers with permission will be allowed inside.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cops-lock-gate-to-prevent-unauthorised-cracker-dealers/articleshow/79213585.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Relief to seafarers as Centre eases curbs for counterfeit docus||Panaji: The Union ministry of shipping has reduced the five-year ban imposed on seafarers whose documents were found forged in 2016, to three years. The decision will significantly benefit scores of Goan seafarers, who were unable to obtain their continuous discharge certificate (CDC) and take up employment aboard ships. “Candidates who have completed three years of such debarrment, as on that date, may apply for CDC and would be issued CDC if found eligible,” deputy director general of shipping Subhash Barguzer said in a circular. Seafarers who submitted forged or fake documents along with the application for CDC would be debarred from applying for the CDC for a period of three years instead of the five years, announced in 2016. A seafarer who has obtained the CDC using fake or forged documents will have the CDC suspended for three years. Section 9 of the Continuous Discharge Certificate (CDC) Rules, enacted under the Central Merchant Shipping Act, 1970, prohibits Indian sailors from working on foreign vessels without a CDC document. Seafarers who submitted bogus or incorrect documents to obtain a CDC were barred for life in 1999, but the penalty was reduced to five years in 2016. “This is an important decision,” said captain Venzy Viegas. “It is welcome news, and yes, (some) boys have made mistakes and the mistakes were done because of the lack of stringent measures. The shipping ministry has taken a good step and tightened everything.” Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik recently met minister of state for shipping Mansukh Mandaviya and sought relief for the seafarers. “The five-year ban imposed on seafarers by DG Shipping has been reduced to three years. DG Shipping has given a chance to seafarers who have completed their earlier detention, too, to apply for a new CDC,” said Naik. Naik, who has been taking numerous representations on behalf of Goan sailors, said that seafarers who were debarred from applying for CDC can apply afresh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/relief-to-seafarers-as-centre-eases-curbs-for-counterfeit-docus/articleshow/79216758.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Rami Reddy back as Siddipet district collector||HYDERABAD: With Dubbak election getting over, IAS officer P Venkata Rami Reddy was shifted back to Siddipet district as its collector. Before Dubbak by-elections, the Election Commission of India (ECI) had directed the state government to transfer Rami Reddy after Congress charged him with bias towards the ruling party. The government had transferred him to Sangareddy district and shifted Sangareddy collector M Hanumantha Rao to Medak district. With Rami Reddy back in Siddipet, Bharati Hollikeri who took charge of Siddipet during Dubbak election has been sent back to Mancherial where she was officiating as collector. In a surprise move, Medchal-Malkajgiri collector Vasam Venkateshwaralu was shifted out and not given any posting. Hanumantha Rao was also sent back to Sangareddy. The transfer orders were released on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rami-reddy-back-as-siddipet-dist-collector/articleshow/79215724.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: ‘WAN message cannot be termed appointment letter’||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that a communication through Wide Area Network (WAN) between police officers regarding selection of constables cannot be treated as an offer of appointment or a formal joining letter from the government. Justice Suvir Sehgal has passed these orders while allowing a petition filed by Rohit, a resident of Sonipat district, and Ajay Kumar, a resident of Jind district in Haryana, who were not allowed to join as constables in state police as they had joined after 30 days of the WAN message being sent by police academy regarding their selection to the concerned district police. As per government instructions, a maximum period of 30 days is given to a new entrant to join service in the state and the said period is to commence from the date of issuance of the appointment letter. The state counsel argued that the WAN message sent from the academy regarding their joining was an offer of appointment and the 30-day period would be counted from the date of issuance of WAN message. After hearing their plea, the HC observed that there is nothing on the record to show that the appointment letter was ever issued to the petitioner. “Rather the facts show that no offer of appointment was ever made and the petitioner had been called for medical examination in pursuance to a WAN/email dated August 30, 2019, issued by respondent No.3 (Commandant, 4th battalion, Madhuban academy) to various headquarters instructing them to inform the selected candidates, who had been named in the communication, to report to his office on August 31, 2019, along with the original documents. This communication cannot be called an offer of appointment,” the HC has held. The HC further clarified that the WAN message issued by the commandant, 4th battalion, Madhuban academy, was “merely an inter-department communication”. The court was of the view that the authorities have failed to show any individual letter/document which could be called the offer of appointment. In its orders dated November 2, the HC has directed the state government to issue appointment to both the petitioners within 30 days after completing all the formalities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wan-message-cannot-be-termed-appointment-letter/articleshow/79215716.cms||Ajay Sura
November 14, 2020||World||'Time will tell': Trump comes closest yet to admitting defeat||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump said on Friday that "time will tell" if he remains president, in a momentary slip of his unprecedented refusal to concede his election defeat and help Democrat Joe Biden prepare to take power. Trump broke his silence after a week without on-camera comments, speaking at a Rose Garden event to herald the imminent authorization of a coronavirus vaccine. During a short speech about the vaccine work, Trump insisted that he would never again call for a lockdown to curb the virus' spread. Then he added: "Hopefully, the, the whatever happens in the future, who knows which administration it will be, I guess time will tell." The hint of doubt in Trump's mind came despite him continuing to push a conspiracy theory that mass fraud — for which no evidence exists — robbed him of victory in the November 3 election. On Friday, Trump tweeted thanks to supporters backing his claim that the "Election was Rigged" and said he might "stop by and say hello" at rallies planned in Washington on Saturday. A number of groups under the banners of "Stop The Steal", "Million MAGA March" and "Women for America First" have planned rallies for the day. Speakers are reportedly to include prominent Trump supporters, including US Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia, who has promoted the far-right QAnon conspiracy theory. QAnon adherents claim Trump is waging a secret war against a global liberal cult of Satan-worshipping pedophiles. Trump continues to block Biden's ability to prepare his transition ahead of inauguration on January 20 and he has filed numerous lawsuits -- unsuccessfully -- to challenge vote counts around the country. On Friday, a judge in Michigan issued another rejection of Republican claims of fraud. Trump was speaking just after television networks projected results in the final two undeclared states — Biden winning the former Republican stronghold of Georgia in an extremely close race, and Trump getting North Carolina. Those last tallies gave Biden a solid overall final win in the state-by-state Electoral College that decides the presidency with 306 votes against Trump's 232. Throughout the post-election period, Trump has been absent in public at least from normal presidential duties and notably silent about dramatically soaring coronavirus infection rates around the country and steadily rising deaths. He has only left the White House to play golf twice and to attend a brief Veterans' Day ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery. Earlier Friday, Trump attended a briefing in the Oval Office on the vaccine search -- one of the first times he has had official business on his public schedule since the election. But Trump did not take questions after his Rose Garden remarks. He hasn't had any sort of press conference since the election and his last public remarks were on November 5, when he falsely claimed to have won. According to the website factba.se, which keeps track of Trump's pronouncements, this was the longest he'd gone without speaking on camera since he became president. Despite his own intelligence officials' declaration Thursday that the election was "the most secure in American history," Trump and his right-wing media allies show no sign of giving up their quest to get the results overturned. "President Trump believes he will be President Trump, have a second term," spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said on Fox News. White House trade advisor Peter Navarro also told Fox Business on Friday that "we think he won that election." "We are moving forward here at the White House under the assumption that there will be a second Trump term," he said. Biden, meanwhile, is steadily preparing to take over on January 20 and the list of world leaders accepting that he will be the new president keeps lengthening. China was the latest nation on board, with a foreign ministry spokesman saying "we express our congratulations." However, Biden's newly appointed chief of staff, Ron Klain, told MSNBC late Thursday that moves by Trump to block the incoming administration from access to confidential government briefings posed a growing risk. Klain highlighted the inability to join in on preparations for rolling out the Covid vaccine in "February and March when Joe Biden will be president." "The sooner we can get our transition experts into meetings with the folks who are planning the vaccination campaign, the more seamless," he said. Top Republicans remain outwardly loyal to Trump, but there appears to be widening discomfort within the party over the blocking of Biden's transition team. Senator James Lankford told Tulsa Radio KRMG earlier this week that he was giving Trump until the end of the week to allow Biden access to the daily presidential intelligence briefing or "I will step in." Watch 'Time will tell': Trump rules out COVID 'lockdown' for his term||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/time-will-tell-trump-comes-closest-yet-to-admitting-defeat/articleshow/79217711.cms||---
November 14, 2020||World||'Time will tell': Trump comes closest yet to admitting defeat||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump said on Friday that "time will tell" if he remains president, in a momentary slip of his unprecedented refusal to concede his election defeat and help Democrat Joe Biden prepare to take power. Trump broke his silence after a week without on-camera comments, speaking at a Rose Garden event to herald the imminent authorization of a coronavirus vaccine. During a short speech about the vaccine work, Trump insisted that he would never again call for a lockdown to curb the virus' spread. Then he added: "Hopefully, the, the whatever happens in the future, who knows which administration it will be, I guess time will tell." The hint of doubt in Trump's mind came despite him continuing to push a conspiracy theory that mass fraud — for which no evidence exists — robbed him of victory in the November 3 election. On Friday, Trump tweeted thanks to supporters backing his claim that the "Election was Rigged" and said he might "stop by and say hello" at rallies planned in Washington on Saturday. A number of groups under the banners of "Stop The Steal", "Million MAGA March" and "Women for America First" have planned rallies for the day. Speakers are reportedly to include prominent Trump supporters, including US Representative Marjorie Taylor Greene of Georgia, who has promoted the far-right QAnon conspiracy theory. QAnon adherents claim Trump is waging a secret war against a global liberal cult of Satan-worshipping pedophiles. Trump continues to block Biden's ability to prepare his transition ahead of inauguration on January 20 and he has filed numerous lawsuits -- unsuccessfully -- to challenge vote counts around the country. On Friday, a judge in Michigan issued another rejection of Republican claims of fraud. Trump was speaking just after television networks projected results in the final two undeclared states — Biden winning the former Republican stronghold of Georgia in an extremely close race, and Trump getting North Carolina. Those last tallies gave Biden a solid overall final win in the state-by-state Electoral College that decides the presidency with 306 votes against Trump's 232. Throughout the post-election period, Trump has been absent in public at least from normal presidential duties and notably silent about dramatically soaring coronavirus infection rates around the country and steadily rising deaths. He has only left the White House to play golf twice and to attend a brief Veterans' Day ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery. Earlier Friday, Trump attended a briefing in the Oval Office on the vaccine search -- one of the first times he has had official business on his public schedule since the election. But Trump did not take questions after his Rose Garden remarks. He hasn't had any sort of press conference since the election and his last public remarks were on November 5, when he falsely claimed to have won. According to the website factba.se, which keeps track of Trump's pronouncements, this was the longest he'd gone without speaking on camera since he became president. Despite his own intelligence officials' declaration Thursday that the election was "the most secure in American history," Trump and his right-wing media allies show no sign of giving up their quest to get the results overturned. "President Trump believes he will be President Trump, have a second term," spokeswoman Kayleigh McEnany said on Fox News. White House trade advisor Peter Navarro also told Fox Business on Friday that "we think he won that election." "We are moving forward here at the White House under the assumption that there will be a second Trump term," he said. Biden, meanwhile, is steadily preparing to take over on January 20 and the list of world leaders accepting that he will be the new president keeps lengthening. China was the latest nation on board, with a foreign ministry spokesman saying "we express our congratulations." However, Biden's newly appointed chief of staff, Ron Klain, told MSNBC late Thursday that moves by Trump to block the incoming administration from access to confidential government briefings posed a growing risk. Klain highlighted the inability to join in on preparations for rolling out the Covid vaccine in "February and March when Joe Biden will be president." "The sooner we can get our transition experts into meetings with the folks who are planning the vaccination campaign, the more seamless," he said. Top Republicans remain outwardly loyal to Trump, but there appears to be widening discomfort within the party over the blocking of Biden's transition team. Senator James Lankford told Tulsa Radio KRMG earlier this week that he was giving Trump until the end of the week to allow Biden access to the daily presidential intelligence briefing or "I will step in." Watch 'Time will tell': Trump rules out COVID 'lockdown' for his term||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/time-will-tell-trump-comes-closest-yet-to-admitting-defeat/articleshow/79217721.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||CPCB extends deadlines for thermal power stations||Chandigarh: The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has extended deadlines for putting environment pollution control measures in place to be followed by the thermal power plants operating in the state. CPCB has communicated this to Haryana government, HPGCL and the thermal power stations earlier this month. Apart from Rajiv Gandhi Thermal Power Plant at Khedar in Hisar district, thermal power stations which have been served notices through Haryana Power Generation Corporation Limited (HPGCL) include the Panipat Thermal Power Plant Limited, Panipat; Deen Bandhu Thermal Power Station, Yamunanagar; and Aravali Thermal Power Company Jharli (NTPC) plant in Jhajjar district. CPCB had asked HPGCL and companies to ensure installation of flue gas desulphurisation (FGD) and electrostatic precipitator and other measures in place, while giving power stations deadlines till December 2019. Work for putting in measures like installation of equipment is in progress. Acceding to representation by HPGCL and issues discussed during meetings with state pollution control board, CPCB has given the new deadline. Now, the Yamunanagar power plant has been asked to ensure that installation of ESP and FGD by October and December next year. While December 2022 has been set as deadline to control nitrogen emission level. Panipat thermal power station has been asked to complete installation of ESP in Units 7 and 8 by February and December next year. For FGD, the thermal station has been given deadline up to December. For Jharli and Khedar too, deadlines have been extended till December 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cpcb-extends-deadlines-for-thermal-power-stations/articleshow/79215720.cms||Manvir Saini
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa may not permit night markets this season||PANAJI: The two Saturday night markets that usually open during the tourist season may not be permitted this time, as the Arpora-Nagoa panchayat isn’t in favour of allowing them. The panchayat will meet next week, and hasn’t yet taken a decision on the two similarly-named establishments — Saturday night market and Saturday night bazar. Sarpanch Rajesh Morajkar told TOI he isn’t in favour of the two due to Covid-19, but that a proper decision would be taken at the meet. The organisers of Saturday night market have applied for permission, and the panchayat has forwarded the same to the block development officer (BDO). “The government might permit them, but we don’t want the two events to take place as crowding would increase the risk of infection,” he said. Another panch member, Srikrishna Nagvekar, too said he too doesn’t want either the Saturday night market or the Saturday night bazaar this year. An office-bearer of Saturday night market said they’re ready to open and comply with precautions as per protocol. “We have decided that stalls this time will be bigger in size, and they will naturally act as barriers and help maintain social distancing when attendance is large,” he said. “We have a plan ready to conduct the market with all protocols in place.” He said that when all other activities have been given permission, he sees no reason why only night markets are not allowed. The Saturday night market has stalls by a lot of foreign vendors, along with artisans from various parts of the country. It is frequented by niche tourists, both foreign and domestic, for its ambience, cuisine and music. He said that although foreign tourists are not yet allowed in the country due to the ban on international commercial flights, most of the foreign vendors will be able to participate as they are still in India on an extended business visa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-may-not-permit-night-markets-this-season/articleshow/79216767.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Complexes shun fireworks, celebrate with virtual events and laser shows||Kolkata: Virtual community programmes, visitor-less puja mandaps, lights and laser performance, and implementing a complete ban on any form of crackers — that is how housing societies across the city have prepared themselves to celebrate the new normal Kali Puja and Diwali, while sticking to the HC-directed guidelines. “There will be zero tolerance against anyone from the complex when it comes to burning fire crackers. We have decided that we will ourselves take photographs and videos of persons, who may be violating the ban in our complex and call up the cops to get the violator arrested. There will be no lenience on this issue,” said Nilanjan Das, the secretary of apartment owners’ association at Upohar condominium off EM Bypass. At Urbana, the resident welfare association has replaced the annual fireworks show with a laser show keeping in mind the spirit of the festival. “There will also be a musical performance by Anup Jalota within our complex next week but there will be no live audience. We plan to live-stream the entire performance and residents can enjoy the show at the comfort and safety of their homes,” said Debjani Mukherjee, director, Urbana Facility Management. At Lake District complex in Phoolbagan, the association has lined up a series of virtual events to keep the residents engaged and active from their homes during the festive days. “The new normal has made us learn the digital way of life and we will be celebrating the Puja with tons of virtual events,” said Santanu Ghosh, a senior member of the complex. According to senior officers of Kolkata Police, majority of complaints of illegal cracker burst come from residential complexes in the Phoolbagan-Ultadanga area. This year, several complexes in the area have voluntarily decided to keep the roof doors shut on evenings to prevent repeat of such offenses. While Ghosh from Lake District Complex said their gates will be open for the cops throughout the festive days, Deepak Jaiswal from Merlin Lakeview said they have already shut the access to the roof for the next 10 days starting from Friday evening itself. At LakeTown, Salt Lake and New Town, several complexes have decided to shut the access to the roof and the RWA has vowed to maintain strict vigil on its own residents to ensure no one violates the ban. In fact on Thursday, RWA representatives from multiple complexes in New Town met at Eco Park police station where senior officers of Bidhannagar Commissionerate charted out the dos and don’ts on the festive days and reiterated them to stick to the High Court guidelines. Asim Dutta, secretary, Lakeview Apartments, Howrah said: “We will not allow bursting of crackers in the Central greens. Prasad has to be taken maintaining social distance and consumed at home. No flowers will be offered and distributed this Puja.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/complexes-shun-fireworks-celebrate-with-virtual-events-and-laser-shows/articleshow/79216766.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 14, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Both Fronts failed citizens, corporation||KOCHI: With yet another election around the corner, voters have got a chance to evaluate the performance of the ruling front as well as the opposition in Kochi corporation. It will be for the things which were left undone that the corporation authorities will be remembered rather than what they did in the past years. The work on Kochi corporation’s main office which was started decades ago still remains incomplete. Though the project came up for discussions several times during council meets, corporation authorities couldn’t complete the work. “When we assumed power, only the ground and the first floor of the structure at Marine Drive was completed. Today, 80% of the work has been completed,” outgoing mayor Soumini Jain said. Even while most of the local bodies in the state could successfully implement e-governance project, Kochi corporation, which started the project around 15 years back, is yet to implement it. “Corporation’s administration has been utter failure in the past five years. Despite an order from Kerala high court, corporation authorities couldn’t complete the road repair or relaying work. Roads which were relayed or repaired during lockdown are already in bad state. The fact that roads got damaged despite the fact that vehicle movement was comparatively very low in the past several months testifies to the poor quality of work,” said Ranjith Thampi, an activist. “They failed to address the issue of waterlogging as well. There isn’t any facility for proper treatment of solid waste in the city,” he added. According to Soumini Jain, flood-like situations were the real cause of waterlogging in the city. “We took measures to contain waterlogging. This resulted in a dip in the severity of waterlogging during last monsoon,” Jain said.  “Though a plan was prepared by Esteem Developers for addressing the issue, now it is outdated. We require a drainage master plan to find a permanent solution to the issue,” she added. Unfortunately, it is after five years that the rulers understand the need for a drainage master plan in the city! The opposition LDF too couldn’t fare better in forcing the ruling front to discharge the duties and addressing various issues affecting the life of denizens. At the onset, UDF had been heading all the standing committees except the education standing committee headed by Poornima Narayan of CPM. Later, the strength of UDF in the council dipped to 37 from 39 following reasons like byelection. Then, LDF wrested health standing committee chairpersonship from UDF. The front also captured the leadership of town planning and tax appeal standing committees, though it was for a few months. Still, the LDF couldn’t improve the waste treatment facilities in the city. They couldn’t bring in efficiency in other areas like town planning and tax appeal as well. The opposition failed in even exposing the flaws of the ruling front. Two BJP councillors also were more or less mute spectators during the past five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/both-fronts-failed-citizens-corporation/articleshow/79214476.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||5,240 acre shamlat land encroached upon along NH in Panipat: RTI info||Chandigarh: Nearly 5,240 acres of shamlat land (common village land), including some along the national highway (NH) worth crores or rupees, is under encroachment in Panipat district, information sought under the RTI Act has revealed. The RTI query was moved by Dharam Pal Rathee, a resident of Panipat, who had sought details of common village land encroached by locals as well as influential persons, allegedly in connivance with the officials of panchayati raj department as well as the district revenue department. Armed with RTI information, Rathee has now approached the chief minister’s office (CMO) for the release of land and to seek action against the “errant” officials who have been indicted from time to time as well as those responsible for the encroachment in the recent years. “Some chunks are under encroachment for decades. Some are under litigation as well. But surprisingly, the local administration or panchayats or officers concerned have failed to take possession of lands where courts had given decisions,” said Amit Rathee, an activist who is pursuing the matter on behalf of Dharampal. “Leave aside the value of the land, the state will earn a revenue of Rs 16 crore per annum even if the panchayats give this land on fresh lease at as low as Rs 30,000 per acre,” said Amit Rathee, an activist who is pursuing the matter on behalf of Dharampal. Panipat deputy commissioner Dharmender Singh though feigned ignorance about the complaint lying with the CMO, he confirmed the quantum of encroachment on shamlat land in the district. “We carry out drives from time to time. There are different types of encroachments and district administration and enforcement agencies are equally alert about the development. We strictly adhere to the directions of honorable court,” said the DC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5240-acre-shamlat-land-encroached-upon-along-nh-in-panipat-rti-info/articleshow/79215722.cms||Manvir Saini
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Civic body spruces up Hooghly ghats for immersion||Kolkata: Major ghats along the Hooghly are being spruced up for immersion of Kali idols (for major community pujas), which will begin from November 16. During the three-day immersion process (deadline being November 18), over 3,000 idols are likely to get immersed in the Hooghly, said a Kolkata Municipal Corporation parks department official. Accordingly, the KMC parks department has been sprucing up major ghats such as Bajekadamtolla ghat (Babughat), Judges ghat, Nimtolla ghat, Takta ghat (Kidderpore) along the Hooghly. Apart from the ghats along the Hooghly, several major ponds and waterbodies in southern fringes and south-east Kolkata will be decked up for immersion, said a civic official. Among the ponds that are likely to be used as immersion venues, include Ranidighi, Layelka, Patuli waterbody and several waterbodies in Behala. “We will be keeping arrangements for immersion of around 1,000 idols in the ponds and water bodies. We are taking all sorts of precautions and building up infrastructure for the immersion process,” a KMC official said. A KMC parks department official pointed out that the civic body and Kolkata Police will impose strict immersion rules as directed by Calcutta High Court. “We won’t allow more than two persons of a puja organizing committee during immersion at ghats along the Hooghly. Same rules will apply in case of ponds and water bodies,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/civic-body-spruces-up-hooghly-ghats-for-immersion/articleshow/79216774.cms||Saikat Ray
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Temperature won’t drop in next 4 days, says IMD||PANAJI: With December about a fortnight away, the days are expected to become cooler. The India meteorological department (IMD) had earlier forecast that the minimum temperature would fall by November 10. The minimum temperature falls based on changes in the wind conditions. In the lower levels, the winds were north-easterly coming from regions with comparatively lower temperature in central India. In the period from November 10 to 12, winds in heights of 1-2km were northerly. These two things added up leading the temperature to fall to almost 4 degrees below normal during the mornings of November 11 and 12. The winds are easterlies and a drop of four to five degrees is not expected. “No significant drop in temperature is expected for 4-5 days as per the IMD’s latest observation. Only if there is any drastic change in wind patterns, we can expect temperatures within the range of 19C,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. The day maximum temperatures may, however, be one or two degrees higher than normal as long as cloud-free conditions remain, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/temperature-wont-drop-in-next-4-days-imd/articleshow/79216796.cms||Nida Sayed
November 14, 2020||Goa||TOI only English paper to win state journalism awards||Panaji: Journalists of The Times of India won the journalism awards instituted by the state government for 2019, which were announced on the eve of Diwali on Friday. The Times of India is the only English newspaper to win the awards. TOI Goa sports editor Marcus Mergulhao won the best sports report award for his story, Dumped in GFA godown, Bandodkar Gold Trophy loses its glitter in 50th year, while chief photographer Rajtilak Naik won the best photographer award for his photo, Fighting The Elements, a picture of a narkasur’s reflection on potholes. Rajtilak also won first prizes for his photos on ‘Conserving Environment for Ecology’ and ‘Infrastructure and Allied Facilities To Contain Covid-19’ categories. Chief minister Pramod Sawant will present the awards on the National Press Day in Panaji on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/toi-only-english-paper-to-win-state-journalism-awards/articleshow/79216772.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||850 cops to ensure a safe Diwali||Chandigarh: Keeping in view the festival of Diwali, the UT police have made elaborate security arrangements in the city. As many as 850 cops of different wings and traffic police have been deployed to maintain law and order in the city. After identifying main busy markets such as sectors 17, 22, 15, 19, 26, 34, 35 and 46, security and traffic arrangements have been made by deploying additional force. Three DSPs, 25 inspectors, including all SHOs and 469 cops, including sub inspectors, head constables, constables from 16 police stations, 180 constables from IRB, 50 constables from the police lines and around 150 traffic cops have been deployed in the city to keep a tab on anti-social elements. Duties of cops around jewellery markets have also been intensified by deploying extra force. The PCR patrolling has been intensified at all busy markets, especially around the jewellery shops. Special checking of hotels and guest houses are being conducted. As a precaution, announcement will be made in busy markets during the peak hours to aware the public regarding anti-terror and anti-sabotage issues. Three anti-sabotage teams have been constituted and these teams are searching at all important places, vital installations and busy markets. Further, a total of 42 floating check-posts have also been deployed at various parts of the city in three shifts i.e. from 4 pm to 9.30 pm and heightened checking will be conducted at these points to check suspects and unauthorised vehicles. In addition to this, checking at all the outer barriers from 11 am to 10 pm has also been increased. Charanjit Singh Virk, DSP PRO, said to follow the directions of the UT administration on banning selling and bursting of firecrackers in the city, all the SDPOs and SHOs have been instructed to keep a check in their jurisdictions and if anyone is found bursting or selling firecrackers in the city, he would be arrested under relevant sections of the IPC and citizens are requested to follow the directions of the administration. Last year, the UT police had registered 13 FIRs against people bursting firecrackers after the permissible timings of 10 pm by the high court. However, this year, there is a complete ban on bursting of firecrackers, but sale of firecrackers are allowed in Mohali and Panchkula. On the other hand, the police say after bursting firecrackers, people go and hide inside their houses and cops fail to nab them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/850-cops-to-ensure-a-safe-diwali/articleshow/79215761.cms||Pawan Tiwari
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Cracker drive: Residents of Howrah's Bally apartment beat up cops||HOWRAH: The residents of a posh apartment at Hem Pal Lane in Howrah’s Bally allegedly attacked a police team that tried to stop them from bursting firecrackers from the building’s terrace on Thursday night. Five residents were arrested and charged with attempt to murder under section 307 IPC among other offenses. Residents were bursting crackers despite cops repeatedly organizing awareness campaigns about the Calcutta High Court order banning the use, manufacture and sale of fireworks before and on Diwali and Kali puja this year. When cops climbed to the terrace to intervene, the revellers residing in the posh Ashok Vihar apartment, allegedly attacked them with rods. Among the seven injured Bally police station cops, were assistant sub inspector (ASI) Sheikh Zahirul Islam and constable Subrata Kundu. They have been admitted to Belur State General Hospital. Zahirul, on whom residents allegedly rained a series of hits on his chest with rods, has a pacemaker implant. He is critical. Locals said residents of the building started bursting fireworks from 10pm. “When we asked them to stop and reminded them about the HC order, they mocked us,” said a local. Soon, three police vans reached the building and climbed to the terrace. Led by sub-inspector Shyamal Das, the cops were attacked by residents. Das said, “We have arrested five residents and charged them with attempting to murder policemen and bursting fireworks flouting the high court order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cracker-drive-residents-of-bally-apartment-beat-up-cops/articleshow/79216779.cms||Rupak Banerjee
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Illegal stalls found, fine double||Chandigarh: A 100-member enforcement team out in the commercial areas has started finding illegal Diwali stalls and charging their owners double fee as fine under the rules. The enforcement department is doing this anti-encroachment task in the markets with a limited staff, so the municipal corporation has relieved them of their Covid-19 duties for a few days and brought extra field inspectors from the booking branch and other departments. In the congested markets, the traffic police help the civic body with rush management. A source in the MC said: “Our field inspectors and mobile units confiscate any vending material kept on footpaths, corridors, roads, and parking lots.” The MC has allowed more than 2,000 temporary stalls in the markets. The supervision team checks these allotment coupons, and if the vendors fail to show this permit, they have to pay double the normal rate on the spot. Since the MC allowed a limited number of stalls in sectors 17 and 22, a bulk of the vendors opted for Sector 19, so this year, this commercial area is the most crowded. Man booked for selling crackers illegally Ambala: The police booked a person for allegedly stocking and selling firecrackers despite a ban at Bans Bazaar in Ambala City on Friday. Assistant sub-inspector Ramesh Kumar lodged a complaint against the accused, identified as Ankit Agarwal of Khatarwara area of Ambala City. A case has been registered against him. According to information, Section 5 of the Explosives Act can attract imprisonment of up to 10 years and under Section 9B up to three years. ASI Ramesh said, “We received information that Ankit Agarwal has stocked crackers in a shop in Bans Bazaar area of Ambala City and this could result in some untoward incident. It was also found that he was selling crackers without a licence. Accordingly, a duty magistrate was appointed and a raid was conducted as per the norms. Ankit was caught in the shop with a stock of crackers in large quantity and he failed to produce any licence. Ambala deputy commissioner has also imposed a ban on use and sale of firecrackers.” “We have seized the crackers and further investigation is being done,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/illegal-stalls-found-fine-double/articleshow/79215773.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||4 fire tenders to be deployed in Patiala||Patiala: In a move to counter fire incidents in a short span of time, the Patiala fire station has deputed fire tenders at different spots in the city. The department has also increased the working hours of all the employees to overcome the staff shortage crisis. The officials of the fire department in Patiala are facing shortage of staff, while the regular post of fire officer is also lying vacant and the additional charge is given to sub-fire officer. The fire department has six large fire-tenders, two small fire-vans and two fire dousing bikes, while there are around 40 employees, of which, a few are regular and others are on outsourcing. A team of six firemen, including a driver, are required on each van. There are eight sub-officers, 10 drivers, including six on outsourcing, and 18 firemen, including 14 on outsourcing, in the Patiala city. Sub-fire officer Madan Lal Jalota, who has been assigned the additional charge of fire officer in Patiala, said, “We are having six large fire tenders and to curb any fire incident on Diwali, two will remain positioned at the fire station in the city, one large fire tender will be deputed at Pataka market, another at city bus stand, while the third fire tender will be positioned at Sirhind road near Tripur and zila parishad and the fourth will remain stationed at Sanauri Adda near Tyagi mandir. Last year, no major fire incident was witnessed in the city. As precautionary step, we have taken this decision to keep the fire tenders active and positioned so that the vans can reach in time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-fire-tenders-to-be-deployed-in-patiala/articleshow/79215780.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana dependent on loans for maintaining revenue expenditure||HYDERABAD: A few days ago, the state government borrowed Rs 1,000 crore from the Reseve Bank of India (RBI) at auction. Though the state government had applied for Rs 700 crore, but accepted Rs 1,000 crore loan with repayment schedule of 30 years. While this sums up state government’s dependence to borrow for revenue expenditure like paying wages, the state also went for overdraft from RBI in the recent times. In two instalments, the state government have used overdrafts to the tune of Rs 756 crore and Rs 286 crore, from April to October state borrowed more than Rs 30,000 crore in instalments in the auction. While this is related to loans for revenue expenditure, the loans taken in the form guarantees given to various state government corporations are also mounting up. While this comes under capital expenditure, if the loan bearing and repaying capacity is hit due to economic activity slowdown, the state government has given guarantees for more than Rs 2.5 lakh crore to various departments thorough corporations. These include irrigation (Rs 97,000 crore), Mission Bhagiratha (Rs 39,000 crore), Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (Rs 7,000 crore), water board (Rs 11,400 crore), DICOMs (Rs 62,857 crore), animal husbandry (Rs 4,000 crore), RTC (Rs 1,100 crore), others (Rs 10,000 crore). The total loan burden (direct loans and guarantees given) stands at nearly Rs 4.8 lakh crore. Though state’s track record is good in regards with growth rate, if the regular income gets dented, the interest paying capacity will be tough and capital expenditure & capacity to give guarantees comes down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-dependent-on-loans-for-maintaining-revenue-expenditure/articleshow/79215796.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||100 changeovers in 18 mins, PGI says PPE station ‘patent-worthy’||Chandigarh: The PGI’s Covid-19 hospital has design a quick donning and doffing station for PPE suits and will apply for its patent, Dr Rashmi Ranjan Guru of the hospital administration has confirmed. Dr Guru has been working in the Covid hospital for more than eight months now. His team studied international concepts before coming up with own design. Dr Guru said: “The Wuhan hospitals in China had different rooms for removing different layers of personal protective equipment. Suitable to our settings, I divided our PPE corridors into zones. The top layer, the most contaminated, is removed in zone 1, then the other layers are removed while moving on step wise. A team of 100 can doff within 18 minutes. Earlier they had to queue up in on room for their turn.” Each bay has CCTV and microphone for two-way interaction. PGI's additional medical superintendent professor Vipin Kaushal said: “The nursing staff and students do round-the-clock monitoring from the control room. Even the AIIMS COVID hospital in Delhi doesn't have this kind of a system.” The donning rooms built in March at the start of the Covid hospital were modified into a donning corridor in the first week of May. The doffing corridor came up in the first week of June. So far, 57 health workers from the Covid hospital have been infected, but the new stations have reduced the transmission to minimum. "We are now publishing a paper to file for a patent,” said Dr Guru. When Nehru Hospital Extension had to be converted into a Covid hospital, a lot of research went into its internal design. Dr Kaushal said: “I had asked my staff to study the other countries' Covid hospitals. They studied plans from across the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/100-changeovers-in-18-mins-pgi-says-ppe-station-patent-worthy/articleshow/79215786.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Timing curbs at Kolkata's Dakshineswar temple lifted for Kali Puja, Kalighat sticks to Covid hours||KOLKATA: The Dakshineswar temple will remain open from 7am on Saturday to 3.30am on Sunday for Kali Puja, the first time the curbs on timings being relaxed ever since restrictions were imposed to minimize the spread of the novel coronavirus. There will, however, be no change in the timings of Kalighat temple, where unlike at Dakshineswar temple, the Goddess is worshipped as a daughter and so, the rituals are reportedly different. The other restrictions, like no offering of flowers, will be followed at both the temples. The puja at the Dakshineswar temple will be telecast live and arrangements have been made so that people can watch the rituals on their screens, listen to the mantras and even offer anjali from home . “Thousands of women across the country fast on this day and break their fast only after completing the anjali. Hence, we have arranged for this virtual puja. We have never done it earlier,” said Kushal Chowdhury, spokesperson for the Dakshineswar Temple. Devotees will have to follow the protocols on masks, sanitization and maintaining social distance. Though people will be allowed to enter the temple throughout the day, they will not be permitted to stay on the premises for too long as the train of devotees will have to walk through a route from entrance to the exit. No one will be allowed to stand for more than a few seconds. Only dry prasad can be offered though no flowers will be allowed. The big screens that are usually set up for devotees to watch the puja will not be installed this time to avoid crowding. No one will be allowed at the ghats and Panchavati gardens and there will be no distribution of bhog. The Kalighat temple will open from 6am to noon and then again, from 4 pm to a little beyond 9pm. The timings have been slightly stretched because for a short while in the evening the devotee movement will be restricted as Lakshmi Puja rituals will be carried out following traditions. The deity is worshipped as a daughter here and instead of her Kali avatar, she is worshipped as Lakshmi. After the rituals get over, bhog and the sevayat bhog will be offered in two time slots. “We will bring in some restrictions in the movement of devotees during this time to prevent crowding. The restrictions on entry to the garbha griha will be on,” said Dipankar Chatterjee, secretary of the Kalighat Sevayat Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/timing-curbs-at-dakshineswar-lifted-for-kali-puja-kalighat-sticks-to-cov-hours/articleshow/79216787.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Three killed, two injured in blast at dhaba||MOHALI: A blast ripped through a dhaba operating from a basement of a two-storey building at Sarseni village in Lalru here on Friday, killing three people and injuring two others. The blast was suspected to have occurred while oil was being pilfered from a tanker parked nearby by laying a pipe to the dhaba on the Chandigarh-Delhi highway, said additional district magistrate (ADM) Aashika Jain. As the building developed cracks, directions were issued to evaluate its structural safety, said Jain, who along with sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa and senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh inspected the site. The building was sealed. The blast caused tremors as far as 1km. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan ordered sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Kuldeep Bawa to conduct a probe to find out about the presence of inflammable material in the dhaba and on the theft of oil from the tanker, seeking a report within a week. The victims are ‘Rama Dhaba’ owner Jaswinder Singh (35), Bablu (20) and Vikram (24), all residents of the village. Two of them died on the spot while Jaswinder succumbed to his injuries at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, Chandigarh. Jaswinder had earlier been booked under Sections 379, 411, and 420 of the IPC for oil theft at the dhaba in 2019, Jain said. A chemical had also been recovered from his dhaba earlier this year. Sandeep, a resident of the village, suffered 80% burns. Jain said, “The condition of Sandeep is serious. He is under treatment at PGI, Chandigarh. The driver of the oil tanker is also reported to have suffered burn injuries, but he escaped.” Officials were told to conduct checks at all dhabas nearby. Strict criminal action would be taken against those found violating the law, Jain said. BOX Joint raids on the anvil: DC Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said joint raids will be conducted by police and civil administration teams to check illegal activities at roadside dhabas in Lalru and Derabassi The DC said dhaba owners had been stealing oil from tankers Mohali police along with a team of food and civil supplies department, weights and measures department and officials of IOC had raided and unearthed illegal offloading and storage of petroleum products from a dhaba in Lalru in July 2019 The teams had recovered 525 litre petrol and 630 litre diesel illegally stored in a dhaba. Police had arrested the dhaba owner along with the driver of a fuel tanker BOX Modus operandi Drivers of fuel tank lorries coming from Ambala and other terminals of IOCL and going towards Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh stop at dhabas, allowing owners to take out diesel, petrol and kerosene by using a master key to open the pilfer-proof locks. The oil is sold to dhaba owners at a cost lesser than that of market rate by Rs 15 to Rs 20 per litre. It is then sold to factory owners, transporters and farmers at Rs 5 less than market rate||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-killed-2-injured-in-blast-at-dhaba/articleshow/79215802.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 14, 2020||Hubballi||Poet Airsang who swore by metric pattern passes away||Dharwad: Nonagenarian Kannada poet V C Airsang passed away due to age-related ailments at a private hospital here on Friday morning. He is survived by a son and a daughter. Airsang, 91, has penned over 1,000 poems in Kannada, and many of them have been broadcast on All India Radio (Dharwad). Many singers gained popularity by singing songs composed by Airsang. Airsang, who had been named the president of 11th Dharwad District Kannada Sahitya Sammelan in March 2017, had come to the venue on his bicycle — he was passionate about cycling all his life. Karnatak University had conferred the honorary doctorate on him in 2017. Airsang had always followed the metrical pattern in poetry. He was of the opinion that the trend of free verse did harm to poetry in Kannada. According to him, free-verse poems written by “so-called modern poets” deviating from the metrical pattern are more prose than poetry. “The real beauty of poetry lies in writing poems adhering to the metrical pattern. Such poetry, created from the time of ‘Kaviraja Marga’ of Nripatunga to ‘Mankuthimmana Kagga’ of DVG, has enriched Kannada literature. Therefore, poets should always follow the metrical pattern,” he had told TOI during an interview. Union minister Prahlad Joshi, industries minister Jagadish Shettar , MLA Arvind Bellad, poet Channaveera Kanavi and several artistes, musicians and writers have condoled the death of Airsang. The last rites of the poet were performed at Hosayallapur crematorium here on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/poet-airsang-who-swore-by-metric-pattern-passes-away/articleshow/79213440.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||After Karva Chauth, city’s air quality improves||Chandigarh: The city air has improved to moderate with an air quality index (AQI) of 101 and 200 ever since it plunged into the poor category for the first time this season on Karva Chauth on November 4, prompting officials to cite the imposition of ban on crackers as the reason. On November 6, UT adviser Manoj Parida under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, had ordered to impose a ban on the sale and use of crackers in Chandigarh. After November 4, the analysis of the city’s AQI revealed that it ranged between 111 and 173. The continuous ambient air quality monitoring station (CAAQMS) on Panjab University’s south campus in Sector 25 records real-time change every hour. Last year around Diwali (October 27), the air pollution was so severe that the AQI reached 371 in Sector 22, 280 in the silence zone of Sector 12, 247 in the commercial area of Sector 17, and 352 in the institutional zone of Sector 39. AQI | Remarks |Health impacts 0-50 Good | Minimal | Impact 51-100 | Satisfactory | Minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people 101-200 | Moderate | Breathing discomfort to people with lungs, asthma and heart diseases 201-300 | Poor | Breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure 301-400 Very poor | Respiratory illness on prolonged exposure 401-500 | Severe | Affects healthy people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases Box: What is AQI AQI can be termed as the numerical scale used generally to assess air quality in a particular region on a daily basis. AQI mainly looks for major pollution-causing factors in the air. They include particulate matter, ground-level ozone, sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and carbon monoxide (CO) among others. Generally, a higher number in the AQI scale is seen as a higher pollution level and health risk in comparison to lower numbers DATE | AQI November 4 | 202 November 5 | 173 November 6 | 111 November 7 | 108 November 8 | 128 November 9 | 136 November 10 | 120 AQI November 11 | 129 AQI November 12 | 153 AQI (AQI recorded at 8pm)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/after-karva-chauth-citys-air-quality-improves/articleshow/79215799.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 14, 2020||Goa||Liquor worth Rs 7 lakh seized in Goa's Kundaim, cleaner held||PONDA: The Ponda police seized liquor worth Rs 7 lakh while being transported illegally to Karnataka. A police team that was patrolling late Tuesday night had intercepted two trucks at Kundaim after they noticed that both vehicles had the same registration number. “When one of the truck was searched, the police team found 210 boxes, each containing 12 of whisky bottles, hidden below a cardboard,” Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said. Since both the trucks were sporting the same registration number from Gujarat, it took the police around two days to verify which truck genuinely had the registered vehicle number, following which an offence was registered on Thursday. The cleaner of the truck having the fake number plate, Aslam Kasim Shaikh, from Mumbai, has been arrested, while the driver is absconding, police said. Shaikh has been remanded in eight days police custody. Both the accused have been booked under sections 465, 468, 420 read with 120B of the Indian Penal Code and sections 5 and 8 of Goa Excise Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/liquor-worth-rs-7-lakh-seized-in-kundaim-cleaner-held-driver-absconding/articleshow/79216843.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Application alleges abduction, cheating||AHMEDABAD: The legal troubles for the promoters of Popular Builders and their family seems to have no end. Now, a land broker from Bavla in Ahmedabad district, has filed an application with Anandnagar police seeking to register an FIR for cheating and abduction against Prathmesh Patel and Vikram Patel, nephews of Dashrath and Raman Patel. The applicant, Bharat Algotar, said Prathmesh and Vikram met him near their house in Satellite in October 2018 and offered him a plot of land in Godhavi village for Rs 1.10 crore. Later, Algotar had a sale agreement drawn up with Prathmesh and gave him Rs 75 lakh for the land. After taking the money from Algotar, both Prathmesh and Vikram stopped talking to him. Algotar alleged that whenever he tried asking for the land documents, they dodged his queries giving one excuse or the other. As Algotar kept pursuing the issue, Prathmesh had on September 16 called to Shyamal Crossroad from where Prathmesh and Vikram along with four unidentified men abducted him and took him to Sindhu Bhavan Road. Algotar alleged that Prathmesh pointed a gun at him and later thrashed him and forced him to sign a blank document. He said that as the persons behind Popular Builders have long criminal records, he did not approach police. After Raman Patel and his son Monang were arrested in an attempted murder case and Dashrath and his son Virendra Patel were arrested in an illegal confinement case, Algotar filed a plea against Prathmesh and Vikram. Earlier, two other cheating complaints were filed against Raman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/application-alleges-abduction-cheating/articleshow/79215827.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court orders doctor to compensate for patient’s death in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A consumer court has ordered a city-based doctor to pay Rs 14.14 lakh compensation to the family of a woman for her death due to medical negligence. The case involves Kalpanaben Chauhan, who died of septicemia at the Civil Hospital. The Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission has held the first treating doctor, Dr Anil Gupta of Krishnanagar, responsible for medical negligence and ordered to compensate for her death with 6% interest during the pendency of the case for a decade. In October 2010, Chauhan (45) was suffering from breathing problems and insufficient sleep. Her physician referred her to Dr Gupta, who asked her for admission in one Anand Surgical Hospital at Naroda Road. He diagnosed her with anaemia and prescribed blood transfusion. On October 26, Chauhan was admitted and blood transfusion took place. When she was admitted in the hospital, a doctor in the hospital diagnosed that her low haemoglobin level was due to infection. Dr Gupta did not pay heed to this diagnosis and assured the family that blood transfusion will take care of her problem. Four days later, her condition worsened. She was also diagnosed with dengue. She was shifted to another hospital where Dr Rajesh Mishra treated her. She was put on ventilator support. The patient was finally shifted to the Civil Hospital, where she was diagnosed having developed septicemia and she died on November 12. A year later, Chauhan’s husband, Umakant Chauhan sued Dr Gupta, Anand Surgical Hospital, Dr Rajesh Mishra, Nidhi Hospital and an insurance agency seeking compensation for her death caused due to medical negligence. The doctors and hospitals denied the charges of medical negligence. On part of Dr Mishra, it was argued that due care was taken to deal with the infection and the patient was given antibiotics. After a decade-long pendency of the case, the consumer court pinned liability of medical negligence on Dr Gupta. It said that Dr Mishra and two hospitals could not be held liable for medical negligence. It discharged liability of the insurance company also because Dr Gupta’s action was not covered under its policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-orders-doctor-to-compensate-for-patients-death/articleshow/79215856.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||Pay for lockdown rides, DD News staff told||NEW DELHI: National broadcaster DD News has directed all its regular, contractual and casual employees who availed of pick-up and drop facilities to reach office during the coronavirus-induced lockdown to pay for the services retrospectively. In an office order dated November 9, DD News said retrospective deductions will apply for transport facilities used by all categories of staff between April 1 and September 15, when public transport was not available. While regular transport facilities were withdrawn from September 15, DD News said pick-up and drop facilities for shift duty staff commuting during “odd hours” – after 10pm and before 6 am – would continue. In its latest order, however, even odd-hour pick-up and drop facilities have been made chargeable. These services were earlier provided free-of-cost. The November 9 order, accessed by TOI, says deductions will be made “on a monthly basis and irrespective of the number of days the transport facilities have been availed”, and will be according to the level of seniority of the employee and the distance travelled. The deductions will range between Rs 300 to Rs 1200 per month. While top DD News officials declined to comment, senior officials in Prasar Bharati told TOI that the matter will be “taken up internally” and that anyone who has grievances or concerns over the decision will be heard. Sources in Prasar Bharati also said the decision was in line with “DoPT norms” for central government employees, but did not elaborate. An employee said the decision was announced suddenly and without prior consultation. “As a TV station, our services are required around-the-clock. During lockdown, we were told we would get a transport allowance for two months (we were paid for one). And now, they are suddenly asking us to pay up for the last five-and-a-half months, and even for the late night pick-up and drop.” Sources said contractual employees now plan to move the top offices of DD News and Prasar Bharati to urge them to revoke the orders for retrospective deductions. They will also cite the Supreme Court orders issued after the Nirbhaya rape case, in which the apex court mandated all offices to ensure that their women employees are safely picked up and dropped home while working during odd hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pay-for-lockdown-rides-dd-news-staff-told/articleshow/79217614.cms||Swati Mathur
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Parents move Gujarat HC for clarification over 25% fee cut||AHMEDABAD: The All-Gujarat Parents Association has moved the Gujarat high court seeking clarification about the state government’s decision on 25% flat cut in fees in private schools till the education institutes remain shut due to Covid-19 pandemic. The association’s president Naresh Shah said that on his petition for reduction in fee, the state government had decided, and the private schools agreed to reduce fees by 25%. The Fee Regulatory Committee (FRC) chairman Justice (retd) K A Puj clarified that the schools will take 25% cut on fees finalized by the FRC. In his communication, the chairman said that the schools have been prohibited from collecting fees for other activities and the parents are required to pay only tuition fees. Shah said that there are total eight heads under which the FRC fixes school fees. While the parents are required to pay 75% of tuition fees according to the October 7 Government Resolution, there is no clarity over the term fee that is fixed by the FRC for private schools. Shah said his plea will come up for hearing after the Diwali vacation. Earlier, the state government had prohibited private schools from collecting fees after they did not accept the government’s proposal to reduce fees. The issue reached the high court and it was after various rounds of negotiations between the government and association of self-financed schools that the school managements had agreed to take a flat 25% fee cut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/parents-move-hc-for-clarification-over-25-fee-cut/articleshow/79215863.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||100 special buses pressed into service to meet Diwali rush||Dehradun: Ahead of Diwali, with a growing uncertainty over the availability of trains, Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) has witnessed a substantial increase in passengers. At least 100 special buses have been pressed into service for the festive occasion, officials said. To recall, three trains were cancelled a few days before Diwali. Nanda Devi Express that runs from Dehradun to Kota - a popular train among those travelling to UP, Delhi and Rajasthan - was cancelled from November 6 to 11. New Delhi-Dehradun Shatabdi express, another extremely popular train, remained cancelled two days prior to Diwali, on Thursday and Friday. Naini Express also remained cancelled on Friday. The Mussoorie Express that runs between Doon and Delhi was cancelled from November 11 to 20. The railways, however, had on Thursday announced two ‘festival special’ trains connecting Bihar and West Bengal to facilitate movement of passengers. Talking to TOI on Friday, Deepak Jain, MD of UTC, said,“The number of passengers going to Delhi, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Gurugram and Jaipur has increased. Though our buses are still not running to full capacity, demand has nevertheless gone up over the past week as a result our earnings have also improved. We earned Rs 1.15 crore on Thursday,” Jain said, adding that the daily earning of UTC was around Rs 2 crore in the festive season prior to Covid-19. The UTC also came to the rescue of train passengers who were left stranded after the sudden suspension of the festival special link express at Laxar station on Thursday. The train was scheduled to go to Dehradun. "Due to sudden changes, the Prayagraj Link Express was stopped at Laxar station rather than going to Dehradun. We have asked the UTC authorities to ply buses for the stranded passengers," Sitaram Sonkar from Dehradun station said. Further, the UTC has also announced Diwali bonus for its employees. (With inputs from Sukanta Mukherjee)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/100-special-buses-pressed-into-service-to-meet-diwali-rush/articleshow/79212792.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks to restrain MBBS seats in NHL until VS Hospital fully functional||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court on Friday permitted the petitioner to join the National Medical Commission of India (NMCI) as party in a litigation that demands that the VS Hospital should be made fully functional or to restrain MBBS seats in NHL Medical College. Petitioner-advocate K R Koshti, who has been seeking HC directions to the Ahmedabad Municipal Corportaion (AMC) to restart all functions at the VS Hospital, has urged the HC to stay the NMCI from allotting medical seats to the NHL Medical College on basis of the strength of VS Hospital. The petitioner has submitted that VS Hospital is a teaching hospital for NHL Medical College, which has been granted 250 MBBS seats on basis of 1,220 beds at VS Hospital and other beds in Nagari Hospital as well as at Shardaben Hosptial at Saraspur. In all, 1,770 beds are required to qualify for 250 MBBS seats in the college and these many beds were shown by AMC to the Medical Council of India inspection in August 2018. However, since then, the functioning of the VS Hospital is systematically being curtailed and the attached medical college now does not qualify for the same number of MBBS seats, Koshti maintained in an application filed on Friday. The high court has ordered that NMCI should be joined as party in the litigation, and posted further hearing on advocate Koshti’s PIL on November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-to-restrain-mbbs-seats-in-nhl-until-vs-hospital-fully-functional/articleshow/79215884.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Power lines in tiger corridor okayed||HYDERABAD: Despite the constant movement of tigers between Maharashtra and Telangana in the recent past, the standing committee of National Board for Wild Life (NBWL) gave clearance for laying of power transmission lines in the tiger corridor between Tadoba and Kawal tiger reserves. The project requires diversion of 45 hectares of forest area. Around 3.11 hectares runs through the tiger corridor in Telangana’s Asifabad district posing a threat of electrocution to tigers and other wildlife in the region. NBWL accorded the permission for this project in favour of Warora Kurnool Transmission Limited (WKTL). Shanta Ram, district forest official of Asifabad, said, “I have to check if the final approval is granted but for such projects, we always put a condition that the power line should be insulated along with other mitigation measures to avoid man-animal conflict. If the power lines are not insulated, people may hook other wires to it and use it illegally and there can be a chance of electrocution.” On the other hand, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) has laid down the condition that WKTL must increase height of the towers, instead of carrying out insulation, to ensure that tigers and other wild animals are not electrocuted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/power-lines-in-tiger-corridor-okayed/articleshow/79215892.cms||Moulika.KV
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Nashik police set up surprise nakabandis amid festive season||Nashik: The city police organised suprise nakabandis all over the city in order to keep a check on criminals and illegal activities during the festive season. Sangramsinh Nishandar, the deputy commissioner of crime branch, said a large number of police personnel were on the streets on Thursday evening with all the 13 police stations simultaneously setting up nakabandis.As Diwali festival is underway, a large number of people are out on the streets to purchase articles. This gives an opportunity to the criminals to indulge in illegal activities like thefts and robberies. Of late, police have observed that criminals involved in thefts and robberies carry arms with them.Senior police officials said they checked motorists who appeared suspicious. It takes 40 seconds to check a vehicle. A large number of motorists were checked across the city. Similar drives will be taken continuously to keep a check on the criminal activitiesCommissioner of police Deepak Pandey has planned nakabandis, where more than 10 police officers and employees apart from personnel of the traffic branch, are included. Documents are asked from motorists who appear suspicious. The police have appealed to the citizens to cooperate with them during the nakabandis. Meanwhile, in view of the recent theft of Rs 20 lakh from a businessman in the Saraf Bazar area, the traffic police have deployed a team to patrol the area on a bike during the market time. An additional force has also been given to streamline traffic at Raviwar Karanja, said Seetaram Gaikwad, the assistant commissioner of police, traffic branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-police-set-up-surprise-nakabandis-amid-festive-season/articleshow/79213606.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 14, 2020||Meerut||MDA seeks map-approval details of gangster Baddo’s bungalow||Meerut: The Meerut Development Authority (MDA) has sought the map approval details of a bungalow, allegedly owned by absconding gangster Badan Singh Baddo’s sister, days after the property worth Rs 1crore was attached. MDA has now sent a show-cause notice citing illegal construction at the bungalow in New Punjabipura area of the city.“We have sent a notice seeking the approved map of the construction. If they fail to show it, further action will be initiated,” said Pravina Agarwal, MDA secretary.The move comes after local police wrote to the administration to see if the bungalow had all the necessary approvals required for construction of a building. MDA has fixed November 17 as the date for the defendant to appear in person and reply to the notice “or else demolition of the illegal construction could be carried out”.“It is expected from you that by November 17 you explain why an order is not passed to demolish the illegal construction. If you want a hearing in person, you have to appear in front of the undersigned at 11 in the morning on November 17,” an excerpt of the show cause notice read. Similar actions have been taken across the state against criminals and gangsters who have amassed wealth from their criminal proceeds.Baddo, 48, has more than 30 cases of murder, loot, robbery and extortion lodged against him at various police stations in Meerut and adjoining districts. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on October 31, 2017, for the murder of Ravinder Singh, a lawyer, in 1996. Baddo is said to own businesses in Australia where his estranged wife and daughter are settled.He had escaped last year after allegedly entertaining a police team accompanying him in a hotel where alcohol was served. Nine accused, including six policemen, were initially arrested but all were granted bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/mda-seeks-map-approval-details-of-gangster-baddos-bungalow/articleshow/79212826.cms||Piyush Rai
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Spotted deer strays into residential area, rescued||Coimbatore: Forest department officials rescued a spotted deer that strayed into human habitation from the Marudhamalai forest and was chased by a pack of stray dogs at Vadavalli in the city on Friday morning. In the melee, deer’s antlers were injured. Forest range officer Shiva said he got a call around 7.30am from a person in Vadavalli saying that a spotted deer had entered a house by scaling down the compound wall of house located on the fringes of the Marudhamalai forest and stranded there after stray dogs chased it. “We found the injured deer crouched between the compound wall and building of the house. A few dogs were circling the compound from outside. We realized that the dogs were chasing the deer from inside the forest. To escape, the deer had come out of the forest and entered the residential area,” he said. It is a male deer estimated to be around five years old.Forest officers first chased off the stray dogs. The deer’s antlers and legs were injured. “Deer get frightened easily and often even die of fear. We decided not to further startle the already frightened animal. Around 15 minutes after the dogs were chased away and the deer felt secure, it slowly got up, checked its surroundings and ran back quickly into the forest,” said another officer on the spot. “We decided not to approach or chase it once we realized that it is able to run well,” he added.It was also ensured that no public gathered around the compound to make it feel secure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/spotted-deer-strays-into-residential-area-rescued/articleshow/79215919.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Drunk youth steals police vehicle, held in Miryalaguda||HYDERABAD: A drunk youth who sped away in a police vehicle while being questioned by cops late on Thursday night for creating nuisance was arrested after a hot pursuit in Miryalaguda, Nalgonda. Cops chased Vamshi,overtook him near a checkpost on NH-163 and took him into custody. Vamshi, a native of Mukundapuram in Nereducherla, works as a driver in Hyderabad, police said. The high drama started around midnight after Miryalaguda rural CI Ramesh Babu and his driver got down from their vehicle to question four youths, including Vamshi, for causing nuisance on the road near Edulagudem. Vamshi took the cops by surprise by sitting in the vehicle and speeding away. Cops gave a chase for 3km before they apprehended the culprit at the Alagadapa checkpost. By then, Vamshi crashed the vehicle against a road divider and a lorry as he raced ahead. “I was returning home and saw the four drunk youth. They had taken off their shirts and stood in the middle of the road causing nuisance,” said Ramesh Babu. “They gave rash replies when asked as to why they were on the road in the dead of the night,” he told TOI. Once the cops started grilling, the four youth ran away from the spot. There was a scooty which belonged to them. “We waited for them as we were sure they would come back for their vehicle,” Ramesh Babu said. After some time, one of them (Vamshi) returned. But, he got into the police vehicle and drove away in it. Ramesh Babu immediately alerted rural SI Parmesh who was at Yadgarpalli to pursue. Vamshi was overpowered and later handed over to Miryalaguda 1 Town police station. Police said a case would be booked against him and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-youth-steals-police-vehicle-held/articleshow/79215921.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Pollution bombs get fake green tags, flood market||AHMEDABAD: They are supposed to be green and less loud than regular firecrackers. Also, these green firecrackers are said to cause less air pollution. But the market is flooded with regular firecrackers labelled ‘green’. Recently, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned the sale and use of all firecrackers between November 10 and 30 in places where the average ambient air quality in November fell in the ‘poor’ category. In Ahmedabad, there is a growing awareness among consumers to not buy regular firecrackers, especially given the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. But regular firecrackers were manufactured about eight to nine months ago and the retailers have already supplied them in advance for the festival, said a few shopkeepers in the city with whom TOI interacted on Friday. Naresh Waghwani who sells firecrackers at his shop in Naranpura said that many shopkeepers are attaching the green label on the regular firecrackers to cater to their rising demand. The business has been down to about 50% this year due to the pandemic. Also the market is seeing a limited supply of green firecrackers. Waghwani has been selling green firecrackers called Dancing Peacock, Dragon, Jurassic Park, and Miyan Bibi, among others. The sale of regular firecrackers like Mirchi Bomb and 555 are down this year due to the people’s sense of civic responsibility, said Ashraf Sheikh who runs a shop at Delhi Darwaza. Bhavin Patel who was shopping for his nine-year-old kid said that people should refrain from buying firecrackers that create noise pollution. Green crackers are made using less polluting raw materials. Regular crackers emit about 160 decibels of sound; the green versions record 110-125 decibels. Kartik Modi, another shopkeeper, said that in some cases green firecrackers also use polluting chemicals but the quantity is very less. Some of green firecrackers that are in great demand include ‘Fancy Stick’ and ‘Mobile Flash’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pollution-bombs-get-fake-green-tags-flood-market/articleshow/79215989.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai businessman gets 6 months for misappropriating Rs 10 lakh falcon||MUMBAI: A 79-year-old Marine Drive businessman was recently convicted and sentenced to six months’ imprisonment for misappropriating a decorative falcon made of natural topaz, claimed to be worth Rs 10 lakh, entrusted to him by a former business associate who wanted it to be sold as he faced a financial crisis. Bought by the victim in Germany in 2000, the falcon reportedly weighed 3.5kg and was engraved in gold and diamonds, and fixed on a 30kg stone. Raj Kalapi was found guilty under Indian Penal Code section 406 (criminal breach of trust). In a detailed judgement copy, the magistrate held that it was “crystal clear” from testimonies of witnesses that he retained the falcon to clear previous dues from Shoaib Richie Sequeira. The victim denied there were dues and said Kalapi had not initiated action against him prior to the incident. The court held that the issue of dues was irrelevant to the case. “Once it is proved that the falcon was to be sold or returned to the informant (victim), the accused ought to have done the same thing in the same manner. He could not change the nature of discharge of trust. He suo moto cannot take the falcon to satisfy his own dues without having an oral or a written agreement,” court said. It held that he miserably failed to prove the victim and he had a mutual agreement that the accused could retain the falcon in lieu of the dues. Five witnesses deposed, including the victim, police and a gemologist. The prosecution submitted that the victim got acquainted with the accused who had a clothing business at Colaba in 1993-94. The victim returned to India in 2003 as his company closed down in UAE. The prosecution said the accused promised to help him find a customer for the falcon through high-profile contacts. Instead of his shop in Colaba, the accused allegedly kept the falcon at home on the pretext that it may get damaged. The prosecution said the accused later refused to return the falcon despite requests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bizman-gets-6-months-for-misappropriating-rs10l-falcon/articleshow/79215712.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Diwali spirit blazes, pushing Covid to shadows||AHMEDABAD: Heady floral fragrances of the rose petals, a splash of yellow and orange from the marigolds, a whiff of besan getting roasted in ghee for the Diwali must-have magas, getting old sarees and kurtas out and getting them ironed for pooja and festivities; ensuring internet connection is in place for the video meet and greet sessions, and decking up of spring-cleaned tables and balconies with fairy lights, decorations and gleaming diyas – and you know, Diwali is here! The celebrations may be downplayed or subdued, but the spirit for Diwali is always up! Some are planning short getaways while others getting decked up for online Diwali parties and savouring the elaborate meals including mathiya, fafda and the likes. “This time, unlike the other years, Diwali is all about going back to celebrating it like I used to during childhood,” said Falguni Patel, a city-based professional. For many, Diwali celebrations will also mean catching up with friends and loved ones. “We’re all meeting over a video call to wish each other and catch up,” said Upasna Shah, a government employee. Diwali is a treasure of traditions in the pols of Ahmedabad. Pushpa Panchal, a resident of Dhal ni Pol, said, “There will be no festivities this time around. We’ve barely prepared any sweets at home. We’re encouraging kids in the neighbourhood not to light crackers in the interest of their health ,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diwali-spirit-blazes-pushing-covid-to-shadows/articleshow/79216009.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||Army chief conducts aerial survey of border areas of Pithoragarh||Nainital: Army chief General MM Naravane undertook an aerial survey of the border areas in Pithoragarh on Friday during which he is believed to have taken stock of the security as well as the preparedness of the forces in these areas. General Naravane is on his first visit to Uttarakhand since the Ladakh standoff and tensions along the LAC. The three districts of Uttarakhand – Uttarkashi, Chamoli and Pithoragarh – share an around 350-km border with China and an almost 275-km-long border with Nepal. The Army has been on high alert in the border areas ever since the Ladakh standoff. The Army chief was expected to travel to Nainital from Joshimath on Thursday, according to an official of Nainital district administration. However, he chose to visit Pithoragarh. Even though the Army officials were tightlipped about General Naravane’s Pithoragarh schedule, sources said he surveyed the "tri-junction" - the borders of India, Nepal and China. General Naravane interacted with the officers posted there and discussed the Army’s preparedness in detail. He also extended his Diwali wishes to the soldiers as per officials. The Army chief’s Uttarakhand visit comes days after his trip to Nepal where he was conferred with the honorary rank of 'General of the Nepalese Army'.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/army-chief-conducts-aerial-survey-of-border-areas-of-pithoragarh/articleshow/79212855.cms||Prashant Jha
November 14, 2020||Thane||Cash van abandoned in Thane's Bhiwandi, but driver still not traced||MUMBAI: The cash van transporting around Rs 4.3 crore, stolen by its driver on Thursday evening, was found abandoned at Kalyan Naka in Bhiwandi, around 44km from Virar. The cash was missing. The van, belonging to a cash logistics company, had a GPS tracking system. While police had zeroed down the van’s last location to Bhiwandi since Thursday night, they found it difficult to track the exact location of the vehicle as the driver, Rohit Aaru (26), is believed to have tampered with the GPS. Aaru was driving the van that was loading money in ATMs in Vasai-Virar region ahead of Diwali. When the two cash custodians and armed guard entered Kotak Mahindra Bank ATM at Bolinj, Virar (W) to stock up cash, Aaru drove away with the vehicle around 5.30pm. Three police teams have been formed to track down Aaru. A team visited his Chembur home and questioned his family. His cellphone has been kept for tracking. Police have not ruled out the involvement of more people, including those in the know of the cash transportation procedure. The cash custodians and security guards are being questioned too. Preliminary investigations revealed that Aaru does not have a criminal history. He had joined the private firm, responsible for transportation of cash to ATMs, few months back. Additional superintendent of police Sanjay Patil confirmed the van was abandoned at Kalyan naka. It is not clear which vehicle was used to carry the cash beyond Kalyan naka. Police have examined CCTV footage along the route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/cash-van-abandoned-in-bhiwandi-but-driver-still-not-traced/articleshow/79215709.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Meerut||Student from Uttar Pradesh prints fake notes at home, held||MEERUT: Policemen in UP’s Hapur district, who were on the trail of the source of counterfeit currencies being circulated in the region, on Friday landed at an unlikely place, the house of an ITI student. But, when the policemen entered the room of Shekhar, they allegedly found what they were looking for so long-- currency grade papers, a high-end printer and several other items used to print fake bank notes. In his early 20s and without a source of income, Shekhar was sitting on a pile of notes, all fakes. Police claimed to have recovered fake currencies with a face value of Rs 42,000 from his possession in Simbhaoli area. According to police, they got the information about Shekhar while questioning another accused, Susmit, who was caught trying to circulate the fake notes in the market. “These youngsters don’t have any criminal past. They just wanted to make quick money,” a police officer said. “Apart from Rs 42,000 cash, equipment used for printing have also been seized,” said Sanjiv Suman, Hapur’s superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/iti-student-caught-printing-fake-notes-at-home-in-ups-hapur/articleshow/79212840.cms||Piyush Rai
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Septuagenarian gets property back after son abandons him||Coimbatore: A 71-year-old man who had gifted his house and land to his 43-year-old son, who later abandoned him and his wife, got back the property on Wednesday, thanks to the intervention of collector K Rajamani.Karuppusamy had handed over six cents land and his house worth Rs 31 lakh to his son Senthil Kumar a few years ago. But Kumar refused to take care of his parents after the property was registered in his name. A dejected Karuppusamy petitioned the Coimbatore collector a few months ago and sought his help. Coimbatore north revenue divisional officer P Suresh, who met Karuppusamy and Senthil Kumar, ordered cancellation of the gift deed.The revenue department has warned those who desert elderly parents for their property. Such people will face action under the Maintenance and Welfare of Parents and Senior Citizens Act, 2007. “We have implemented the Act in seven cases and cancelled property registration deeds worth Rs 2.7 crore. We ordered monthly compensation in two cases,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/septuagenarian-gets-property-back-after-son-abandons-him/articleshow/79215928.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Udhayanidhi fills vacant posts in youth wing||Coimbatore: DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin on Friday conducted a meeting with functionaries to fill nine posts of youth wing organizers and deputy organizers in the district and neighbouring Tirupur.Around 200 functionaries took part in the meeting that was held at the party’s district office near North Coimbatore.To fill the posts that were vacant in Coimbatore urban east, west, Coimbatore rural north, south, east and Tirupur urban, east, north and south areas, an interview was held. Later, Udhyanidhi handed over Rs3.50 lakh to the party functionary Mohanraj’s family.The meeting was arranged by Singanallur MLA N Karthik and party functionaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/udhayanidhi-fills-vacant-posts-in-youth-wing/articleshow/79215947.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||Boarded out, woman cadet claims bias||NEW DELHI: A woman officer cadet (pilot) has approached the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) after being boarded out of the Indian Naval Academy at Ezhimala in Kerala for allegedly “indulging in physical intimacy” with a fellow cadet. The woman, who joined the academy for the ‘naval orientation course’ for short-service commission officers after graduation, contended before the AFT that the Navy’s decision was harsh and discriminatory, especially because the male cadet involved in the episode got away with “minor punishment”. The Navy refused to comment since the case is sub-judice but sources said there was “no discrimination or gender bias” since both the cadets were “relegated”. A source said, “It was the second disciplinary case against the woman cadet, who was also relegated last year after she used unfair means during a written examination. As per rules, she has been boarded out due to two relegations in one term.” The woman’s lawyer, however, contended that the male cadet, who came to her cabin on March 29 and kissed her, was only given “relatively minor punishment, not amounting to relegation”. Citing examples where other cadets were dealt with leniently in similar circumstances, the lawyer said the woman should be reinstated and be allowed to graduate because she had qualified as “outstanding” in academics, physical training and swimming tests. The AFT bench has found some merit in the contention of the woman’s lawyer, “partially accept-ing” the interim relief sought by her. “Whereas we do not agree, at this stage, that the applicant should be reinstated in service, we direct that the order of the respondents to withdraw the applicant from training and discharge her from naval service, if any, be held in abeyance till a final decision is taken in this case,” said the AFT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/boarded-out-woman-cadet-claims-bias/articleshow/79217775.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Telangana man commits suicide by inhaling carbon dioxide||ed:sajuCoimbatore: A 27-year-old man committed suicide in a lodge at Nehru Street at Gandhipuram here on Thursday.Police identified him as R Sumanth Reddy of Mathura Nagar at Jagtial district in Telangana. “A polythene bag was wrapped around his head. A plastic tube connected to a carbon dioxide cylinder was inserted in his mouth. He died of asphyxiation,” a police officer said.Reddy had checked into the lodge on November 3. “He told the lodge manager that he was planning to visit a yoga centre here. Though he had booked the room for four days, he extended his stay. On Thursday morning, a staff knocked on his door with tea. But there was no response. The manager tried to reach him over mobile phone, but he did not respond. The staff opened the door using the master key around 2pm to find him dead,” the officer told TOI.Inquiry revealed that Reddy had pursued MS in the US and had discontinued a PhD programme two years ago. “He was depressed after his parents failed to give him money for higher studies in the US. He returned to India one-and-a-half years, but did not go home. After roaming in Puducherry for some time, he visited Coimbatore a year ago. He spent some days in a yoga centre here and moved out of there a few months ago,” Kattoor sub-inspector H Muthu said. The cylinder is used in beverage industries, forensic experts said.The body was handed over to Reddy’s family after postmortem on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/telangana-man-commits-suicide-by-inhaling-carbon-dioxide/articleshow/79215973.cms||A Subburaj
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Drop restrictions on learning Tamil in Kendriya Vidyalayas, says Stalin||DMK president M K Stalin on Friday condemned the Union government for imposing restrictions on learning Tamil in Kendriya Vidyalaya schools.Pointing out that the restrictions were part of the Centre’s attempts to impose Hindi and Sanskrit across the country, he said the move reflected its hatred for Tamil. “Don’t force us towards another agitation,” the DMK chief warned while demanding the Centre to withdraw the restrictions.In a statement issued on the day, Stalin condemned the Centre’s direction to teach Tamil in a class only if a minimum of 20 students opted for the language. “Even in that case, as per the Centre’s fiat only temporary teaching staff could be appointed.”The DMK, other opposition parties and even allies of the ruling AIADMK had been critical of the Centre’s attempt to impose Hindi in the school curriculum.“The Centre has demonstrated hatred for Tamil by declaring that classes would be held only thrice a week, they would be suspended by February every year and only temporary staff would be roped in to teach the language,” Stalin said.Even after such restrictions, he said, teaching Tamil could commence only from Class VI. “These restrictions expose the Centre’s double standards, because it had stated that learning in mother tongue would be given importance under the new education policy.”The announcement in the new education policy that “the medium of instruction until at least Grade 5, but preferably till Grade 8 and beyond, will be the home language/mother tongue/local language/regional language” has now proved to be an attempt at deception, the DMK chief said.He appealed the Union government to drop the restrictions, appoint permanent Tamil teachers, teach the language from Class 1 and have Tamil classes everyday like all other subjects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/drop-restrictions-on-learning-tamil-in-kendriya-vidyalayas-says-stalin/articleshow/79215962.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||City scientists bag nat’l award for soil moisture indicator||Coimbatore: Five scientists from city-based Sugarcane Breeding Institute have bagged the first prize in the National Water Awards 2019 in the best research/innovation and adaptation of new technology for water conservation category.K Hari, D Puthira Prathap, P Murali, A Rameshsundar and B Singaravelu won the award for inventing a soil moisture indicator for irrigation water management. The device won for its cost-effectiveness, ease of replicability and increase in efficiency of water usage.The team received the award, which includes a cash prize of Rs 2 lakh, from Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday. The scientists had developed the user-friendly, simple device to help farmers assess soil moisture level in farm while scheduling irrigation, thus saving considerable amount of water. The device can work in a variety of soil types. “It works on the principle that electrical conductivity of soil is directly proportional to soil moisture. Many farmers saw a higher yield after they began irrigating lands based on the soil moisture indicator’s readings,” principal scientist and co-inventor of the study Puthira Prathap told TOI. “It was also proven that farmers can save 15% of water when using the indicator, which costs only Rs 1,500.”The technology was further evolved through farmers participation. The project was closely monitored by the central water commission and the ministry of jal shakti. As many as 12 firms in eight states have been granted license to commercialise the product. Two of them have already begun production.The device can be used in farms that have crops such as groundnut, brinjal, ladies’ fingers, coconut, banana, paddy, sesame, black gram, green gram, tomato, mustard and sugarcane.This happens to be the second award to be bagged by Coimbatorians instituted by the ministry. R Manikandan, coordinator of city-based Kovai Kulangal Pathukappu Amaippu had bagged an award under the ‘Best Water Warrior for South Zone’ category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-scientists-bag-natl-award-for-soil-moisture-indicator/articleshow/79215993.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mysuru||Officials prepared for distribution of dry ration kits to students||Mysuru: In accordance with the directions issued by the state government, Mysuru zilla panchayat and the department of public instruction (DPI) has arranged for the distribution of provisions to the families of nearly 2.1 lakh students studying in either government or aided schools across the district. The provisions – rice and pulses – are being distributed along with arrears, that is, for the 108 days from June to October, when schools were to have reopened for the new academic year. The dry ration kits are being distributed to students in lieu of the midday meals that were to be provided to children but for the Covid-19 crisis. The authorities in Mysuru had already stored the necessary quantity of rice to be distributed to students to fulfil the quota for June and July. However, owing to the lack of an official requisition for rice for the next three months, the department decided to distribute dal instead for the months of August, September and October. Although students of government and aided schools were provided dry ration kits till May, it was stopped in June, triggering outcry from various organisations. In the wake of the severe backlash, the state government allocated Rs 449 crore towards distribution of dry ration kits for the five months. According to the state government’s directive, students from classes one to five were to receive 5.3kg of rice/ dal each month and a monthly cash allowance of Rs 263, while those in classes one to ten were entitled to 7.9kg of rice/ dal, along with Rs 394 each month. The cash allowance is reimbursement given to children from the amount saved that would otherwise have been spent on purchase and making of the meals. Mysuru district midday meals officer Ningarajaiah said that all block education officers, teachers and headmasters had been instructed to collect the amount of grains and rice necessary for their respective institutions from the Karnataka Food and Civil Supplies Corporation (KFSCS) godowns. “Instructions were issued to the KFCSC manager to ensure there was no compromise with the quality of rice and dal,” said Ningarajaiah, adding that teachers had been told to collect signatures of parents as acknowledgement for reciept of dry ration kits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/officials-prepared-for-distribution-of-dry-ration-kits-to-students/articleshow/79213542.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris district reports 32 new Covid-19 cases||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris logged 32 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, taking the tally to 7,069, even as 57 patients recovered and were discharged on the day. With 96.3% of recovery rate, the hill district has seen 6,810 Covid patients recovered so far.The district also reported one death rising the toll to 41.Of the 218 active cases, 10 people are in government facilities in Coimbatore while 15 are kept in home quarantine. The remaining cases are treated at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides two Covid care centres in the district. Most of the new cases were reported from rural areas. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-district-reports-32-new-covid-19-cases/articleshow/79216005.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Bioluminescence makes Padukere Beach turn radiant blue||Udupi: Radiant blue colour shimmered on the waves gently crashing down on the Padukere shore, abutting Malpe, late on Thursday. While for the uninformed, it appeared a wonder of nature, it was not the case for septuagenarian retired engineer Arun Prabhu. Aware of the occurrence of this natural phenomenon known as bioluminescence, Prabhu with his son and grandchildren in tow, descended on Padukere around 11pm to capture this spectacle. Prabhu, a nature lover and wildlife photographer, following a lead given by Mohith Shenoy and Abhishek Mayya, captured the day’s occurrence on his camera. “It is usual for the sea to have a greenish glow when bioluminescence occurs,” Prabhu told TOI. Bioluminescence is light emitted by living things or algae through chemical reactions in their bodies. It could also be the ghostly glow of bacteria on decaying meat or fish, Prabhu added. Concurring with Prabhu, Sudesh Shetty, proprietor, Mantra Tourism Development Company, that manages Malpe Beach, said there was a similar report of bioluminescence at Mattu Beach, some 6 km away from Padukere, last year. “The phenomenon, though natural, is something one has to wait for, and is a treat to watch when it occurs,” Shetty said. Incidentally, Prabhu, who reached Padukere around 7.30pm a couple of days ago, missed the phenomenon. Senthil Vel A, dean, College of Fisheries, Mangaluru, told TOI that there was a report of it at Surathkal Beach last month, where the colour of the sea had turned green. “It could be due to higher organic material load in the coastal water. This can sometimes prove harmful to fishes, as the oxygen level dips, and results in fishes getting killed,” Senthil said. “We will get this investigated by the department of aquatic environment management division,’‘ he said. There could be any number of reasons for bioluminescence, including high amount of discharge of sewage into the sea, and variation in temperature due to global warming. The exact reason will be known once the samples are tested, he said. Bioluminescence occurs widely in marine vertebrates or invertebrates, as well as in some fungi and microorganisms, including some bioluminescent bacteria, and terrestrial arthropods such as fireflies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bioluminescence-makes-padukere-beach-turn-radiant-blue/articleshow/79213946.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Daily count drops to 20 in Dhule||Nashik: The daily count of new Covid-19 cases in Dhule district has dropped to 20 from an average of 130 patients per day in a month’s period. According to health officials in Dhule, the number of Covid-19 cases has dropped sharply since September-end and first week of October. “The active Covid-19 cases in the district are hovering around 250, which is much lower than the peak figures of around 3,700,” the officer said, adding that the situation was well under control now. Dhule district is strategically located, with good it west, north, east, south road connection from the district. “There is a very large floating population by way of truckers and labourers,” the officer said. “All these reasons contribute for better chances of spread of the disease, but the administration as well as the people have put up a good fight against the infection,” the officer said, adding “We are at the lowest ebb and we think that it this trend would continue for quite some time though it will not vanish.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/daily-count-drops-to-20-in-dhule/articleshow/79213657.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||311 recruits pass out from MRC||Udhagamandalam: As many as 311 recruits passed out from the Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington near Coonoor on Friday after completing the year-long basic and advanced military training.Brigadier Rajeshwar Singh,SC, SM, Commandant, MRC, reviewed the passing out parade carried out observing social distancing and personal protection protocols.Singh congratulated the meritorious recruits and congratulated the instructors and staff for achieving high standards of training and lauded the effort of MRC to train smart and effective soldiers for the Indian Army. He made a special mention of the efforts to train soldiers under the prevailing pandemic situation and commended all stakeholders for their hard work. The MRC has not missed out a single training day since the outbreak of Covid-19. The commandant also congratulated the parents of the young soldiers, who could not witness the parade due to restrictions imposed by Covid-19.The recruits will shortly join various battalions allocated to them. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/311-recruits-pass-out-from-mrc/articleshow/79216003.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Pocso accused acquitted as girl was not minor||MUMBAI: Seven years after a now 33-year-old man was booked for kidnapping and raping a “minor”, the special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court this week acquitted him, after finding that the girl was in fact 19 and had eloped with him. The court said the conduct of the woman of not raising an alarm during travel by public transport at various places showed she voluntarily eloped. The court held that the defence of the accused that though she was good in studies her family was against further education, was more probable. Advocate Ninad Muzumdar, who represented the accused, said the court accepted the submission that it was a love affair and the girl ran away as her family was getting her married and stopping her education. “Moreover, after knowledge of her love affair with the accused, they arranged marriage of the prosecutrix. Therefore, the prosecutrix left the house on her own,” the court said. The court held that the auto with the help of which she eloped from college was arranged by a friend. “There is no evidence to show the accused forcibly took her against her wishes. The evidence of the victim that accused pointed a knife and used to give threats did not appear probable. So also the fact is missing in her statement to police,” the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pocso-accused-acquitted-as-girl-was-not-minor/articleshow/79215710.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Seven deaths in a day in Chandrapur, 19 in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Seven deaths in a day due to Covid-19 shocked Chandrapur district on Friday. This was for the second time in November that a district other than Nagpur has reported more than five deaths in a day. Earlier, too, it was Chandrapur which recorded 6 deaths in a day on November 3. The seven deceased on Friday include a 40-year-old man and a 46-year-old man. Deaths of such young patients is a worry for Chandrapur. With these two deaths, the death toll in Chandrapur reached 267. Apart from seven deaths in Chandrapur, Nagpur reported 8 deaths due to Covid-19. These include 5 from Nagpur city, 1 from rural and 2 from other districts/states. Wardha reported two deaths, while Gondia and Gadchiroli reported 1 death each taking the total death toll of Vidarbha to 5715. All five districts of Amravati division reported no death for the second day in a row on Friday. Bhandara was the only district in Nagpur division where no deaths were reported. With 19 deaths in a day on November 13, total 208 deaths have been reported in the first 13 days of November. Vidarbha reported total 812 new cases in a day. They came from Nagpur (257), Buldhana (127), Chandrapur (106), Bhandara (54), Wardha (41), Gondia (57), Amravati (43), Gadchiroli (48), Washim (14), Yavatmal (32), and Akola (33) taking Vidarbha’s total Covid-19 caseload to 203748. On the other hand, 1037 recoveries came from Nagpur (338), Chandrapur (175), Gadchiroli (120), Buldhana (89), Gondia (86), Amravati (67), Yavatmal (64), Wardha (56), Bhandara (25), Akola (11), and Washim (06). Total 194306 patients have recovered till date. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is witnessing constant rise. It reached 92.63% on Friday. Gadchiroli: A 44-year-old diabetic man, who was suffering from Covid-19, died during treatment in Gadchiroli on November 13. This took the death toll to 68. Record 120 patients recovered in a day on Friday while 48 new Covid-19 patients were detected. Total cases reached 6781 with 6144 of them recovered. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 90.61%. Total 569 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district saw 14 new cases while 6 patients recovered from Covid-19 on November 13. With this, total cases in Washim reached 5866 and recoveries at 5540. No death was reported on Friday. Now, the district has 182 patients under treatment. Buldhana: A record 1663 Covid-19 test reports were received on Friday in Buldhana district. Out of these, 127 tested positive. This took the total caseload of the district to 10249. With 89 recoveries in a day, 9697 patients have recovered. No death was reported on Friday in Buldhana. Total death toll remained unchanged at 131. Now, 421 patients are under treatment. Akola: Total 33 new patients were detected on Friday in Akola through more than 200 tests conducted. This took total caseload of Akola to 8653. On the other hand, 11 patients got discharge. No death was reported on November 13, third day in a row. Akola’s death toll is 283. Now, 245 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district saw 87 infection cases and one more fatality in the last 24 hours. With 86 recoveries, the number of patients discharged was almost same as the number of patients found positive on Friday. Total 612 tests were conducted in a day. A death was also reported taking the total toll of Gondia to 142. The district now has 10683 cases, 9899 recoveries, and 642 patients under treatment. Bhandara: The district was the only one in Nagpur division where death due to Covid-19 was not reported on Friday. Bhandara reported 54 new cases, and 25 recoveries. With this, total cases reached 9387 and recoveries at 8373. With 232 deaths reported till date, Bhandara has 782 patients under treatment. Amravati: For the fourth successive day, the district did not report a Covid death while the recoveries outshone the new cases on Friday. The day reported 67 recoveries as against 43 new cases. Total recoveries reached 16088 while the caseload reached 16869. This left 412 active cases, including 229 in home isolation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seven-deaths-in-a-day-in-chandrapur-19-in-vidarbha/articleshow/79216098.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Fake income certificate racket in Setu office busted; 2 booked||Nagpur: Naib tehsildar of Nagpur has busted a racket operating in the district collectorate and issuing fake income certificates. Sadar police have registered an offence after receiving complaint against two persons in this regard. No arrest has been made so far. The racket was unearthed in October 2020 after an application for non-creamy layer certificate was put up before the naib tehsildar Abha Waghmare. During verification, the office clerk found the signature and the seal on the income certificate to be suspicious. When the matter came up before Waghmare, it was found that the seal and signature were forged. The application had no mention of the applicant’s address. On probing the matter further, it was revealed that hundreds of fake income certificates were submitted in alleged connivance with document writers, operating near the tehsil office. After the complaint was filed with police, the document writers abandoned the place. It is learnt that such fake certificates were issued for a few hundred rupees. After the incident came to fore, Waghmare was transferred. Before her transfer, Waghmare had on October 8 lodged a criminal complaint against Santosh Jaiswal, 50, a resident of Manewada. According to the complaint, Jaiswal along with his accomplice prepared bogus income certificates and duped many citizens. Sadar police have booked Jaiswal and his accomplice under sections 420, 465, 468, 471 read with 34 of the IPC. Despite repeated attempts, Waghmare was not available for comment. Sources said the number of fake certificates issued till date could be much more than detected. Police investigation will reveal involvement of those including the office staff, said sources, adding Jaiswal is one of the masterminds of the racket. Sources pointed out despite a blanket ban, touts thrive near Setu office. Citing an example, sources said similar rackets were busted in 2009 and in 2015. Sources say nexus between staff working in the tehsil office and touts could not be ruled out. Gullible citizens seeking various certificates from the Setu office often fall prey to these touts, who work hand-in-hand with the employees of the office to procure the required certificates within three days. It normally takes seven to 21 days for an individual to obtain the same certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fake-income-certificate-racket-in-setu-office-busted-2-booked/articleshow/79216120.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Sloth bear injured severely in hit-and-run accident||Chandrapur: A full grown male sloth bear was critically injured in a hit and run case near Mahadwadi village on Chandrapur-Mul highway some time on Thursday night. The injured bear with a suspected hip bone fracture was rescued by a team led by Chichpalli RFO Vaibhav Rajurkar on Friday morning. It was later shifted to Gorewada rescue centre after primary treatment at Chandrapur transit treatment centre here. Official sources informed that an adult male bear was hit by an unidentified speeding vehicle some time on Thursday night while it was trying to cross the highway near village Mahadwadi. Villagers reported about the injured bear lurking in a secluded place near the road and a rescue team led by RFO Chichipalli Rajurkar rushed to the spot. The rapid response team from Tadoba was summoned to the spot and the injured bear was tranquillized and captured by 10.30am. It was taken to Chandrapur transit treatment centre and reviewed under sedation. In-charge of TTC Dr Kundan Podchalwar treated the injured bear and found that it had severe injury on lumbar spine and was unable to use hind limbs due to the same. As it was a critical case, the bear was immediately rushed to Nagpur later in the evening for emergency treatment. Sources said the bear was taken to Gorewada rescue centre where it will be scanned for injuries and treated accordingly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sloth-bear-injured-severely-in-hit-and-run-accident/articleshow/79216146.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Passion & compassion; tender minds rescue, foster animals||BENGALURU: Four young animal lovers doing commendable rescue work ensure there won’t be a shortage of compassion in the future. TOI finds out what motivates them to undertake serious work at such a young age. Aarya M K | 14 His love for animals began when he was just seven and his parents Krupanand and Manasi first visited PfA (People for Animals) Wildlife Rescue & Conservation Centre in Kengeri. Krupanand, an IT professional, said they immediately registered with the NGO as volunteers and soon became independent rescuers. It was during rescue work that Aarya learnt about animals and skills needed to handle them. This student of Sri Kumaran Public School in Mallasandra says the biggest problem is people misunderstand animals to be dangerous. “During almost all snake rescues, I realised these snakes are not dangerous and there is a way to handle them,” he says, adding that snakes are his favourite. “I have also rescued birds, kites and squirrels,” he adds. Aarya, who wants to become a chief conservator of forests, says he joined PfA to achieve his goal. “Along with my dad and other volunteers, I’ve rescued more than 100 animals and birds. I want to continue saving them. While little birds fall out of their nests, it’s the kite manjha that hurts birds the most,” he explains. Saakshi Kewalramani | 17 Saakshi decided to become a veterinarian just recently. And to realise her dream, she dropped out of Grade 12 and start homeschooling because her subjects earlier would not help her become a vet. “I had always loved dogs. But the day I saw a dog, Goldie, dragging herself across the road in front of her apartment in Fraser Town, I felt the need to help her right away. We rushed to Cupa and hospitalised her for a month before fostering her at home,” she explains. On another occasion, she rescued a litter of eight puppies which got adopted. Jenna Ruhaid | 14 She lives with 15 dogs, 15 cats and a bird (African grey). She has rescued several animals and birds and one was a pigeon lying in her garden. “It had some skin problem and we got it treated. We kept it safe for two weeks and then it flew away, all healthy,” she says. Her passion is helping and saving animals. “I love observing animals and birds. Right now, my bird has started mimicking us, giving instructions to our dogs the way we do. It is amusing,” she says. Alia Ramani Halarnkar | 10 Alia is an aspiring veterinarian who reads the works of James Herriot, British veterinary surgeon and writer, at bedtime. This student of Mallya Aditi International School is part of three pet groups, including the Cubbon Park volunteers wherein she helps introduce puppies to people looking to adopt pets. Her love for dogs began when she was just three and had a Labrador named Nigel. “I used to read him stories. My first rescue was of two dogs,” she says, adding that her passion is encouraging people to help dogs. “If someone is not fond of dogs, I suggest they start understanding them by playing with friendly dogs first,” she says. She has fostered a pup, Kavi (short for Kaveri), which had a broken leg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/passion-compassion-tender-minds-rescue-foster-animals/articleshow/79215088.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||City hospitals to vie for Swachhta Survekshan top slots||Nidhi.Bhardwaj@timesgroup.com Ludhiana: Civic officials will start ranking of hospitals, schools, residents welfare associations and government departments under the Swachhta Survekshan ranking programme from Monday. The ranking programme was initiated in September and judgement of institutions and areas was supposed to be conducted last month but it was delayed because of lack of participants. Now, there are 72 participants with maximum entries coming from schools. A total of 22 schools, 12 hotels, 12 RWAs, 11 government departments and 15 hospitals are participating in the rankings. Civic officials had uploaded a form on the MC website and interested candidates were supposed to register by September 30, after which ranking was to be conducted. However, officials received only 37 entries by the time, due to which the process was delayed. The ranking program is being organised under Swachhta Survekshan 2021 and carries 70 marks. It will help the civic body get good ranking in the Survekshan. The MC had 72 participants last year too. A meeting in this regard was held at Zone A and officials concerned were asked to start checking from Monday. Nodal officer Maheshwar said they would go for field visits on the premises of the participants and check arrangements made to maintain overall hygiene. He said they would start the competition from Monday, November 16 and continue up to November 19, Thursday. Results will be uploaded on the MC website and through newspapers. Meanwhile, chief sanitary inspector Ashwani Sahota said winners would get certificates from the MC commissioner. Box: Standard for ranking — Hygienic conditions in and around the premises — Availability of dustbins — Composting pits to make manure — Segregation of waste — Proper disposal of biomedical waste — Availability of park or green belt — Dustbins in each shop in market — Swachhta slogans or graffiti — Efforts towards Swachh Bharat Mission||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-hospitals-to-vie-for-swachhta-survekshan-top-slots/articleshow/79213654.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Man held for celebrating b’day in public||Nashik: A resident of Sinhasthanagar of the Cidco area in Nashik city was arrested for organising his birthday celebration in a public place and inviting several guests, including politicians. The arrested man has been identified as Ashish Firodiya, said a release by the Ambad police. Police said that Firodiya had organised his birthday celebrations on Wednesday at 6 pm in front of Nari Harsh Foundation at Sanjay Racca Chowk, Sinhasthanagar, Cidco. According to police, he failed to seek police permission for organising an event in public place. Police said that Firodiya had set up chairs, tables in the Sanjay Racca Chowk and had also put up banners. Police officials said that by gathering crowd in Covid-19 times, the concerned person was not only endangering his life and health but also of others. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-held-for-celebrating-bday-in-public/articleshow/79213652.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengalureans venture out for last-minute Deepavali shopping, but crowds thin||BENGALURU: Shopping hubs like Commercial Street and Chickpet saw some buzz on the eve of Deepavali with citizens making last-minute purchases. However, the footfall was much lower than last year as many kept off the streets owing to the pandemic situation, broken roads and rain. Commercial Street wasn’t as crowded as usual. Shopkeepers displayed fancy lights and announced discounts in bold letters on the façade to welcome buyers. “This is a dull Deepavali season. But we are glad at least a small section of people has turned out to shop,” said Amjad, a bangle seller in a lane off Commercial Street. Some shoppers ventured out to overcome Covid blues. Shailaja Rani, a shopper and resident of BTM Layout, said: “My aunt and uncle were infected by the virus and are recovering. I came out for some festive shopping as the pandemic has made our lives dreary and festivities are the only way to cheer ourselves up and celebrate together, though with caution. It’s also an opportunity to pray to god for this crisis to end.” Even on 100 Ft Road and 80 Ft Road in Indiranagar, the number of shoppers was limited. Most were seen at stores selling electronic goods. “We didn’t stock more this year anticipating fewer customers due to Covid fear. But the situation is gradually improving and people are starting to come out,” said Murthy, a diya seller on 80 Ft Road who has set up shop along with his wife Parvathi. At New Thippasandra market, shoppers were checking out flowers, lights, fruits and clothes. “We received an incentive from our company and decided to buy the children some new clothes. Things are starting to look up,” said Srivatsa, a clerical staffer at a private firm in KR Market. Bengaluru’s biggest and oldest clothes wholesale hub spread across Mamulpet, Chickpet, Sultanpet and Old Tharagupet with over 1,500 shops is gradually seeing business pick up. Sales during the festive season have reached nearly 50 per cent of the original. Shoppers were seen buying traditional and western wear on AS Char Street and nearby stretches. “Compared to earlier this year, business has picked up a little, but there’s still a long way to go. During Deepavali season, we did just half the business we usually do. Our regular clients for wholesale orders from Kerala and the rest of Karnataka failed to turn up due to the Covid crisis hitting retail trade in their hometowns,” explained Prakash Bhojani, a wholesale trader of kurtis at Chickpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blureans-step-out-for-last-minute-deepavali-shopping-but-crowds-thin/articleshow/79215026.cms||Petlee Peter
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||‘Houses in Osman Nagar still inundated’||HYDERABAD: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy on Friday criticised the TRS government for not helping out the residents of Osman Nagar in Maheshwaram constituency despite the colony remaining inundated with stagnant rainwater for over a month after heavy rains caused floods. Accompanied with senior party leaders, Uttam visited Osman Nagar and surrounding areas and interacted with the affected families. “As many as 610 houses have remained inundated from almost a month. Hundreds of residents of Osman Nagar are forced to live on the streets for the last one month as they could not return to their homes. They lost all their household belongings and valuables. Osman Nagar exposes the hollow claims being made by MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on extending flood relief,” Uttam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/houses-in-osman-nagar-still-inundated/articleshow/79216158.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Hubballi||Security guard murdered in Gadag||Gadag: A security guard was allegedly murdered by unknown miscreants in the early hours of Friday in Gangapur village in Mundargi taluk. Mundargi circle police inspector Sudheer Benki said the deceased Fakiresh Talwar, 32, was working as a security guard in the nearby Vijaynagar Sugar Factory. “Someone has crushed his head with a stone when he was fast asleep at home. We have registered a case based on the complaint filed by his wife and are investigating,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/security-guard-murdered-in-gadag/articleshow/79213374.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Liquor, rifle seized from Molapalayam||Coimbatore: The Alandurai police have seized 18 bottles of liquor and a country made rifle from a house at Sennanur Road at Molapalayam and arrested a 54-year-old man. They have also lodged a case against a suspended army man for possession of the gun without obtaining any permission and launched a manhunt for him.A police source said constables Kalidass and Senthatiyan, who were on rounds on Thursday night, got a tip that M Rangaraj, 54, of Chennanur, was involved in illegal sale of liquor. “As they chased him on a motorcycle, Rangaraj entered the house of Ramakkal that was located on a farmland at Molapalayam and hid the bottles in the cowshed. They caught him and seized the liquor bottles. During the search, they also stumbled upon the gun.”Inquiry on the gun, meanwhile, revealed that the firearm belonged to R Ranjith, 24, of Kavundampalayam. He had served the Indian Army for three years in New Delhi. “He has been under suspension for the past one year. He is a relative of Ramakkal. He had kept the unlicensed gun at the cowshed during one of his visits to the farmland,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/liquor-rifle-seized-from-molapalayam/articleshow/79215998.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Cow dung diyas add green tinge to festival of lights||BENGALURU: Eco-friendly cow dung diyas are trending this Deepavali and many people have taken to them as a green way of celebrating the festival of lights. Several Bengalureans are ditching clay diyas and instead rooting for those made from cow dung as they see it as a way of empowering goshalas and local communities. These diyas are manually made by dairy farmers and goshala owners. Rashtrotthana Parishat is preparing cow dung diyas at it goshala located near Ghati Subramanya in Doddaballapur taluk. Ramachandra R, caretaker of the goshala, said they have prepared cow dung diyas for the first time and he fondly calls them ‘agnihotri diyas’. There are two kinds of cow dung diyas that he has manufactured: one is made of wet dung and the other from dung powder. “The wet dung diyas take an uneven shape and many people might not be happy using them, while those made of dung powder are perfect,” Ramachandra told TOI. “The dung powder is mixed with rice powder, vegetable gum and water. Once the diyas dry, a cotton wick dipped in ghee and glued to a small metal plate is placed inside them,” he said. The diyas easily burn for over 30 minutes if used with ghee. “These diyas are available for Rs 4 each and we have sold over one lakh pieces. Our largest buyers are from Benglauru, Vijayawada and Kolar, among many other places,” Ramachandra added. Na Dinesh Hegde, general secretary of Rashtrotthana Parshiat, said they have 500 cows of 12 Indian breeds in their goshala and have prepared over 20,000 diyas to be sold to the public. Amulya Purad, a homemaker, who purchased cow dung diyas from a local store in Gandhi Bazaar, said she was happy to get back to her roots. “When I was around five years old, I would go to my grandmother’s house, which was in a village in Byadgi, Haveri district. There people would only light lamps made from cow dung. Seeing these lamps in the city, I felt nostalgic and immediately wanted to buy them,” she said. Janani Rao, A Gandhi Bazaar resident, said she is purchasing these lamps for the first time. “We normally buy cow dung and clean the house before Deepavali, but I had never purchased the diyas, because no one makes them here. But this time we are excited to light these lamps. We are supporting the goshalas and going local,” said Janani. Yathiraja Mutt initiative Under the Desi Gomaya Deepam project, an initiative of Sri Yathiraja Mutt, women from Thondanur village in Mandya district were trained to make cow dung diyas. Over the last five days, 15,000 such diyas have been made. The proceeds from their sale will go towards paying wages for the women and making the mutt’s goshala sustainable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cow-dung-diyas-add-green-tinge-to-festival-of-lights/articleshow/79215046.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Drop in vegetable prices lifts mood||BENGALURU: A fall in vegetable and fruit prices over the past week has come as a welcome boost for Bengalureans readying to celebrate Deepavali. In fact, many are pleasantly surprised by the development as festivals usually push up rates of essentials. Dikshith S, a resident of Mathikere, said: “Prices of almost all vegetables have been climbing up for two months now, but surprisingly they have fallen before Deepavali. Last year, the prices were good all year, only to suddenly shoot up around this time.” Untimely rain in September and October was one of the main reasons for prices going north until recently. Most of the crops were destroyed due to rain, creating supply scarcity. Soham Shoney, a resident of Indiranagar, said, “Earlier this year, we had noticed a constant fluctuation in prices of fruits and vegetables due to a demand-supply issue, considering there were restrictions on transport. If prices are coming down gradually, it means things are finally heading towards normal.” With supply issues sorted, citizens can now notice a substantial fall in veggie prices. “Although other vegetables are costing less now, prices of onions and potatoes are still on the higher side. Rates of fruits, vegetables and fresh greens are likely to drop further in the coming weeks, provided there is no untimely rain,” said an employee of a Hopcoms outlet. Greens take nearly 30 days to grow completely. If the sky is clear for another week, their prices are likely to fall by a huge margin. “Vegetable prices had skyrocketed last week. Prices of beans, carrots and onions had all hit Rs 100 per kg. I was surprised when today my regular vendor brought fresh vegetables and said all of them were just Rs 40 per kilo. I really don’t know why the drop in prices, but it’s good news for consumers. I only hope the farmers who sweat it out get a good price too,” said Rekha Chari, a resident of Malleswaram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fall-in-veggie-prices-lifts-festive-mood/articleshow/79215067.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Confined spaces could be coronavirus hotspots||HYDERABAD: While the danger of a second wave of Covid-19 infections looms large, experts warn that confined spaces such as lifts, rooms, buses etc are where people need to be additionally cautious as this where the spread of infection is likely to be more compared to marketplaces and other open areas. Experts have stressed on the need to delay the second wave as much as possible by taking all Covid-19 precautions. “While slums and many of the congested pockets of cities might have already seen the peak, the risk is in closed spaces where air circulation is limited. Closed rooms especially in winters are a risky thing and having more number of people in it will make it riskier. While going out in open may not be much of a problem where the virus gets diluted very easily, we have to avoid close proximity with people specially in halls, rooms or spaces where the air circulation is less,” said Dr Rakesh Mishra, director CSIR, Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad. While the overall mortality of the virus infection is low, the disease is very infectious and not dependant on weather, Dr Mishra said. “More populated cities are seeing more cases of Covid-19. If two people are within a meter and not protected by mask and if one is infected the other will get infected,” he said. Apart from avoiding such places and wearing masks, maintaining hand hygiene and social distance, keeping ventilation channels open at all times at closed spaces is recommended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/confined-spaces-could-be-coronavirus-hotspots/articleshow/79214730.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Cases of post-Covid complications on rise||HYDERABAD: Hundreds of patients with post-Covid-19 complications are returning to hospitals post recovery. Health authorities say that to deal with the sheer number of these patients will require an exclusive multi-disciplinary approach. With Covid-19 recovered patients returning to hospitals complaining of complications within a month-and-half of recovery and being readmitted to the hospital, experts say the plan now is to set up exclusive centres with multidisciplinary teams and inhouse psychiatrists, as the number of such patients may rise further. A few states like Maharashtra have already taken the lead in this regard and have set up post Covid-19 treatment centres. However, Telangana too is now being forced to fight this problem. “A lot of cases of post Covid-19 complications are coming up now. We are getting patients in hundreds and these numbers are only going to rise. Apart from the general complications of extreme fatigue, breathlessness and serious complications like fibrosis of lungs, the reduced heart and kidney functions are common. Also, a majority of the patients are unable to concentrate on any one activity. This is being seen even after 3 to 5 months post the initial infection,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director, public health, Telangana. Another common problem emerging among such patients is skin infections. “Since the general immunity of these patients is very low, they are prone to a lot of infections and many are complaining of skin infections. The reduced power to concentrate and the lingering and new health issues among these require specialised care and psychological support. We will be putting up counsellors are psychiatrists along with specialists doctors from various departments for housing these patients. The idea is to have a focussed approach to treating these patients as they will require long-term support,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cases-of-post-covid-complications-on-rise/articleshow/79214739.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Nashik dist gets 233 more polling stations||Nashik: The district has 233 more polling stations to its tally, taking the total number of polling stations in Nashik district to 4,446. “Thee are about 46 lakh voters in the district and nearly 22 lakh are women. Moreover, due to rationalisation of the polling stations, the polling station numbers have increased by 233,” district collector Suraj Mandhare, who is the district election officer, said. Of the 15 assembly constituencies in Nashik district, Nashik West assembly constituency has the highest number of voters, while the number of voters in the Igatpuri-Trimbakeshwar constituency is the lowest. There are about 4 lakh electors in Nashik West, while the Trimbakeshwar-Igatpuri constituency has 2.6 lakh voters. The collector said that an exercise was carried out to rationalise the number of polling stations with every polling station having at most 1,500 voters. “Accordingly, 233 new polling stations were required and the same was announced,” the collector said. Mandhare added that the polling stations that were earlier on the first floor, have now been shifted to ground floor keeping in view the needs of senior and disabled voters who often require help to access the polling stations. He also announced that Electors’ Special Summary Revision Programme for photo voters’ lists will be carried out from November 17. He appealed to the citizens to cross-check their names in the electoral list and register their claims or objections, if any,.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-dist-gets-233-more-polling-stations/articleshow/79213763.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||2 fresh cases take dengue count of district to 1,352||Ludhiana: Two cases of dengue were reported from various areas of the district on Friday. Civil surgeon Rajesh Kumar Bagga said two cases of dengue were reported on Friday, taking the total number of dengue positive cases in the district to 1,352. “The total number of suspected dengue patients in the outer district is 492, out of which 408 are dengue positive. A total of 2,490 suspected dengue patients have been reported, of whom 1,808 are dengue positive,” health department officials said. “Teams of the health department visited PSPCL office in Purani Sabzi Mandi, post office, Bhandoor House, Sargodha Khalsa High School, Fieldganj, Government High School, Bindra Colony and Kalgidhar Khalsa Girls to check dengue larvae,” officials said, adding that on Friday, teams visited 435 houses and checked 896 containers. Health department said the teams distributed health education pamphlets, posters on dengue, Chikungunya, malaria and ways to prevent such diseases. Till date, they said, teams have visited 10,9,931 houses, of which larvae were found in 975 houses. Also, officials said till date, teams have checked 1,74,083 containers, out of which 1,049 containers were found to be contaminated. So far, they said, a list of 532 positive containers have been sent to the MC for challan. The civil surgeon also urged people not to allow water to stagnate in coolers, containers, fridge trays, pots and tyres on the roof. He advised people to wear clothes that cover the body completely and use mosquito repellent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-fresh-cases-take-dengue-count-of-district-to-1352/articleshow/79213673.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||City all set for Diwali blast||Coimbatore: The city appears to have finally bounced back from the Covid-induced slumber, with people thronging garment stores, cracker outlets and sweet shops on Friday to greet the festival of lights.Scores of men and women were squeezing through the crowd in textile shops for last minute shopping to grab new attire for Diwali. Queues at billing counters were so long that people could be heard quipping that it took more time to pay the bills than to select an outfit. Commercial hubs like the Cross Cut Road and Oppanakara Street saw the most crowded day of the year as people from as far as Pollachi, Mettupalayam and Udumalpet had come for Diwali shopping. After mixed sales over the last few days, cracker sales appeared to be brisk. In some places, the last-minute shopping was at the risk of social distancing and other Covid norms. Some shoppers were even found without face mask. “That is worrying. We have warned all shops to insist customers to wear face masks,” said a senior health officer. “We fear that the crowding would spark another pandemic wave. It would be a tough challenge,” he said.Policemen, who had a tough time controlling crowds even as they kept a hawk eye to prevent chain snatching and stealing attempts in crowded areas, said they have a different task on Saturday. “We have to ensure that there are no violations of fixed time slots for bursting crackers mandated by the Supreme Court,” said a police officer.According to rules, crackers can be burst only between 6am and 7am, and from 7pm to 8pm.City police commissioner Sumit Sharan said that as many as 1,200 police personnel will patrol the city on Saturday.If cops come across children bursting crackers beyond the stipulated time, they would warn them. “But if adults violate the rule, they would face legal action,” an officer said.Fire and rescue services department personnel are ready to prevent any untoward mishaps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-all-set-for-diwali-blast/articleshow/79216021.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Coimbatore||Man sets 2 motorcycles on fire, held||Coimbatore: The Variety Hall Road police on Thursday arrested a 51-year-old man for setting two motorcycles on fire at Chella Pillai lane.The arrested person was identified as T Rajendran, a resident of from Chella Pillai lane. “He had a long-standing dispute with his neighbour S Senthilkumar over property. Last November, after Rajendran fought with her over the land dispute, Senthilkumar’s younger sister Malathi lodged a police complaint.Police registered a case against Rajendran under the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Woman Act, 1998 and lodged him in the Coimbatore jail. He was jailed again last July for harassing women,” a police officer said.Rajendran came out on conditional bail last month. On Thursday morning, he set fire to the two motorcycles owned by Senthilkumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-sets-2-motorcycles-on-fire-held/articleshow/79216018.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana’s Covid positivity rate goes below 2%||HYDERABAD: The state maintained a very low positivity rate of Covid-19 below 2% as 997 people came positive as against 32,163 samples tested. In the last 24 hours, the case load reached 2,55,663. The death toll touched 1,397 with four persons succumbing to the virus. In the last 24 hours, as many as 1,222 people recovered from the virus pushing the total count to 2, 37,172. At present, there are 17,094 active cases out of which 14,466 are at home or doing institutional isolation. While the results of 997 cases came positive, the reports of 391 are pending. Only Greater Hyderabad had positive cases at above 100 (169) followed by 85 cases from Medchal-Malkajgiri and 66 from Rangareddy. Zero cases were reported from Komarambheem Asifabad, while six cases were reported from Narayanpet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ts-positivityrate-goesbelow-2/articleshow/79214736.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Amritsar||In Punjab, stubble burning cases breach 73,000||BATHINDA: With no letup in crop residue burning incidents in Punjab, the farm fire count this paddy harvest season is heading towards all-time high. The overall count of fires breached 73k-mark on Friday to reach 73,531, with a total of 2,450 stubble burning incidents recorded in the last 24 hours. The highest number of stubble burning incidents was recorded in 2016 at 82k. The pace of farm stubble burning can be gauged from the fact that 10 districts in the state recorded over 100 burning incidents, out of which two recorded over 300 incidents and five districts over 200. Bathinda district recorded the maximum 393 stubble burning cases followed by 300 in Fazilka, 236 in Muktsar, 231 in Barnala, 225 in Moga, 224 in Sangrur, 213 in Ludhiana, 184 in Mansa, 147 in Faridkot, 107 in Ferozepur, 80 in Patiala, 32 in Tarn Taran, 31 in Jalandhar, 15 in Fatehgarh Sahib, 12 in Kapurthala, seven in Hoshiarpur, five at Amritsar, four at Rupnagar, three at Gurdaspur and once incidents was recorded in SBS Nagar, while SAS Nagar and Pathankot did not see any burning incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/in-pb-stubble-burning-cases-breach-73000/articleshow/79216032.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Industry reps hope for quick revival with Centre’s PLI scheme||Mohit.behl@timesgroup.com Ludhiana: In a major boost for textile and automotive components manufacturers in the city, the Centre has included these sectors, along with eight others, in the Production Linked Incentive Scheme (PLI). Under this scheme, manufacturers of these goods will get incentives over a period of five years. For textiles, Rs 10,863 crore has been earmarked while Rs 57,042 crore has been earmarked for automobiles and components. This comes as a ray of hope for businessmen in the city who are trying to emerge from the Covd-19 economic slowdown and the losses caused by farmers’ protests. They are eagerly waiting for the formal launch of the scheme, which will take some time. Rahul Ahuja, Punjab chairman of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Punjab, said, “Inclusion of 10 more sectors in the PLI scheme of the Centre will prove to be a game-changer for industries of Ludhiana. Earlier, this scheme was introduced only for mobile phones, critical key starting materials and medical devices, but now the Centre has decided to include 10 new sectors including automobile and auto components, textile products, advance chemistry cell battery, electronic/technological products, pharmaceutical drugs, telecom and networking products, food products, high efficiency solar PV modules, white goods (ACs & LED) and speciality steel.” He said the scheme would help level the playing field for domestic companies. “With incentive schemes rolled out for these sectors, there will be drastic reduction of imports of products of these sectors and it will provide a level playing field to the domestic sector. As far as Ludhiana industry is concerned, the major beneficiary of the PLI scheme would be automotive component and textile product manufacturers,” he said. However, Charanjiv Singh, general secretary of Knitwear and Textile Club feels the allocation for textile manufacturers is not sufficient. “This is a great move by the government in the wake of the crisis caused by coronavirus and lockdown. Now, all depends on the government, the faster PLI scheme is implemented, the faster the industry will revive. Another aspect the government should look into is to increase the budget earmarked for the textile sector, which is now Rs 10,863 crore but according to industry size, this is not sufficient,” he said. Nitin Sharma, member of Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, urged the government to ensure that the benefit of the scheme percolated to micro and small industry as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/industry-reps-hope-for-quick-revival-with-centres-pli-scheme/articleshow/79213720.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: JMC chalks out plan for safe Diwali||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has geared up to control any fire-related incidents during Diwali. The fire department is put on alert and leaves of its officials have been cancelled. Chief fire officer Jagdish Phulwari said, “We have put one fire tender at each police station. One fire tender and two fire officers in the police station will be on alert. Diwali week is always a busy week with a possibility of any mishap. Extra force has also been called in case of an emergency,” said Phulwari. Sanitation facilities are being taken care of on high priority. Night sweeping is going on especially at the prominent market areas of the city. All the sanitation workers have been asked to clean the roads frequently. Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater commissioner Dinesh Yadav said, “We have even increased the rounds of hoopers in the city. A hooper is used to make two rounds during normal times. Now, the frequency has been increased to four rounds. More vehicles are hired to pick up garbage from the depots.” There have been many complaints of street lights registered in the municipal corporations. Contractors are given special instructions to repair the street lights in the city before Diwali. On Diwali i.e. November 14, sanitation staff will create rangoli on many public places, tourist areas, markets and at municipal corporations’ headquarters. A sanitation staff Suresh Kumar Dabodiya said, “Every year, sanitation workers are given the responsibility to decorate the city and keep the city clean. However, this year, we have been given only 25% of bonus. Our salaries are also delayed every month. We want government to look after our welfare as well when we are doing our work with honesty.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-chalks-out-plan-for-safe-diwali/articleshow/79216068.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Probe against Anna University VC for abuse of power, financial wrongs||CHENNAI: The state government on Friday ordered an inquiry by a retired judge of the Madras high court into allegations of financial irregularities and abuse of power by Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa, saying “prima facie the allegations are serious in nature.” Justice P Kalaiyarasan has been asked to submit his report in three months. “He need not be afraid. If he is honest, he shall come clean after the inquiry,” higher education minister K P Anbalagan told TOI when asked about the decision which was cleared by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. “We have ordered the inquiry to bring out the truth since we have been receiving several petitions against the Vice-Chancellor,” the minister said. The government order listed out petitions received in the past few months, alleging corruption of Rs 200 crore in recruitment of temporary teaching staff, misuse of power in appointment of Surappa’s daughter, scam in purchase of machineries and one involving examination office, lack of approval from syndicate on the appointment of additional registrar, promotions using forged certificates, besides financial irregularities and malpractices in semester examination and revaluation. It was alleged that Surappa mailed wrong information to AICTE that the final year students were passed without holding examinations. The probe has come after at least three standoffs between the government and the university in recent weeks dispute over grant of Institute of Eminence (IoE) for Anna University; bifurcation of Anna University; and policy regarding grant of blanket pass for students with arrears The probe will cover the amount received by the university during Surappa’s tenure in the form of fees, assistance, donation, grants and the amount paid out by the varsity, and the allegations of financial misfeasance, fraud, misappropriation and any other allegations in that regard, the order said. The inquiry will study if the university’s activities conformed to the Anna University Act and the alleged scam in the Career Advancement Scheme. Contracts and agreements entered into by the University during Surappa’s tenure, lapse or abuse of official position on the part of anyone connected with the university will also be probed. The inquiry officer, if he deems it fit, also will look into the allegations to any previous period. If such allegations are proved to be true, the inquiry officer then suggests such suitable ways and means to prevent such recurrences in future, the order said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/probe-against-anna-univ-vc-for-abuse-of-power-financial-wrongs/articleshow/79216071.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Adhik mas’ disrupted this year’s calendar||The timings and muhurats have been confusing this time for many Amdavadis celebrating Dhanteras, Kali Chaudas and the New Year according to Vikram Samvat. Also there has been confusion about the timing of Bhai Bij – as all these festivities fall on the same day! Moreover, there’s a gap day, identified as ‘dhoko’ in Gujarati, between Diwali and New Year day. Pandit Rajubhai Dave, a city-based astrologer and Panchang maker, said that the dissonance in the Vikram Samvat calendar is due to the Adhik Mas (additional month). “Our panchang follows both solar and lunar cycles compared to only solar considered in Gregorian calendar. Tithi at the time of sunrise thus plays an important role in deciding whether it would be a kshay (broken) tithi,” he said, adding that this Diwali two festivals (Dhanteras, Kali Chaudas & New Year, Bhai Bij) fall on the same day due to the kshay of the first tithi. “Such periodic arrangements are necessary to ensure that the panchang remains accurate and reflects the celestial position of the Sun and the Moon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adhik-mas-disrupted-this-years-calendar/articleshow/79216070.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Fatehabad district tops in defying farm fire ban||KARNAL: The air quality index (AQI) of Hisar again reached ‘severe’ on Friday, deteriorating from ‘very poor’ a day before. According to the Central Pollution Control Board, the air quality index of 13 cities, including Fatehabad 397, Sirsa 357, Jind 356, Dharuhera 355, Yamunanagar 347, Ambala 334, Bahadurgarh 332, Kurukshetra 325, Gurugram 324, Faridabad 319, Panipat 308, Sonipat 303, Rohtak 302, remained very poor on Friday. Hisar’s AQI level was 413. It was in the poor category in Kaithal (294), Panchkula (290), Manesar (266), Bhiwani (256), Palwal (244), Charkhi Dadari (241), Ballabhgarh (232), and Karnal (226). These AQI levels are 24-hour average of the readings from 4pm on Thursday to 4pm on Friday. Meanwhile, 178 active fire locations were detected in the state on Thursday, taking the total number of incidents to 8,464 from September 25 to November 12, as per the Haryana Space Applications Centre (Harsac). The numbers are comparatively higher than the last year’s figure in the corresponding period. Fatehabad district has crossed Kaithal with the highest number of paddy stubble burning cases since September 25 at 1,524. Kaithal is at 1,489, Karnal at 1,033, Jind at 1,030, Kurukshetra at 835, Ambala at 800, Yamunanagar at 486, Sirsa at 428, Hisar at 266, Sonipat at 144, Palwal at 116, and Rohtak at 115.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fatehabad-dist-tops-in-defying-farm-fire-ban/articleshow/79216055.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||Thrown out of jobs in pandemic, they came home to mounting debt & then became crorepatis||Dehradun: Aman Bisht was 19 when he left home, the remote village of Pabhe in Pithoragarh, to go make a living in Maharashtra. He had studied up to Class X, had limited prospects at home. He found work as a cook. It didn’t pay much — just enough to get by. But the little he could count on was gone when he lost his job in March. Like lakhs in India, he made his way back home, knowing there was little to look forward to except mounting debt and hopelessness. What was initially a reprieve — the IPL fantasy league — eventually turned his luck around. He won Rs 1 crore by making all the right calls in a game between the Punjab and Hyderabad teams. Innumerable apps have made fantasy leagues, in which anyone can “create” a dream team of players whose real-time performance reflects on how the fantasy points accumulate, more accessible. And for several youths from the hill state, what is usually a pastime has made them crorepatis. “My parents are small farmers. They only produce enough for us to get by. There isn’t even enough to sell in a market,” said Aman, now 25. “We have always lived hand to mouth. This was a windfall.” It was the same for Darshan Singh Bisht, 24, who worked as a cook at an eatery in Jaipur but lost his job in April — he had to come back home to Thala village in Chamoli. And for Bhagat Singh Khatri, who was 11 when his father died after being electrocuted doing his work as an electrical operator. Two years later, he moved out of his village, Lal Nagari in Uttarakhand’s Almora, in search of work. Now 24, he would work as a helper in taxi services in Gujarat and Delhi. Then, he came home to work as a labourer. He had to support his mother and two siblings. Bhagat won a crore in a game between the Kolkata and Hyderabad teams. “You only need basic knowledge of cricket. I used to place two to three entries in a match and focused on players whom few others selected. I would make high-risk teams,” said Bhagat. Some financial investment would also be involved. “I spent about Rs 5,000-6,000 on the fantasy league. But it paid off,” said Aman. Bhagat had spent even more — about Rs 45,000. “But I don’t think I’ll play any more. I have made enough,” he said. In fact, he has used most of the money — it was down to Rs 70 lakh after taxes — to pay off debts and help a few neighbours out. “I have seen tough times. I don’t want anyone else to.” Darshan, meanwhile, plans a startup with his winnings. And Aman is thinking of a restaurant. “After repaying all the money my family owes to various people, I will set up a restaurant in Pithoragarh,” he said. But he will continue playing. “It’s like I’m addicted, I can’t stop playing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thrown-out-of-jobs-in-pandemic-they-came-home-to-mounting-debt-then-became-crorepatis/articleshow/79213728.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||Pauri surpasses Tehri with highest caseload among nine hill districts||Dehradun: Uttarakhand reported 467 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally to 67,706. With 625 cases reported in the past 13 days, Pauri has now crossed Tehri with highest caseload among nine hill districts. According to the health department, a maximum of 151 cases were reported from Dehradun followed by 54 each in Haridwar and Pauri. Chamoli and Nainital reported 37 cases each followed by 32 in Rudraprayag, 29 in Udham Singh Nagar, 20 in Pithoragarh, 19 in Uttarkashi, 16 in Almora, 12 in Tehri and three each in Bageshwar and Champawat. “Tehri had 3,126 cases in November while Pauri 3,018. With 625 cases in the past 13 days, Pauri has 3,643 cases while Tehri 3,335. Apart from Pauri and Tehri, Uttarkashi has reported 2,851 cases - third highest among hill districts,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid control room. Also, the toll has reached 1,097 with more four deaths reported on Friday. With 300 patients, total recoveries reached 61,732. The state till now has tested 11,67,497 people and the positivity rate of the samples remained at 5.8%. Over 12,000 samples are yet to be tested as of Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pauri-surpasses-tehri-with-highest-caseload-among-nine-hill-districts/articleshow/79213723.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Rs 100 crore sanctioned for Osmansagar facelift||HYDERABAD: By next year, Osmansagar, which completed 100 years this year and is popularly known as Gandipet, will become an important tourist destination in the city. Osmansagar, which is around 20 kilometres away from the city, was constructed in 1920 and in commemoration of it, the state government has sanctioned Rs 100 crore for its beautification - a project which was stuck for many years. The project aims at once again turning the lake into a holiday spot. “Osmansagar will surely become another feather in the city’s crown on the lines of Durgam Cheruvu and Lumbini Park,” a senior Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) official said. The HMDA, which is the implementing agency, has swung into action. “We have taken over a garden, located just 200 metres away from the reservoir’s main gate. Currently, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is maintaining this garden. Now, we will develop it on the lines of NTR garden,” a senior HMDA official said. Apart from this, HMDA will build walking tracks, cycling tracks, road formation, chain link mesh fencing to avoid encroachments, street lighting, shoreline strengthening and landscaping abutting the Osmansagar, which covers a length of 25 kilometres. HMDA chief engineer BLN Reddy told TOI that MA&UD minister KT Rama Rao had sanctioned Rs 100 crore for beautification of Osmansagar lake. Major stakeholders like HMWS&SB, TSSPDCL, and forest and irrigation departments will be involved in the lake’s beautification.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rs-100-crore-sanctioned-for-osmansagar-facelift/articleshow/79214780.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Reopening SOP issued for colleges in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The state education department on Friday issued a circular for re-opening colleges and universities in the state from November 23. College students who wish to attend physical classes from November 17 will have to submit a consent letter signed by the parents. Online studies will continue for students who do not wish to attend college. The state government said that the guidelines for re-opening colleges are on the lines of the University Grants Commission’s directives. The physical distancing of at least 6 feet has to be maintained and use of face covers/masks will be mandatory. Respiratory etiquettes are to be strictly followed, according to the UGC guidelines. This involves the strict practice of covering one’s mouth and nose while coughing/sneezing with a tissue/handkerchief/flexed elbow and disposing of used tissues properly. To prevent crowding, colleges have been advised to implement the odd-even formula, wherein half of the students will come to school on odd dates and the remaining of them attend on even dates. Among new guidelines, parents will also be encouraged to use thier own vehicles to drop and pick up their wards from schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/reopening-sop-issued-for-colleges/articleshow/79216069.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Amritsar||Another protesting farmer dies in Barnala||BATHINDA: Another farmer died in Punjab during a protest against farm laws on Friday. Zora Singh (70), of Sekha village here, was returning home on a tractor trolley after participating in a protest outside BJP leader Archana Dutt’s house in Barnala earlier in the day, when he suffered a cardiac arrest around 4pm and died. His body has been kept at Barnala civil hospital. “The tractor trolley carrying some farmers, including Zora, had just left the dharna outside the BJP leader’s house, that he (Zora) lay down in the trolley. When his co-passenger noticed him lying motionless, he checked the pulse and alerted others. They returned to the protest site, where information was given to policemen posted outside the residence of the BJP leader,” said farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) activist Balour Singh Chhana. He said the deceased was a regular at the protest and even his wife used to come sometimes. “We want a compensation of Rs 10 lakh and a job to one of the family members. We will not allow postmortem till our demands are met,” he added. So far, 12 farmers have died during nearly two months of protests against Centre’s new farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/another-protesting-farmer-dies-in-barnala/articleshow/79216073.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Art of mud wall painting dying a slow death||JAIPUR: The centuries-old tradition of painting mud walls amongst various communities of Rajasthan is dying a slow death. Before the auspicious occasion of Diwali or Govardhan Puja every year, women of the community start painting their walls with white colour drawing inspiration from nature. The folk art which is popularly known as ‘Mandana’, has been passed on from mothers to daughters. Many anthropologists studying the community art state that various motifs made by these women also finds resemblance in paintings of cavemen, which proves the historical significance of the art. A Meena community woman artist from Sawai Madhopur, Kali said that painting her mud walls during Diwali gives her immense pleasure. “At first, we coat the walls with two layers of mud mixed with cow dung. Then, we add ‘Geru’ that gives a red colour to the walls and then we start painting. All the women in the family indulge in this work to be completed till Diwali,” said Kali. Anthropologist Madan Meena, who has studied the mud paintings by the community, said that with rapid urbanisation of the community, mud wall painting is the only mode which displays the primitive characteristics of the Meena tribe. In the last decade, with economic prosperity, people have started constructing cemented households where the role of women has become limited in decorating walls. Bhupendra Singh Khachariyawas, a resident of Khachariyawas village near Jaipur, said till 1990’s Rajput women of his house would also paint the walls and floors. “Goddess Laxmi and Lord Ganesh would be painted on the entry gate and other designs on floors and walls.” Sampati Gurjar, a resident of a village in Ajmer recalls the time when she would make mandana art in her house. “I was around 16 years old when we constructed a pucca house after which we stopped this. Except a few, most of the Gujjars now have pucca house so we have stopped painting,” said Gurjar. A woman artist Prem, from a village in Sawai Madhopur, is a talented mud wall painter. Now, living in a cemented house Prem said, “I won’t say it doesn’t hurt when I couldn’t paint my walls anymore. The younger generation is not even interested in learning the art as educated people consider it backward. In rural set up, we paint our animal shelters’ mud walls sometimes, but after a decade I fear this art will not be practiced anywhere,” said Prem pensively. There are, however, some people from the community who are trying to take this art forward by contemporizing it. Sunita Prabhat, an artist from the Meena community, has written a pictorial book based on a folk tale of her village. “I have written around 10 books based on the mandana designs. I have even improvised the art with new ideas as I didn’t want to be limited to just mandana. As a community we need to move forward and this art is our unique identity which will interest the new generation if we will be able to create new platforms for them,” Sunita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/art-of-mud-wall-painting-dying-a-slow-death/articleshow/79219157.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gold sales pick up with dip in prices in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: Gold and silver sales remained buoyant on Dhanteras this time around reinforcing the festival’s status as the most auspicious day for purchasing precious metals. Estimates suggest that some 500kg gold and 2,000 kg silver was traded across Gujarat in a single day on Dhanteras, down 35% against last year's festival. Gold price settled at Rs 52,400 per 10 gram on Friday. Jigar Soni, president, Jewellers’ Association of Ahmedabad (JAA) said, “Jewellery demand was mainly driven by wedding purchases, which were pre-meditated and people came in with fixed budgets.” Industry players said that silver purchases too remained buoyant on Dhanteras. “Many invested in coins and bars for both silver and gold. People anticipate a rise in prices in both precious metals and therefore, they are investing on account of muhurat purchases,” said Soni. Salim Daginawala, president, Surat Jewellers Association told TOI, “Contrary to our expectations, the market sentiments improved substantially during the festive season. The business was in the range of 70% of last year’s.” Daginawala added, “About 90% of the customers in Surat bought jewellery for marriage and other occasions on Dhanteras.” Divyesh Patadia president of Gems and Jewellery association, Rajkot said, “The sale on this Dhanteras is beyond our expectations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-sales-pick-up-with-dip-in-prices/articleshow/79216106.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Art of mud wall painting dying a slow death||JAIPUR: The centuries-old tradition of painting mud walls amongst various communities of Rajasthan is dying a slow death. Before the auspicious occasion of Diwali or Govardhan Puja every year, women of the community start painting their walls with white colour drawing inspiration from nature. The folk art which is popularly known as ‘Mandana’, has been passed on from mothers to daughters. Many anthropologists studying the community art state that various motifs made by these women also finds resemblance in paintings of cavemen, which proves the historical significance of the art. A Meena community woman artist from Sawai Madhopur, Kali said that painting her mud walls during Diwali gives her immense pleasure. “At first, we coat the walls with two layers of mud mixed with cow dung. Then, we add ‘Geru’ that gives a red colour to the walls and then we start painting. All the women in the family indulge in this work to be completed till Diwali,” said Kali. Anthropologist Madan Meena, who has studied the mud paintings by the community, said that with rapid urbanisation of the community, mud wall painting is the only mode which displays the primitive characteristics of the Meena tribe. In the last decade, with economic prosperity, people have started constructing cemented households where the role of women has become limited in decorating walls. Bhupendra Singh Khachariyawas, a resident of Khachariyawas village near Jaipur, said till 1990’s Rajput women of his house would also paint the walls and floors. “Goddess Laxmi and Lord Ganesh would be painted on the entry gate and other designs on floors and walls.” Sampati Gurjar, a resident of a village in Ajmer recalls the time when she would make mandana art in her house. “I was around 16 years old when we constructed a pucca house after which we stopped this. Except a few, most of the Gujjars now have pucca house so we have stopped painting,” said Gurjar. A woman artist Prem, from a village in Sawai Madhopur, is a talented mud wall painter. Now, living in a cemented house Prem said, “I won’t say it doesn’t hurt when I couldn’t paint my walls anymore. The younger generation is not even interested in learning the art as educated people consider it backward. In rural set up, we paint our animal shelters’ mud walls sometimes, but after a decade I fear this art will not be practiced anywhere,” said Prem pensively. There are, however, some people from the community who are trying to take this art forward by contemporizing it. Sunita Prabhat, an artist from the Meena community, has written a pictorial book based on a folk tale of her village. “I have written around 10 books based on the mandana designs. I have even improvised the art with new ideas as I didn’t want to be limited to just mandana. As a community we need to move forward and this art is our unique identity which will interest the new generation if we will be able to create new platforms for them,” Sunita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/art-of-mud-wall-painting-dying-a-slow-death/articleshow/79219156.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 14, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Art of mud wall painting dying a slow death||JAIPUR: The centuries-old tradition of painting mud walls amongst various communities of Rajasthan is dying a slow death. Before the auspicious occasion of Diwali or Govardhan Puja every year, women of the community start painting their walls with white colour drawing inspiration from nature. The folk art which is popularly known as ‘Mandana’, has been passed on from mothers to daughters. Many anthropologists studying the community art state that various motifs made by these women also finds resemblance in paintings of cavemen, which proves the historical significance of the art. A Meena community woman artist from Sawai Madhopur, Kali said that painting her mud walls during Diwali gives her immense pleasure. “At first, we coat the walls with two layers of mud mixed with cow dung. Then, we add ‘Geru’ that gives a red colour to the walls and then we start painting. All the women in the family indulge in this work to be completed till Diwali,” said Kali. Anthropologist Madan Meena, who has studied the mud paintings by the community, said that with rapid urbanisation of the community, mud wall painting is the only mode which displays the primitive characteristics of the Meena tribe. In the last decade, with economic prosperity, people have started constructing cemented households where the role of women has become limited in decorating walls. Bhupendra Singh Khachariyawas, a resident of Khachariyawas village near Jaipur, said till 1990’s Rajput women of his house would also paint the walls and floors. “Goddess Laxmi and Lord Ganesh would be painted on the entry gate and other designs on floors and walls.” Sampati Gurjar, a resident of a village in Ajmer recalls the time when she would make mandana art in her house. “I was around 16 years old when we constructed a pucca house after which we stopped this. Except a few, most of the Gujjars now have pucca house so we have stopped painting,” said Gurjar. A woman artist Prem, from a village in Sawai Madhopur, is a talented mud wall painter. Now, living in a cemented house Prem said, “I won’t say it doesn’t hurt when I couldn’t paint my walls anymore. The younger generation is not even interested in learning the art as educated people consider it backward. In rural set up, we paint our animal shelters’ mud walls sometimes, but after a decade I fear this art will not be practiced anywhere,” said Prem pensively. There are, however, some people from the community who are trying to take this art forward by contemporizing it. Sunita Prabhat, an artist from the Meena community, has written a pictorial book based on a folk tale of her village. “I have written around 10 books based on the mandana designs. I have even improvised the art with new ideas as I didn’t want to be limited to just mandana. As a community we need to move forward and this art is our unique identity which will interest the new generation if we will be able to create new platforms for them,” Sunita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/art-of-mud-wall-painting-dying-a-slow-death/articleshow/79219158.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Art of mud wall painting dying a slow death||JAIPUR: The centuries-old tradition of painting mud walls amongst various communities of Rajasthan is dying a slow death. Before the auspicious occasion of Diwali or Govardhan Puja every year, women of the community start painting their walls with white colour drawing inspiration from nature. The folk art which is popularly known as ‘Mandana’, has been passed on from mothers to daughters. Many anthropologists studying the community art state that various motifs made by these women also finds resemblance in paintings of cavemen, which proves the historical significance of the art. A Meena community woman artist from Sawai Madhopur, Kali said that painting her mud walls during Diwali gives her immense pleasure. “At first, we coat the walls with two layers of mud mixed with cow dung. Then, we add ‘Geru’ that gives a red colour to the walls and then we start painting. All the women in the family indulge in this work to be completed till Diwali,” said Kali. Anthropologist Madan Meena, who has studied the mud paintings by the community, said that with rapid urbanisation of the community, mud wall painting is the only mode which displays the primitive characteristics of the Meena tribe. In the last decade, with economic prosperity, people have started constructing cemented households where the role of women has become limited in decorating walls. Bhupendra Singh Khachariyawas, a resident of Khachariyawas village near Jaipur, said till 1990’s Rajput women of his house would also paint the walls and floors. “Goddess Laxmi and Lord Ganesh would be painted on the entry gate and other designs on floors and walls.” Sampati Gurjar, a resident of a village in Ajmer recalls the time when she would make mandana art in her house. “I was around 16 years old when we constructed a pucca house after which we stopped this. Except a few, most of the Gujjars now have pucca house so we have stopped painting,” said Gurjar. A woman artist Prem, from a village in Sawai Madhopur, is a talented mud wall painter. Now, living in a cemented house Prem said, “I won’t say it doesn’t hurt when I couldn’t paint my walls anymore. The younger generation is not even interested in learning the art as educated people consider it backward. In rural set up, we paint our animal shelters’ mud walls sometimes, but after a decade I fear this art will not be practiced anywhere,” said Prem pensively. There are, however, some people from the community who are trying to take this art forward by contemporizing it. Sunita Prabhat, an artist from the Meena community, has written a pictorial book based on a folk tale of her village. “I have written around 10 books based on the mandana designs. I have even improvised the art with new ideas as I didn’t want to be limited to just mandana. As a community we need to move forward and this art is our unique identity which will interest the new generation if we will be able to create new platforms for them,” Sunita said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/art-of-mud-wall-painting-dying-a-slow-death/articleshow/79216088.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||SCB urges govt to include Secunderabad Cantonment in SNDP||SECUNDERABAD: The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) has urged the state government to include Secunderabad Cantonment in the ambitious Strategic Nala Development Programme (SNDP), which is meant to identify bottlenecks and encroachments on open nalas in the city. B Ajith Reddy, SCB’s chief executive officer, confirmed approaching the state government over the issue. “We have sought assistance from the government to take up a similar study under SNDP in the Cantonment too so as to identify bottlenecks. We experienced severe inundation of as many as 70 residential colonies and a few slums due to the overflowing nalas this year. Encroachments on nalas are major bottlenecks. In fact, SCB is yet to take up a comprehensive survey on the encroachments and, therefore, SNDP would help us remove these encroachments,” said the CEO. “ We have sought Rs 90 crore as flood relief amount,” Reddy added. After a detailed inspection, SCB took up a drive against encroachments built over nalas. “The land sharks built slabs over the nalas by erecting pillars in the sewage. The pillars have become bottlenecks as they obstruct the free flow of sewage. As a result, the nalas overflowed after the lakes breached the banks,” a senior SCB engineer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-urges-govt-to-include-cantt-in-sndp/articleshow/79214796.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: On fest break, prevent break-in at home||AHMEDABAD: To prevent crimes such as thefts and robberies during the Diwali festival, Gujarat Police have issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) focused on people taking off on vacations. The SOP has been sent to police stations across the state. Police are using hoardings and social media to urge people to store cash and jewellery in banks rather than at home while they are away. DGP Ashish Bhatia said people have been advised to inform the nearest police chowky before leaving the city, so that areas for patrolling can be identified. DIG Rajendra Asari of Sector-1 said nearly 5,000 police personnel will be deployed in the city during the festive season. “Mounted police will patrol areas such as Thaltej, Sola, Gota and also areas on the outskirts of the city,” Asari said. Asari said night patrolling will be entrusted to ACP and DCP rank officers. The operation will be supervised by DIG-rank officers of both Sector 1 (comprising western areas such as Navrangpura, Satellite, and Vastrapur) and Sector 2 (eastern Ahmedabad). “In all, 148 teams will patrol the city ,” Asari said. “Night patrolling will go on till early morning. Vehicle checking has also been beefed up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/on-fest-break-prevent-break-in-at-home/articleshow/79216156.cms||Sarfarazuddin Shaikh
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Water board awaits nod to draw additional Osmansagar water||HYDERABAD: There will be no increase in water supply to certain areas of the city and the entire Old City as of now as the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is still waiting for the state government’s nod to draw 25 million gallons of water from the Osmansagar reservoir to meet the increased demand. Osmansagar reservoir is one of the lifelines of the city after Manjira and Singur but there is an uncertainty over drawing the full quantity of 25 million gallons of water and that is causing the delay in increasing the water supply. After a decade, Osmansagar reservoir is almost up to its full tank level as the recorded water level on Friday was 1787 feet. Currently, the water board is drawing 3.95 million gallons every day and supplying to the Old City. “We do not have the authority to draw full quantity of water from the Osmansagar unless the government allows us to do so,” highly placed sources in the HMWS&SB told TOI. Sources also added that the government is planning to conserve the water in the twin reservoirs, which are almost full, and use it for the summer months in case there is a problem with the other drinking water sources. This has been done previously and it helped in successfully overcoming water problems in severe summer months even when Godavari and Krishna sources dried up. Meanwhile, officials are drawing another 11.4 million gallons from Himayathsagar to supply water to areas like Banjara Hills, Jubilee Hills and Old City too. As per the assured quantity, the HMWS&SB has to draw a total of 40 million gallons from these twin reservoirs. “We are ready to draw a total of 40 MG of water, but the water board is waiting for government’s nod,” S Hari Shankar, in-charge of Osmansagar & Himayathsagar, told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/water-board-awaits-nod-to-draw-addl-osmansagar-water/articleshow/79214791.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Triple murder in Sowcarpet: Tamil Nadu police tail suspects for 900km, nab 3 in Maharashtra||CHENNAI: Two days after an elderly couple and their son were found shot dead at their house in Sowcarpet, police arrested three suspects after a 900km hot pursuit near Solapur in Maharashtra around 3am on Friday. A Tamil Nadu police team assisted by the Mumbai police nabbed the three men from a car they had been tailing from Chennai. They are suspected to be the killers of Dali Chand H Jain, 74, his wife Pushpa Bai, 70, and their son Shital Kumar, 42, who were found dead on Wednesday. Police said the arrested men were Shital’s brother-in-law Kailash, 32, Ravindranath Gar, 25, and Vijay Uttam Kamal, 28. Police suspect Shital’s wife Jayamala and her brothers, Kailash and Vikas, had killed the three with the help of three other men, two of whom were among the arrested. Based on CCTV footage, one of the investigation officers said Jayamala was at the house when her husband and in-laws were killed. Police suspect the murders were the fallout of marital dispute. Jayamala had lodged a dowry harassment complaint against her husband and his parents in her hometown Pune this January after she had taken her two daughters and gone to live with her parents. A TN police team led by inspector Jawahar and sub-inspector Ashok intercepted a car with an Uttar Pradesh registration, which they had been following from Chennai, near Solapur. Chennai police commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal said teams were on the trail of Jayamala, her brother Vikas and one more person. Police are also verifying the claim of the arrested that they had found the 0.32 calibre revolver in their possession in the dashboard of the car, which they had bought two months ago. Police said it was registered in the name of the wife of a retired army officer based in Uttar Pradesh. Police said Jayamala, her brothers and three friends came to Chennai in September and stayed at Thiruporur. They visited Dali Chand’s house twice on September 29 and October 21 to try and get money for Jayamala. On Wednesday, all of them went to the house in the seized car. Police suspect Kailash opened four rounds of fire using the revolver and that Ravindranath fired once using the country-made gun, which the arrested trio claimed to have dumped while they rushed back to Pune in same car. They also informed police that they used state highways to avoid being trapped in toll plazas. The arrested trio was produced before a court in Solapur for a transit warrant. They will be brought to Chennai by air on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/triple-murder-in-sowcarpet-tamil-nadu-police-tail-suspects-for-900km-nab-3-in-maharashtra/articleshow/79216135.cms||A Selvaraj
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 300 litres of adulterated milk, 200kg stale food destroyed||JAIPUR: As a part of the ‘Shuddh Ke Liye Yuddh’ campaign, a team of food inspectors under the district administration destroyed 300 litres of adulterated milk around 4am on Friday at Chithwadi area in Chomu, said additional district magistrate (ADM IV) Ashok Kumar. A joint team, constituted by district collector Antar Singh Nehra, took action against M/s Rahul Fresh Form Mawa Bhatti on Morija Road as a part of the campaign. Samples of mawa were also collected from his firm. Another team of food inspectors on Friday destroyed 200kg of stale and foul-smelling snacks from M/s Shree Datar Traders on Muhana Road in Sanganer. Nehra informed that so far, food samples have been collected from 232 shops and firms for examination as a part of the campaign, which started on October 26. Meanwhile, samples of mawa and assorted milk products were also collected from M/s Mukesh Mawa Paneer Industry at Gogoriyo Ki Dhani. Kumar informed that samples of mawa were also collected from M/s Sharma Mawa Paneer Bhandar located at Chithwadi in Chomu; while samples of barfi were collected from M/s Mahima Sweets in Amber, samples of Besan laddoos were collected from M/s Shiv Shakti on Sikar Road. Samples of mawa and kalakand were collected from M/s New Jodhpur Sweets & Caters at Pratap Nagar and samples of gulab jamun was collected from Shri Pawansut Sweets at Pannadhay Circle, Pratap Nagar. Collector meets adopted daughter on Diwali: District collector Antar Singh Nehra met his adopted daughter, Amita Tank on Friday. He had adopted her as a part of ‘Apni Beti’ scheme. On Diwali, the collector gifted her new clothes, sweets and a dictionary. He said district administration will ensure she gets facilities to complete her education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/300-litres-of-adulterated-milk-200kg-stale-food-destroyed/articleshow/79216108.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: How straw handling technologies differ from green revolution||By: Baldev Singh Dhillon CHANDIGARH: Paddy residue management (PRM) technologies are being adopted at a much slower rate than expected by policy planners. The incidences of farm fires after paddy harvesting in 2019 did not decrease significantly despite government support to popularise the PRM machinery. These included machines for retention on surface in the field (Happy Seeder and super SMS fitted combine), incorporation in the field (chopper, mould board plough and rotavator), and removal from the field (straw baler) of paddy residue. The Punjab farmer, though known for adopting new technologies, did not respond to the polite advocacy and incentives. There is no denying the fact that the alternate technology offered to farmers is disruptive in the sense of being contrary to what they have been practising but it is the same community that rapidly adopted the disruptive technologies offered to them in late 1960s and brought about the green revolution (GR). Let’s compare the technologies of GR and PRM. Productivity advantageGR: The pivotal component of GR technologies were the semi-dwarf varieties of wheat and paddy and had at least 30% grain yield advantage over the existing varieties. This made it easier to convince farmers to adopt these varieties even though their grain type and appearance were not acceptable. PRM: These technologies have more ecological benefit with no crop productivity/monetary advantage. Rather, they may have a little productivity penalty in some initial years. Farmers do understand environmental and health consequences of residue burning and long term benefit on soil health of not doing so, but their immediate concern is higher productivity. Investment GR: A farmer could start with few kilos of seed of high yielding variety (HYV), and scale up once satisfied. There were practically no risks once technology was refined and adapted. A farmer did not have to invest. The higher grain yield potential of GR varieties led to higher productivity and profitability and tempted farmers to invest more on farm development and inputs like farm machinery, irrigation facilities and application of fertilisers. PRM: Burning doesn’t cost farmers anything, while PRM machines are costly. Most machines are large and need high-powered tractors for operation. With landholdings becoming smaller, farmers cannot afford these machines. Though custom hiring is promoted, there is no surety of getting enough customers, as seen in 2019. The purchase of machines will add to input costs and lower farmers’ profit margins. What’s more, most machines do not have universal application. With evolving technology, better machines will become available but it is costly to shift from one machine to other. Universality GR: Technology was relevant to one and all. It could be adopted irrespective of farm size or soil type, thereby benefiting small, medium or large farmers. PRM: It warrants different technologies for different situations, for example different machines are needed for baling, mulching and incorporation. Also, choice of machine is influenced by other factors, like succeeding crop, soil type (heavy or light), residual soil moisture after paddy harvest, and residue load. Volume neutralityGR: Assured marketing and remunerative prices for the produce, facilitated by policy interventions, ensured higher returns with increasing volumes. Economic returns were immediate and farmers raced ahead of each other to adopt new ways. PRM: The option of moving paddy residue out of field through baling is not volume neutral as only a limited quantity of straw bales can be consumed in power generation plants, in dairy farming (as dry fodder and animal bedding) and as mulch in the cultivation of mushroom, vegetables and fruits. Eye appeal GR: The semi-dwarf varieties of wheat and paddy were attractive because of their uniform plant height and other traits. Farmers felt satisfied during crop season even before realising the harvest. PRM: The major emphasis so far has been to manage paddy residue to retain it on soil surface as mulch. Wheat crop in such fields does not give a good look because of poor visibility of seedlings standing in paddy residue. This keeps farmers sceptical of success of technology. Initial failuresGR: Introduced wheat and paddy varieties was not bereft of failures. Of the first set of four Mexican semi-dwarf wheat varieties supplied by Dr Norman E Borlaug, Sonora 64 and Lerma Rojo 64 were approved by the Central Variety Release Committee. In 1965, 200 tonne seed of Sonora 64 and 50 tonne of Lerma Rojo 64 were imported from Mexico and distributed to farmers. These varieties were not only red grained but also showed susceptibility to yellow rust and thus failed to make an impact. Similarly, in 1969 trial of Miracle Rice (IR 8), obtained from International Rice Research Institute in the Philippines, also failed. PRM: Similar teething troubles are being witnessed in PRM. Retaining the residue on surface as mulch by sowing wheat with Happy Seeder seemed to be fairly successful at PAU Krishi Vigyan Kendras and seed farms for about 10 years. However, the recent large scale adoption exposed the latent problems. The situation became more accentuated during 2019 due to delayed paddy harvesting caused by unseasonal rains during grain development stages. Besides fine tuning the machines, some researchable issues have also emerged, such as scheduling of fertiliser, irrigation and weedicide application, besides management of insect pests and rodents. (Baldev Singh Dhillon is PAU vice-chancellor & V S Sohu is principal wheat breeder at department of plant breeding and genetics, PAU)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/how-straw-handling-techs-differ-from-green-revolution/articleshow/79216137.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||NGT orders Centre to consider views of expert panel on zonal master plan for Bhagirathi eco-sensitive area||Dehradun: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has ordered the Union ministry of environment, forest, and climate change (MoEF&CC) to “expressly consider the views of the 11-member expert committee, based on their scrutiny of the draft for the zonal master plan (ZMP) for the Bhagirathi eco-sensitive area in Uttarakhand and, if necessary, issue amended approval within three months from November 13.” The order adds that “if amendment is not found necessary, at least brief reasons may be recorded”. TOI had earlier reported that nine eminent environmentalists and scientists, including Chandi Prasad Bhatt, Ravi Chopra, AK Gosain and DP Dobhal were not in approval of the ZMP that had recently been approved by the Centre to expedite the Char Dham Road project. The experts, who are all part either of the Supreme Court-appointed scrutiny group or the National Green Tribunal-appointed committee for preparation of the ZMP of Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone, have been of the view that the Centre and the state have not incorporated most of the suggestions and recommendations given by them. Additionally, the experts have also raised concerns on the proposal to fell around 13,000 trees in the eco-sensitive zone for the Char Dham road. During the hearing, Anand Bardhan, principal secretary of forest and environment of Uttarakhand, briefed the NGT about the Bhagirathi eco-sensitive zone. The official told the green court that the ZMP draft for the zone submitted by the state government was discussed during the 21st meeting of the expert committee on ESZ held on August 31, 2016. However, the ZMP wasn't approved by MoEF&CC as most of the provisions given in the ESZ notification were not compiled in the proposed draft. He added that the state has requested for allowing the mining activities to meet the requirement of local development including road construction. The expert committee though was of the view that features of ZMP have to be seen in the light of ESZ notification wherein prime focus has been given to conservation and protection of biodiversity of the entire catchment area which supports the Bhagirathi riverine ecosystem, including wildlife of the area. The committee had also asked the state to make a clear roadmap regarding demarcating all the existing village settlements and all types of flora and fauna. The green court, after hearing the matter, said in its order, “It appears that though the order of the SC has been referred to, there is no mention of the views of the 11-member expert committee though it is stated that such views were discussed. The approval of ZMP is subject to conditions specified therein, including compliance of the ESZ notification, suggestions of the ministry of Jal Shakti, demarcation of existing village settlements, types & kinds of forests, agriculture areas, fertile lands, green areas, horticultural areas, orchards, lakes, natural heritage sites and water bodies, preparation of micro level planning regarding conservation, protection and management of natural springs, water bodies including drying up springs, long-term planning for conservation on natural boundaries of river bank, and comprehensive long-term eco-tourism master plan and activities shall not be beyond the carrying capacity of catchment area." It is worth mentioning that according to the state government, an extent of 100 metres on both sides of the Bhagirathi River covering an area of 40 sq km was considered as an eco-sensitive area in 2011. The final notification of the Bhagirathi eco-sensitive area was issued on December 18, 2012, that covered an ESZ area of 4179.55 sq km which includes 89 villages. Out of total ESZ area of 4179.55 sq km, about 4106.9 sq km (98.27%) land has been covered in reserved forest and/or protected area (Gangotri Wildlife Sanctuary). The remaining ESZ area (729.78 hectares) is under van panchayat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ngt-orders-centre-to-consider-views-of-expert-panel-on-zonal-master-plan-for-bhagirathi-eco-sensitive-area/articleshow/79212943.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||Lt Gen Harinder Singh becomes 50th IMA Commandant||Dehradun: Lieutenant General Harinder Singh took over as the 50th Commandant of the Indian Military Academy (IMA) in Dehradun on Friday. On the occasion, he paid tribute to the martyrs at the War Memorial in a solemn ceremony recognising their supreme sacrifice for the nation. The General Officer takes over the Command Baton of the IMA from Major General JS Mangat, who has been officiating after Lieutenant General Jaiveer Singh Negi superannuated on September 30, 2020. An alumnus of NDA Khadakwasla, Lt Gen Singh was commissioned into 9 Maratha light Infantry, one of the oldest regiments of Indian Army. He excelled in Hockey at the Academy and is a former Services Hockey player. He has the honour of commanding a Rashtriya Rifles Battalion in active counter terrorist operations while being deployed in Jammu and Kashmir's Kupwara sector. The officer carries varied operational experience having served in different terrains. “The officer has the distinction of commanding two different brigades that includes the command of the most reputed United Nations Multinational Brigade deployed in Eastern Congo. He commanded a mountain division in Kashmir & a Corps along active Northern Borders. He has earlier served with Military Operation and Operational Logistics directorates in the rank of Major and Colonel respectively. As a Brigadier, he was instrumental in raising of the Directorate of Indian Army Veterans (DIAV) at the Army Headquarters,” said Colonel Himani Pant, PRO, IMA. Singh has also been an instructor at IMA, Dehradun and Infantry School, Mhow. The officer served as a staff officer at the UN Mission in Angola. He attended Defence Services Staff College, Higher Comd Course and excelled in research work at the National Defence College, New Delhi for which he was awarded Colonel Pyare Lal Gold Medal. He has also been an international graduate fellow at Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies, Hawaii, USA. The Commandant has held two fellowships in his service career. As a Research Fellow at IDSA, New Delhi and later at S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, Singapore, and published several monographs, papers and write-ups in international and national journals and dailies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lt-gen-harinder-singh-becomes-50th-ima-commandant/articleshow/79213756.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 14, 2020||India||At 41, number of protected wetlands up 50% in a year||NEW DELHI: The number of protected wetlands in India under the Ramsar Convention increased by 50% in one year, taking the number of such sites of international importance from 27 in 2019 to 41 this year. The 49-year-old convention is an inter-governmental global treaty meant to preserve the ecological character of selected wetlands across the globe. A day after environment minister Prakash Javadekar announced Kabartal in Begusarai (Bihar) getting the Ramsar tag, his ministry on Friday said two more sites were added to the list — Sur Sarovar in Agra, Uttar Pradesh and Lonar Lake on the Deccan plateau in Maharashtra. Getting Ramsar tag assumes significance for conservation of wetlands in a dedicated manner. Besides playing a key role in hydrological cycle and flood control, wetlands provide water, food, fibre and raw materials. Wetlands — land areas covered by water, either seasonally or permanently — support lakhs of migratory birds from colder regions of the world in summers. Sur Sarovar, also known as Keetham Lake, is a man-made reservoir. Created to supply water to Agra city in the summer, the wetland soon became an important ecological site that provides refuge to migratory birds and more than 60 species of fish. “Over 30,000 waterbirds are known to visit the reservoir annually,” the Ramsar Sites Information Service (RSIS) said on its website. Lonar Lake in Maharashtra was formed by a meteorite impact on the basalt bedrock. The site includes the lake as well as escarpments, which form the crater walls, and forested zones. “Outside the lake, there is considerable diversity of plant and animal life, as springs which help feed the lake provide a source of fresh water. Inhabiting the site are 160 species of birds, including the vulnerable Asian woolly neck and common pochard, 46 species of reptiles and 12 species of mammals including the iconic grey wolf,” the RSIS said. India has already submitted details of six more wetlands, two from Haryana and four from UP, to the Ramsar secretariat for declaring them sites of international importance. “These six sites too will get the Ramsar tag in due course. It may happen this year or early next year,” said an official of environment ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/at-41-number-of-protected-wetlands-up-50-in-a-year/articleshow/79217789.cms||Vishwa Mohan
November 14, 2020||Pune||Beacon High hosts virtual inter-school contest ‘Abhivyakti: The Expression’||Pune: Beacon High School recently hosted a virtual inter-school extravaganza — ‘Abhivyakti: The Expression’ — over four days. The initiative was planned with the aim of keeping the school activities alive. Numerous schools from Maharashtra and other states registered for the diverse events. The events included face painting, stone painting, elocution and group theatre act for students of Standard VI to VIII, tile designing, mono act, soap carving and logo designing for students of Standard IX to XII, storytelling with puppets, making best out of waste and father and child dance, among others contests for the pre-primary and primary sections. The judges panel comprised Geeta Arora, trustee of Beacon High School, Kavita Behl, the trustee, Indoo Agarwal, an educationist, Seethalakshmy, an educationist, Kiran Singh, the principal of Shiva Valley School, Virendra Behl, the director of YB Group of Industries and Khushi Ghai, a specialist in child psychology. The event concluded with an online prize distribution ceremony. The students joined the event with their families. All winners were awarded certificates. The event was successful under the guidance of director Monica Arora, principal Vishakha Gupta, headmistress Sheetal Pradhan and event coordinator Namita Juvekar. Cyber security awareness month In order to draw attention towards cyber security and as a concentrated effort to stay safe and secure online, National Cyber Security Awareness Month (NCSAM) was recently celebrated at RIMS International School, Undri. Recognizing the increasing use of Internet and the rising cyber attacks thereby, the school undertook the initiative to spread awareness on cyber security. An entire week’s programme was scheduled with fun learning activities for Standard I to X, ensuring better cyber security hygiene and incorporating stronger security measures among students. Students were educated on safeguarding their digital identities and being responsible while staying online. They were shown informative videos and a quiz competition was conducted to enhance their knowledge about cyber security. They also participated in various activities such as slogan writing on cyber safety and security and poster making (drawing on paper or designing on computer). Students made short videos/power point presentations to spread awareness on cyber crime, safety and security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/beacon-high-hosts-virtual-inter-school-contest-abhivyakti-the-expression/articleshow/79216109.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Netizens light up Diwali for students in tribal areas, gift them books & stationery||Nashik: Netizens from across the world contributed towards making Diwali special for students in tribal areas. The students were gifted study material through a city-based NGO called Social Networking Forum (SNF).The NGO provided the materials to around 500 students, who are residents of tribal padas and villages including Pegalwadi, Meghar Killa and adjoining areas. The study materials included textbooks, notebooks, pens, erasers, pencils, drawing books for the students of various ages. The organisation is also contributing towards water supply schemes in the tribal villages, where the sources of water are unreliable and people are forced to walk kilometres up and down the hills to get water.Pramod Gaikwad, an office-bearer of SNF, said, “We have been working together for the construction of water sources and systems for the villages in tribal areas of Trimbakeshwar taluka. This time, we thought of providing some study materials to the children.”SNF, which is a registered organisation with the charity commissioner of Nashik, has a tradition of celebrating the first day of Diwali in the tribal areas of Nashik district. This helps them bond with the people and understand their basic requirements.The group has members working across the world and sourcing funds for the 15 projects undertaken so far.Dr Vishal Pawar, a radiologist from Nashik, said, “We have taken up projects for searching reliable drinking water sources and laying the pipelines to draw water from the source, where the water can be distributed through stand posts. And to set up a mechanism that will help in maintaining the system.”On the distribution of teaching material, Gaikwad said, “It was a gift from us and not a donation. It is to encourage these children to grow up and become responsible citizens.” The children were happy to receive the presents. Santosh Zole, one of the recipients of the study material, said, “Our friends from Nashik city and we had a good time at our place. We played together. They gave me the study materials, including drawing books, which will help me draw better pictures,”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/netizens-light-up-diwali-for-students-in-tribal-areas-gift-them-books-stationery/articleshow/79213766.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||No place to go: Defunct public toilets & lack of access across Hyderabad leave many fuming||HYDERABAD: With several public toilets across the city, including on NTR Marg, Indranagar in Gachibowli and Miyapur, not functioning, residents complain that after investing on this basic necessity, people are denied access. In Indiranagar in Gachibowli, residents say toilets have been locked ever since they were set up in July. Wasim Akhter, a resident of the area, said, “Post their inauguration, these toilets have remained locked and have no water facility. They are like showpieces. What is worse is that passers-by relieve themselves at the neighbouring Barla Kunta lake.” Explaining that this is a much wider problem, activist Harish Daga said that over 50 per cent of the public toilets are dysfunctional. “There are 6 loos on NTR marg, of which only one is operational. Similarly, a toilet near the Serlingampally zonal commissioner’s officer, established for women, is not operational.” In August, the municipal administration and urban development department had announced that nearly 11,000 toilets would be opened at a cost of Rs 60,000 to Rs 1.5 lakh, but with many yet to be opened, residents question whether there is any use of installing them at all. Daga said, “GHMC has just dumped or installed namesake toilets. If the common man cannot use clean sanitary facilities at a time when there is a pandemic, what is the use of these facilities being set up at all?” About another toilet on Miyapur X Roads, activist Vinay Vangala said, “most of the new toilets are not open for public.” Executive engineers of the GHMC across several zones spoke to TOI stating that all the amenities at the loos were already in place. “We are just waiting for final approval and the loos will be opened to the public within a few days,” said an official on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-place-to-go-defunct-public-toilets-lack-of-access-leave-many-fuming/articleshow/79214808.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||PM Modi to celebrate Diwali with jawans in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: PM Narendra Modi will travel to Rajasthan's Jaisalmer on Saturday to keep his annual Diwali date with the armed forces, in whose honour he tweeted a video message on Friday along with an appeal to citizens to light a lamp in solidarity with those guarding the borders. "This Diwali, let us also light a Diya as a #Salute2Soldiers who fearlessly protect our nation. Words can’t do justice to the sense of gratitude we have for our soldiers for their exemplary courage. We are also grateful to the families of those on the borders," PM Modi said. This Diwali, let us also light a Diya as a #Salute2Soldiers who fearlessly protect our nation. Words can’t do justi… https://t.co/1Aylos0mRJ— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605270142000The first stop in his Diwali schedule will be the Jaisalmer IAF station for an event involving 600 jawans and officers of the Army, airforce and BSF. Accompanied by chief of defence staff Gen Bipin Rawat and Army chief Gen Manoj Mukund Narwane, PM Modi will then take an Mi-17 helicopter ride to the forward area of Longewala, where he will address, interact and celebrate Diwali with BSF and Army personnel, defence sources said. Several top Army, IAF and BSF officials have already reached Jaisalmer to welcome the PM. BSF director general Rakesh Asthana is expected on Saturday before the PM's scheduled arrival by a special aircraft around 8.30am. He will be returning around 12.30pm. PM Modi has been visiting the forward areas to celebrate Diwali with jawans and officers every year since dropping by at Siachen, the world’s highest battleground, in 2014. In his video post celebrating the contributions and courage of the armed forces, Modi used the audio clip of his recent Mann Ki Baat in which he had first appealed to all to light a lamp in honour of jawans and officers. “Do it like a family member, then you see how much your happiness increases,” he said. To the armed forces, he said, “You may be at the borders, but the entire nation is with you, praying for you.” Meanwhile, BSF jawans, guarding the borders away from their families, are all geared up for Diwali celebrations. Candles and sweets were sent for the jawans and officers at the border outposts. The jawans have beautifully decorated the fencing and outposts with earthen lamps and candles. According to BSF official sources, the headquarters have made special arrangements for the BSF jawans who are thousands of kilometres away from their families. The BSF officers are wishing jawans and are celebrating with them. Battalion headquarters have sent candles, sweets etc. to their jawans in their areas. Jawans have also made attractive rangolis and have decorated their outposts with diyas and candles. A BSF senior officer said that all festivals including Holi and Diwali are celebrated at the border and that they do not feel sad during festivals for not being able to go home. Diwali will be celebrated at the border as per Covid guidelines. BSF jawan Pankaj Sharma said although we think about our families, but security of the country comes first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-to-celebrate-diwali-with-jawans-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/79216153.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Auspicious day drives vehicle sales in Nashik city||Nashik: The festive season has given a much-needed boost to the automobile sector with many customers, who had pre-booked vehicles, raking their vehicle deliveries on the auspicious occasion of Dhanteras on Friday. According to market sources, nearly 450 cars, worth Rs 30 crore, were delivered to the customers on Dhanteras in the city. One automobile company, which has three outlets across the city, made 210 deliveries. “The response was good despite the pandemic. Customers had already booked their vehicles to get deliveries on Dhanteras. We delivered more than 100 cars on Dhanteras,” said Durgesh Hatkar, the sales head of one of the automobile showrooms of the major company in the city. “We have a big demand for CNG vehicles and customers are in queue till February next year. We also expect good sales during the next three festive days of Diwali,” added Hatkar. Rakesh Joshi, a senior sales official from another automobile showroom, said they had a good number of bookings but could deliver only a few vehicles due to short supply. “We delivered 20 units on Dhanteras,” he said. Apart from cars, there was good demand for two-wheelers also. According to sources, over 900 units of two-wheelers, worth Rs 4.5 crore, were sold on Dhanteras. “We delivered 225 vehicles on Friday,” said Rajesh Dani, the branch manager of a two-wheeler showroom. This apart, the real estate sector also received some serious enquiries. “We had serious enquiries and also got some bookings. But the sales will gain momentum after Diwali,” said Ravi Mahajan, president of Credai-Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/auspicious-day-drives-vehicle-sales-in-nashik-city/articleshow/79213779.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||Parents complain against violation of RTE by pvt schools||Dehradun: Several locals, whose wards study in private schools of the state, have registered complaints with the state education department about the violation of the Right to Education (RTE) Act ongoing in Uttarakhand. The department in return has asked all the Chief Education Officers (CEO) to probe the matter and give a report on the same. There are nearly 5,000 private schools registered under the RTE Act and these are bound to reserve 25% of their total seats for the students (Class I-VIII) from the economically weaker sections. At present, more than 1 lakh children are studying in the state under the RTE act. The education department claims that the majority of the complaints have come from Dehradun, Haridwar, Nainital and Udham Singh Nagar districts, and if found guilty, strict action will be taken against the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/parents-complain-against-violation-of-rte-by-pvt-schools/articleshow/79213768.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Encroachments choke Mir Alam, zoo at risk||HYDERABAD: Rampant encroachments surrounding Mir Alam tank has put the Nehru Zoological Park at an increasing risk of flooding every year, forcing officials to shut down the 99-acre animal safari park for days due to the inundation. Intense spells of rains that lashed the city last month too led the authorities to sound an alarm and the rains had put the lives of animals at a much higher risk compared to the previous years as the 40-feet wall near the exit nala collapsed due to the pressure of the water gushing from the tank. “This year, the impact of flooding was so severe that we had to shift the animals to night shelters after the water was entering into the animal enclosures from the overflowing moats that border the fencing of the enclosures,” sources from the zoo said. Speaking to TOI, Lubna Sarwath of Save Our Urban Lakes (SOUL), who has been campaigning to protect the water bodies from encroachments said, “The lake used to be spread over 400 acres, but now it has shrunk because of rampant encroachments on all sides. Much of the encroachments are by the truck companies and luxury bus operators abutting a park which was recently inaugurated by the government authorities.” While the zoo authorities are preparing to re-open the safari area after the rains subsided, experts TOI spoke to for possible solutions to the problem said that there is a need to take a water shed approach and a flood prevention approach rather than a property encroachment approach. “We have to take the entire city not by municipal wards or by the revenue maps. We need to take this by water sheds because it shows you exactly from where the water is coming from and where it leaves and where it accumulates. Take it by that and then figure out which parts of the system are damaged and then repair it and stop the further damage,” says Anant Maringanti of Hyderabad Urban Labs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/encroachments-choke-mir-alam-zoo-at-risk/articleshow/79214804.cms||Moulika.KV
November 14, 2020||Mysuru||Puneeth Rajkumar goes birdwatching in Dandeli||Mysuru: Actor Puneeth Rajkumar and his wife Ashwini on Friday visited Dandeli in Uttara Kannada district, which is home for Malabar pied hornbill. The actor visited the Dandeli’s Government Timber Depot and Saw Mills, a hotpot for hornbills, which is just a short drive from Kali Adventure and Wilderness Camp run by Jungle Lodges and Resorts. The binocular-equipped couple was accompanied by documentary maker Amoghavarsha of ‘Wild Karnataka’ fame. They sighted a flock of Malabar pied hornbills perched on ficus trees. Other birds to be sighted include goldernback woodpeckers, bee-eaters and some reptiles. Naturalist and freelance bird guide Rajani said that she was lucky to go birdwatching with Puneeth. “Felt happy sharing the stories of hornbills with him, and he thoroughly enjoyed the outing at Dandeli. This indeed is a wonderful and memorable day of my life,” she explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/puneeth-rajkumar-goes-birdwatching-in-dandeli/articleshow/79213561.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Ahead of opening, Bengaluru colleges conduct tests on campus||BENGALURU: Colleges in Bengaluru are preparing to hold regular classes for the first time since March when the pandemic hit, with some arranging for Covid-19 tests to be conducted on campus. They have invited students and faculty members to get tested there ahead of Tuesday’s reopening. “Testing on our campus has been going on since Thursday,” said Fr Victor Lobo, principal, St Joseph’s College. “On Friday, over 900 students took the test arranged by BBMP on our campus. About 20 Palike officials are involved. Students have the option of undergoing the test on campus or getting a Covid negative certificate from elsewhere.” Fr Joy D Souza, principal, Darshan College on Mysuru Road, said 174 of their 300 students were tested on campus on Friday. “We contacted BBMP on Thursday evening and they consented to be on campus. We sent messages to all students and they responded quickly. Students have to bring a negative certificate and parents’ consent letter when college reopens on November 17,” he said. The state government has mandated Covid negative RT-PCR certificates from all students who want to attend regular classes. Colleges have begun sanitising campuses, displaying Covid etiquette posters, forming task forces, conducting surveys to find out how many students will turn up and drawing up formats of consent letter students will have to submit. Meanwhile, some colleges say students are not yet ready to come to campuses and the response can be measured only by late next week. “We will do what the government has asked us to do and wait. Many parents are unwilling to send their children to campus,” said BG Satyaprasad, president, Bangalore University B Schools Directors’/Principals’ Association. “On reopening day, attendance could be low,” admitted Macquillin C Moses, principal, HKES Sree Veerendra Patil Degree College. “We expect only around 20%-30% students to attend. However, as time progresses and colleges start functioning at full steam, more students are likely to turn up. Even now, students want to come but are hesitant.” Nagesh Rao, principal, East West College of Management, said that while local students would not have a problem attending, it could be a problem for outstation students. “Outstation students are wary as they are worried about the risks involved in travel and accommodation. We are hoping for 30-40% attendance initially,” Rao said. Some colleges plan to continue with online classes if numbers for regular classes are low. Bangalore University has asked affiliated colleges to reopen for final year students first and later for first and second year students, making for a staggered approach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ahead-of-reopening-bluru-colleges-conduct-covid-tests-on-campus/articleshow/79214818.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 14, 2020||Pune||Thermal checks, short hours in PMC schools for 8,000 students||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run schools are set to start teaching classes for standards IX to XII on alternate days from November 23. Consent from the parents is mandatory for allowing students to attend these classes. Civic officials said 50% students will attend classes on three days of the week, while the rest will be told to be present in school for the remaining days. The civic administration runs around 180 schools where nearly 90,000 students study. Of these, 40 are secondary schools where the strength is nearly 8,000 students. Education officer at Pune Municipal Corporation Shivaji Daundkar, who took a review meeting of all the headmasters and headmistresses from secondary schools under its jurisdiction on Thursday, said the classes will be held for a duration of three and a half hours. “All subjects will be taught. I have instructed teachers to focus on mathematics, science and English, which are generally tough for students. We had told schools to purchase an oxymeter and thermal scanner. They said they have enough funds under the their school management committee for the purpose,” Daundkar added. Teachers have been instructed to call parents for their consent and make a proforma which can be sent to the parents’ WhatsApp number where approval can be given. Wearing a mask is compulsory and students will not be allowed inside the school’s premises without one. The temperature and oxygen level of each student would be checked by their respective class teacher. “It is not possible for the security guard to check this for all students. Moreover, it will lead to overcrowding at the gate. Hence, it is best that the class teacher checks for each class,” Daundkar said, adding that they have been instructed to let the students from each class out after a gap of five minutes when the school ends. Teacherws are already anxious about the situation. They are worried about how they will enforce Covid-19 rules when children come back. “Our efforts to keep their masks on failed miserably when we called a small group to school,” said a teacher from a rural school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parents-consent-alternate-days-thermal-checks-for-8k-students-in-pmc-schools-from-nov-23/articleshow/79216145.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 14, 2020||Pune||Ex-army surgeon from Pune duped of Rs 12.8 lakh with job bait in Dubai hospital||PUNE: Fraudsters duped a 60-year-old retired army doctor of over Rs 12.8 lakh on the pretext of helping him secure the job of a cardiac surgeon in a Dubai hospital between December 3 and 7 last year. The retired colonel-rank army surgeon told TOI, “The fraudsters offered me a job as cardiac surgeon in a hospital in Dubai. They sent me a fake appointment letter and I fell prey to it. I grew suspicious after they started demanding huge amounts. I then asked them to repay my money, but in vain. I have lost my hard-earned money because of my mistake.” He said, “I checked the hospital website and contacted its human resource (HR) department based in Spain. I was shocked to learn that the appointment letter issued to me was fake. They also told me that fraudsters used the same modus operandi for cheating five more persons. During verification of my application, the cyber police freezed the bank accounts I transferred the money to and traced the calls made to me to Nigeria.” The doctor registered an FIR with the Swargate police on Thursday after the Pune cyber police conducted an initial verification of his complaint application. Sub-inspector Ganesh More from the Swargate police said on Friday, “The doctor (name withheld) from Salisbury Park retired from service in 2019, following which he started looking for a suitable job and uploaded his profile on various job portals.” More said, “The fraudsters sent him an email stating that they had selected his resume and asked him to apply for the post of cardiac surgeon in the hospital in Dubai. The doctor later applied for the post.” The surgeon stated in his FIR that the fraudsters presented themselves as representatives of the prospective employer and started communicating with him over phone and through emails. They lured him to pay Rs12.6 lakh on various heads, including travel and accommodation, for getting the job. On the delay in lodging the FIR, More said, “The inquiry on the complaint application took time because of the Covid-19 outbreak. The doctor’s statement could not be recorded because he had taken up a job in a private hospital in Mumbai for serving Covid-19 patients. The doctor later got Covid-19 infection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ex-army-surgeon-duped-of-rs12-8l-with-job-bait-in-dubai-hospital/articleshow/79216150.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nashik||11% sowing of rabi crops completed in north Maha||Nashik: The sowing of rabi crops in four districts of north Maharashtra has gained momentum over the past few days and around 11% of the sowing has already been completed. The state agriculture department has projected sowing of rabi crops on 4.66 lakh hectare in the four districts of north Maharashtra and sowing has been completed on 51,791 hectares so far. The rabi sowing land in north Maharashtra includes 1.12 lakh hectare in Nashik, 2.02 lakh hectare in Jalgaon, 90,123 hectare in Dhule and 61,734 hectare in Nandurbar districts. Of which, maximum sowing has been done in Dhule (19%) followed by Jalgaon (14%), Nandurbar (6%) and Nashik (2%). Wheat, which is the major rabi crop in north Maharashtra, is sown in 38% of the total land for rabi crops in the four districts. Wheat has been sown on 2,829 hectare so far, which is 2% of the total acreage. According to state agricultural officials, every year, the kharif season is almost over by September but this year, the monsoon lasted till October-end, which delayed the sowing of rabi crops. With no rain, the sowing of rabi crops has now gathered momentum. The maximum sowing will take place in the next three weeks, said state agricultural officials. Gram, another major rabi crop, has been sown on 22,796 hectare of the total 1.48 lakh hectare for the cultivation of gram in north Maharashtra. Of the 74,300 hectare for maize, sowing has been done on 9,728 hectare so far, while jowar has been sown on 16,146 hectare of the total 60,814 hectare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/11-sowing-of-rabi-crops-completed-in-north-maha/articleshow/79213788.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 14, 2020||Pune||30 officers complete course at INS Shivaji||Pune: Twenty seven officers from the Indian Navy and three from the Indian Coast Guard completed the 37th Nuclear Biological Chemical Defence (NBCD) and firefighting and damage control course at the INS Shivaji in Lonavala. A valedictory function for the 16-week course was held on Thursday. Chief guest Commodore Ravnish Seth, commanding officer of the INS Shivaji presented the Chief of Naval Staff rolling trophy and book prizes to Lt. Commander Ashish Chauhan and Lt. Commander M Shreyas Kamath for standing first and second respectively. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/30-officers-complete-course-at-ins-shivaji/articleshow/79216160.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: In positive trend, only 818 Covid patients in ICU||HYDERABAD: Though officials are concerned about a likely spike in the number of Covid-19 cases post the festive season, there is a silver lining as the number of positive cases in ICU treatment is quite less. Of the 17,094 currently infected patients in the state, only 818 are under ICU treatment - mostly in private than in government hospitals. Also a look at the Covid-19 mortality trends shows that those in general wards and receiving oxygen beds are mostly safe. Deaths are more likely for those who are on ventilator treatment. Interestingly, officials says not all patients, even those in ICU wards, require ventilator treatment and only 15 percent of patients require ventilators - the mortality for such patients is around 60 percent. Experts and doctors say this is a healthy trend considering the fact that deaths mostly happen among highly critical cases. “We used to have a relatively higher number of patients in ICU and ventilator - say nearly 3000 - some time back but that has now come down primarily because of early testing,” Dr Srinivas Rao, director of health department, told TOI. Among the 818 patients in ICU, 333 are in government hospitals across the state, including Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, and another 494 are getting treated in private hospitals. State-run Gandhi Hospital has the highest number (198) of patients in ICU. After the GHMC area, Nizamabad district (25) has highest number of patients in ICU wards. Interestingly out of the 33 districts, 21 districts have no patients in ICU wards in government hospitals. Dr Srinivas Rao said that if early testing is not done, patients with high viral load may end up in ICU and may need ventilator treatment. If they have co-morbidities and other vulnerabilities their condition becomes critical. “Early testing is the key in reducing the virus spread and also reducing the number of critical patients,” he said. The Case Fatality Rate (CFR) also places the state in a better light as of now. The state has a CFR of 0.5 as against the national CFR of 1.5 percent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/number-of-cases-in-icu-decreases-in-state/articleshow/79214827.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Vehicle demand stays muted in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: The sale of vehicles remained muted on Dhanteras on Friday. Less than 10,000 vehicles including two-wheelers and cars were retailed in a single day on Dhanteras in Ahmedabad. No discounts on vehicles coupled with a weak consumer sentiment, caused the sales to be muted. The day is considered auspicious for buying vehicles and precious metals. “Bookings for Dhanteras are usually made roughly a week before the festival. However, there were hardly any bookings this time and therefore, muted sales were expected,” said Pranav Shah, chairman – Gujarat region, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA). “This time around, there are no discounts like there were during Dussehra as dealers too are left with little margin to make profits. This has failed to attract bookings and that for two-wheelers as well as cars was relatively low,” he further went on to say. “We saw some 100 deliveries from all our dealerships combined on Dhanteras. However, this was 50% of the business we did on Dussehra day. Customer walk-ins at the showrooms were affected due to the pandemic,” said a city-based car dealer. Two-wheeler dealers claimed that the Diwali festive season completely failed to boost demand. “Students are the biggest section of two-wheeler buyers and they were completely absent this time,” said a two-wheeler dealer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vehicle-demand-stays-muted/articleshow/79216178.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Pune||Pvt schools in PCMC area confirm 2,986 RTE admissions||Pimpri Chinchwad: As many as 2,986 admissions have been confirmed under the Right to Education quota in the 179 private schools in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits. According to the civic education department officials, there were 3,786 seats available. More than 4,000 applications were not verified due to various issues including non-availability of documents. Parag Mundhe, assistant administrative officer, said they have not received any instructions about continuation of the admission process, but another round of admissions could resume after Diwali. Some 799 seats are vacant in the private schools. The response to RTE admissions has been slow this year due to the pandemic situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pvt-schools-in-pcmc-area-confirm-2986-rte-admissions/articleshow/79216159.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||No maroon passbooks to non-tribals till Nov 19: Telangana HC||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court has directed the state government not to issue maroon cocolour pattadar passbooks to non-tribals till further orders. The court took note of the contentions raised in a PIL that the state government is moving towards issuing maroon colour pattadar passbooks to non-tribals who raised constructions in Agency areas. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this interim direction while hearing the PIL filed by Adivasi Samkeshema Parishad which said the government was trying to do this under Dharani land portal. PV Ramana, counsel for the petitioner association, said the Agency laws like 1/70 Act, etc, prohibit non-tribals from acquiring properties in scheduled areas. “They cannot get such rights if their structures are raised after 1970. But now, the authorities are moving ahead to confer such rights on those who do not have proper tittle over the property,” he said. The bench sought a counter from the government and posted the case to November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-maroon-passbooks-to-non-tribals-till-nov-19-hc/articleshow/79216177.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Cracker test in Covid season in Kolkata||KOLKATA: It was the quietest Kali Puja and Diwali eve in living memory as citizens in Kolkata exercised remarkably restraint on Friday and stayed away from celebrations involving firecrackers in nearly all parts of the city. State pollution control board officials and police officers are, however, taking no chances and will be out in numbers to patrol the trouble zones and keep a hawk eye on the city to foil any attempt to violate the string of orders issued by Supreme Court, Calcutta High Court and National Green Tribunal against use of fireworks during the festivities this year. Till 9pm on Friday, West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) had received only one complaint in its control room. It related to sale of fireworks at the manufacturing hub in Nungi near Batanagar. There were no complaints of firecrackers being burst. In the past week, police have seized over 2,600kg of fireworks and lodged 16 FIRs under the stringent Explosives Act. With cops continuing to conduct raids in central Kolkata and other traditionally trouble areas during Kali Puja and Diwali, the figure is set to rise further. Unlike the past when most major seizures took place in central Kolkata or warehouses, maximum seizures have happened across south suburban, eastern suburban and north suburban areas this year. Fireworks have been recovered from cycle parking lots near railway stations at Ultadanga and Tala in north Kolkata and from Pyarabagan in the south. “There is a cat-and-mouse game under way. Perseverance will yield results,” noted an officer. The efforts appeared to have paid off on Friday with no violations reported till 8pm. The only aberration was from a pocket in Maheshtala. The biggest seizures yet again were chocolate bombs, followed by shells and flowerpots (tubris). Some cops though are wary that certain routes from South 24 Parganas have not yet yielded the amount of seizures that is usually recorded. Police have also chalked out high-risk areas where any attempt at violation will draw an immediate response. Covid hospitals are of highest priority where special forces have been deployed. Policemen are also keeping a watch on apartments and high-rises where Covid patients are in home isolation. Slums will also be monitored to prevent use of sound polluting crackers like chocolate bombs. At the micro level, cops at Tollygunge police station have kept a couple of autorickshaws handy to monitor narrow lanes at Jhalar Math and Monohar Pukur. On Friday, seizures were also made from the Jadavpur railway station area and a middle-class neighbourhood in Garfa. Raid at a warehouse in Strand Road and Beliaghata’s Chaulpatty also netted firecrackers. Police seizures have also been reported from Cossipore and Shyampukur in the north and Behala in the south. Police have deployed specific teams in each of these areas. While the patrol team will carry out area domination and chase-and-challan violators, a team of cops in plainclothes will be out to spot the violators. Everyone though acknowledged much will depend on how much citizens cooperate. “People have behaved extremely responsibly on Friday. We are keeping our fingers crossed for Saturday,” said a PCB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-7-days-cops-seize-2600kg-crackers-lodge-16-plaints-under-explosives-act/articleshow/79214877.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 14, 2020||Pune||Firing suspect’s arrest leads cops to Buldhana arms dealer, 2 others||Pune: The arrest of a suspect wanted in a recent firing case in the jurisdiction of the Wanowrie police led the men in uniform to an illegal arms dealer in Buldhana and two other men. The police recovered 11 country-made pistols and 31 bullets valued at over Rs4.55 lakh from the four arrested men in course of their investigation since November 7. All the firearms and bullets were manufactured in an illegal arms factory in Madhya Pradesh, the police said. The arrested persons have been identified as Barkya alias Pramod Parse, wanted on the charge of selling a pistol to the man opening fire at a developer in the jurisdiction of the Wanowrie police recently, his friends Raju Jadhav and Laden alias Sohail Asangi, and Ballusingh Shikligar, the arms dealer. Parse and Jadhav had procured 13 firearms and bullets from Shikligar to sell them here and make some fast bucks, the police said. Deputy commissioner of police (zone II) Sagar Patil said, “A police team was on the trail of Parse ever since the Wanowrie incident in which the police already made two arrests. We arrested Parse from the PMPML bus stop at Swargate on November 7 following a tip-off. During his questioning, Parse told us that he and Jadhav received 13 superior quality firearms and bullets from Shikligar. We then arrested Jadhav the same day. Parse admitted to selling two firearms for Rs15,000 and Rs30,000, respectively, to the suspects arrested in the firing incidents in Wanowrie and Velha in rural Pune recently.” Senior inspector Bramhanand Naikawadi from the Swargate police said, “The duo’s questioning led to the arrest of Shikligar from Buldhana on November 11. We arrested Sohail Asangi on the same day for purchasing firearms from Parse and Jadhav.” He said, “Investigations revealed that Parse and Jadhav came in contact with Shikligar and struck a deal with him for purchasing firearms through a known person. They planned to sell them for Rs15,000 each or more, depending on the customers.” Additional commissioner of police (administration) Jalindar Supekar said, “We are checking criminal antecedents of the four men because they are involved in procuring and selling firearms in an organised manner. We have filed two FIRs under the Arms Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/firing-suspects-arrest-leads-cops-to-buldhana-arms-dealer-2-others/articleshow/79216179.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Notices to be served to 800 tax defaulters after Diwali||NASHIK: The divisional office of the Central GST in Nashik has decided to take action against defaulters after Diwali and are in the process of identifying the top defaulters in each of five districts — Nashik, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar — under its jurisdiction. Around 800 tax defaulters from across the division, who have failed to file more than three returns, are to be served notices. The Central GST has set a revenue collection target of Rs 3,313 crore for the current financial year, but its revenue through GST during the first quarter of the current financial year has been badly affected due to ongoing pandemic. The Nashik division of the Central GST has earned a revenue of Rs 1,273 crore during April-October period of this financial year, against Rs 1,736 crore during the corresponding period last year. “Nevertheless, there have been signs of improvement in revenue collection through GST since September and the trend is continuing due to the festive season. The rural economy has also improved,” an official from the Central GST said. “We did not take any action against the defaulters during the last eight months because of the pandemic, but we have now decided to target big defaulters,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/notices-to-be-served-to-800-tax-defaulters-after-diwali/articleshow/79213796.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 14, 2020||Bareilly||Five farmers climb atop a overhead water tank to protest against 'unfair' procurement process in Roza||BAREILLY: Unable to sell their paddy at a procurement centre in Roza in Shahjahanpur district, five farmers climbed atop an overhead water tank and threatened to jump from there on Friday. The farmers alleged that that they were not given any space to keep their produce at the local Roza mandi and "treated shabbily". It took nearly three hours for senior police and administrative officials to pursuade them to climb down. "We will take legal action after investigating the matter and receiving an official complaint from the officer concerned," said Sanjay Kumar, SP, city. There are 10 paddy procurement centres in Roza grain mandi. The farmers had brought their crop in trolleys on Thursday afternoon hoping to sell at the government centre at MSP (minimum support price). But their hopes were dashed after the centre in-charge allegedly refused to weigh the crop. After waiting for over 24 hours, the farmers -- Anil Kumar, Ajit Verma, Ashish Verma, Rajnish Kumar and Avdhesg -- climbed atop an overhead water tank and threatened to jump down. Anil Kumar told TOI, “The centre in-charge misbehaved with us. There is a direct nexus between officials and private buyers and that is why, we farmers cannot sell at the procurement centres. So, we had to take such a step.” Surendra Kumar, SDM, Sadar, said, “We have maintained a register to record the in-and-out movement of farmers. A few farmers try to weigh their crop by jumping the queue. We will look into the allegations levelled by these farmers and take necessary action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-farmers-climb-atop-a-overhead-water-tank-to-protest-against-unfair-procurement-process-in-roza/articleshow/79087221.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad DRDO labs participate in successful QRSAM missile test||HYDERABAD: The Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile (QRSAM) system developed by defence PSUs achieved a major milestone on Friday by a direct hit on to a Banshee Pilotless target aircraft at medium range & medium altitude. Various DRDO labs, including the DRDL and RCI located in Hyderabad, LRDE, R&DE(E), IRDE, ITR participated in the test. The missile launch took place from ITR Chandipur off the Odisha coast. The missile is propelled by a single stage solid propellant rocket motor and uses all indigenous subsystems. The missile is canisterised for transportation and launch using a mobile launcher capable of carrying six canisterised missiles. All QRSAM weapon system elements like battery multifunction radar, battery surveillance radar, battery command post vehicle and mobile launcher were deployed in the flight test. The system is capable of detecting and tracking targets on the move and engaging target with short halts. The system is designed to give air defence coverage against strike columns of Indian Army, defence authorities said. The radar tracked the Banshee target from farthest range and missile was launched when target was within kill zone and achieved the direct hit with terminal active homing by RF Seeker guidance. The weapon system elements have been realized through Defence PSUs BEL, BDL and private firm L&T. The missile system is fully indigenous with active RF Seekers, Electro Mechanical Actuation (EMA) systems sourced from various industries. The radar is four walled Active Phased Array Radar. All range tracking stations, radar, EOTs and telemetry stations monitored the flight parameters. Union defence mMinister Rajnath Singh and Secretary, DD R&D & Chairman, DRDO Dr G Satheesh Reddy congratulated DRDO scientists for the achievement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyd-drdo-labs-participate-in-successful-qrsam-missile-test/articleshow/79216186.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Meerut||Villagers clash with cops after death of 2 youths in accident, Bhim Army workers among 66 booked||Meerut: A protest over the death of two youths in a road accident spiraled into violence in UP’s Saharanpur district on Friday afternoon as a group of villagers pelted stones on a police team and damaged their official vehicle. The two youths, aged 19 and 20 years, were mowed down by an unidentified vehicle on Nagal-Tapri road.A large crowd from nearby Subhri Mehrab village, from where the Dalit youths belonged, came on the road and blocked traffic. When a police team reached the spot and tried to clear the road, they protested and demanded arrest of the accused. A clash erupted and locals pelted stones on the policemen, leaving four of them slightly injured. The situation was brought under control very soon, a police officer said.Police later booked at least 66 people, including 16 workers of Bhim Army and its newly-floated political wing Azad Samaj Party (ASP). Some of them were also booked under stringent section 307 of IPC (attempt to murder). Others face charges of rioting and under sections of Epidemic and Diseases Act.Station house officer (SHO) of Nagal police station, KP Singh, said, “Two youths were killed after getting hit by some unidentified vehicle. The bodies were sent for post-mortem examination. But, after sometime, the road was blocked by villagers. When police reached at the spot and were trying to clear the way amicably, members of Bhim Army and ASP reached and instigated the crowd. We have booked some Bhim Army workers and Azad Samaj Party’s district president Anil Ojaswi, its district general secretary Aman Khan for instigating crowd and attacking the police team.”But, Bhim Army district coordinator Vinay Gautam disagreed. “It was the police which was rough on the relatives of two youths who had died in the accident. Now they are accusing us for the fiasco.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/villagers-clash-with-cops-after-death-of-2-youths-in-accident-bhim-army-workers-among-66-booked/articleshow/79212981.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Covid scare fails to dull gold’s shine on Dhanteras||Nashik: The auspicious occasion of Dhanteras had many customers visit jewellery outlets to buy gold and silver ornaments. According to jewellers, the city jewellery market recorded Rs 30 crore business on the day.Dhanteras is considered one of the most auspicious occasions to buy gold and silver coins, bars and ornaments. Some buy silver idols of Goddess Laxmi.Jewellers in the city said despite the ongoing pandemic, the business has been encouraging. “There was a rush at the jewellery outlets throughout the day. We did good business despite the Covid-19 pandemic. People mostly purchased gold coins, bars and biscuits from an investment point of view,” said Chetan Rajapurkar, the president of the Nashik Jewellers’ Association.Over the past three weeks, the price of gold has dropped by Rs 2,000 per 10gm. This too has encouraged more customers to buy gold ornaments, said Rajapurkar.The price of precious metal was recorded at Rs 51,400 per 10 gm on Dhanteras this year, as against Rs 38,600 per 10 gm on the same festive day last year. Similarly, the price of silver went up from last Dhanteras day’s Rs 47,200 per kg to Rs 64,200 per kg this year.“Customers preferred gold and silver coins, ornaments, bars etc. There was also good demand for silver coins with Goddess Laxmi images,” said Mayur Shahane, the owner of a jewellery outlet. “The footfall of customers has increased due to the festive season,” he added.“We have been buying gold on Dhanteras to perform puja for the past five-six years. Gold prices have increased by 30% in comparison to last year. But we still bought gold coins on the auspicious day and continued our tradition,” said Bhushan Gavande, an engineer.There are 1,400 small and large jewellery showrooms in the city. About 250 gold shops are located in the major jewellery market Saraf Bazaar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-scare-fails-to-dull-golds-shine-on-dhanteras/articleshow/79213800.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 14, 2020||Pune||Truck crashes into stationary vehicle, driver killed||Pune: A truck driver was killed after his Mumbai-bound vehicle crashed into a stationary tractor near Talegaon Dabhade on the Pune-Mumbai expressway around 4am Thursday. The deceased was identified as Murugesh Shaktivel (25) of Tamil Nadu. The cleaner of the truck, Madan Palaniyeni (20) of Tamil Nadu, escaped with minor injuries. The Talegaon Dabhade police have registered an offence of negligence against the tractor’s driver for parking his vehicle in the third lane of the expressway without switching on the parking indicators. In another incident, 50-year-old Somnath Gavali of Talegaon Dabhade was killed after his motorcycle skidded in Talegaon Dabhade on Thursday morning. The accident occurred when Gavali was returning home. He was taken to a nearby hospital, where he succumbed to injuries, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-crashes-into-stationary-vehicle-driver-killed/articleshow/79216167.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Meerut||70 safai staff booked for protest to seek unpaid wages||Muzaffarnagar: A total of 70 sanitation workers have been booked by Muzaffarnagar police for barging into a municipal board meeting and shouting slogans while standing on tables. The protest had taken place on Tuesday. Sources said the workers were demanding three months of unpaid wages.Deputy superintendent of police (city) Rajesh Kumar Dwivedi said, “A case against 2 named and 70 unknown people was registered after the municipality executive officer filed a complaint against them. Our investigation is on and action will be taken accordingly.”According to the municipality officials, the district administration had in 2018 hired a private company to take up city cleaning work on a trial basis. The firm later ran away without paying the staff.Guru Balmik, one of the unpaid safai workers, said, “Over 300 workers have been waiting for their unpaid wages for 18 months now. Nobody is listening to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/70-safai-staff-booked-for-protest-to-seek-unpaid-wages/articleshow/79212970.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 89,000 flats for homeless, slum dwellers by 2025||NEW DELHI: In what could be considered a Diwali gift for the homeless and slum dwellers, Delhi government on Friday announced that it would construct 89,400 flats before 2025 for the economically weaker sections of society. The decision was taken in a meeting of Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to transform the lives of the homeless who spend most of their lives without a proper home, which affects their quality of life and, later, also impacts their children. Architects would be appointed as consultants for the project in the next two months. The flats would be constructed in three phases over 237 acres with the deadline being between 2022 and 2025. The meeting was also attended by DUSIB vice-chairperson Satyendar Jain, urban development department chief Renu Sharma and other members of the board. “Jahan Jhuggi Wahin Makaan is the flagship policy of Delhi government. We have to ensure that the construction of the EWS flats for in situ rehabilitation of people should be completed within the given timeline so that we can provide shelter to every poor in Delhi,” Kejriwal said. Most of these flats would be constructed to ensure in situ development of slums. DUSIB member Bipin Rai said that it was decided in the meeting that the EWS flats would be constructed on vacant land owned by the board. “Out of 221 acres available with DUSIB, 115 acres is currently being considered for construction of the houses. The land use will be changed by the municipal corporations or Delhi Development Authority,” Delhi government said in a statement. The project would also be carried out on land from where people have been shifted. In the first phase, 41,400 houses would be constructed by 2022 at a cost of Rs 3,312 crore (Rs 8 lakh per unit). In the second phase, 18,000 houses would be built, while 30,000 EWS flats would be constructed in the third phase. The buildings would be multi-storeyed. Five separate tenders would be called with 8,000 flats in each lot. The time frame for construction in the first phase would be 24 months. The project would be executed and implemented by DUSIB. Delhi government is preparing a detailed rehabilitation and construction plan in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/89k-flats-for-homeless-slum-dwellers-by-2025/articleshow/79216187.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fireworks vanish from Burrabazar after raids||KOLKATA: On a day TOI reported how cracker sellers were displaying candles, diyas and sanitizer on the racks and selling banned crackers stocked in godown or hidden under other wares at Old China Bazaar in Burrabazar, police officers made multiple raids at the market on Friday, checking beneath the items on display and posting personnel outside shops that used to deal with crackers. “We are taking all necessary measures possible to prevent sale of crackers in these areas. We are conducting surprise checks and have been regularly holding meetings with representatives of the market committees and the sellers,” said Sudhir Kumar, the deputy commissioner (north division) of Kolkata Police. TOI had on Thursday photographed a number of sellers at Canning Street and Old China Bazaar selling sparklers, charkhas, flower-pot crackers and shells in open as well as in discreet. After being alerted by TOI, a late-evening raid was conducted at the markets and three were arrested — two of them photographed by TOI — and 122kgs of crackers were seized from them. When TOI visited the market again on Friday, none of the sellers was present and the shops — temporary and permanent — selling crackers were either shut or were dealing with something else. Cops were also posted at the entrance and exit points of the market and officers in plainclothes as well as in uniform were deployed in the market. “The cops have become extremely active here and all the traders in our area have been told that action will be taken even against those who would support cracker sales this year. Hence, most shops that had been selling crackers till Thursday didn’t open shutters on Friday,” said a trader in the market. Meanwhile at Bidhannagar, over 200kgs of illegal crackers were seized and five were arrested from Chhainabhi, New Town, Rajarhat and Narayanpur areas on Friday. Among the arrested is a chicken seller who had stocked over 50kgs of firecrackers, including chocolate bombs and shells, at his shop beside the Narayanpur fire brigade. “The man had been selling firecrackers under the garb of the chicken shop,” said an officer of Bidhannagar commissionerate. All the arrested men were booked under Explosives Act and the IPC section dealing with disobedience to court order. Similar checks and awareness campaigns continued outside Sealdah and Ultadanga railway stations and at all the bordering areas of the city. Sizeable amount of seizures were reported from the bordering areas of South 24 Parganas. “We have stepped up our vigil further in the run-up to the puja. Overnight raids and checks will also be conducted through Friday night to prevent transportation of the banned crackers,” said Indrajit Basu, additional superintendent of Baruipur police district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fireworks-vanish-from-burrabazar-after-raids/articleshow/79214883.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 14, 2020||Delhi||They showed Covid can be beaten: In last 10 days, over 55,000 have recovered in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Covid-19 cases have increased in recent days, but Delhi is also recording a steady recovery of a large number of patients. In the past 10 days, over 64,000 people got infected, but at the same time, over 55,000 defeated the coronavirus. In recent days, around 6500 people are recovering against around 7,000 new positive cases being reported. Delhi government has asked hospitals to focus on extensive clinical management of Covid patients to boost the recovery rate and reduce fatalities. On November 10, Delhi had 7,830 new Covid patients, but on the same day 6,157 others were deemed to have recovered. A day earlier, more people recovered than were infected, 7,014 recoveries to 5,023 fresh cases. In the last 10 days, the daily average number of new cases in Delhi was 6,467, while the average number of discharged patients for the same period was 5,537, translating into only 930 being added to the active cases. Because of this recovery rate, the load on the hospitals hasn’t been insurmountable despite record numbers of daily Covid cases. “The recovery rate of the Covid patients in Delhi has been steadily improving due to multiple interventions in clinical management and early detection of cases, which results in early intervention,” said Dr Mahesh Verma, member of Delhi government’s expert panel on Covid. Experts believe that recoveries in the next couple of weeks will show an upward trend when people who got infected during the third wave start regaining full health. In the initial months, recovery was only around 25% of the daily new positive cases. On May 3, for instance, against 427 fresh cases, 106 patients recovered. The rates of recovery and new infection were erratic, and on some occasions five times more new cases were reported relative to daily recovery, for example, on May 5, when 37 recovered even as 206 new cases were recorded. One of the major factors for this recovery rate is the success of the home isolation model, in which the rate is 99% assisted by a strong remote monitoring mechanism and the psychological comfort of home support. Only 1.9% of over 1.96 lakh people who were seeing out the infection at home were required to be shifted to hospitals or Covid care centres due to deterioration in their condition. All asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms are permitted home treatment under daily remote medical monitoring. There are currently 24,000 Covid patients in home isolation. Delhi government is also conducting aggressive contact tracing – for each Covid-positive person, some districts are tracing up to 18 others. All the traced contacts are tested and those found positive immediately sent into institutional care or home isolation where their monitoring and treatment starts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/they-showed-covid-can-be-beaten-in-last-10-days-over-55000-have-recovered-in-city/articleshow/79216191.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Nashik sees drop in number of Covid tests in a fortnight||Nashik: With the number of Covid-19 patients dropping in Nashik city, the number of swab tests has also reduced significantly during the last fortnight.Around 1,500 swab tests were conducted on an average by October 31, but the number has reduced to 800 tests per day on an average.NMC officials said there was a spike in the number of Covid cases in September and over 850 cases per day were reported on an average.Around 2,500 tests were conducted per day on an average in September and the positivity rate after every 100 tests was around 35%. This included 1,500 RT-PCR tests and 1,000 antigen tests.But in October, there was a drop in the number of cases. Around 338 cases were reported daily on an average so the number of tests was also reduced to 1,500 tests per day, including around 400 antigen testsAs the number of fresh cases has further dropped with 249 cases being reported per day on an average in November so far, the number of tests has further been reduced to 800.The officials said. “We usually conduct tests of four to six high-risk contacts of Covid patient. But the number of new cases has reduced at large and the high-risk contacts have also dropped.”“The tests are being conducted as per the numbers of suspected patients of Covid,” added the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-sees-drop-in-number-of-covid-tests-in-a-fortnight/articleshow/79213810.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Cooler days add to fear of worse post-Diwali air in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Letting a child light fireworks is to expose the kid to a massive amount of finer particulate matter. Fireworks leave the air so dirty every Diwali that it becomes equivalent for a kid to smoke multiple cigarettes. TOI ran a story on PM2.5 emission against different so-called benign fireworks. This year, Diwali is happening quite late, with thermal inversion playing a greater role in trapping pollutants low in the atmosphere. Track the pollution level in your cityThe PM2.5 concentration in the city’s air rose so badly after last Diwali that breathing turned as bad as smoking eight cigarettes. In 2018, it was equivalent to smoking 12.5 cigarettes. Significantly, the West Bengal Pollution Control Board’s air quality records show that the deterioration of the air quality is rapid and vicious compared to a pre-Diwali day. Also, these are the 24 hours average of PM2.5 concentration. The hourly concentration figures were higher. TimesViewWhat happens this evening will tell us whether some of us have accepted the changed reality. Citizens need to cooperate with law-enforcement authorities and heed court orders. A single day’s pollution spike can contribute significantly to the virus’s case load.Hourly PM2.5 count shot past 700µg/m3 in Kolkata in Diwali 2019. The year before, it zoomed past 1,100µg/m3. This year’s festival is happening in the middle of November instead of October-end or beginning of November, and the pollutants may stay closer to the ground for a longer period of time due to cooler days, explained WBPCB scientists. There is a significant difference between the pre-Diwali and post-Diwali air quality. Data shows that on Diwali eve in 2019, the PM2.5 concentration was 28.1µg/m3. A day after Diwali, it rose more than 100% to 58.9µg/m3. Since fireworks continued even a day after Diwali, the PM2.5 count rose further to 175.6µg/m3. “Data also shows that the city’s air fails to recup-erate from the onslaught. The particulate load starts piling up in the lower strata of the atmosphere and Kolkata’s pollution gradually overtakes that of Delhi,” said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, an environmental activist. Particulate matter the size of PM2.5, which is 30 times finer than human hair, is considered dangerous since it can reach the deepest portions of the lung. It is declared a class 1 carcinogen by the International Agency for Research on Cancer and is also linked to heart disease and respiratory ailments. “It plays havoc with vital organs. In fact, air pollution kills more people worldwide each year than AIDS, malaria, diabetes or tuberculosis,” said Arup Haldar, a senior pulmonologist with Woodlands and Columbia Asia Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cooler-days-add-to-fear-of-worse-post-diwali-air/articleshow/79214889.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 14, 2020||Pune||Duo brutally attack security guard, held||PUNE: The Chandannagar police on Thursday arrested two men on the charge of brutally attacking a 20-year-old security guard around 1.20am the same day with a stone on suspicion of giving them false information regarding a couple staying at a housing society in Kharadi. The arrested have been identified as tempo driver Wasim Shaikh (24) and his jobless friend Sanket Gholap (21), both residents of Vadgaonsheri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/duo-brutally-attack-security-guard-held/articleshow/79216183.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mysuru||Couple threatens to commit suicide over land dispute||Hassan: A couple on Friday attempted suicide by climbing a tower at Nehru Nagar in Belur in Hassan district seeking the district administration’s intervention in a land dispute. They accused the local authorities of allotting prime government land for the influential while the poor continue to suffer. Despite villagers and the police trying to convince them, they refused to relent and threatened to immolate themselves if the cops tried to climb up the tower. Following Belur tahsildar’s intervention after nearly three hours the couple climbed down. The couple has been identified as Mohan Raj and Chandana from Devarajepura village under Bantenahalli gram panchayat of Belur taluk. Mohan is a snacks vendor. The couple had climbed the tower on Friday around 6.30am with their mobile phones and relevant documents. Tahsildar checked the documents after the couple climbed down. “The disputed land is of 1.30 guntas in the same village. Mohan Raj, with his friends, had submitted a memorandum to officials concerned against three persons, including both former and present gram panchayat members who were allegedly trying to grab government land. This had brought enmity between the two groups. Everything started when the latter opposed to give a share of the land to Mohan Raj. In 2015, both the groups had worked together to collect Rs 500 from every household to build a community hall and a temple in the village,” said a villager on condition of anonymity. “Some of the villagers were trying to grab government land in the village and this was opposed by another group in the same village. It is believed that the alleged land grabbers had registered police complaint against those who were opposing. Mohan, fearing that an FIR may be registered against him, climbed the tower along with his wife. We are trying to find out if the disputed land was registered to the alleged land grabbers,” said Belur tahsildar NV Natesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/couple-threatens-to-commit-suicide-over-land-dispute/articleshow/79213656.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hubballi||Police rescue girl who strayed into a forest||Hubballi: A-six-year-old girl who had disappeared from a field near Malebennur town on Wednesday was rescued by police on Thursday. Zoya, daughter of Azghar and Fatima, residents of Indira Nagar in Malebennur, was traced after a night-long search in a forest called Komarhalli Gudda. According to police, the girl’s parents are farm labourers and they had taken her with them to a field near Komarhalli hill outside Malebennur. As the parents were busy in the farm, Zoya went to drink water kept in a bottle at another corner of the field. Since it was a maize field, Zoya was unable to find the route to return to her parents amid thick green field. She strayed inside the jungle of Komarhalli hill and after a while found a dargah and slept inside it. Police found her sleeping in the dargah the next morning. The girl’s parents and others had also searched for her the entire night, but she was not found. The parents had registered a case with the Malebennur police who swung into action and found the girl within 24 hours of her going missing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/police-rescue-girl-who-strayed-into-a-forest/articleshow/79213472.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Traders’ bodies urge members to tone down celebrations, prevent spike in Covid cases||Kolkata: Several trade organizations in central Kolkata have urged their members to keep Diwali celebrations low key and prioritize health so that there is no spike in cases of Covid-19 in the markets after the festival. They have requested the traders to limit the celebrations to the confines of their homes this year in a bid to stop the spread of the virus and protect families, employees and customers. In their circulars issued to members, the trade organizations also urged avoiding bursting crackers and favouring lighting candles and diyas instead. According to sources, several businessmen in the markets in central Kolkata are either suffering or have recovered from the disease. The rush of shoppers in Burrabazar and adjoining markets had raised an alarm in the run-up to Diwali with police stressing on the need for social distancing and wearing masks in public. However, very few were seen following the safety guidelines. “We do not want a deluge of cases after Diwali. It will not only be dangerous for the traders, but also for their employees, customers and their families. This year, all of us will have to take the pledge to prioritize health and safety over celebrations because the pandemic is not over yet. We work in very thickly crowded markets where people come from different parts of the state. We don’t want a spike in the number of cases after the festival and put others at risk. Once the pandemic is over, we can celebrate our festivals with much more fervour,” said Sushil Poddar, president of the Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations (CWBTA), an umbrella body of several trade organizations. The trade organizations have also advised their members to use digital tools to communicate with extended family and friends to exchange greetings instead of visiting their homes. “Several platforms provide the facility of video calling, which we must use extensively at this time to greet our family and friends. Visiting homes to exchange Diwali greetings will increase the risk of contracting the virus,” said Bijoy Nag, general secretary of the Harrison Road Traders’ Welfare Association. There is a consensus among members of the business community this year to avoid fireworks and switch to lighting diyas and candles to protect those with co-morbidities. “Air pollution can wreak havoc and worsen the condition of those already suffering. So, we have requested our members to follow the guidelines provided by the government,” said Poddar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traders-bodies-urge-members-to-tone-down-celebrations-prevent-spike-in-covid-cases/articleshow/79214898.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Task cut out for Jaipur municipal boards||JAIPUR: Both the municipal corporations in the city have finally chosen their board but there are many challenges they are going to face once the work will start. Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Heritage is said to be facing severe financial crisis as most of the commercial properties lies in Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) Greater. This year municipal corporation was able to collect Rs 70 crore of urban development tax most of which came from Greater area. A senior revenue officer of UDH said, “Most of the commercial properties in JMC Heritage are of 100 square metre which do not come under the purview of UD tax. Hence, there will be financial problems and government may have to help them eventually.” Illegal encroachment and manipulation of the heritage façade will also be major challenge. UNESCO World Heritage tag will be intact only when the illegal encroachment will be removed and façade will be kept in its originality. The government has conducted an aerial survey, but no step has been taken to implement it. Meanwhile, in JMC Greater, there are many complaints of irregular garbage collection due to the dispute between the municipal corporation and contractor on the issue of payment. Contractors have already reduced the number of vehicles and in many areas, vehicles are not going. Residents of some areas are dumping the garbage on the main road from where a tractor comes every morning to pick it up. Every day 50 complaints are filed for street lights not functioning. Many places in the city especially on the outskirts area are in dark after 6pm as after several complaints’ street lights are not functioning. Residents of Ward 127, threatened to boycott elections as no civic work was done in their area for the last five years. Another major issue the entire city is facing is sewerage problem. Walled City, Jhotwara and Sanganer areas do not have sewerage lines. “Both the political parties made proper sewerage network as their election plank and now have to see how much can they fulfil it. It is not easy to change the sewer lines as it requires huge financial investment,” said a senior JMC Heritage official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/task-cut-out-for-city-municipal-boards/articleshow/79216198.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Pune||Two held from Delhi in woman abduction case||PUNE: The city police on Friday claimed a breakthrough in the 35-year-old woman IT professional’s abduction and robbery case in Kondhwa on November 10 following the arrest of two suspects from Delhi. “A team of the Pune police crime branch unit-V nabbed Rajesh Singh Mahi (39) and Krishna Ram Bahadur Rana (30), the two suspects, in Delhi on Friday afternoon. The process to bring them back to Pune is under way,” deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh told TOI. He said, “Mahi and Rana fled to Mumbai in a cab. They boarded a flight to New Delhi from there. We conducted a technical analysis, including tracking their movement along phone tower areas, and traced them to Delhi. A police team led by sub-inspector Somnath Shendge flew to Delhi and took them into custody.” Citing the probe so far, Singh said, “Rana, from Delhi, had come to Pune on November 9 — a day before the incident. He runs a chicken shop in Delhi. Mahi, having roots in Meerut (currently staying in Pune), is a driver.” Senior inspector Hemant Patil from the crime branch (unit V) said, “We started conducting a parallel investigation after the incident was reported with the Kondhwa police because it was a sensitive case. We conducted technical analysis and traced Mahi to a flat at Meera Bazaar in Delhi. We took the help of the Delhi police to raid the flat belonging to Mahi and took him into custody. His accomplice, Rana, was also present there and taken into custody.” He said, “We have kept them in the lock-up of the Delhi police. They would be brought to Pune on the completion of legal formalities on Saturday. We shall transfer their custody to the Kondhwa police for questioning as well as recovering the robbed cash and ornaments from them.” The woman, a marketing manager with a Bengaluru-based IT company, was gagged, abducted and robbed of cash and valuables totally worth Rs1.8 lakh by the arrested duo in the Kondhwa area on Tuesday morning. Police said the duo had forced the woman to transfer Rs40,000 through a payment app and, later, withdrew Rs10,000 from an ATM on NIBM Road using her debit card after compelling her to reveal its PIN. The duo had also snatched her three gold rings worth Rs30,000 and a diamond-studded ring worth Rs50,000 using a ring cutter, and a gold chain worth Rs60,000, the police said. The suspects kept moving around Salunke Vihar, Pisoli, Undri, NIBM Road and adjoining area in the woman’s car after gagging her and tying her hands behind for over an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/2-held-from-delhi-in-woman-abduction-case/articleshow/79216208.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Ambulance overturns after being hit by a vehicle, 3 die||Alwar: Three persons were killed and three injured in Bharatpur when the ambulance in which they were traveling was hit by another vehicle. The ambulance was getting the body of a deceased whose family was in the vehicle as well from Jaipur to Bharatpur. “The deceased were heading back from Jaipur following the death of one of the accident victim’s father who had been ill. He was referred from Bharatpur, but died in Jaipur. They were taking his body back when the accident happened,” said an official of Sevar police station. While three persons died on the spot, the injured people are undergoing treatment at the hospital. Talking about the cause of accident, the official said, “An unidentified vehicle hit the ambulance due to which it overturned. We are yet to find the driver of the other vehicle who caused the collision.” Officials claimed that the accused driver was possibly at a high speed because of which he could not brake in time to avoid hitting the ambulance. After the police was informed, the locals along with the cops rescued the injured persons,” they said.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ambulance-overturns-after-hit-by-a-vehicle-3-die/articleshow/79216205.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Himmat group meets min Chandna, to call on Gehlot after Diwali||Jaipur: Himmat Singh-led delegation of Gujjar leaders on Friday met sports and employment minister Ashok Chandna, who assured them of implementation of the 14-point agreement between the state government and 41 leaders of the breakaway group of Gujjar community on October 31. The minister also assured them of a meeting with Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot after Diwali. “We sought to about the progress in implementation of the 14-point agreement between the government and the Gujjar leaders. He told us a meeting will be fixed with the chief minister (Ashok Gehlot) after Diwali. The issue of recruitments of 372 candidates under REET 2018, for which the state government had sought seven days’ time, is pending. Other issues are related to nursing admission and review of Devnarayan scheme,” said Himmat Singh, who led the group 41 leaders of Gujjar community during the meeting with the government. “We also told the minister that we are ready to accept both the agreements (one between 41 leaders and the government and the other between Bainsla group and the government),” he added. Himmat Singh group also met Director General of Police (DGP) M L Lather on Friday. Kirori Singh Bainsla-led Gujjar Arakshan Sangharsh Samiti had called off its 11-day stir at Pilupura in Bayana on Thursday. The key demands of the breakaway group of Gujjar leaders include: financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh each to the families of three persons who died after the agitation and a job for one family member; fixation of pay of 1,252 MBC candidates; implementation of Devnarayan scheme and setting up of a three-member committee; review meeting of sub-committee every month with representatives of Gujjar community; withdrawal of police cases filed during the agitation, appointments in recruitments that are under process (1300-1400 posts), including provision related to quota for MBCs in the ninth schedule of the Constitution. The other points include work of residential schools under Devnarayan scheme to be started soon, setting up of a stadium under Devnarayan scheme and ensuring quota in REET 2018 Level 1 recruitments. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/himmat-group-meets-min-chandna-to-call-on-gehlot-after-diwali/articleshow/79216211.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Arrest murderers, provide relief to kin of victims: MP||Jodhpur: MP (Nagaur) Hanuman Beniwal has given an ultimatum to the police that if the murderers of two persons, who were killed following a drug smuggling rivalry on Thursday morning, were not caught in a week and the demands of compensation and job to one of the kin were not met, thousands will assemble in Jodhpur. Beniwal reached Jodhpur on Friday and joined the gathering of hundreds who had been demonstrating at the morgue of MDM Hospital refusing to accept the bodies. The relatives have demanded Rs 10 lakh compensation to each of the families of two deceased, job to one of the family members and immediate arrest of the killers. Beniwal, after addressing the gathering, led the crowd to the office of police commissioner and submitted a memorandum to him bearing their demands. Later Beniwal said that the police wanted three days’ time to arrest the accused but they gave a week’s time to the police to arrest the accused. “We wanted the case to be taken up in case officers scheme and disposed of in six months. Besides this, consent has been arrived at to give Rs 10 lakh compensation to each in which RLP would also contribute,” he said. Besides this, the demands also included removal of the SHO (Dangiawas) and job to each of the victim’s family members in municipal corporation, which according to Beniwal, has also been accepted. It may be noted that Mahendra and Bhairaram were found murdered in Jodhpur on Thursday morning and two others had been found injured. According to the preliminary investigation, the incident was the outcome of rivalry of drug smugglers consequent to looting of an opium consignment in Bilara on the night of November 10. Police commissioner Jose Mohan said that the teams have been sent in search of the accused based on the interrogation of the injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/arrest-murderers-provide-relief-to-kin-of-victims-mp/articleshow/79216220.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Pune||Narak Chaturdashi, Laxmi Puja prompt close-knit celebrations||Pune: People are ready to celebrate Narak Chaturdashi and Diwali in a traditional manner on Saturday, with good food and family get-togethers on the cards. With both occasions on the same day, Punekars are gearing up for double festivities through the day. According to Pandit Raviraj Kshirsagar, the auspicious muhurat for Narak Chaturdashi naivedyam is between 8.11am and 9.25am. Pandit Amol Mulay said, “The day starts with an Abhyangsnan before sunrise followed by puja and naivedyam.” Home-maker Seema Mehta shared that Narak Chaturdashi calls for not just rituals but also a sumptuous meal. “The ladies from the family wake up early to have a bath using a special ubtan and aromatic oils. We then light diyas or lamps in the house. This is followed by preparing sweets and savouries to offer during the prayers. Once the naivedyam is offered, the family enjoys the special meal together.” Mehta stated that generally, the rituals for Narak Chaturdashi are over by lunch time. “However, this year, we will start preparing for Laxmi Puja as soon as we finish lunch. The men from the family will go out to get fresh account books and other puja paraphernalia while the women will prepare offerings. We conduct Laxmi Puja at our office and the entire family attends the ceremony,” she explained. Pandit Kshirsagar stated that the auspicious timing for Laxmi Puja is between 5.58pm and 8.18pm on Saturday. “Ten forms of Laxmi are worshipped on the occasion of Laxmi Puja or Diwali. People offer prayers to currency notes, coins, precious metal, account books and other objects related to their trade or profession to seek prosperity,” explained Pandit Mulay. Another city-based homemaker Radha Thorat said, “After Laxmi Puja at the office, our staff would burst firecrackers but, this year, we have decided to distribute the amount we would spend on firecrackers among our staff members given the current pandemic situation. We have also decided not to visit our friends and extended family to greet them for the festival this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/narak-chaturdashi-laxmi-puja-prompt-close-knit-celebrations/articleshow/79216218.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Riverside Metro work resumes after 5 months||PUNE: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) has resumed work on the riverside stretch of the Vanaz-Ramwadi corridor. The work, which had halted in June ahead of the rains, was to restart in October but was delayed by the extended monsoon. Officials said they were taking this work up on a war footing to make up for lost time. The work involves construction of pillars, the crossing of the viaduct at two bridges over the Mutha river — Sangam Bridge and Bund Garden — and launching of the segments. MahaMetro said it has mobilized the required machinery and workforce at the sites and would take up the work of erecting pillars, fixing pier caps and the segments in the initial phase. The machinery had been removed from the riverbed in June. As per officials, the foundation work for all pillars at both bridges and a portion of the viaduct along the river had been completed by then. “We expected to resume the work in October, but held off because of the extended rains. We have now redrafted our plans. Since the foundations are ready, just overhead work is left,” an official said. Apart from the viaduct, MahaMetro will also carry out work on the two stations on this stretch — Deccan Gymkhana and Sambhaji Garden. Meanwhile, the viaduct of the priority section on this stretch, between Vanaz and Garware College, is nearly ready, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/riverside-metro-work-resumes-after-5-months/articleshow/79216234.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Just 101 patients in Covid care hubs, down from 9,500 in September||PUNE: The number of Covid-19 patients at the PMC-run Covid care centre has come down to 101 from 9,500 barely two months ago. Though the number of active nCoV cases in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits is still around 4,500, the load on the Covid care centres has drastically reduced with most patients opting for home quarantine. A PMC official said the number of people undergoing the Covid-19 tests has also reduced — from around 6,000 a day to 2,500 per day in November. “The recent decline in the positive cases has led to the reduced occupancy of these centres. The PMC had made preparations for around 15,000 patients in areas under its jurisdiction. Around 9,500 patients were admitted to these facilities at the peak of the contagion,” said Rajendra Muthe, head of the PMC’s establishment department. Muthe said the civic administration decided to close some of the Covid care centres because of the “reduced demand”. However, the PMC has kept open the bigger facilities open to accommodate patients from different areas. “The demand for bed in these facilities was high during the first four months of the Covid-19 outbreak. The number started going down in the past couple of months,” a senior PMC official said. He said the decision to reduce the number of centres was also taken to use manpower in other departments. “Even the money spent on running the facilities has been saved,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/just-101-patients-in-ncov-care-hubs-down-from-9-5k-in-sept/articleshow/79216233.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Kota: 2 arrested for stealing bikes, mobiles||KOTA: A special team of Kota city police on Friday busted a gang of motorbike and mobile phone burglars and arrested two persons. The police recovered 35 two-wheelers, including 28 motorbikes, seven scooters and 20 mobile phones from various locations. In view of a large number of cases of motorbike lifting and mobile burglary having been lodged in different police stations of the city during the lockdown and still rising numbers of the same, a special team led by Rajender Singh, CI Mahaveer Nagar police station and under the supervision of ASP, city Praveen Jain had been working to trace the accused, Kota city SP Gourav Yadav said. He said the team, on the basis of investigation and tip off, had been keeping a close watch on two suspects, identified as Mahendra Bairagi (22), a resident of Prem Nagar area of Kota city and Rakesh Mehra (30) of Panwar village in Jhalawar district, currently living in the city. Yadav said the police team, following through investigation and verification of facts, arrested the two youths on Friday and recovered 28 motorbikes and seven scooters from locations hinted by them in the city. Police also recovered 20 mobile phones stolen from various places in the city. The recovered items are worth around Rs 17 lakhs, he added. The two accused admitted to have lifted at least 50 two-wheelers, he further said adding attempts are underway to recover other vehicles and to find out if the other members are also involved in the crime. The two accused are drug addicts and would commit the crime to meet want of drug and for this purpose, they would snatch the mobile phones from the pedestrian, steal mobile phones from shops or lift two-wheelers and sell them at very low price to get money to satisfy their want of drug, circle inspector, Mahaveer Nagar police station Rajender Singh said. Singh said one of the two accused, Rakesh Mehra is already booked under sections of NDPS Act in Jhalawar, Kota and Chittorgarh. The two accused would be produced before the court on Saturday and the police would seek remand for interrogation for further recovery and inquiry on other members, he further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/2-arrested-for-stealing-bikes-mobiles-in-kota/articleshow/79216224.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Miscreants attack couple in Kota, stab woman to death||Kota: Some unidentified miscreants stopped a couple riding on a motorbike on Surta Puliya near Rajasthan–Madhya Pradesh border under Ayana police station of Kota late on Thursday night and attacked them with knives. The injured woman succumbed to injuries on the way to hospital, while the husband was rushed to Baran district hospital where he was discharged on Friday morning after the primary medical treatment. The motive behind the attack over the couple and brutal murder of the woman is yet to be ascertained as the accused miscreants did not rob any cash or ornaments. The police also ruled out rape of the woman before murder. An E-mitra kiosk proprietor, identified as Gopal Gautam (34), a resident of Bamborikalan village under Mangrole police station of Baran district and his wife Neelema Goutam (32) were returning home on a motorbike from Barode village in MP at around 9PM on Thursday when some unidentified assailants allegedly stopped them near Surta Puliya on state highway on Rajasthan–MP border and forcibly pulled them into the roadside forest, SHO at Ayana police station, Rajendra Meena said. Meena said the miscreants thrashed the husband and stabbed his wife Neelema with knife several times. The police found the woman in pool of blood with fatal injuries with knife all over her body and the husband in unconscious state and rushed them to hospital in Baran, but the woman succumbed to injuries on the way, the SHO said. Meena said the body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem by medical board on Friday morning and lodged a case of murder under Section 302 of IPC against the unidentified assailants. The husband was discharged from Baran district hospital after primary medical treatment on Friday morning, he further said. The motive behind the attack on the couple and brutal murder of the woman is yet to be ascertained as no cash or ornamental was reportedly found robbed, DSP and circle officer, Etawa circle, Shubhkaran said. He also ruled out rape of the woman. Her husband is in a state of shock and is not able to record his statements, he further said adding the investigation into the matter is underway and the police would soon nab the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/miscreants-attack-couple-in-kota-stab-woman-to-death/articleshow/79216235.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Cycling track along the Marina||Chennai: The city police have laid an exclusive cycling track along the Marina to encourage the sport. The 7.5-km-long track, likely to be launched next week, starts from Light House on Kamarajar Salai and winds through Sivananda Salai, Anna Salai, Flag Staff Road, War Memorial and Napier Bridge before coming on to Kamarajar Salai ending at the Light House. It will be a safe lane for thousands including schoolchildren. Authorities in several metros across the country had created high quality infrastructure for cyclists but most initiatives fizzled out mainly due to encroachments. This one, say police, has been designed to help cyclists complete a circle — a roundabout along which they will not lose track. As per police data, no fewer than 150 cyclists come for a ride on the route between 5am and 8am daily. The new track will ensure their safety. Even children can take up cycling along with their parents on the track without much hassle. Police will also install barricades so that other vehicles do not barge in and create confusion. “People constantly honk and don't see us as road users even during non-peak hours,” says Pradeep, a resident of Mylapore who goes for cycling on the beach. “Many people, especially children, will be motivated. But the success of the track depends on how disciplined we are in using it,” he said. Sarathy, another enthusiast, said such a track meandering along the Marina beach promenade would be a pleasing sight. “We can also breathe in some fresh air.” Police plan to deploy along the route personnel from the Armed Reserve to ensure safety of cyclists. The personnel, who will also cycle along the users, will benefit as they rarely get time to exercise and keep themselves fit, said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cycling-track-along-the-marina/articleshow/79214936.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Pune||Trekkers, mountaineers to tell tales on podcast||Pune: City-based mountaineering group Giripremi will soon air a podcast that would feature experienced trekkers, mountaineers, and rock-climbers talking about their adventures in the Himalayas and the Sahyadris. The five-part series, titled ‘The Adventure Podcast’, will run from November 25 to 29 and is Giripremi’s “Diwali gift to the mountaineering community”. The podcast, however, will go beyond traditional audio programme format and will feature actual footage from various climbs. Each episode, priced Rs99, would feature a group of mountaineers who completed a challenging trek or a climb. Giripremi said some of this footage — filmed using state-of-the-art cameras — captures some of the first attempts challenging and tricky courses by rock-climbers. “The podcast would be pre-recorded — a host would interact with participants about the course they successfully completed. It would also include footage shot during climb or towards the summit. For example, the episode on the Katrakada rock climb — to air on November 26 — was attempted and completed in 2000. The members of that expedition would speak on the dangers of that climb,”said Zirpe of Giripremi explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trekkers-mountaineers-to-tell-tales-on-podcast/articleshow/79216223.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
November 14, 2020||Pune||Thieves abandon stolen safe with Rs 72k||Pune: A metal safe containing Rs72,000 was found abandoned at Bhandgaon village in Daund because the thieves failed to break it open and collect the cash. Police said the safe was stolen from a garment shop in Kothrud on Wednesday. “A gang of men had broken into the garment shop along the Puad Road in the early hours of Wednesday. They decamped with the safe after failing to open it inside the shop. An employee of the shop, Rajesh Vyas, stated in his FIR that there was Rs72,000 in it,” an officer from the Kothrud police said. The police said the men then drove with the safe to Bhandgaon in a car. An officer from the Yavat police said a farmer from Bhandgaon on Thursday morning saw a few men trying to break open a metal box.  “He immediately alerted the police. Before a team could reach the spot, the men fled the scene leaving behind the safe. The suspects had made several attempts to break open the safe before abandoning it,” the officer said. “Some residents of Bhandgaon had taken the pictures of the car. Later, we found that its registration number was fake. After we posted the photographs of the safe on social media websites, we found out that it was stolen from the Kothrud shop,” the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-abandon-stolen-safe-with-rs-72k/articleshow/79216225.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||BJP announces its new team of state in-charges||NEW DELHI: The BJP on Friday announced its new team of state in-charges, assigning the politically crucial Uttar Pradesh to party vice-president (VP) and senior Bihar leader Radha Mohan Singh. The appointments come more than a month after BJP president J P Nadda announced his new team. Nadda has retained general secretary Bhupender Yadav as in-charge of Bihar and Gujarat, and Kailash Vijayvargiya of West Bengal. Yadav will be assisted by secretaries Harish Dwivedi and Anupam Hazara. Another party secretary Arvind Menon and IT cell head Amit Malviya will assist Vijayvargiya in Bengal. Similarly, Sunil Ojha, secretary Satya Kumar and Sanjeev Chaurasia will assist Singh in UP. Besides Singh, the party has made another VP, Baijayant Panda, the in-charge of Delhi and Assam while general secretary C T Ravi will be in-charge of Maharashtra, Goa and Tamil Nadu. General secretary Tarun Chugh, who was earlier co-incharge of Delhi, will now look after the party’s work in Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh and Telangana. Former general secretary P Muralidhar Rao, who was looking after Karnataka, will now be in-charge of Madhya Pradesh. General secretary Arun Singh will look after Rajasthan. Newly-appointed general secretary D Purandeshwari will look after Odisha and Chhattisgarh. General secretary Dushyant Gautam has been made in-charge of Punjab, Chandigarh and Uttarakhand and Dilip Sakia of Jharkhand and Arunachal Pradesh. Union minister V Muralidharan will be in-charge of Andhra Pradesh. Satya Kumar, who is also co-incharge of UP, has been made in-charge of Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Vinod Tawde of Haryana. Besides, Nadda appointed Bhupender Yadav as in-charge of Kisan Morcha, Arun Singh of OBC, Dushyant Gautam of the women’s wing and Tarun Chug of youth wing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-announces-its-new-team-of-state-in-charges/articleshow/79217826.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||No rescue posts at Rohtang this season||Manali: Rohtang pass, where public movement is monitored after establishing seasonal rescue posts in winter months, will not have rescue experts to help people in case of emergency this season onwards. The rescue post will now be established at Sissu, near the north portal of Atal tunnel. Two rescue posts on either side of Rohtang pass are established every year after November 15 to monitor safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians. A post is established at Marhi and other at Koksar. People are required to get themselves registered before and after travelling the pass to ensure they crossed over safely. This time, officials believe nobody will use dangerous Rohtang pass route, as people have Atal tunnel as an alternate option. According to officials, Rohtang pass will remain completely closed for all kind of movement in winter season after the snowfall. While people will not dare to go towards the unprotected pass, which is notorious for killing people with its unpredictable and extreme weather conditions, motorists and pedestrian in need will use the Atal tunnel route, which is expected to remain mostly open after snowfall. As approach road to Atal tunnel is even riskier due to dozens of avalanche sites and there is the possibility of people getting stranded near the tunnel after snowfall, administration has planned to shift the rescue post to Sissu near north portal of the tunnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-rescue-posts-at-rohtang-this-season/articleshow/79216236.cms||Suresh Sharma
November 14, 2020||Pune||All 500 labs in Maharashtra told to increase coronavirus testing to 80% capacity||PUNE: Director of state health services, Archana Patil, has now asked all 500 labs in Maharashtra to up Covid-19 testing to 80% of their capacity. The circular is part of preparations by the state machinery, which is anticipating a likely second wave sometime in January-February. The advisory also asked local authorities to ensure there is no complacency in the testing process across private and government labs. The tests per million number in the state has dropped to 57,311 from nearly 90,000 in September. A state health official said, “Private and government labs have been testing to only 50% of their capacity. They have been asked to push that to 80%, whether it’s via antigen kits or RT-PCR devices.” Also, the number of new cases in Maharashtra has dipped, but the test positivity and the fatality rates remain high. The health official said, “Door-to-door surveillance may have helped track people with symptoms, but we need to monitor potential super-spreaders who are individuals coming in contact with a lot of people every day. And after testing, contact tracing should be maintained at a 1:20 ratio — 20 contacts tracked for every positive patient.” Testing in October was around 64,000 tests per million, which further dropped to an average of 56,000 over the first 12 days of November. Lab officials said the dip is the result of fewer people turning up for tests. “But if we test more people, we will get a clearer picture of the number of asymptomatic individuals,” a lab official said. The circular issued by Patil cited studies that showed the infection spreads faster through individuals who come in contact with a lot of people daily. It added that timely testing can reduce the severity of a second wave and urged local authorities to hold awareness campaigns aimed at increasing testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-500-labs-in-state-told-to-increase-coronavirus-testing-to-80-capacity/articleshow/79216248.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Court can't review own judgement once signed: HC||AURANGABAD: A court cannot review or alter its own judgment after it has signed the same, the Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court has ruled while rejecting the plea of a life term convict in the sensational Kothewadi mass rape and dacoity case, to convert his substantial sentences to run as concurrently instead of consecutively. In 2005, a sessions court in Ahmednagar had ruled that the life sentence and other sentences of Darasingh alias Maruti alias Daiji Vakilya Bhosale (petitioner in the present matter) and four other convicts shall run consecutively. Later, in an appeal, the then high court (HC) bench of Justice P V Hardas and Justice A V Potdar on December 15, 2010 upheld the trial court's ruling and sentences by passing a reasoned order. In the instant matter, the HC bench of Justice T V Nalawade and M G Sewlikar responded to a letter sent to it from jail by Darasingh and appointed lawyer Krushna Rodge as an Amicus Curiae (friend of the court) for assistance on the convict’s plea to convert the sentences to run as concurrently. Rodge presented the writ petition and argued, among other things, that the aggregate punishment in the present matter was 21 years and it was not permissible for the court to sentence the accused in such a manner that aggregate sentence will exceed 14 years. Additional public prosecutor K D Mundhe argued that the HC was precluded from converting the sentence to run concurrently as the same would amount to reviewing the 2010 decision which is not permissible under Section 362 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC). Mundhe also cited a 2016 SC ruling that the court can direct sentences to run consecutively even if the accused was sentenced to life imprisonment. The bench referred to the sessions court’s reasoned justification behind ordering the sentences to run consecutively and also referred to the 2010 judgment by the HC on the same matter. The bench said, “The … division bench (in 2010) applied its mind and rejected the arguments of the … counsel for the accused (petitioner herein). If the sentence is directed to run concurrently now, it will amount to reviewing the judgment, which is impermissible in terms of Section 362 of the CrPC. As per Section 362 CrPC, the court after it has signed the judgment has no power to review or alter the judgment except correction of arithmetical or clerical error. This is neither an arithmetical nor clerical error.” (The Case) A gang of men struck at village Kothewadi in Ahmednagar district during the wee hours of January 17, 2001, robbing at least eight families of their valuables and gangraping some women. In the ensuing investigation, the police had arrested 14 persons who were later charged and tried for offences ranging from criminal conspiracy and dacoity to gangrape, molestation, assault and wrongful confinement, among others. In 2005, a sessions court in Ahmednagar convicted 12 of these men and handed out varied terms of imprisonment for each of the offences. Darasingh and four others, who were convicted for gangraping two women, were sentenced to life imprisonment to run consecutively apart from the sentences for dacoity and other offences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/court-cant-review-own-judgement-once-signed-hc/articleshow/79216245.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 14, 2020||Pune||PCMC allows private hospitals to start non-Covid treatment||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body has told private hospitals with less than 30 beds to stop admitting new Covid-19 patients and resume non-coronavirus treatment. Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) additional commissioner Santosh Patil on Thursday told TOI that the civic administration wanted to quickly resume the routine treatment at the private hospitals. He added that the civic body’s medical facilities of the Annasaheb Magar stadium jumbo hospital and Autocluster would take care of the new Covid cases. As of November 13, the jumbo unit was occupied with merely 15% of its total capacity of 800 beds. Patil said though the administration was disengaging the beds from the private hospitals, it could always revert to the original bed reservation in case of any surge in the nCoV cases. On Friday, 98 new cases were identified in the twin towns. With this, the total number of positive cases in Pimpri Chinchwad went up to 89,381. “The Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, which was converted into a 50% non-Covid facility at the beginning of this month, is smoothly operating. If the current situation continues even after Diwali, we can take a firm decision on converting YCM hospital into a 100% into non-Covid treatment facility,” he said. The PCMC is operating with only one Covid care centre following the gradual drop in the number of nCoV patients. The Pune divisional commissioner dashboard data only 569 beds were currently occupied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-allows-pvt-hosps-to-start-non-covid-treatment/articleshow/79216241.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 14, 2020||Meerut||11 teams in Bijnor to protect owls, tortoise from poachers during Diwali||Bijnor: Ahead of Diwali, forest department has formed 11 teams in Bijnor to protect owls and tortoise from poachers.Both owl and tortoise are in high demand during this time and fetch a good price. The owl is slaughtered and the tortoise confined in alien environment -- all for the sake attaining prosperity, power and long life. Driven by religious myths and superstitious beliefs, owls are sought for their body parts such as talons, skull, bones, feathers, meat and blood by occultists. As the owl is Goddess Lakshmi's 'vahan' (transport), it is believed that keeping its body part brings wisdom and intelligence to the keeper and prosperity in the household as the Goddess of wealth cannot leave. Similarly, the tortoise is a prized pet as it is considered to be an avatar (incarnation) of Lord Vishnu -- Kurma. And Lord Vishnu is Goddess Lakshmi's consort. The Goddess of wealth stays where he does.It is against this backdrop that M Semmaran, divisional forest officer, has set up 11 teams to keep poachers at bay. "We have formed teams to keep a strict vigil on poachers. Poachers become active during Diwali and catch owl and tortoise. Some people perform 'tantrik kiryas' with owl parts," he said.The teams have been directed to be alert and maintain strict vigil in forested areas of Amangarh, Badapur, Afjalgarh, Najibabad, Sherkot and Hrewali, where owls are found and along the banks of the district's numerous rivers -- Ganga, Ramganga, Kho, Malan, Baan, Gangan, Peeli and Dhara -- where the tortoise inhabit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/11-teams-in-bijnor-to-protect-owls-tortoise-from-poachers-during-diwali/articleshow/79213067.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 14, 2020||Pune||Pedestrian-friendly road medians in the pipeline||Pune: The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MahaMetro) said it would consult civic officials and traffic police and develop road medians in such a way that pedestrians have no difficulty in crossing roads. MahaMetro said these medians would come up on stretches where the Metro viaduct has been completed or is in its final stages — various stretches of Paud Road, Karve Road and parts of Pimpri Chinchwad. “We have started constructing medians, but the plans are flexible. We will consult PMC and the traffic police on the locations of median gaps and pedestrian crossings at prominent chowks,” MahaMetro officials said. MahaMetro said the foot-overbridges coming up at Metro stations can be used by pedestrians to cross the road. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pedestrian-friendly-road-medians-in-the-pipeline/articleshow/79216238.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||4-day rain, snow forecast in HP||Manali: The higher reaches of Himachal Pradesh are likely to receive snow while mid and low hills may receive rain with thunderstorm from Saturday till Tuesday, the meteorological office said. The western disturbances originating from Mediterranean Sea will hit the state on Saturday, that will bring rain and snow to the higher reaches. The yellow alert has been issued for Sunday when heavy rain and snowfall along with thunderstorms are predicted. The inclement weather will affect the state till Tuesday. Kullu and Lahaul-Spiti administrations have sounded an alert and have directed all the departments to stay active during this time. Public works department and NHAI have been asked to deploy machines at hazard-prone areas. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-day-rain-snow-forecast-in-hp/articleshow/79216243.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Tawde made in-charge of BJP in Hry||Chandigarh: Vinod Tawde has been appointed in-charge and Annapoorna Devi co-in-charge of Haryana in the BJP. The list was out on Friday night. Tawde, leader of opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Council, replaces Dr Anil Jain. He has held important posts and assignments before in the organisation and Maharashtra. He was member of the BJP coordination committee in the 12th and 13th parliamentary elections and part of the core committee as well. Annapoorna Devi has been four-time MLA from Jharkhand. In 2019, she defeated former chief minister Babu Lal Marandi with a huge margin for the Kodarma Lok Sabha seat. Her husband, whom she lost in 1998, was also a minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/tawde-made-in-charge-of-bjp-in-hry/articleshow/79216258.cms||Manvir Saini
November 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Man, out on bail in a drugs case, caught again with 10kg marijuana||AURANGABAD: The crime branch of the city police has nabbed two men with more than 10kg marijuana and has also seized an SUV (MH-15-BD-1864) in which the contraband was being transported. Incidentally, one of the men the police caught is an accused who was arrested just a month ago for transporting marijuana. He was recently released on bail. The arrested men have been identified as Jawed Khan Ayub Khan, a 35-year-old resident of Nutan Colony, and 44-year-old Yusuf Khan Umar Khan of Samtanagar. The men were nabbed early on Thursday morning after they entered the city via Beed bypass and were passing through the Roplekar hospital crossroad. A team led by assistant inspector Ajabsingh Jarwal intercepted their SUV. Jarwal said the accused have been handed over to the area police station concerned and a case under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act has been registered. Crime branch inspector Anil Gaikwad said Jawed is a habitual offender. Jawed and Yusuf were trying to smuggle marijuana from Jalna. “In April this year, Jawed was nabbed with marijuana and he remained behind bars before getting bail,” said Gaikwad. With this detection, the police are hopeful of unearthing the entire racket of marijuana trading and distribution in and around the city. Sources said that the arrested accused have been in the business for years.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-out-on-bail-in-a-drugs-case-caught-again-with-10kg-marijuana/articleshow/79213918.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Pune||PCB nod to liquid oxygen storage plant at its hospital||PUNE: The general body of the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) has approved a proposal that envisages setting up of a 1.4 lakh litre liquid oxygen storage facility with a centralized distribution pipeline at its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel General Hospital as part of a corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative by a company in Chakan. The plant will meet a requirement of 300 beds, including 30 with ICU support, and is expected to be up and running in the next three months. PCB resident medical officer V D Gaikwad told TOI, “We are now sourcing oxygen cylinders from private firms at a relatively higher cost. Once the storage plant with centralized distribution system is in place, the cost will be low. A 3,000 sq ft space has been marked for the plant and the company representatives inspected the facility last week.” He said, “The PCB currently buys liquid oxygen cylinders, each weighing 7,000 litre at Rs376 per unit. This includes the price for transportation and labour. But if we set up a storage facility, we will be able to reduce the cost to as low as Rs100 per cylinder,” Gaikwad added, “Since the hospital doesn’t have a centralized distribution line, it is required to deploy staff to monitor oxygen treatment. With the storage facility in place, we will have a centralized oxygen line that will secure continuous flow to the patients with centralized monitoring.” The PCB has registered 1,700 Covid-19 cases since the outbreak. Of which, 1,633 have been discharged after recovery, 57 succumbed to the virus and nine are active cases till November 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-nod-to-liquid-oxygen-storage-plant-at-its-hospital/articleshow/79216260.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 14, 2020||Pune||Pune: Eight succumb, toll declines to single digit after 5 months||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 fatalities in the Pune Metropolitan Region dropped to single-digit for the first time in nearly five months after eight people succumbed to the contagion on Friday, as per the daily report issued by the district health officer. Five persons died in Pune Municipal Corporation limits, while Pimpri Chinchwad reported one death. Two persons died across cantonment limits, nagar panchayat (municipal council) areas and rural parts. This took the death toll for the region to 8,149. More than half of these, 4,537, were from PMC limits, the report stated. The last time the daily casualties were in single digits was on June 21, when eight people died. On Friday, 554 people recovered from Covid-19, pushing the total recoveries in the region so far to 3.13 lakh. In the same 24-hour window, 468 new patients were added. They included 226 from Pune Municipal Corporation limits, 98 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 144 together in cantonment limits, nagar panchayat (municipal council) areas and rural parts. The drop in the number of daily cases came after the count had increased for four consecutive days till Thursday, when 622 people had tested positive. The report released by the district health officer further stated that 1.64 lakh of the 3.30 lakh total cases — reported in Pune Metropolitan Region till Friday — were from PMC limits. Of the rest, 89,381 were from Pimpri Chinchwad and 76,858 from the rural, cantonment and municipal council areas. Meanwhile, the number of active cases in the region further dropped to 9,351 on Friday. Of these, 5,425 patients are under home quarantine, while 3,926 people are being treated in various hospitals across the region. As many as 5,264 samples were tested in the region on Friday. PMC conducted 2,064 tests, while Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation tested 1,543 samples. This pushed the number of samples tested in the region to nearly 15 lakh. According to a PMC report, 354 patients were in a critical condition on Friday, of whom 232 were on ventilator support. The report further stated that 975 patients were on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/8-succumb-toll-declines-to-single-digit-after-5-months/articleshow/79216263.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Covid-19 cases show fitful spike in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases has again intermittently started touching the three-digit mark in Aurangabad district on October 12, prompting the health authorities to sound a caution. The health authorities have appealed to citizens not to lower their guard against the pandemic, especially during the current festive season, adding that any negligence can lead to spurt in new cases. Aurangabad district, including municipal limits and rural areas, reported 126 new cases on October 12. Earlier, the new confirmed cases were reduced to two-digit figures since October 31, barring exception of November 5 (108 cases), official data shows. Aurangabad district health officer Sudhakar Shelke on Friday said that the joy associated with the festival of Diwali could soon turn into sorrow if citizens throw caution to the wind. “All citizens must follow Covid prevention norms very religiously. Crowding during the festival season must be avoided as far as possible. There is no excuse to wearing face masks, maintaining hand-hygiene and observing social distancing to minimize the risk of Covid-19,” he said. As per the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, the incubation period (time between the exposure and the display of symptoms) of novel coronavirus ranges from 1 to 12.5 days with median estimates of five to six days, but can be as long as 14 days. The health authorities said that the machinery involved in offering Covid care to public have been asked to remain prepare in the event of likely rise in new cases post Diwali. “Both the Centre and the state have not ruled out the possibility of a second wave of Covid-19 post the festive season if people fail to follow safety norms,” divisional health authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-cases-show-fitful-spike-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79216259.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Look up for relief: Light rain in Delhi may improve air quality a bit||NEW DELHI: The air quality in the city deteriorated slightly in the past 24 hours, but remained in the “very poor” category on Friday with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) of 339. On Thursday, AQI was 314. Agencies have forecast it to touch the higher end of the “very poor” category on Diwali day, even if no firecrackers are burst. Track the pollution level in your cityHowever, if additional emissions are added through firecrackers, Delhi’s air could turn “severe” on November 15. The capital may get relief almost instantly with a spell of light rain expected on the evening or night of November 15. This would bring down pollution the next day. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said northwesterly winds were blowing once again, which would increase the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s PM2.5. However, a good wind speed on Diwali day would allow the pollutants to disperse. “Good local wind speed should help counteract northwesterly winds to some extent. On the evening or night of November 15, a western disturbance will bring rain in the mountains and northern plains. This will also help reduce pollution levels,” added Srivastava. Meanwhile, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) pegged the share of stubble burning in Delhi’s bad air at 14% on Friday, spiking from just 2% on Thursday. While wind direction was easterly on Thursday, it switched to northwesterly and was likely to increase the contribution of stubble burning over the next two days. “Air quality is predicted to deteriorate and remain in the higher end of the very poor category in the absence of additional emissions due to fireworks. The stubble burning-induced impact on AQI is expected to increase from negligible to moderate for the next two days,” said SAFAR. Since AQI is measured by Central Pollution Control Board over a 24-hour period, generally a spike in pollution on Diwali day is reflected the next day. According to SAFAR, peak pollution levels on Diwali could be between 1am and 6am if firecrackers are burst. Watch Relief after Diwali: Light rain may improve air quality in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/look-up-for-relief-light-rain-may-improve-air-quality-a-bit/articleshow/79216254.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Pune||Zone-wise decentralization lowers death registration pendency by half||Pune: Death registration pendency has come down by half since the decentralization of the work began in two of the five zones in Pune municipal limits on November 1.Over 3,000 bereaved families were awaiting death certificates in October, the number which has come down to 1,500 now. The decentralization of the other three administration zones is expected to be over by November-end. “The process of recruiting contractual staff at 15 citizen facility centres (CFC) and another 11 centres meant for newly merged villages is currently on. The pendency will be cleared once the recruitment and decentralization work is complete,” Kalpana Baliwant, the PMC's birth and death registration office in-charge, said.The PMC’s main office for birth and death registration is located in Kasba Peth. It collates death/birth data every day and uploads related information on the central portal. Officials then verify the data and grant approval online, after which the data gets distributed to the 15 ward offices as per the citizen’s residential addresses. A citizen can then get the required birth and death certificate from the respective ward office’s citizen facilitation centre (CFCs).“Since birth and death certificate work has already been decentralized at two administrative zones (2 and 5) this month, the birth and deaths happening in hospitals within these zones are being registered at Ghole Road and Tilak Road ward offices, respectively,” Baliwant saidFor birth/death occurring in the two zones, citizens do not have to come to the main office in Kasba Peth for their registration, she said. “Once the birth/death is registered in the designated zone, citizens will be able to seek the photocopies of birth/death from any other centre/ward office located nearby,” Baliwant said.Till decentralization work is complete, citizens from all the 15 wards will gather at the main office with complete disregard for norms, a civic official said.Ever since the pandemic slowed birth/death registration and certificate issuance in Pune, health activists have been exhorting the state government to consider documents like the hospital’s medical cause of death and cremation pass for processing pension or insurance claims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/zone-wise-decentralization-lowers-death-registration-pendency-by-half/articleshow/79216269.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 14, 2020||Mysuru||Cong women to give vegetables to BJP leaders to protest price rise||Mysuru: Congress women workers have decided to distribute vegetables to elected representatives at their doorsteps as a Deepavali gift in Mysuru. On Friday, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) women’s wing president Pushpa Amarnath shared the details about the distribution of vegetables. The poor and middle-class people are badly affected by the rise in the prices of essential commodities, she added. “We want to make BJP leaders and the government realise that the common man is suffering due to the rise in prices of essential commodities and they should bring programmes to support people. We will distribute onions, potatoes and tomatoes to BJP leaders houses as a mark of protest,” she said. On the alleged assault on a woman by BJP MLA Siddu Savadi, Pushpa asked why MP Shobha Karandlaje was silent on the issue. “We are waiting for her reaction on the BJP MLA assaulting a woman, and the video has gone viral. Women are assaulted in BJP ruled states. The sad part is that whenever there is a BJP leader involved in an assault on women, BJP women leaders stay silent,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/cong-women-to-give-vegetables-to-bjp-leaders-to-protest-price-rise/articleshow/79213614.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nashik||Two arrested for murder in Nashik||NASHIK: The Nashik city police on Thursday afternoon arrested two people in connection with a murder. Police said that Ramchandra Nishad (37) of Indiranagar and native of Uttar Pradesh was killed after he was hit on the head with a blunt object. The incident took place on Wednesday. Nishad owned a garage on the Wadala-Pathardi Road. On Thursday morning, when a garage employee came to work, he found Nishad lying in a pool of blood inside the garage. A car which had come for repair was also missing from the garage. The employee informed the police who rushed to the spot. During investigation, they detained a garage employee and his accomplice who later confessed to the crime, leading to their arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-arrested-for-murder-in-nashik/articleshow/79216278.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Aurangabad||2 Beed youths electrocuted while fishing with live wire||Aurangabad: Bodies of two cousins were found near a waterbody — where they had gone fishing — in the Dharur tehsil of Beed. A preliminary probe has revealed that the youths were accidentally electrocuted while they were trying to catch fish by dipping live electric wires in the water. The deceased have been identified as 21-year-old Samadhan Sahdev Rupnar and 19-year-old Deepak Maroti Rupnar. Samadhan was preparing for police recruitment and Deepak was an ITI student. The youths had gone to the pond on the outskirts of the village on Thursday afternoon. When they did not return home in the evening, their family members tried reaching them on their cellphones. The family members and other villagers then went searching for them and finally found them lying motionless. The young men were immediately moved to the Dharur rural hospital, where they were declared brought dead. Autopsies were performed on Friday morning before the bodies were handed over to the families. A case of accidental death has been registered with the Dharur police station. Police authorities said that in rural areas, instead of using nets, many people opt for an easier way to catch fish — by dipping live electricity wires in the water. “As soon as a live wire is dipped in a waterbody, fish start rushing towards the surface. Many fish either fall unconscious or die of electric shock,” said an officer from the Dharur police station. Police clarified that it is not permissible to dip live electricity wires in water bodies, as it may inadvertently cause the death of animals or people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-beed-youths-electrocuted-while-fishing-with-live-wire/articleshow/79216266.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Tirupati: SVBC plans roadmap to safeguard devotees’ interests||TIRUPATI: Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) managing director A V Dharma Reddy said a roadmap is being readied to uphold the sanctity and spirituality of the channel and the sentiments of its devotees. The SVBC management has come out with a detailed roadmap following a complaint that one of the employees sent a porn link to a devotee in Hyderabad instead of a link to a spiritual programme. The SVBC management has since terminated the employee. “All activities of SVBC have now been brought under the purview of the vigilance and security wing, the finance wing and the cyber cell and the IT wing of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to ensure transparency at all levels of functioning in the channel,” Dharma Reddy said. He said a donation scheme launched in SVBC recently has handsomely rewarded the channel which has been able to receive Rs 10 crore within four months. “Öur idea is to provide rich and exclusive spiritual content to the devotee viewers worldwide who in turn will help God’s own channel to become financially self-reliant within four years from now,” said Dharma Reddy, explaining the road map. New programmes launched in SVBC, including the Sundarakanda Patanam and Srimad Bhagavad Gita Padanam, have been a success and more such programmes are in the pipeline. A comprehensive human resources management policy is being drafted which will be implemented for the first time in SVBC and which is expected to help the management offload non-performers and rope in experts to transform the channel into a world-class institution in the next four years, Dharma Reddy said. Former CEO at SVBC, Venkata Nagesh, said lack of a human resources management policy for contractual and outsourced employees is a major issue which has remained unaddressesd for several years now. The management has never been in a position to crack the whip against erring staffers because of this, he said. Another former CEO, AV Narasimha Rao, said there is an urgent need to rope in experts as department heads at SVBC and act against non-performers. Dharma Reddy said, “Several underlying issues such as absence of a comprehensive HRM policy, flawed recruitment and over-staffing have all contributed to the negative image of the channel. We will address these issues immediately.” Experts said SVBC’s fixed programme chart covers 11 hours of live programmes and four hours of recorded programmes for which only 90 staffers are sufficient. The channel, however, has 248 staffers, with little to no work for nearly 150 staffers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/svbc-plans-roadmap-to-safeguard-devotees-interests/articleshow/79213923.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt will request air quality panel to direct other states to use stubble solution||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will soon file a petition in the Air Quality Commission (AQC), urging it to direct other states to implement the bio-decomposer technique for checking stubble burning menace. It will share with the panel the impact assessment report of the technique, which was used on Delhi’s farmlands recently. In a press conference on Friday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal shared the impact assessment report. The bio-decomposer can be a viable solution for stubble burning, which is one of the major reasons behind Delhi and neighbouring areas turning into a gas chamber during winter, said Kejriwal. The CM urged the Centre and state governments of Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh to implement the same technique to prevent stubble burning. It has been a success and the impact assessment report across 24 villages in Delhi has shown that around 70-95% of stubble turned into manure, in as low cost as Rs 30 per acre, he said. “For the last 10-12 years, the smoke from stubble burning in October and November reaches Delhi and travels across northern India, which causes massive pollution in Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana,” Kejriwal said, adding that people suffer due to massive pollution from stubble burning every year. The CM said that until now, no significant step was taken in this regard, except politics, statements and conflicts on the matter. “Pusa Agricultural Institute has developed a bio-decomposer solution, which, if sprayed on the farmlands, will convert the stubble into manure. When a farmer burns stubble, it destroys the good bacteria on the fields as well as the fertility and productivity of the soil. The bio-decomposer solution helps retain the good bacteria,” Kejriwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-will-request-air-quality-panel-to-direct-other-states-to-use-stubble-solution/articleshow/79216275.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hubballi||Hampi Utsav inaugurated||Ballari: District minister BS Anand Singh inaugurated this year’s Hampi Utsav, which is a low key affair this time in the wake of Covid-19, on Veerabhadreshwar Temple premises in Hampi on Friday evening. The Utsav, which depicts the glory of the Vijayanagar empire, used to be a three-day grand affair, but it has been reduced to one day this year. Before the inauguration, Shobayatra, a procession involving various folklore troupes like Veeragase, Dollu kunita, Halage vadana, women carrying holy pots and elephants was taken out from Veerabhadreshwar temple to Virupaksha temple. In his speech, Anand Singh assured that the government will hold a grand Utsav next year. He thanked the people of the region for cooperating with the low-key affair. “One should follow Covid-19 norms during the Utsav and later, till we get a vaccine,” he appealed. Ballari MP Y Devendrappa, MLA MS Somalingappa, deputy commissioner SS Nakul and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/hampi-utsav-inaugurated/articleshow/79213358.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Customs bust gold smuggling racket involving Chennai airport housekeeping staff, five arrested||CHENNAI: Chennai Customs has busted a smuggling racket involving an airport housekeeping contract staff at Chennai international airport. Customs said that AIU officers maintained vigil in transit area yesterday after getting an alert that gold was to be smuggled by a passenger from Dubai who came on flight 6E 8497. One airport janitor was noticed going inside toilet. He was followed by Customs officials and caught while retrieving two black bundles from a waste bucket. When it was cut open, three gold paste packets weighing 2 kg were recovered. On Extraction. 1.81 kg gold worth Rs 93.2 lakh was recovered and seized. The suspect passenger Sheikhussman,35, of Trichy was intercepted at the exit. The janitor was identified from his airport entry pass as one Gnanasekar,31, employee of M/s Service Master Clean Limited (SMCL),Chennai which provides housekeeping services at airport. When questioned, he informed Customs that his colleague told him to collect bundles from transit toilet on orders from Kumar, his boss who is working as a supervisor in the same firm.  The passenger received a call from someone outside the airport who had come to receive him, Customs investigation revealed. The passenger was taken out and the receiver was apprehended when he approached him. He was identified as one Syed Ibrahim Shah,21, of Chennai. Kumar who was not at the airport was apprehended later on. Kumar is the mastermind of this smuggling racket. All five have been arrested. In another case based on information Etihad Airways flight EY-268 which arrived from Abu Dhabi was rummaged. Three bundles were recovered from the two toilets in aircraft during rummaging. When it was cut open four gold bars of 1 kg each with foreign markings and 3 rectangular gold plates totally weighing 5.1 kg valued at Rs. 2.63 Crore were recovered and seized as unclaimed. Totally 6.9 Kg gold worth Rs 3.6 Crore was seized by Customs at Chennai Airport .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/-for-p3-customs-bust-gold-smuggling-racket-involving-airport-housekeeping-staff-five-arrested/articleshow/79215053.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Amarinder Singh meets child artist Noorpreet Kaur||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday met child artist Noorpreet Kaur, popularly known as Noor, and with her sister Jashanpreet Kaur, and conveyed his best wishes to them, along with Diwali greetings. Noor, seen on screen as a five-year-old ‘boy in patka’, is actually a girl from Bhinder Kalan village of Moga district. With a massive following on various social platforms, Noor is known for disseminating social messages through fun and laughter. Member of Parliament from Patiala Preneet Kaur also met Noor and her sister. Capt Amarinder had earlier given appointment to her on the occasion of ‘Rakshabandhan’ but she couldn’t come due to health problems. Both the sisters were accompanied by Sukhdeep Singh and Varandeep Singh from their native village. The duo record and upload video clips of Noor on various social media platforms. Rs 5 Lakh aid for hawker boy Amritsar: Amritsar deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khera on Friday handed over a fixed deposit of Rs 5 lakh to hawker boy Manpreet Singh (13). The Punjab chief minister had announced a grant of Rs 5 lakh for Manpreet after a video of him refusing to take extra money while selling ‘papad wadian’. CM Amarinder Singh had also held a video chat with the young boy, who studies in Class VII. After receiving Rs 5 lakh, Manpreet, who was accompanied by his father, said he would concentrate more both on his studies and work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-meets-child-artist-noor/articleshow/79216264.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: CPCB to monitor air, noise pollution at 19 locations on Diwali||NEW DELHI: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) will be monitoring air quality and noise pollution across 19 stations in Delhi on Diwali day. We will compare the readings with pre-Diwali levels, CPCB has said. Track the pollution level in your cityWhile air quality will be monitored at three locations, namely ITO, Janakpuri and Pitampura, 16 stations have been chosen for noise monitoring, including 10 real-time noise monitoring stations and six manual stations. According to CPCB, air quality is being monitored for a period of two weeks with readings being collected since November 7 onwards. Data will be monitored for a week before Diwali and a week after Diwali, until November 21. “This year also, CPCB has requested all state Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs)/Pollution Control Committees (PCCs) and Regional Directorate of CPCBs (RDs) for conducting ambient air quality monitoring in their respective states at two (or) three locations for 15 days (i.e. seven days prior to Deepawali & seven days after Deepawali) from November 7, 2020,” said CPCB in a statement. At the three locations, the concentration of PM 10, SO2, NOx and PM 2.5 will be collected. In addition, the presence of metals, such as lead, nickel and arsenic in PM 10, as well as the presence of aluminium, barium and iron in PM 2.5 concentration will be assessed to identify the contribution of firecrackers. CPCB, meanwhile, said for noise pollution, readings collected on November 14 will be compared to readings collected on November 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cpcb-to-monitor-air-noise-pollution-at-19-locations-on-diwali/articleshow/79216283.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Amaravati||Belt shops in Andhra change modus operandi to thwart SEB sleuths||VIJAYAWADA: In its crackdown against the unauthorised sale of liquor, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has come up against a new challenge: fluid and mobile belt shop networks that frequently change their modus operandi. While earlier belt shops would operate as an extended counter of licensed liquor shops, making the SEB’s task of tracking the source of liquor easier, now, with liquor shops under government control and curbs on liquor sale, owners of belt shops have mostly taken to procuring liquor from other states. Those running belt shops have also changed their mode of operation to evade the SEB’s radar and keep their businesses running. Many belt shops that previously operate from a general store or used a shop selling cigarettes as a front have turned mobile and started doorstep delivery of liquor. These businesses are formed of close groups comprising persons acquainted with the belt shop. Speaking to TOI, SEB director PHD Ramakrishna said the bureau has observed that organisers of belt shops are resorting to ploys such as clothes with secrets pockets that can hide liquor bottles. Some are selling liquor in the early hours or at evening, posing as a milk delivery person. The trend is more visible in urban areas where many belt shops have permanent customers and have started doorstep delivery. Nor do these shops stay in once place, Ramakrishna said, but keep changing their locations. Further, most belt shop owners have tie-ups with non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) smugglers who procure liquor in bulk from other states. It was also noticed that at some places, belt shops are procuring stocks from local shops with the active connivance of supervisors. “They are also procuring stocks by sending their acquaintances to various shops and making them buy three bottles at each shop,” said Ramakrishna. They have also changed the ways to store the contraband, such as burying it in the ground, hiding it in hay stacks and other methods that have become a challenge for the SEB to detect, Ramakrishna said, adding that the bureau is continuously changing its strategies by enhancing surveillance and developing human intelligence networks to detect the new methods employed by belt shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/belt-shops-in-ap-change-modus-operandi-to-thwart-seb-sleuths/articleshow/79219303.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||BJP appoints DK Gautam as party’s new U’khand chief||Dehradun: Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Dushyant Kumar Gautam, who is the Rajya Sabha member from Haryana, has been made Uttarakhand state in-charge by party national president Jagat Prakash Nadda on Friday. Gautam replaced Shyam Jaju who was the in-charge of the ruling party in Uttarakhand till now. According to the list issued by party high command in Delhi, Rekha Verma, MP from Uttar Pradesh, has been made the co-incharge of the BJP in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-appoints-dk-gautam-as-partys-new-ukhand-chief/articleshow/79213963.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Chembarambakkam lake nears 70% of its capacity||CHENNAI: After five years, the Chembarambakkam lake has touched a storage level of 2,576 mcft, which is 70.6% of its total capacity. The lake, one of the two rain-fed reservoirs supplying water to the city, the other one being Puzhal lake, has a total capacity of 3,645 mcft. A PWD official said the recent spate of rainfall (12mm on an average) and release of Krishna water from the Red Hills reservoir to Chembarambakkam have pushed up the storage level at the lake. The full storage level at the lake can be reached when the Sriperumbudur and Pilliappakkam tanks get filled up, from where excess water is directed into the Chembarambakkam reservoir. So far, these two tanks have received only a marginal rainfall, with their current capacity being 175 mcft and 125 mcft respectively, the official said. “The catchment areas of the Chembarambakkam lake have to receive a minimum rainfall of 25mm per day. Only in such a situation, the lake will get water, which will improve its storage level further. So far this year, the rainfall in the catchment areas has not crossed 12mm per day in the last few days,” he explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chembarambakkam-lake-nears-70-of-its-capacity/articleshow/79215072.cms||P Oppili
November 14, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Mad rush in markets spikes Covid-19 fears||VADODARA: Fears of coronavirus rearing its ugly head during the Diwali frenzy seems to be partly true with people throwing caution to the wind while milling around the chock-a-block markets. While the city and district touched a peak with 135 cases on September 19, the rate of decline was encouraging till October 24 with only 95 cases being reported. However, what’s not encouraging is the fact that the number is maintaining its status quo and not dipping further. The decrease has slowed down significantly and the number stays steady around 90. Sources said that a major reason for this was shoppers who have cleanly forgotten the Covid drills like masks and social distancing. A veteran in community medicine feared that there might be another spike a few days after the Diwali and Bestu Varsh festivities got over. “There is a strong possibility that the condition in Rajkot worsened a few days after Janmashtami. The festival is celebrated with fervour in entire Saurashtra. Cases from district around Rajkot may have reached the city leading to sharp rise in bed occupancy,” he said. The festival season will also have a lot of travelling with either revellers heading home or heading for holidays with their families. This also increases the chances of transmission of the disease. An official said that even he was surprised that the numbers were staying between 90 and 95. “While this is not alarming as we have sufficient treatment facilities and a good discharge facilities, we had expected the graph to dip further,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mad-rush-in-markets-spikes-covid-19-fears/articleshow/79213155.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Belt shops in Andhra change modus operandi to thwart SEB sleuths||VIJAYAWADA: In its crackdown against the unauthorised sale of liquor, the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has come up against a new challenge: fluid and mobile belt shop networks that frequently change their modus operandi. While earlier belt shops would operate as an extended counter of licensed liquor shops, making the SEB’s task of tracking the source of liquor easier, now, with liquor shops under government control and curbs on liquor sale, owners of belt shops have mostly taken to procuring liquor from other states. Those running belt shops have also changed their mode of operation to evade the SEB’s radar and keep their businesses running. Many belt shops that previously operate from a general store or used a shop selling cigarettes as a front have turned mobile and started doorstep delivery of liquor. These businesses are formed of close groups comprising persons acquainted with the belt shop. Speaking to TOI, SEB director PHD Ramakrishna said the bureau has observed that organisers of belt shops are resorting to ploys such as clothes with secrets pockets that can hide liquor bottles. Some are selling liquor in the early hours or at evening, posing as a milk delivery person. The trend is more visible in urban areas where many belt shops have permanent customers and have started doorstep delivery. Nor do these shops stay in once place, Ramakrishna said, but keep changing their locations. Further, most belt shop owners have tie-ups with non-duty paid liquor (NDPL) smugglers who procure liquor in bulk from other states. It was also noticed that at some places, belt shops are procuring stocks from local shops with the active connivance of supervisors. “They are also procuring stocks by sending their acquaintances to various shops and making them buy three bottles at each shop,” said Ramakrishna. They have also changed the ways to store the contraband, such as burying it in the ground, hiding it in hay stacks and other methods that have become a challenge for the SEB to detect, Ramakrishna said, adding that the bureau is continuously changing its strategies by enhancing surveillance and developing human intelligence networks to detect the new methods employed by belt shops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/belt-shops-in-ap-change-modus-operandi-to-thwart-seb-sleuths/articleshow/79213951.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Two held for stealing bag containing Rs 25L in Beed||Aurangabad: The Beed police have nabbed two suspects and claimed that they have solved the case within 24 hours of thieves fleeing with a bag containing almost Rs 25 lakh in cash Aurangabad-based plastic wholesaler Sanjay Gangwal had gone to Parli in Beed in his car (MH-20-EJ-5771) on Thursday to collect the outstanding amount from local traders and to take new orders ahead of the festive season. Unidentified suspects had broken the windshield of Gangwal’s car to steal the bag. A case was registered with the Parli city police station, following which, several police teams were sent out to nab the suspects. Beed superintendent of police R Raja said: “Technical analysis as well as visual surveillance gadgets installed at different locations helped us pin down the accused.” A preliminary probe has revealed that the accused had been tailing the trader for the past three days. They targetted Gangwal on Thursday when they found that he was busy in one of the shops and his driver was having lunch. Parli city inspector Hemant Kadam said, “During the probe, we found that a car with registration number MH-20-BN-9997 was following the complainant’s vehicle.” The police team immediately contacted the car’s owner, who revealed that 40-year-old Santosh Eknath Patil had taken the vehicle on rent. The police soon laid a trap and nabbed Patil and his 33-yer-old accomplice Pandharinath Prembhare. Both suspects are residents of Turkabad Kharadi in Gangapur tehsil of Aurangabad. The detection branch of the Parli city police maintained that the suspects were aware of the heavy monetary transactions carried out by Gangwal, and in an attempt to make fast money, they decided to lift his cash collection bag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-held-for-stealing-bag-containing-rs-25l-in-beed/articleshow/79216284.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Toned down, but spirited celebrations this Diwali in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The partial ban on bursting of firecrackers, the missing community gatherings or even the restrictions imposed on entry to rooftops by some housing societies, have failed to dampen the spirit of Hyderabadis, this Diwali. While they have vowed to ensure all Covid-safety norms and protect the environment from further pollution, they are sure to have a gala time with family — while staying indoors. While Diwali parties haven’t died down, their grandness has to some extent. To make sure no stone is left unturned, revellers were also seen decking up their homes with lights and diyas on Friday, while many busied themselves sending out sweets and gifts to friends and family, to make the occasion memorable despite all odds. “This is for the first time that we will be celebrating Diwali at home without our friends and family members with us. While we are definitely going to miss the get-togethers this year, I think it is for our own good. We have to remember that we are still in the middle of a pandemic,” said Kunal Saxena, a resident of Begumpet. There’s only family and a select group of friends coming together to spend a quiet evening. Asha Chowdhary, a resident of Tarnaka said, “It is only to retain some sense of the celebratory spirit during this time of the year. I was feeling so morose that I decided to invite two of my cousins over to spend the week with me. We will be making some good food and spend time together so that we don’t miss out on the family gathering and the puja this year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/toned-down-but-spirited-celebrations-this-diwali/articleshow/79215077.cms||Moulika.KV
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Prohibition & excise department undergoes restructuring||VIJAYAWADA: Consequent to the formation of the special enforcement bureau (SEB), the state government has reorganised the prohibition and excise (P&E) department. Restructuring of the department was necessitated after nearly 70 per cent of staff were allocated to the SEB. As part of the restructuring of P&E department, the state has been divided into four zones. While the P&E commissioner remains the head of the department, each zone would be headed by a deputy commissioner, who would be responsible for all administrative functions of his or her respective zone. The zonal offices will be set up in Visakhapatnam, Kakinada, Guntur and Kurnool. While Visakhapatnam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts fall under Visakhapatnam zone, East Godavari, West Godavari and Krishna districts will come under Kakinada zone. Along with Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore districts will be part of Guntur zone, while Kadapa, Kurnool, Chittoor and Anantapur districts fall under Kurnool zone. Each district will be headed by a superintendent-rank officer who will also act as the district nodal officer. He or she would be responsible for postings and transfers of lower cadre officials within the district. Apart from this, six vigilance wings will be created, which would be headed by an assistant commissioner rank official. While five vigilance wings will be allotted to the districts, one vigilance wing will work in the head office. The jurisdiction of assistant commissioners has also been defined in the notification. Srikakulam vigilance wing will also have jurisdiction over Vizianagaram district. Likewise, the Eluru wing will have jurisdiction over Krishna district along with West Godavari, Ongole wing will have Nellore, Chittor wing will have Kadapa, while Anantapur wing will cover only that district. Interestingly, there is no mention of Visakhapatnam, East Godavari, Guntur and Kurnool districts in the gazette notification. At the head office level, an additional commissioner post has been created to assist the commissioner. The additional commissioner will deal with functions related to excise administration and enforcement. Of the three joint commissioners, two have been allocated to the SEB while one is attached to the head office. The joint commissioner will look after distilleries and breweries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prohibition-excise-dept-undergoes-restructuring/articleshow/79213964.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||‘Permissions to Delhi firm to be revoked’||PANAJI: Ports minister and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo met CM Pramod Sawant and demanded strict action against the miscreants who vandalised and destroyed a popular restaurant in Calangute. Lobo said the permissions granted to a Delhi-based company, will be revoked by following all due procedure. “They have taken a repair licence from the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority and are thinking of reconstructing the structure. We will not allow this. We will follow proper procedure of law to revoke that licence,” Lobo said. “For somebody to come from Delhi to use an excavator past midnight to demolish part of one of the oldest restaurants in Calangute, sending goons to beat up his staff and trying to threaten him...this will not be tolerated,” he said. Lobo met the chief minister along with the promoters of the restaurant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/permissions-to-delhi-firm-to-be-revoked/articleshow/79216290.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand BJP suspends former MLA and minister for ‘indiscipline’||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Friday, suspended Lakhiram Joshi, former MLA and cabinet minister. The 64-year-old has also been served a show cause notice to explain within a week why he should not be expelled from the saffron party. The move by state BJP chief Bansidhar Bhagat comes after the 64-year-old ex-MLA of Tehri wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi complaining about the corruption cases in Uttarakhand and supporting the recently-ordered CBI inquiry against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat by the Nainital high court (HC). Devendra Bhasin, media head and vice president of the BJP, said, “The party will take a call on further action against Joshi after receiving his reply. The action sends out a clear message to everyone that they must approach the state leadership first before taking any such step.” He added that the action taken against the former MLA comes after he wrote a letter to the Prime Minister, which went viral on the internet, requesting him to change the chief minister of Uttarakhand. In a letter written to the PM on November 11, Joshi has said, ‘It has been three years for the BJP government in Uttarakhand and in these years, as chief minister, Trivendra Singh Rawat has embarrassed the party on several occasions due to his controversial decisions. “The Nainital HC has recently ordered a CBI inquiry in a serious case of corruption against chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat which has been stayed by the Supreme Court. The entire nation has supported you in demonetisation as it was the biggest attack on black money but the residents of Uttarakhand are in a state of shock that how Trivendra Singh Rawat, who was the in-charge of Jharkhand at that time, was helping his people in getting black money deposited in their bank account. The party is facing criticism on the same in the state and hence, I request you to remove the CM from his post so that inquiry shouldn’t get affected because of his influence,” he wrote further. Joshi, while talking to TOI, maintained that he has done nothing wrong in writing to the PM and has no regret. “Why can I not approach the Delhi high command when the matter of corruption case has already reached the Supreme Court? I haven’t said anything against the CM but have only stated the facts. If there will be a fair inquiry in the matter, it will be good for our party,” added Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-bjp-suspends-former-mla-and-minister-for-indiscipline/articleshow/79213983.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 14, 2020||Aurangabad||Paithan Gate-Gulmandi road to undergo transformation||Aurangabad: The iconic stretch of road between Paithan Gate and the Gulmandi area of Aurangabad city is the first to get selected under ‘Streets for People Challenge’, an initiative of Smart Cities Mission of the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA). The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) on Friday formally launched the initiative which aims to create walk-friendly streets in phases through quick measures in response to Covid-19. A team of artists, youngsters and several citizens joined the formal event which served as public outreach and mass awareness activity. Speaking on the occasion, ASCDCL assistant project manager Sneha Mohan Nair said that the street from Paithan Gate to Gulmandi would be transformed soon as part of the challenge. “The ASCDCL will reach out to market associations, shopkeepers and other stakeholders in the coming days to achieve the expected outcomes. We appeal to architects and artists in the city to contribute their ideas and visions for making the street more spacious, beautiful and economically vibrant,” she said. As per MoHUA, the ‘Streets for People Challenge’ aims to create flagship walking initiatives in cities with focus on place-making and liveability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/paithan-gate-gulmandi-road-to-undergo-transformation/articleshow/79216294.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Aurangabad||5 cops shunted out to police headquarters||Aurangabad: Taking serious cognizance of over a two-month-old alleged incident of attempt to murder that took place at an alleged gambling den, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has ordered shunting out of five policemen from Satara area police station to city police headquarters. The orders in this regard were issued by deputy commissioner of police (headquarter) Meena Makwana on Thursday. However, the five policemen have claimed that they have not been given a chance to make submissions countering the allegations against them. Those who have been shunted include assistant sub-inspectors Sakharam Sanap and Machinder Sasane and constables Pradip Sasane, Shaikh Kaiser and Vilas Vaishnav. These policemen include two former sleuths from police station’s detection branch, one beat amaldar and two others who had the knowledge of the gambling den. However, one of them was on a fortnight-long leave at the time of incident, but still has been shunted out to the headquarters. An officer privy to the development said that it was on August 31 that a 34-year old man named Vilas More had visited a hotel at Golwadi Shivar where he was assaulted by five men who accused him of giving a tip-off to police about the alleged gambling den being run from the hotel. The incident left the man injured, following which on September 1, a case of attempt to murder, rioting and unlawful assembly was registered against the five suspects and they were arrested. Recently, the matter was brought to the notice of city police chief about the attempt to murder case being registered. Taking cognizance of the same, he ordered for a discreet inquiry into the role of policemen assigned to keep a check on illicit businesses in their respective jurisdictions, before ordering a disciplinary action against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-cops-shunted-out-to-police-headquarters/articleshow/79216291.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid’s parting gift: High blood sugar||Ahmedabad: Divyesh Thakkar (45) was surprised when his doctor asked him to check his blood sugar levels. Thakkar, who was discharged after Covid-19 treatment at a city hospital, reported hyperglycaemia or high blood sugar. As November 14 is World Diabetes Day, this year the focus of city-based endocrinologists and diabetologists is on Covid-19 and its implications. Experts said a high number of Covid-19 patients under treatment or who have recovered report diabetes. Dr Banshi Saboo, a city-based diabetologist, said about 50% of diabetics don’t know their status, and thus the overall report can come as a shock when they get diagnosed for the first time. “Medication for Covid-19 including antivirals and steroids can cause diabetes in some patients. The effects, however, wane after the course of medication ends,” said Dr Mayur Patel, a city-based diabetologist. “Sometimes it is also induced by stress the patients experience. If affects patients who are borderline diabetics or pre-diabetics more.” Dr Sanjeev Phatak, a city-based diabetologist, said the ACE2 receptors on the beta cells in the pancreas can be susceptible to Covid-19 infection. “The Covid-19 impact on pancreas is well-documented. In the past six months, I have seen at least 25 cases where patients who recovered from Covid with no history of diabetes got diabetes,” he said, adding that they are generally in 40-60 years age group. “While Covid-induced Type 1 diabetes is reported very less, we have seen some cases recently.”  Dr Parag Shah, a city-based diabetologist, said those with uncontrolled sugar are more affected, take more time to recover and report more damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covids-parting-gift-high-blood-sugar/articleshow/79215143.cms||Parth Shastri
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Children’s day on Diwali: A pledge not to burst firecrackers||NEW DELHI: Every year on November 14, Kuhu Aiejaz, a Class VIII student, got chocolates in school and a free period on the occasion of Children’s Day. This year, with school closed due to the pandemic, Aiejaz and her mates had, instead, an online session on Friday on Diwali and why fireworks should be avoided. “We did not get anything, but we had a combined Diwali and Children’s Day special assembly,” said Aiejaz, who studies in Springdales School, Pusa Road. Ameeta Wattal, school principal, told the children that it was a gift that Children’s Day coincided with Diwali this year since “the festival of light will light up your life”. She urged the students to resolve to make their “lives positive and ensure a better world by learning about issues of environment and sustainability”. The students solemnly took such a pledge. At Bhatnagar International Foundation School too there was a special event organised on Friday. In the function hosted on Facebook, the students enacted stories from the life of Jawaharlal Nehru, whose birthday on November 14 is celebrated as Children’s Day. Others presented dances to celebrate their special day. The Indian School organised an online puppet show and entertainment by teachers on November 12, according to principal Tania Joshi. “The teachers also performed a song-and-dance routine that explained the vision of Pandit Nehru and why Children’s Day is celebrated.” Joshi added that there was a special session during which a video presentation made by students was shown. “The video centred on the perils of bursting firecrackers and how they harm the environment and animals and how they are especially harmful at this Covid time,” said Joshi. “Our students organised an online signature campaign pledging not to use firecrackers on Diwali.” A similar online event was organised at the Ahlcon Group of Schools, with teachers dressing up as children and singing hymns. Ashok Pandey, director, Ahlcon Group, said, “They also discussed the ideas of Pandit Nehru and how he laid the foundation of a modern India. The idea was to make students aware of our glorious history.” Pandey added, “We asked the students to use diyas, avoid firecrackers and do something for those in need for Diwali. We told them that prosperity shouldn’t exclude anybody and encouraged them to share their gifts with needy people.” The group’s schools also reiterated their pledge against the use of fireworks, as it has for the past five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/childrens-day-on-diwali-a-pledge-not-to-burst-firecrackers/articleshow/79216389.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Vadodara||Woman gives lover valuables, fakes robbery||VADODARA: The robbery at a house in the Madhuram Park area of Dahod town amounting to Rs 6.22 lakh on Monday night has turned out to be a fake case plotted by the woman of the house after she handed over the jewellery to her paramour. The house of Rakeshkumar Singh who stayed with his wife Nilu and two children was allegedly robbed on Monday night when they were away. The robbers allegedly struck when the couple was away and the children were alone at home. The 12-year-old daughter and a son younger to her were threatened by the accused to steal the valuables. The robbed booty includes jewellery worth Rs 5.72lakh and cash amounting to Rs 50,000. The police started working meticulously on the case and despite examining all leads could not find anything fruitful leading to a robbery. Instead, the role of Nilu came under suspicion. On questioning, she broke down and revealed that she had given the jewellery and cash on different occasions too her paramour Bittu Naik. When her husband told the family about plans to go to their hometown in Bihar for Chhath Pooja after Diwali, Nilu got wary that he would asked for the jewellery and cash before leaving.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/woman-gives-lover-valuables-fakes-robbery/articleshow/79213171.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Law professor faces security threat, needs police protection’||PANAJI: Stating that law college assistant professor Shilpa Singh is facing a security threat, a civil society group supporting her, on Thursday sent the director general of police (DGP) a list of criminally intimidating messages sent to Singh. The group also made an appeal for police protection for the professor and urged the DGP to book those responsible for the hate messages. The messages posted on the Facebook page of a national television channel were sent to the DGP. “We are not in a position to know whether some of these writers are based in Goa. Either way, it has compounded the security threat of Shilpa Singh. Even as we await a reply from the governor’s office on the similar issue based on a request by a group of citizens, I request you to to redress the situation by providing her security and book the senders of the hate message,” the group urged the DGP. In its letter to the DGP. the group comprising academicians, lawyers, authors, activists and engineers through the Shilpa Singh support group have submitted a list of names with offending messages of bodily harm to Singh. The group stated that it is considering filing criminal charges on all while also making the Rashtriya Yuva Hindu Vahini as a party. A delegation of teachers and students also visited Singh and her family to check on their well being and assure their support. The citizens in their petition to the governor, DGP, Human Rights Commission, Women’s Commission and national commissions as well as the Union and state ministers for education stated that there was no basis for registering an FIR against Singh as her post is within the ambit of the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech and expression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/law-professor-faces-security-threat-needs-police-protection/articleshow/79216293.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||4 crore litres of milk transported in special trains from Chittoor to New Delhi||TIRUPATI: The Doodh Duronto special trains introduced by the Indian Railways to ensure unhindered supply of milk to New Delhi have transported four crore litres of milk since they started operations during the lockdown. Before rail traffic was suspended, the practice was to transport milk from Renigunta in Chittoor to New Delhi through tankers attached to express and mail trains. Milk transported through the Doodh Duronto specials is collected by a unit of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) from more than 3,000 assembling points in 13,000 villages in and around Chittoor district. Launched on March 26, the trains cover a distance of 2,300 km from Renigunta to the national capital within 34 hours. The trains operated every alternate day till July 15 and since then, are being operated on a daily basis. So far, the trains have made 167 trips. South Central railways general manager Gajanan Mallya appreciated the efforts of staff and officers of Guntakal railway division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/4cr-litres-milk-transported-in-special-trains/articleshow/79213985.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 14, 2020||Amaravati||Welfare measures bypass sex workers in Andhra||VIJAYAWADA: An RTI reply from the Andhra Pradesh AIDS Control Society (APACS) has revealed that there are over one lakh sex workers and 90% of them have ration cards and are beneficiaries of government welfare schemes in the state. The RTI was filed by HELP, an NGO working to rehabilitate and protect sex workers and children, to show disparities in data provided for two RTIs filed by them to APACS. The first RTI filed by the NGO shows that the state had 90,649 active female sex workers till March 2020 while the second places the number of female sex workers at 1,00,109. However, when it comes to welfare measures, the RTI reveals that 90% of them already have ration cards, Aadhar cards and voter IDs. The RTI also reveals that 81% of active female sex workers are part of self-help groups (SGHs) and have benefitted from the MGNREGA scheme. The main difficulty for sex workers as per the dataset provided by the government is low access to corporation loans. Only 38% of female sex workers had access to housing grant/loan under the PMAY YSR Weaker Sections Housing Scheme. Only 24% of female sex workers accessed the YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme which provides women between the ages of 45 and 60 and belonging to Kapu, Balija, Telaga and Ontari communities financial aid of Rs 15,000 per year for five years. “The detrimental factors for female sex workers due to their distress was the availability/lack of work with income and eventually had to rely on loans from loan sharks with exorbitant interest rates, and the number of family members with health risks are much higher,” a member of the NGO said. Other schemes that have less than 30% access include Ujjawala (18%), Swadhar (21%) Mudra Yojana Scheme for Women (13%), Atal Pension Yojana (APY) Pension Scheme (29%) and corporation loans (16%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/welfare-measures-bypass-sex-workers/articleshow/79219327.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Eatery in soup for unsafe‘Chicken 65’||Chennai: The management of a restaurant in Kilpauk has been fined Rs 12,500 by a magistrate for selling unsafe food product. Food safety officials had taken samples of 'Chicken 65' dish from the restaurant for analysis. The results showed that there were additives in the dish, which were found unsafe for consumption. According to the prosecution, in July 2018, food safety department officials had inspected the premises of Hotel Paramount in Kilpauk. During inspection, officials noted that the management had not maintained the purchase and sale particulars of food articles. On apprehension over the appearance of ‘Chicken 65’, food safety department took samples of the food items from the restaurant. The same was sent to an analyst in Tanjore, who reported that the food is unsafe. “Till date, the management has not challenged analysis report,” the prosecution submitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eatery-in-soup-for-unsafechicken-65/articleshow/79215144.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad jewellers clock only 70% of last year’s Dhanteras sales amid muted demand||HYDERABAD: It’s that day of the year when jewellers usually rake in a chunk of their annual sales, but Covid-19 robbed some of that sheen this Dhanteras. According to industry sources, on an average jewellers across the city reported about 70% of their usual Dhanteras sales this year. “It’s been a mixed bag with the bigger players reporting 70-90% sales as compared to last year and the single store owners garnering 60-70% sales. Sales have been roughly down 20-30%,” said Avinash Gupta, former director, All India Gem & Jewellery Domestic Council. According to Darshan Gupta, partner, Mangatrai Jewellers, while the response was tepid in the morning hours, footfalls went up 30% post 4pm. The confusion over dates also ensured the usual Dhanteras gold rush was missing on Friday. “This year Dhanteras fell on two days so buying also got split. Sales were 25-30% lower than last year but we saw good wedding related purchases,” said Kushal Jain, director, PMJ Jewels. Siraj PK, regional manager, Malabar Gold, said their sales of gold coins and bars doubled this year as people are viewing gold as an investment. “People don’t have any other options to spend, not even crackers. We saw continuous walk-ins since morning and did same sales as last year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-jewellers-clock-only-70-of-last-yrs-dhanteras-sales-amid-muted-demand/articleshow/79215126.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Compensate traders for losses: Congress||HYDERABAD: Congress has demanded that the state government compensate the traders for the losses they incurred due to the last-minute ban imposed on Diwali fire crackers. Congress MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy said while everyone should abide by the court orders, the state government should be blamed for not planning the ban at least a month before Diwali festival. The SC has given a two-hour window for bursting of cracker. Firecracker dealers have already suffered huge losses. These losses are in addition to the one they suffered due to Covid-19 lock downs and prevailing pandemic. “Both the state and central governments should have issued orders banning bursting of pollution-causing crackers a month in advance. Why did the Telangana government wait until the Court directed it to ban it?” he said. TNN Congress MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy said while everyone should abide by the court orders, the state government should be blamed for not planning the ban at least a month before Diwali festival||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/compensate-traders-for-losses-cong/articleshow/79215103.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Welfare measures bypass sex workers in Andhra||VIJAYAWADA: An RTI reply from the Andhra Pradesh AIDS Control Society (APACS) has revealed that there are over one lakh sex workers and 90% of them have ration cards and are beneficiaries of government welfare schemes in the state. The RTI was filed by HELP, an NGO working to rehabilitate and protect sex workers and children, to show disparities in data provided for two RTIs filed by them to APACS. The first RTI filed by the NGO shows that the state had 90,649 active female sex workers till March 2020 while the second places the number of female sex workers at 1,00,109. However, when it comes to welfare measures, the RTI reveals that 90% of them already have ration cards, Aadhar cards and voter IDs. The RTI also reveals that 81% of active female sex workers are part of self-help groups (SGHs) and have benefitted from the MGNREGA scheme. The main difficulty for sex workers as per the dataset provided by the government is low access to corporation loans. Only 38% of female sex workers had access to housing grant/loan under the PMAY YSR Weaker Sections Housing Scheme. Only 24% of female sex workers accessed the YSR Kapu Nestam Scheme which provides women between the ages of 45 and 60 and belonging to Kapu, Balija, Telaga and Ontari communities financial aid of Rs 15,000 per year for five years. “The detrimental factors for female sex workers due to their distress was the availability/lack of work with income and eventually had to rely on loans from loan sharks with exorbitant interest rates, and the number of family members with health risks are much higher,” a member of the NGO said. Other schemes that have less than 30% access include Ujjawala (18%), Swadhar (21%) Mudra Yojana Scheme for Women (13%), Atal Pension Yojana (APY) Pension Scheme (29%) and corporation loans (16%).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/welfare-measures-bypass-sex-workers/articleshow/79213997.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Trade body bats for power project||PANAJI: Power shortage is a major impediment for development and growth of Goa’s economy, stated Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry’s (GCCI) infrastructure committee as it justified the need for the 400KV Tamnar power transmission project. However, it says the government should have in place a policy for taking care of green vegetation so that the environmental damage is mininised. Pointing out that Goa would need 1,164 MW of power by 2037, GCCI also suggested that the Goa government could minimise the environmental damage and explore other options to connect Goa to the national power grid through Karnataka. “The present demand of Goa 626 MW in 2020, is expected to grow to 1,164 MW by year 2037. This double connection to the national grid will insulate Goa from shortages,” said member of GCCI’s basic infrastructure committee Maria Durairaj. While supporting the Tamnar project, Durairaj was critical of Goa electricity department’s environmental track record, particularly the lack of a vegetation management plan. “The electricity department has no policy in place for management of vegetation under and along side of transmission lines. The only policy is to cut anything and everything in the vicinity. Such non-scientific approach brings wrath in people,” said Durairaj, who also worked with the department in the past. Durairaj, the former chief electrical engineer of the Reliance Salgaocar Energy plant, said that a proper vegetation management policy will give confidence to the public. “Utilities abroad allow growing of 3 metre in the centre and 6 meter tall trees near the tower. For example cashew plants can be grown near the tower. A proper vegetation management policy will give confidence to the public,” he said. GCCI has suggested that the existing 110KV line from Hubbali to Ponda, which was laid through Anmod Ghats in 1965 could be upgraded to accommodate the 400KV line. After the 220KV line from Hubli connecting Xeldem was commissioned, the Hubbali-Ponda line is still not being used and this transmission corridor can be gainfully used with least widening to accommodate the proposed 400KV line,” said Durairaj. In order to reduce public opposition in the future, GCCI has urged the government to form a power advisory committee so that the public can be taken into confidence while implementing power projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trade-body-bats-for-power-project/articleshow/79216300.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Ahmedabad municipal corporation issues testing advisory||AHMEDABAD: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation on Friday issued an advisory asking Covid patients who are in home isolation to not go to urban health centres for frequent testing or to get high resolution computerized tomography (HRCT) of the lung. Rajiv Kumar Gupta, additional chief secretary, forests and environment, who is in charge of Covid management in Ahmedabad, in a statement issued on Friday said there have been instances where patients in home isolation were moving outside for testing or HRCT scans. “Such persons who are violating home isolation rules are putting other people at risk as they could infect several people,” said Gupta, adding that action will be taken against them under the Epidemic Diseases Act. He said imaging centres have been directed not to conduct HRCT scans on asymptomatic persons. The AMC guidelines state that if a person tests positive there was no need for a confirmatory test. If an asymptomatic person who has been in contact with a confirmed Covid case tests negative in the antigen test, his RTPCR test is to be performed and if the RTPCR test returns negative the person is to be referred for an HRCT by the AMC. In case of home isolation, Sanjivani Rath doctors who visit Covid patients can refer them to hospitals if their condition deteriorates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-issues-testing-advisory/articleshow/79215182.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Polls ahead, Telangana govt on infrastructure projects inauguration spree||HYDERABAD: With an eye on the ensuing GHMC elections, the state government is going ahead with the inauguration of several infrastructure projects and civic works. MA&UD minister KT Rama Rao inaugurated a sports complex in Sanath Nagar, a renovated library and multipurpose function hall in Monda market division on Friday. On Saturday, a bus bay in Tarnaka, beautification works of Cherlapally, Bharat Nagar and Mallapur lakes are scheduled. These will be inaugurated by mayor Bonthu Rammohan. “This government works for you and it stands by you. We are only expecting one thing from you. Bless us when we head for the examinations,” said KT Rama Rao. He also said that state has prospered since it was formed. “Six years ago when Telangana state was formed, there were many doubts about Hyderabad. Will Hyderabad develop or not, was the main question. Six years ago, if there was electricity it was news, but now if there is a power outage it is news,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/polls-ahead-govt-on-infra-projects-inauguration-spree/articleshow/79215193.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 14, 2020||Goa||GSL delivers patrol vessel to Coast Guard ahead of schedule||PANAJI: Continuing its track record of delivering warships ahead of schedule, Goa Shipyard Limited (GSL) on Thursday delivered the second off-shore patrol vessel (OPV) to the Indian Coast Guard. The 105-metre vessel is the second of the five OPVs that GSL is building for the Indian Coast Guard. GSL said that ICGS Sujeet is the largest and most advanced off-shore patrol vessel. The vessel was handed over to the Indian Coast Guard by chairman and managing director of GSL, B B Nagpal. Senior officers of the Indian Coast Guard were present for the occasion. “In keeping with its tradition of before time delivery, GSL has delivered this second Coast Guard OPV ahead of contractual schedule, despite the multifarious challenges posed by the Covid-19 pandemic. This milestone achievement has reinforced the trust of our esteemed customers in the shipbuilding capability and commitment of GSL,” said Nagpal. The off-shore patrol vessels for the Indian Coast Guard are based on GSL’s in-house design and have a displacement of 2,350 tonnes. According to GSL, they are fitted with advanced machinery and computerized controls systems, making them the most advanced patrol vessels in service with the Indian Coast Guard. The ship, with enhanced indigenization of critical machinery, has surpassed contractual parameters like speed, fuel efficiency, low turning circle and other parameters during sea trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gsl-delivers-patrol-vessel-to-coast-guard-ahead-of-schedule/articleshow/79216303.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||‘Secret deal’ between Sawant, K’taka on Mhadei, coal: GFP||Panaji: Goa Forward Party (GFP) accused the BJP, particularly chief minister Pramod Sawant, of arriving at a “secret” arrangement with the BJP’s central leadership and Karnataka on the Mhadei water dispute issue. GFP president Vijai Sardesai said that all political parties should be taken into confidence when Goa negotiates with Karnataka or with the Centre regarding the Mhadei issue and the coal handling project. Citing statements made on a news debate by a Karnataka-based journalist, Sardesai said that it appears that Sawant and Joshi, who met in Delhi a few days earlier, discussed the Mhadei water dispute and the ongoing agitation against coal transportation. “I don’t understand how this CM is always on the losing side of a negotiation,” said Sardesai. “This Prahlad Joshi is the coal minister and mines minister. Why isn’t mining starting?” Sardesai said that on one side the flow of water in Mhadei has reduced to a trickle while coal transportation is getting fast tracked. “Whatever the dubious deal that Pramod Sawant is hoping to seal with coal minister Prahlad Joshi, Goans will make sure that evil will be obliterated from our soil and good will triumph,” said Sardesai. GFP has accused Sawant of compromising on Goa’s stand on Mhadei in order to safeguard his post as chief minister. “A senior journalist from Karnataka who spoke in a debate, suggests that this government has completely sold Mhadei during an intra-party negotiation. They have made a deal on Mhadei. We need inter party consensus and not an intra-party negotiation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/secret-deal-between-sawant-ktaka-on-mhadei-coal-gfp/articleshow/79216315.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||No big election duties for GHMC employees: Telangana poll body chief||HYDERABAD: Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officers and employees will not be posted for important polling duties such as returning officers and assistant returning officers in the ensuing elections to the civic body. BJP and other political parties in a meeting with the State Election Commission recently had demanded that the election commission should post only non-GHMC officials for important polling duties. State Election Commissioner C Partha Sarathi told TOI they had no intention of posting GHMC officials for important polling duties. “The assumption of some of the political parties that GHMC officials will hold key polling duty positions is wrong,” he said. The SEC has completed almost all the pre-poll exercise which is mandatory to be done before issuing the poll notification. The election commission is ready to sound the poll bugle any day the state government wants it. “We can complete the election process in 15-days from the date of poll notification,” said C Partha Sarathi. The government has recently amended the GHMC Act as per which the State Election Commission has to fix the election dates in consultation with the state government. About 50,000 employees from state and Central government departments will be deployed for various polling duties. These employees will be drawn from various departments in GHMC area and neighbouring districts of Medchal, Viqarabad, Yadadri and Ranga Reddy rural. State Election Commissioner C Partha Sarathi said a candidate may file nominations from any number of wards but he or she can contest only from one ward. This means a candidate cannot contest from two or more wards. They have to withdraw the nominations from all other wards. TNNThe proposer of a candidate should be a registered voter of the ward from where the candidate will be filing his nomination. Likewise, a contesting candidate should be a voter of any of the 150 wards in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-big-election-duties-for-ghmc-employees-state-poll-body-chief/articleshow/79215198.cms||Roushan Ali
November 14, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan govt ceases rights of local bodies to allot land||JAIPUR: The state government has ceased the right of urban local bodies (ULBs) to allot land at concessional rates to educational institutes, hospitals, trusts, newspapers, social and religious organisations. Such land allotments will now be done by the state government after examining the requirements of the applicant. In 2015, the state government framed a policy and allowed local bodies to allot land at concessional rates by adhering to the rules. Now, the government has asked these bodies not to allot land at concessions or at DLC rates without its nod. An official at Urban Development and Housing (UDH) said, “The directorate of local bodies has issued the directions for the same. Every allotment, whether concessional or on rates, will need to seek the state government’s permission first. Disciplinary action will be taken against the official to allot land without approval.” TimesViewIn 2015, the state government had devised a policy to allot land at concessional rates. This gave local bodies authority to allocate land at nominal rates to educational institutions, hospitals, trusts, social and religious organisations, a move that increasingly came under scrutiny. After five years, the state government has decided to roll back the policy and tighten the rules. Considering the growing population, limited and valuable land resources, the government move to intervene in land approval and utilisation is a wise one.Sources said, as allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government in June on the directions of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal carried out a scrutiny of such land deals. “Based on the survey, the department ceased the rights of the ULBs,” said source. To ensure that the land allotted at concessional rate was not being misused for other purposes, the state government will examine and verify its usage. “The department in the past received several complaints that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place, which is against norms. Action will be taken against such institutes after examining the details,” said a source Officials claimed many private hospitals, which are beneficiaries of concessional land, have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outdoor patient’s department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-govt-ceases-rights-of-local-bodies-to-allot-land/articleshow/79219050.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan govt ceases rights of local bodies to allot land||JAIPUR: The state government has ceased the right of urban local bodies (ULBs) to allot land at concessional rates to educational institutes, hospitals, trusts, newspapers, social and religious organisations. Such land allotments will now be done by the state government after examining the requirements of the applicant. In 2015, the state government framed a policy and allowed local bodies to allot land at concessional rates by adhering to the rules. Now, the government has asked these bodies not to allot land at concessions or at DLC rates without its nod. An official at Urban Development and Housing (UDH) said, “The directorate of local bodies has issued the directions for the same. Every allotment, whether concessional or on rates, will need to seek the state government’s permission first. Disciplinary action will be taken against the official to allot land without approval.” TimesViewIn 2015, the state government had devised a policy to allot land at concessional rates. This gave local bodies authority to allocate land at nominal rates to educational institutions, hospitals, trusts, social and religious organisations, a move that increasingly came under scrutiny. After five years, the state government has decided to roll back the policy and tighten the rules. Considering the growing population, limited and valuable land resources, the government move to intervene in land approval and utilisation is a wise one.Sources said, as allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government in June on the directions of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal carried out a scrutiny of such land deals. “Based on the survey, the department ceased the rights of the ULBs,” said source. To ensure that the land allotted at concessional rate was not being misused for other purposes, the state government will examine and verify its usage. “The department in the past received several complaints that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place, which is against norms. Action will be taken against such institutes after examining the details,” said a source Officials claimed many private hospitals, which are beneficiaries of concessional land, have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outdoor patient’s department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-govt-ceases-rights-of-local-bodies-to-allot-land/articleshow/79219051.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad explosions: NGT orders Rs 5 crore compensation||AHMEDABAD: The owner of the chemical processing unit in Ganeshnagar on Piplaj-Pirana road where a series of explosions killed 13 workers has been ordered on Wednesday to deposit Rs 5 crore as compensation for the victim’s families. The bench also constituted a six-member committee headed by former Chief Justice of the Delhi HC Justice B C Patel. The committee will have a representative of the Union environment ministry, the head of chemical engineering department of IIT Gandhinagar, member NEERI, and member National Institute of Disaster Management. The committee is to visit the site before November 19. The NGT categorically stated that the Rs 5 cr compensation is to be deposited within 10 days, even if it means selling the assets of the owner. If the owner fails to pay, the state government will be required to compensate the victims in a month and then recover the money from the owner and erring authorities who failed to take action. Each of the victims’ family will have to be paid Rs 15 lakh and an additional Rs 5 lakh for hospital expenses. This amount will be apart from the Rs 4 lakh ex-gratia that is to be paid by the Gujarat government. The NGT bench was severe on the chief inspector of factories (CIFs), the department of Industries, the district magistrate, and the Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organization (PESO), who overlooked on-site and off-site plans before allowing such units to function. The NGT has asked the MoEFCC to constitute an expert committee to revamp the monitoring mechanism to check such incidents. The order further said, “Central Crisis Group headed by the secretary, MoEF is to monitor post-accident situation.” The order adds, “The State Crisis Group is required to meet at least once in three months to review all district off-site emergency plans in the state and assist in planning, preparedness and mitigation of chemical accidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ngt-orders-rs-5-cr-compensation/articleshow/79215212.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||District docs asked not to refer corona patients to bigger centres ‘unnecessarily’||Jaipur: Hospitals in divisional headquarters providing Covid-19 treatment are receiving patients from districts in increased numbers after being referred by dedicated Covid-19 hospitals from districts making them more crowded. Taking note of it, the health department has issued strict orders to doctors in districts not to refer Covid-19 patients to higher centres at divisional headquarters ‘unnecessarily’. At divisional headquarters, the hospitals run by the government and private players are witnessing arrival of patients from districts. A senior health department official said that the health department has directed doctors and officials in districts to treat corona patients in their dedicated Covid-19 hospitals that have all the facilities for treating patients with mild to severe symptoms. The order stated that it has been seen that the district’s dedicated Covid hospitals are referring patients to centres at division level, even though they have facilities for treatment of mild, moderate and severe symptom patients, which unnecessarily put pressure on dedicated Covid hospitals at division level. All dedicated Covid hosptials in the districts have been directed to provide treatment as per the protocol and not unnecessarily refer patients to higher centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/district-docs-asked-not-to-refer-corona-patients-to-bigger-centres-unnecessarily/articleshow/79216316.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa govt must have guts to change stance: Digambar Kamat||MARGAO: Leader of the opposition Digambar Kamat on Friday advised the state government to respect people’s sentiments over anti-coal protests and “show guts to change its decisions”. “There is no point in pointing fingers at others when the party in power has all the avenues available to put things in order to protect the identity of Goa,” Kamat said. He further demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant immediately releases white papers on Mhadei, coal handling and transportation, the three linear projects passing through wildlife sanctuaries, the Covid pandemic and Goa’s financial status. He also demanded that the government calls for a full-fledged assembly session ‘to discuss all the core issues which are now facing opposition from across the state’. Kamat pointed out that during his tenure as chief minister, the Congress government had constituted the Goa Golden Jubilee Committee under the chairmanship of noted scientist Raghunath Mashelkar ‘keeping in mind the long-term vision for all round development of the state’. He rued that the Goa Vision-2035 document prepared by the committee had been shelved by the BJP government after coming to power in 2012. “The ‘Goenche Daiz’ scheme initiated by me to help the small-time traditional occupations like sweetmeat (khajem) makers, bangle makers, florists, gold artisans, toddy tappers, bakers, etc was also shelved by the government,” he said. “Today, after my continuous follow-up, the CM has now taken some steps to re-activate the optic fibre based intranet network facility for online education which had already reached every panchayat in Goa.” Stating that the then prime minister Manmohan Singh had agreed to Goa’s request and constituted the Mhadei Water Tribunal, Kamat said it was “unfortunate that the current prime minister is not ready to meet an all-party delegation from Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-must-have-guts-to-change-stance-kamat/articleshow/79216307.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan govt ceases rights of local bodies to allot land||JAIPUR: The state government has ceased the right of urban local bodies (ULBs) to allot land at concessional rates to educational institutes, hospitals, trusts, newspapers, social and religious organisations. Such land allotments will now be done by the state government after examining the requirements of the applicant. In 2015, the state government framed a policy and allowed local bodies to allot land at concessional rates by adhering to the rules. Now, the government has asked these bodies not to allot land at concessions or at DLC rates without its nod. An official at Urban Development and Housing (UDH) said, “The directorate of local bodies has issued the directions for the same. Every allotment, whether concessional or on rates, will need to seek the state government’s permission first. Disciplinary action will be taken against the official to allot land without approval.” TimesViewIn 2015, the state government had devised a policy to allot land at concessional rates. This gave local bodies authority to allocate land at nominal rates to educational institutions, hospitals, trusts, social and religious organisations, a move that increasingly came under scrutiny. After five years, the state government has decided to roll back the policy and tighten the rules. Considering the growing population, limited and valuable land resources, the government move to intervene in land approval and utilisation is a wise one.Sources said, as allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government in June on the directions of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal carried out a scrutiny of such land deals. “Based on the survey, the department ceased the rights of the ULBs,” said source. To ensure that the land allotted at concessional rate was not being misused for other purposes, the state government will examine and verify its usage. “The department in the past received several complaints that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place, which is against norms. Action will be taken against such institutes after examining the details,” said a source Officials claimed many private hospitals, which are beneficiaries of concessional land, have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outdoor patient’s department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-govt-ceases-rights-of-local-bodies-to-allot-land/articleshow/79219052.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt ceases rights of local bodies to allot land||JAIPUR: The state government has ceased the right of urban local bodies (ULBs) to allot land at concessional rates to educational institutes, hospitals, trusts, newspapers, social and religious organisations. Such land allotments will now be done by the state government after examining the requirements of the applicant. In 2015, the state government framed a policy and allowed local bodies to allot land at concessional rates by adhering to the rules. Now, the government has asked these bodies not to allot land at concessions or at DLC rates without its nod. An official at Urban Development and Housing (UDH) said, “The directorate of local bodies has issued the directions for the same. Every allotment, whether concessional or on rates, will need to seek the state government’s permission first. Disciplinary action will be taken against the official to allot land without approval.” TimesViewIn 2015, the state government had devised a policy to allot land at concessional rates. This gave local bodies authority to allocate land at nominal rates to educational institutions, hospitals, trusts, social and religious organisations, a move that increasingly came under scrutiny. After five years, the state government has decided to roll back the policy and tighten the rules. Considering the growing population, limited and valuable land resources, the government move to intervene in land approval and utilisation is a wise one.Sources said, as allotment at concessional rates to public and charitable institutions is considered as “primary attempt” to woo particular section of voters or certain influential sections, the Congress government in June on the directions of UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal carried out a scrutiny of such land deals. “Based on the survey, the department ceased the rights of the ULBs,” said source. To ensure that the land allotted at concessional rate was not being misused for other purposes, the state government will examine and verify its usage. “The department in the past received several complaints that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place, which is against norms. Action will be taken against such institutes after examining the details,” said a source Officials claimed many private hospitals, which are beneficiaries of concessional land, have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outdoor patient’s department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-govt-ceases-rights-of-local-bodies-to-allot-land/articleshow/79216313.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Delhi||135 festive trains, tents at railway stations in Delhi to tackle great Chhath rush||NEW DELHI: Northern Railway plans to run 135 ‘festive special’ trains between November 10 and 20 on the occasion of Chhath Puja. To manage the excess crowd, tents have been put up at New Delhi Railway Station and Anand Vihar. Passengers looking to board the special trains can wait at the tents, instead of crowding the platform, officials said, adding that provision for food and water have also been made at these tents. Railways says crowd management has been better this year due to the Covid pandemic, with only those passengers that have confirmed tickets being allowed on the station premises. Earlier, thousands of people would reach the station without a confirmed ticket, often adding to the rush outside and inside the station premises. S C Jain, divisional railway manager (Delhi division) told TOI that at the moment, footfall is much lower than what is normally seen, owing to Covid restrictions, which in turn is helping Railway Protection Force (RPF) manage the crowd better. “We are still maintaining social distancing inside the station premises and only those with valid tickets are being allowed inside. Passengers are also being asked to queue up with adequate spacing between each other. They can also only enter after a thermal scan,” said Jain. The divisional manager said between November 10 and 20, 135 trips have been planned, in addition to the daily scheduled passenger trains being run by Northern Railway. “So far, crowd management has not been a problem and the rush so far has been primarily people who are departing for Diwali. From Monday onwards, we will see the Chhath Puja rush at stations and if we feel there is an increase in the passenger load, more trains will be added,” he added. Chhath Puja is slated to be held on November 20. During festive rush, NDLS alone can witness an average of five to six lakh passengers daily. Officials, however, claimed this year, the numbers are much lower. “People are not being allowed inside the station premises to drop other passengers, while those without valid tickets are also not getting entry. This has reduced footfall considerably. Barriers have been installed at entrances where tickets are being checked,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/135-festive-trains-tents-at-railway-stations-to-tackle-great-chhath-rush/articleshow/79216306.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Why holidays for sub-registrar offices: HC to Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana HC has issued notices to the government, revenue and registration authorities asking them to respond to a PIL that questioned the decision of the state in declaring holidays to the sub-registrar offices in the state from September 8, 2020, until further orders. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy gave this direction while hearing the PIL filed by Telangana Lok Satta president Mannaram Nagaraju and social worker Kasulavada Shankaraiah. The bench sought to know the purpose behind this exercise and posted the case to December 10. Petitioners said government issued GO No. 102 (on September 7) and contended that this unilateral declaration of holidays goes against official holidays calendar announced by the state and also the Registrations Act itself. According to them, this unilateral closure of offices is causing problems to people who use these offices for various purposes.  GO released in name of chief secretary Somesh Kumar said government wanted to bring in certain changes in the registration department functioning. New technical apps will be introduced in tune with ongoing changes in the revenue department for delivering quality services to citizens in respect of registration of property documents, etc. “Hence, there is a need to stop registrations till the new system is brought in,” the GO said. Government declared holidays for all registrar and sub-registrar offices until further orders. The GO, provided exemption to registration of will deeds, administration of marriages from the holidays and said that they will continue to operate as usual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/why-holidays-for-sub-registraroffices-hc-to-t/articleshow/79215213.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hubballi||Unkal Lake to be cleaned under Smart Cities’ project||Hubballi: Until the apathy of the civic agencies resulted in unchecked flow of sewage to its waters, Unkal Lake was one of the key waterbodies in Hubballi-Dharwad. However, increasing volume of contaminants in its waters resulted in proliferation of water hyacinth on its surface, and its expanding growth has steadily been choking the life out of Unkal Lake. Undeterred by past failures in clearing the weeds, the Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Ltd (HDSCL) has decided to rejuvenate the waterbody, and restore to Unkal Lake its past glory. The civic agency has chalked out a comprehensive plan aimed at cleaning and refurbishing the surroundings of the waterbody, and in the first phase of this initiative, the lake will be cleansed of contaminants, and the quality improved at the cost of Rs 15 crore. HDSCL special officer SH Naregal said that around 18 to 21 aerators would be installed in the lake to increase the amount of dissolved oxygen level in the waterbody. “The aerators will clean the water naturally by way of introducing oxygen to the water,” Naregal told TOI. Aid He added that aerators would prevent stagnation of water, which in turn, would help check the growth of algae and fungi and other microorganisms that lead to mushrooming of weeds. “Ensuring flow of water will also mean that the lake will not be a breeding ground for mosquitoes,” said Naregal, adding that work had commenced to map the surroundings of the lake to install the aerators. HDSCL deputy general manager Channabasavaraj said that the contractor tasked with cleaning Unkal Lake had cleared weeds across 48 acres of the waterbody’s surface. “We will also work on stopping flow of contaminated water to the lake. We will have floating rafters or floating wetlands to mitigate pollution,” he added. HDSCL conducted a bathymetric survey – a process through which the depth of a waterbody, along with details of its underlying features is learnt – through which they learnt that the amount of nitrogen in Unkal Lake was more than what is deemed safe for aquatic animals. “The floating wetlands will help reduce the toxicity in the waters,” said HDSCL officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/unkal-lake-to-be-cleaned-under-smart-cities-project/articleshow/79213342.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 14, 2020||Chennai||City port handles largest container vessel on east coast||Chennai: In a first, Kamarajar Port in Chennai handled a trans-shipment vessel on Wednesday, the largest such vessel handled by any port on the east coast.  MV MSC Faith, having 14,336 TEU (twenty foot equivalent unit of cargo capacity) was travelling to Tembe port in Ghana, in western Africa. This is significant because cargo vessels moving from east to west across the world or vice-versa usually have Colombo or Singapore as a trans-shipment port. A trans-shipment is when cargo or a container is moved from one vessel to another while in transit to its final destination “So if cargo from a country is to come to India, a daughter vessel would have to be sent to Colombo port to bring it to India. This will now be avoided if Kamarajar Port Ltd (KPL) emerges as a trans-shipment port,” said a senior official from KPL. This would also reduce the overall logistics cost, he added. The mainline container vessel is 366m long and would discharge 4,155 TEUs of containers at KPL. With a beam width of 48m, the vessel needs high outer reach gantry cranes for cargo operations. The container terminal at KPL has gantry cranes of 62m outer reach ensuring a hassle-free cargo operation. “KPL is a new generation port and could achieve this feat on account of deep draft, state-of-the-art terminal with latest gantry cranes and sufficient backup yard that can hold upto 17,000 TEUs of containers,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-port-handles-largest-container-vessel-on-east-coast/articleshow/79215232.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||CM to celebrate Diwali with Army||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat would celebrate Diwali with ITBP and 9th Battalion Bihar Regiment personnel on Saturday. At 9:15 am, the CM would take a chopper for Harshil from the GTC helipad in Dehradun. After a “Diwali Milan” programme with ITBP and Bihar Regiment personnel, he would return to Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-to-celebrate-diwali-with-army/articleshow/79214016.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Congress tells ticket-seekers to file applications by November 18||HYDERABAD: The Congress has told all candidates, who are interested to contest the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, to submit their applications at Gandhi Bhavan before November 18. AICC leader Manickam Tagore, along with Uttam Kumar Reddy and Anjan Kumar Yadav, will shortlist the candidates for each of the 150 wards in consultation with the local MP, MLA, ward member, ex-ward members, contested candidate s and local cadre. The GHMC strategy meeting will be conducted any time after November 18 as such the interested candidates were asked not to delay and submit applications from the ward in which they have been working for the cause of the people The Congress has already decided to give 50 per cent of the total 150 seats to candidates belonging to Backward Classes communities. Hyderabad: Congress on Friday demanded that the names of contesting candidates should be there on the ballot paper also in Hindi in addition to Telugu, English and Urdu. In a letter to state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi, TPCC election committee coordinator G Niranjan said a good number of Hindi-speaking people reside in Hyderabad and also that Hindi is the national language.“Also, we request the SEC to direct the counting officers to mix the ballot papers of all polling booths of the local ward before counting of votes. The circular given to us by the Election Commission says that counting of votes will be taken up ward-wise and there is no mention of mixing of ballot papers before the counting begins,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-tells-ticket-seekers-to-file-applications-by-nov-18/articleshow/79215245.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Report cites demolition, sealing after explosions||AHMEDABAD: The AMC on Friday submitted an action-taken report to the labour department, stating that unauthorized industrial sheds across 1,350 sq ft and 3,850 illegal constructions have been demolished in recent times. Moreover, the report said, godowns and units operating without permission have been sealed. The report was sent to additional chief secretary (ACS) labour Vipul Mittra and to ACS urban development Mukesh Puri. The report stated that AMC teams sealed 46 units and godowns operating across 1.06 lakh sq metre area. The ACS labour had asked the AMC and police to form a joint operation team to crack down on illegal units. The units were sealed after 12 workers were killed and nine injured in multiple explosions at a chemical processing unit in Ganeshnagar on Piplaj-Pirana Road last week. In the subsequent action, the solid waste department of the AMC has collected samples from 18 units which didn’t have the health licence. The fire department has identified two godowns and 10 units that were without the fire NOC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/report-cites-demolition-sealing-after-explosions/articleshow/79215248.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||New underpasses to ease traffic flow||Jaipur: Urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal, along with officials of Jaipur Development Authority (JDA), inspected many undergoing projects in Jaipur city and announced new projects. Dhariwal’s vision is to create traffic light-free intersections in Jaipur city, so that people can get rid of the traffic problem. He first visited Statue Circle and said the landscaping around the circle will be improved and secured with fencing. He also asked officials to replace the old tiles. While visiting Chomu House Circle, he said an underpass will be constructed here, which will make this traffic light free. The UDH minister also directed for the construction of an underpass at Rambagh Circle intersection. He said clover leaf will be constructed for traffic going from Tonk Road to Ambedkar Circle or for traffic coming from Ambedkar Circle to Tonk Road. This underpass will be constructed in two lanes. Another underpass will be constructed from Raja Park to JDA circle. “An underpass loop will be constructed from Indira Gandhi Statue for the traffic going from JLN Road to Tonk Road. Moreover, a 7.5-metre strip lane will also be arranged for vehicles coming to JDA office,” said Dhariwal. Dhariwal, while visiting the OTS Circle intersection on JLN Marg, directed to construct an underpass and clear leaf for traffic coming from JLN Marg to Bhaskar office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-underpasses-to-ease-traffic-flow/articleshow/79216318.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||Two shops, four vehicles gutted in fire||Dehradun: At least four vehicles and two shops were gutted in a fire in Rishikesh in the wee hours of Friday. Although no human loss was reported in the fire, the shops and vehicles were reduced to ashes. According to locals, the fire broke out in a shop near the town's Bharat Mandir Market. Soon after, fire tenders rushed to the spot and it took more than an hour for them to douse the flames. The two shops which caught fire were of a tractor and photo frame shop on the Rishikesh-Haridwar route. While the cause of mishap is yet to be ascertained, the authorities opine that the fire was caused by an electric short circuit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-shops-four-vehicles-gutted-in-fire/articleshow/79214035.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: ACB cracks down on graft, many held in separate cases||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau arrested more than half a dozen government officials in separate cases of corruption. Cops arrested one employee of Jaipur Heritage Nagar Nigam for accepting bribe from a contractor. While one person was arrested for demanding bribe for land registration in Jhunjhunu, five persons of transport department were arrested in Dungarpur for extortion. Nagar Palika’s one official was arrested in Jhalawar with cash for which he had no explanation. “Sher Singh who is an executive engineer of Jaipur Heritage Nagar Nigam was arrested while taking bribe of Rs 1 lakh from contractor Govind Aggarwal and we have arrested him as well,” said an official. Anil Kumar Choudhary, who is Chirawa Nagar Palika’s chief executive officer was arrested while taking a bribe of Rs 3 lakh and an ACB official said, “We received a complaint that the accused had asked for Rs 12 lakh for registration of two plots following which we laid a trap and arrested the accused at his residence when he was taking the money.” In Dungarpur’s Rantangarh border, give officials of the transport department’s check post were arrested for extorting money and the officials said that they had received multiple complaints regarding this. Cops recovered Rs 2.6 lakh from the accused which they had taken from the complainants. Sources said that few others who were also involved in this are on the run and will be arrested soon. In Jhalawar’s Jhalarapatan Nagar Palika official Sumer Singh was arrested as cops had received anonymous complaint about him being involved in corruption. Police had him on their radar and caught him when he was travelling to his village. He was checked while he was on the bus and on being searched cops found Rs 1.3 lakh and recovered three ATM cards from him out of which in one account, the accused had Rs 29 lakh. In all the cases, cops are looking into the bank accounts held by the accused to find proof of disproportionate income and they have been booked under relevant sections of law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-cracks-down-on-graft-many-held-in-separate-cases/articleshow/79216323.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Power connection for dhobis in Delhi to iron out pollution woes||NEW DELHI: After almost three years of persuading the residents’ welfare association, Santosh Kumar was successful in getting an electricity connection for his temporary platform near a park in S-Block of Greater Kailash-I where he had been ironing clothes for the past 18 years. “This will save a lot of money. It will also save me from exposure to smoke from coal, which is a health hazard,” said a smiling Kumar. Like him, two other dhobis in the area were allotted temporary connections on Friday by BSES. The RWA members, who had written to the authorities on their behalf, welcomed the move. TimesViewWashermen and washerwomen offer an invaluable service at a very nominal price. Yet, few care to provide them with facilities they badly need. The RWA’s move should be emulated by other associations. It would reduce pollution levels, ease the work of these silent service providers and promote much-needed communitarian values.There are around 10,000 dhobis in Delhi and each of them uses 3-4kg of soft coke daily. RWA members have now asked the authorities and the area MLA to help more dhobis by providing them electric irons at concessional rates and power connections at domestic rates to curb pollution from coal smoke. “If this model is adopted across Delhi, then burning of 30 tonnes of coke can be stopped daily. The smoke from soft coke is hazardous to health. The dhobis using coal irons also face side effects in the form of health issues. In our colony, we have been fighting the matter since 2015,” said MK Gupta, president of S-Block GK-I RWA. Another RWA member said, “Pollution is a serious issue these days, but the government is not thinking about taking measures to control burning of soft coke. I think Delhi government should issue directives such as banning use of soft coke, consider giving dhobis electric irons free of cost or ask the discoms to help with connections under their CSR initiative.” A BSES official, however, said that discoms were a regulated entity. “All electricity connections are provided in accordance with Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission norms. No separate provision exists for dhobis. However, they can get an electricity connection after giving ownership and identity proof. Alternatively, they can get a temporary connection after getting an NOC from the local RWA or the land-owning agency,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/power-connection-for-dhobis-to-iron-out-pollution-woes/articleshow/79216319.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 14, 2020||Vadodara||Man who tried to break ATM held||Vadodara: The detection of crime branch (DCB) on Friday arrested a man for trying to steal cash from an ATM in Sama area. Vishram Hooda was nabbed by the cops from Vasna area on the basis of a tip-off. Police said the accused originally hails from Rajasthan and had been staying in the city since some time. On the night of November 7, Vishram entered an ATM booth in Sama with a gas cutter along with two others. The gang first sprayed colour on the CCTV to block its view. But before the gang could cut open the ATM, a guard posted nearby noticed the commotion. He immediately informed the police that reached the spot. The gang got a whiff of it and fled from the booth leaving the gas cutter behind. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-who-tried-to-break-atm-held/articleshow/79213207.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||9,240 polling stations short-listed for civic polls in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A total of 9,248 polling stations have been short-listed for the ensuing Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections in the city. However, these are not the final polling stations and claims and objections will be accepted till 5 pm on November 17. The final list of polling stations for all the 150 wards in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation will be published on November 21. A meeting of the representatives of various political parties and Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation officials is scheduled on November 16. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9240-polling-stns-short-listed-for-civic-polls/articleshow/79215251.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||Another Ganeshnagar victim dies||AHMEDABAD: One more person who was injured in the explosions at the Ganeshnagar chemicals unit on November 4, died at LG Hospital in Maninagar on Friday evening. With this, the death toll of the explosion has reached 13, including five women. The 13th person to die was Naresh Solanki, 21, a resident of Narol, who worked at the clothes packaging unit in Nanubhai estate after the blast took place in Revakaka estate. “Solanki suffered severe injuries to his skull and had stopped responding even to family members. He was the sole earning member of his family,” said a relative. Twelve workers were killed on the spot and nine persons were injured . Four of the nine were critical and one of them died on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-ganeshnagar-victim-dies/articleshow/79215258.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Congress govt granted increase in coal handling at MPT’||CALANGUTE: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday said it was the erstwhile Congress-led government headed by then chief minister Digambar Kamat which had allowed Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) to increase its coal-handling capacity. Referring to the anti-coal protests by the Congress and other organisations, he said it is the Congress which first allowed coal to be handled by MPT and transported by the railway, not BJP. Speaking after inaugurating the reconstructed Parra panchayat ghar, Sawant said the various protests in the state which have cropped up are the work of elements which are unable to stomach the efficient functioning of the government and are only seeking to place obstacles on the development works of his government in the hope that it will help them win the next election. “The previous Congress governments only created huge garbage dumps, but it was the BJP government which in 2014 set up a garbage treatment plant and started clearing the garbage dumps,” he said. Panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho, who was also present, said despite the Covid pandemic, the government has been able to complete many infrastructure projects like the Parra panchayat ghar and the grade separator in Dabolim constituency, which he said the opposition can’t stand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-govt-granted-increase-in-coal-handling-at-mpt/articleshow/79216322.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa CM Pramod Sawant assured Nauxi marina will be scrapped: Francis Silveira||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant has promised to scrap the Rs 350 crore AHOY marina project at Nauxi, said St Andre MLA Francis Silveira after meeting the chief minister along with representatives of seven village panchayats on Friday. Silveira said that Sawant is likely to make a statement regarding withdrawal of permissions granted to Kargwal Constructions Pvt Ltd by the Goa Investment Promotion Board in 2015. “Sawant said he will ask for the documents of the project because one cannot scrap a project without following due process,” Silveira said, adding, “He has promised that he will not let the project come up in St Andre constituency.” The development comes less than a week after locals organised a public meeting at Nauxi to oppose the marina which will come up in 1,00,000 sqm waterfront area. Kargwal Constructions has a 30-year lease from Mormugao Port Trust to set up the marina for 239 pleasure boats. Silveira met Sawant on Friday afternoon at his official residence in Altinho and was accompanied by the sarpanchas and deputy sarpanchas of all the seven panchayats of St Andre constituency. This is the second meeting that Silveira has had with Sawant regarding the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-assured-nauxi-marina-will-be-scrapped-silveira/articleshow/79216317.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Notify teachers’ recruitment: Poonia||Jaipur: BJP state president Satish Poonia has shot a letter to state education minister Govind Singh Dotasra reminding him to fill the remaining posts in the recruitment of teachers grade I and II 2018 on Friday. Poonia stated that both CM Ashok Gehlot and Dotasra had in September promised of issuing the notification for recruitment on the remaining vacancies. However, nothing has happened which had disappointed youths. “The delay will cause injustice to youths waiting to hear the job announcements. I would request the state government to announce the recruitments soon,” said Poonia. He also attached the copy of tweets by Gehlot and Dotasra on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/notify-teachers-recruitment-poonia/articleshow/79216321.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||Contempt plea filed in SC against Kamra||NEW DELHI: Armed with the consent of Attorney General K K Venugopal who granted permission to initiate contempt proceedings against Kunal Kamra, a group of students and advocates filed a contempt petition against the stand-up comedian for his unsavoury criticism of the Supreme Court after it granted bail to journalist Arnab Goswami. The petition, filed by advocate Nishant R Katneshwarkar on behalf of three advocates and two law students, alleged that Kamra’s tweets amounted to contempt of court and it was done to malign the image of the SC. “Because, the tweets published by the alleged contemnor are in such bad taste that an ordinary prudent man can gather that the alleged contemnor has scandalised this court and further lowered the authority of this court. The citizens of India have highest regard to the courts of law. No law-abiding citizen of this country would tolerate such act of publication of tweets by the alleged contemnor,” the petition said. The petitioner pointed out that Kamra was well aware about the consequences for his action and said “the alleged contemnor was fully aware of his action. When some persons tried to make the alleged contemnor aware about the contempt of this court, the alleged contemnor was rude, arrogant and unapologetic. The conduct of the alleged contemnor shows that he has no regard for this court. Therefore, this court should see that the alleged contemnor is punished under the provisions of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971”. The petitioners also attached the consent letter of the Attorney General who had on Thursday granted permission for criminal contempt proceeding against Kamra. The AG in his letter said Kamra’s tweets were “not only in bad taste but clearly crossed the line between humour and contempt of the court”. Venugopal specifically mentioned the comedian’s two controversial tweets but said other tweets are also highly objectionable but left it for the court to take a call whether those tweets also constitute contempt. “Apart from this, is a picture of the Supreme Court building dressed in saffron colour with a flag of the ruling political party namely the BJP having replaced the tricolour. This is a gross insinuation against the entirety of the Supreme Court of India that the SC is not an independent and impartial institution and so too its judges, but on the other hand is a court of the ruling party, BJP ... All this in my opinion constitutes criminal contempt of court,” Venugopal said in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/contempt-plea-filed-in-sc-against-kamra/articleshow/79217849.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman, son die in road accident||HYDERABAD: A woman and her son died after the motorbike they were riding was hit by an SUV at Ragannaguda in Manneguda on Nagarjuna Sagar Road on Thursday night. Adibatla police said the deceased have been identified as S Chandrakala and Pradeep Reddy. They were residents of Ragannaguda. Police said the mishap occurred when the SUV, which was on its way to Ibrahimpatnam from Hyderabad, knocked down the bike. Both Chandrakala and Pradeep died on the spot. Two persons, who were inside the car, suffered injuries and were shifted to a hospital. A case under IPC section of negligence causing death was registered. Adibatla police said the deceased have been identified as S Chandrakala and Pradeep Reddy. They were residents of Ragannaguda||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-son-diein-road-accident/articleshow/79215286.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jodhpur||CM Ashok Gehlot seeks special status for Rajasthan under AYUSH mission||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give special status to the state under the National AYUSH Mission as it has the “largest” infrastructure in the country with over 5,000 AYUSH medical centres in operation. Gehlot said, “Giving special status to Rajasthan under the National AYUSH Mission would help the state to take forward the mission of deemed university status to the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur as it has the largest AYUSH basic infrastructure in the country.” Gehlot was speaking on the Ayurveda Day on Friday in a virtual event where Modi dedicated the Institute of Teaching & Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar and the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. The ITRA has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an Act of the Parliament and the NIA that of an institution deemed to be university by the University Grants Commission. The chief minister said deemed university status will boost research and international scope of Ayurvedic, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH). Gehlot also suggested amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, making it compulsory for Ayurvedic drugs stores to have pharmacists, and demanded establishment of a central AYUSH Nursing Commission, development of nadi science, setting up of a central council for yoga and naturopathy and setting up of ayurvedic hospitals as wellness centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cm-seeks-spl-status-for-raj-under-ayush-mission/articleshow/79219026.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Udaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot seeks special status for Rajasthan under AYUSH mission||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give special status to the state under the National AYUSH Mission as it has the “largest” infrastructure in the country with over 5,000 AYUSH medical centres in operation. Gehlot said, “Giving special status to Rajasthan under the National AYUSH Mission would help the state to take forward the mission of deemed university status to the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur as it has the largest AYUSH basic infrastructure in the country.” Gehlot was speaking on the Ayurveda Day on Friday in a virtual event where Modi dedicated the Institute of Teaching & Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar and the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. The ITRA has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an Act of the Parliament and the NIA that of an institution deemed to be university by the University Grants Commission. The chief minister said deemed university status will boost research and international scope of Ayurvedic, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH). Gehlot also suggested amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, making it compulsory for Ayurvedic drugs stores to have pharmacists, and demanded establishment of a central AYUSH Nursing Commission, development of nadi science, setting up of a central council for yoga and naturopathy and setting up of ayurvedic hospitals as wellness centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cm-seeks-spl-status-for-raj-under-ayush-mission/articleshow/79219024.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Magistrate overrules HC order, faces action||Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has asked the vigilance department of the court to initiate action against a magistrate for issuing arrest warrant against an accused despite the HC had given anticipatory bail. The matter related to an FIR registered against Nanuram Saini and Vinod Kumar at Khetri police station in 2003 on cheating charges. The single bench of Justice Sanjeev Prakash Sharma said the high court has taken cognizance of the offences relating to allegations under Sections 418, 420, 465, 467, 468, 471, 406 & 120-B IPC. The court vide its order dated April29, 2003 had granted anticipatory bail to the petitioners with the condition that in the event of arresting the petitioners, they shall be released on bail. But the magistrate additional Chief Judicial Magistrate, Khetri, by its order dated September 3, 2020 has refused to convert the non-bailable warrants to bailable warrants on the premise that he does not have the power to convert the non-bailable warrants to bailable warrants. “The action of the learned magistrate is clearly wanting and shows scant respect to the High Court’s order as well as having little knowledge relating to criminal law. A copy of this order be sent to the registrar (vigilance) for placing it before the concerned committee to decide what course of action is required to be done as against such magistrate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/magistrate-overrules-hc-order-faces-action/articleshow/79216353.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Chennai||More coaches on trains to clear rush||Chennai: The Southern Railway has said it will add extra coaches to some popular trains to clear extra rush of passengers for Diwali. Four coaches will be added to Sengottai-Chennai Egmore (06182) special, six coaches to Nagercoil–Chennai Egmore (06064) special, one coach to Sengottai-Chennai Egmore (02662) special scheduled to depart on November 14, said a press release. Four sleeper class coaches were added to Chennai Egmore–Sengottai (06181) special, six coaches to Chennai Egmore–Nagercoil (06063) special, one coach to Chennai Egmore – Tirunelveli (02631) special and one coach to Chennai Egmore–Sengottai (02661) special that were operated on Friday. The decision to add more coaches comes after it was found to be more feasible than operating additional trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/more-coaches-on-trains-to-clear-rush/articleshow/79215254.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Ajmer||CM Ashok Gehlot seeks special status for Rajasthan under AYUSH mission||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give special status to the state under the National AYUSH Mission as it has the “largest” infrastructure in the country with over 5,000 AYUSH medical centres in operation. Gehlot said, “Giving special status to Rajasthan under the National AYUSH Mission would help the state to take forward the mission of deemed university status to the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur as it has the largest AYUSH basic infrastructure in the country.” Gehlot was speaking on the Ayurveda Day on Friday in a virtual event where Modi dedicated the Institute of Teaching & Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar and the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. The ITRA has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an Act of the Parliament and the NIA that of an institution deemed to be university by the University Grants Commission. The chief minister said deemed university status will boost research and international scope of Ayurvedic, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH). Gehlot also suggested amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, making it compulsory for Ayurvedic drugs stores to have pharmacists, and demanded establishment of a central AYUSH Nursing Commission, development of nadi science, setting up of a central council for yoga and naturopathy and setting up of ayurvedic hospitals as wellness centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cm-seeks-spl-status-for-raj-under-ayush-mission/articleshow/79219027.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Hyderabad||Cracker ban: Sanjay Kumar faults Telangana govt||HYDERABAD: Continuing with his tirade against chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, state BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday said the state government is playing with the sentiments of Hindus and their festivals. In a statement, Sanjay said the high court’s orders banning sale and bursting of Diwali firecrackers in view of Covid-19 were justified, but the state government was to be blamed as it has always acted against the interests of Hindu people. “Because the state government did not argue the case properly in the court, an order banning the firecrackers was issued. As a result, several small traders have lost their livelihood,” he said. The Supreme Court on Friday, however, modified Thursday’s ban of sale and use of firecrackers order issued by the high court and allowed a two-hour respite to those who want to celebrate Diwali by bursting crackers.  TRS government has made it a habit of turning every Hindu festival controversial despite people celebrate them in a disciplined manner, he alleged. “If the state government was not keen on letting people burst the crackers, then it should not have allowed the shops in the first place,” he said. BJP MLA T Raja Singh said the TRS government is hurting sentiments of majority Hindus with its actions. Meanwhile, BJP state vice-president NVSS Prabhakar said the late night meeting of AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi and KCR is giving scope to a lot of doubts. Addressing a press conference, Prabhakar said the TRS and AIMIM will strike a deal in GHMC polls. “Owaisi’s brother has many cases pending against him in Hyderabad, Adilabad and Nizamabad. With the Supreme Court speeding up hearing of cases against legislators involved in various cases, the TRS government is trying to help the Owaisi brothers,” he added.  Sanjay said the HC’s orders banning sale and bursting crackers in view of Covid-19 were justified, but state government was to be blamed as it has always acted against the interests of Hindus||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cracker-ban-sanjay-faults-govt/articleshow/79215253.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nitish Kumar to be elected NDA legislature party leader today||PATNA: JD(U) president Nitish Kumar is all set to be re-elected the leader of NDA legislature party on Sunday and to stake claim to the governor for the next government formation in Bihar. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said all the newly-elected BJP legislators will assemble at the party’s state office in Patna at around 10am on November 15. “After having a brief meeting, they will go to the Nitish’s office to attend the NDA legislature party meeting,” he said. PM Narendra Modi has already made it clear that Nitish will be sworn in as the Bihar CM again. Nitish, who handed over his resignation as the CM of the present government to governor Phagu Chauhan on Friday with the state cabinet’s resolution to dissolve the 16th legislative assembly as its term expires on November 29, is likely to take oath as the state CM for the 7th time either on November 16 or 17. The date and venue is yet to be officially announced. The governor formally dissolved the 16th legislative assembly to pave way for taking oath by the newly-elected members. The governor also accepted the resignation of Nitish and his cabinet colleagues, but asked all of them to hold the charge of their respective ministry/ministries till formation of the new government in the state. In his first interaction with the media on Thursday after the state election results, Nitish said he had never staked claim over the CM’s post or talked about his retirement from electoral politics. “I did not talk about my retirement. In the last meeting of every election, I always say ‘ant bhala to sab bhala’ (all is well that ends well). If you listen to the speeches of my previous election meetings, it will be clear that I always used to say this in the last campaign meeting,” he said. Nitish also said that his remark that ‘this is my last election’ was misunderstood by certain media people. “Jan lijiye aaj chunav ka aakhri din hai, aur parson chunav hai, aur yeh mera antim chunav hai. Ant bhala, to sab bhala (please be aware that today is the last day of electioneering and a day after tomorrow will be polling. And, this is my last election. All’s well that ends well),” Nitish had said on November 5 while addressing the rally in Dhamdaha constituency of Purnia district. Nitish on Friday said a joint meeting of the NDA legislature party will be held at 12.30pm on November 15 (Sunday) to elect its leader. Nitish was addressing the media outside his residence after a meeting with the leaders of the other three NDA constituents in Bihar — BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. The legislature party meeting will be held at his official residence. “The decision regarding the date and venue of the oath-taking ceremony will also be taken at the NDA legislature party meeting on Sunday,” Nitish said in reply to a query. Earlier in the day after the present state cabinet’s last meeting, Nitish, accompanied by senior NDA leaders went to the Raj Bhavan and submitted his resignation as the CM to the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-be-elected-nda-legislature-party-leader-on-sunday/articleshow/79216369.cms||Madan Kumar
November 14, 2020||Dehradun||Woman, paramour held for killing husband||Dehradun: A woman and her paramour were arrested on Friday for allegedly murdering her husband, who was a Havildar in Rashtriya Rifles and posted in Jammu and Kashmir. Reema Negi, the wife of Rakesh Negi, approached Herbertpur police chowki under Vikasnagar police station on November 12 and claimed that her husband, who had come on a leave, killed himself in their Adarsh Vihar residence. The police team, which visited the spot, were suspicious about several things, and prima facie it appeared that Rakesh had been murdered around 15 to 20 hours before his wife had approached the police outpost. Station officer of Vikasnagar Rajiv Rauthan said that a team comprising senior officials was constituted on the instruction of Dehradun DIG. “It was found that the couple had a strained relationship for the past few years. Around a year ago, Reema, 28, started going to a local gym, where she came in contact with one Shivam Mehra, 25, a trainer.” In October, Rakesh returned to Dehradun on leave. According to police, Reema gave Mehra a SIM card which the two used to hatch a plot to eliminate Rakesh. On the evening of November 11, Reema left the main door open, which allowed Shivam to enter. He hid inside the kitchen. She took a knife from Shivam and got into another heated argument with her husband who was in the bedroom. She then brought him to the lobby, where Shivam caught Rakesh and the two struck him with the knife. They then slit his wrist to make it look like a suicide. “Reema has admitted her involvement, following which, the gym trainer was arrested. Knife, blade and mobile phone used in the crime were recovered, along with the blood stained clothes,” the police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-paramour-held-for-killing-husband/articleshow/79214057.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot seeks special status for Rajasthan under AYUSH mission||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to give special status to the state under the National AYUSH Mission as it has the “largest” infrastructure in the country with over 5,000 AYUSH medical centres in operation. Gehlot said, “Giving special status to Rajasthan under the National AYUSH Mission would help the state to take forward the mission of deemed university status to the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur as it has the largest AYUSH basic infrastructure in the country.” Gehlot was speaking on the Ayurveda Day on Friday in a virtual event where Modi dedicated the Institute of Teaching & Research in Ayurveda (ITRA), Jamnagar and the National Institute of Ayurveda, Jaipur. The ITRA has been conferred the status of an Institution of National Importance (INI) by an Act of the Parliament and the NIA that of an institution deemed to be university by the University Grants Commission. The chief minister said deemed university status will boost research and international scope of Ayurvedic, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy (AYUSH). Gehlot also suggested amendment to the Drugs and Cosmetics Act 1940, making it compulsory for Ayurvedic drugs stores to have pharmacists, and demanded establishment of a central AYUSH Nursing Commission, development of nadi science, setting up of a central council for yoga and naturopathy and setting up of ayurvedic hospitals as wellness centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-seeks-spl-status-for-raj-under-ayush-mission/articleshow/79216328.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||Virtual diya link crashes due to high traffic, restored||The web link launched by the state government to allow people to light virtual diyas on Friday’s Deepotsav celebrations crashed minutes after going live as it received over 18,000 hits at one go. The web link was restored around midnight. This was the first time that the facility of lighting virtual diyas was provided, keeping in view the Covid-19 restrictions due to which hundreds of visitors would not be allowed to visit Ayodhya. The link was also meant to connect with devotees across the world. “The link was launched around 6pm and soon about 25,000 virtual diyas were lit. However, about 18,000 people tried lighting diyas at the same time due to which the link crashed. It will be available for at least a week as it has become popular,” said additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virtual-diya-link-crashes-due-to-high-traffic-restored/articleshow/79217046.cms||---
November 14, 2020||---||Bihar: Nitish Kumar to be elected NDA legislature party leader today||PATNA: JD(U) president Nitish Kumar is all set to be re-elected the leader of NDA legislature party on Sunday and to stake claim to the governor for the next government formation in Bihar. BJP state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said all the newly-elected BJP legislators will assemble at the party’s state office in Patna at around 10am on November 15. “After having a brief meeting, they will go to the Nitish’s office to attend the NDA legislature party meeting,” he said. PM Narendra Modi has already made it clear that Nitish will be sworn in as the Bihar CM again. Nitish, who handed over his resignation as the CM of the present government to governor Phagu Chauhan on Friday with the state cabinet’s resolution to dissolve the 16th legislative assembly as its term expires on November 29, is likely to take oath as the state CM for the 7th time either on November 16 or 17. The date and venue is yet to be officially announced. The governor formally dissolved the 16th legislative assembly to pave way for taking oath by the newly-elected members. The governor also accepted the resignation of Nitish and his cabinet colleagues, but asked all of them to hold the charge of their respective ministry/ministries till formation of the new government in the state. In his first interaction with the media on Thursday after the state election results, Nitish said he had never staked claim over the CM’s post or talked about his retirement from electoral politics. “I did not talk about my retirement. In the last meeting of every election, I always say ‘ant bhala to sab bhala’ (all is well that ends well). If you listen to the speeches of my previous election meetings, it will be clear that I always used to say this in the last campaign meeting,” he said. Nitish also said that his remark that ‘this is my last election’ was misunderstood by certain media people. “Jan lijiye aaj chunav ka aakhri din hai, aur parson chunav hai, aur yeh mera antim chunav hai. Ant bhala, to sab bhala (please be aware that today is the last day of electioneering and a day after tomorrow will be polling. And, this is my last election. All’s well that ends well),” Nitish had said on November 5 while addressing the rally in Dhamdaha constituency of Purnia district. Nitish on Friday said a joint meeting of the NDA legislature party will be held at 12.30pm on November 15 (Sunday) to elect its leader. Nitish was addressing the media outside his residence after a meeting with the leaders of the other three NDA constituents in Bihar — BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. The legislature party meeting will be held at his official residence. “The decision regarding the date and venue of the oath-taking ceremony will also be taken at the NDA legislature party meeting on Sunday,” Nitish said in reply to a query. Earlier in the day after the present state cabinet’s last meeting, Nitish, accompanied by senior NDA leaders went to the Raj Bhavan and submitted his resignation as the CM to the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-to-be-elected-nda-legislature-party-leader-on-sunday/articleshow/79218456.cms||Madan Kumar
November 14, 2020||Chennai||Flying from Chennai to Port Blair will cost you a bomb||CHENNAI: Air fares on the Chennai-Port Blair route have shot up unusually ahead of Diwali, causing inconvenience to those travelling for an emergency. A one-way ticket on the route is selling for at least Rs 9,000 even if booked one week in advance. There is mostly only one flight a day on the route but demand remains high. While it is not unusual for last minute fares to be high, especially during festivals, a one-way fare to Port Blair is selling at Rs 9,668 for travel on next Friday. People who have to travel on emergencies said they are being forced to shell out Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 on flights via another city. An airline official said that flight is the only option and the cost incurred by airlines is high because weather is turbulent for most of the time. “The route is prone for diversions because of bad weather and a unidirectional runway,” he said. P S Vijayan, organising secretary of Andaman Association of Tour Operators, said, “The tickets are expensive because of fewer flights. We used to have 15 to 16 flights per day before the pandemic. There are only three to four flights per day from the mainland.” He rued that the exorbitant airfares would definitely affect tourist arrivals to Port Blair. “Flights are cheaper to Maldives,” he said. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels said only business travellers are flying currently because the route was reopened only last month. “There is a lot of demand for travel for business. Tourists are yet to start. There was not much tourism promotion because operators were wary of another wave hitting the islands. It looks like leisure travel is likely to pick up in December.” He said that high air fare could be a hindrance to promote the destination. "People who travel in groups are sensitive about air fare. Port Blair also has some issues in reopening,” he added. The route tops Air India's most expensive route as the airline sold around 18% of its seats to Port Blair at the maximum fare in October. Air fare is also high from Kolkata to Port Blair. Vistara, Go Air, IndiGo and SpiceJet also charge high fares on the route.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/flying-to-port-blair-will-cost-you-a-bomb/articleshow/79215297.cms||V Ayyappan
November 14, 2020||Ahmedabad||‘Tragedy due to a cocktail of chemicals’||The series of blasts that rocked Ganeshnagar on November 4, was caused by a series of chemical reactions, states a report submitted by forensic science experts to city police , holding the factory owners of the and chemist responsible for negligence. Some of the chemicals found were hydrogen peroxide, methyl ethyl ketone peroxide, potassium permanganate, among others. “The primary blast affected nearby storage cans, which set in motion a chain of smaller blasts,” said an investigator.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tragedy-due-to-a-cocktail-of-chemicals/articleshow/79215298.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||Janmabhoomi aglow first time after SC drops disputed tag||AYODHYA: A copter modelled around the mythical ‘Pushpak Vimaan’ touched down at the Ram Katha Park helipad in Ayodhya on Friday noon in a minor dust bowl before doors opened to the epic realm of ‘treta yug’ with characters dressed as Lord Ram, Sita, Laxman and Hanuman alighting after a 14-year exile to reverberating chants of ‘Jai Shri Ram’. The symbolic deities were welcomed by Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adiyanath, who bowed in obeisance before initiating the grand coronation at Ram Katha Park amid Vedic chants. A grand procession with 11 tableaux from Saket College traversed 5km before culminating at Naya Ghat, ushering the fourth Deepotsav in Ayodhya. The town was fortified and residents mostly stayed indoors with all routes leading to Saryu ghats barricaded. And as evening set in, the stage shifted from Ram Katha grounds to banks of the pristine Saryu, where over 6 lakh diyas were lit simultaneously with 11,000 earthen lamps at Ramjanmabhoomi, where CM Yogi Adityanath offered prayers and lit the first lamp at noon after reaching Ayodhya. He was accompanied by ministers, members of the Ram Temple trust and top bureaucrats. While Ram Ki Paidi on Saryu has been witness to a visual splendour of millions of diyas being lit for past four years, this year was a historic Deepotsav for Ayodhya as Ramjanmabhoomi was illuminated for the first time in recent memory after shedding its disputed tag with Supreme Court mandating construction of the Ram temple in November last year. For three decades after the Babri demolition, the chief priest at the makeshift temple Acharya Satyendra Das would light 51 diyas and offer prayers with four junior priests. “Festivity was muted at Ramjanmabhoomi and a small puja would be done at Ram Lalla’s feet after taking the nod of the then Faizabad receiver-commissioner since the site was disputed,” said Acharya Das. This year was an exception, with members of the temple trust and security personnel deployed at Ramjanmabhoomi lighting 11,000 diyas. After addressing a gathering of 1,000 guests at Ram Katha Park, the chief minister reached Ram ki Paidi and performed Saryu aarti and lit a diya. Within seconds, volunteers at the spot lit up over 6 lakh lamps, creating a world record. Another big draw of the Deepotsav was the dance performance on Ramayana themes by folk artists from Bundelkhand, Braj, Awadh and Poorvanchal. Talking to TOI, Vishal, a member of the troupe from Jhansi, said, “We rehearsed for over two weeks before coming to Ayodhya. We are excited that we are performing on the streets of Ayodhya, the city of Lord Rama, and we hope this tradition would never stop.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/janmabhoomi-aglow-first-time-after-scdrops-disputed-tag/articleshow/79217051.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 14, 2020||Jaipur||Man found dead at dairy booth in Jaipur||Jaipur: A man was found dead at a dairy booth in Jaipur on Friday morning. The deceased who hailed from Madhya Pradesh managed the booth and slept there at night. Cops are yet to find the motive behind the murder as well as the accused in the case. The deceased was identified as 36-year-old Sudama Bagel. A case was lodged at Sadar police station. “At present, we do not know if he was killed on Thursday night or Friday morning, but it appears to be the former. After the body was found, we reached the booth and FSL team also collected the samples. We have initiated an investigation, but currently, we do not have many details,” said an official. The victim had been staying in Jaipur for the past eight years and elaborating further on the cause of death, the official said, “He had several injuries on his head and was possibly hit with a sharp object. The post-mortem report will give us more details to proceed further in the investigation.” The victim’s brother has registered a case of murder against unidentified person. “The victim’s brother alleged that his brother had an altercation with someone on Thursday though the complainant does not know the identity of that person,” said the cop. Although, currently cops do not have many leads in the investigation, they claimed that everyone associated with the victim will be questioned to get clues in the probe. They will also question other shopkeepers in the area if anyone heard or saw anything around the time when Bagel was killed. As of now, police have not come across any CCTV footage which could help them identify the accused. At times, the victim’s brother also stayed the night at the booth but on Thursday he had gone home. The deceased’s body was handed over to the family after autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-found-dead-at-dairy-booth-in-city/articleshow/79216359.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Patna||18-year-old girl operated in Patna for ‘Rapunzel syndrome’||PATNA: Doctors at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) on Friday removed hair and jute thread weighing around 750gm from the stomach of a teenage girl. The hair and jute thread had even entered her intestine. The 18-year-old girl from Chhapra was suffering from ‘Rapunzel syndrome’, named after fairy tale character and long-haired Rapunzel. However, those suffering from this syndrome do not possess long hair. They, instead, eat their hair. “This is a rarest of rare psychiatric disorder and one in 100 million patients complain of this,” said IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal, who was among the doctors who performed the operation. He said though in his 25 years of medical career, he had operated on four to five people and removed hair from their stomach, this case was surprising as the girl used to chew jute bags also and swallow the thread. This rare disorder is found in emotionally-disturbed children or mentally retarded people. “There was a big lump of hair and a jute thread in her stomach. It had even entered her intestine and blocked her small gut. We had to carefully pull it out. Apart from the stomach, two-foot long thread of hair and jute was removed from the small intestine,” said Dr Mandal after the operation which continued for at least two hours. He said the patient had first visited the OPD of gastrosurgery department a month back and Dr Rakesh Kumar Singh investigated her. Even while sharing her medical history with the doctor, the girl did not reveal that she used to eat hair or jute. She had complained of pain in abdomen and a hard visible swelling was also found in her abdomen. After an endoscopy and CT scan, she was diagnosed with ‘trichobezoar’. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital psychiatrist Dr Santosh Kumar said disorder of pulling one’s hair is known as trichotillomania in medical parlance. “Some get satisfied by just pulling the hair and some eat them,” he added. When the girl first complained of pain and vomiting, her father, who owns a tea stall, took her to a private hospital in Hajipur. The family was told she was suffering from cancer. The family then reached IGIMS with the girl. After a month of investigation and treatment, she was finally operated on Friday. IGIMS director Dr NR Biswas has congratulated the team comprising Dr Mandal, Dr Manish, Dr Rakesh Kumar, Dr Om Prakash Bharti, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, Dr Tulika, Dr Sunny and sister Madhu for the successful operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/18-year-old-girl-operated-for-rapunzel-syndrome/articleshow/79216383.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||University of Mysore asks professors to wear face shields, masks||MYSURU: Professors and lecturers will have to wear face shields and masks when regular classes begin next week, University of Mysore has told its affiliated colleges. Colleges are set to reopen on Tuesday (November 17). Varsity authorities, who recently held a meeting with heads of constituent colleges, academic centres, institutes and faculties of various departments, decided to follow standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the health department. They have directed heads of institutions to follow all precautionary measures to prevent spread of the virus. Heads of institutions were directed to sanitise the entire college premises including the main gates or entrance, toilets and furniture in classrooms. Teaching staff, administrative staff and students must compulsorily undergo Covid-19 tests (RTPCR test) and only those found negative can attend college. Students have been told to bring food and water from their homes as canteen facilities will be closed. Even libraries will be closed to prevent spread of infection. However laboratories and projects classes were given permission to operate in shifts. R Shivappa, registrar, UoM, said cultural programs, NCC and NSS activities are banned. “Students must submit approval letters from parents to attend classes,” he said. “Those who do not want to attend regular classes can attend online classes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/university-of-mysore-asks-professors-to-wear-face-shields-masks/articleshow/79214588.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 14, 2020||Mangaluru||Festive Rush: KSRTC M’luru division operates additional buses||Mangaluru: In what is a first since the onset of the pandemic, the Mangaluru division of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate additional buses on a few routes in view of Deepavali. KSRTC Mangaluru division controller SN Aruna said that, additional buses would be operated to Hubballi so as to ensure public including labourers can return home for the festival. “Ridership on the Bengaluru-Mysuru route is also encouraging. We are operating an additional 15 non-AC sleeper and Rajahamsa buses to Hubballi and further north of Hubballi. We will also be running an additional 20 bus services including Volvo buses to Bengaluru. About 45 buses are currently plying on the route. We will introduce more buses according to the demand,” Aruna told TOI. However, Aruna said that KSRTC had decided against raising ticket fares during the festive season. “We are yet to increase the price of tickets for weekends by 10%. We are operating more buses to accommodate the rush for Deepavali, and we will start running even more vehicles once colleges reopen. We are hoping things limp back to normal once educational institutions reopen,” added Aruna. The government having permitted KSRTC to operate buses to Tamil Nadu five days a week, the corporation is hopeful of obtaining permission to start plying vehicles to Kerala soon. “Although buses are being operated to Maharashtra and Telangana, ridership is markedly low compared to what we registered before the pandemic struck. But the situation is improving,” said KSRTC’s Mangaluru division controller. A private bus operator in Mangaluru admitted to business not witnessing the spike it would during Deepavali this year. “There is not much rush. Very few operators have raised the fares by Rs 200. There is an increase in ridership on the Mangaluru-Bengaluru route, but demand for services on other routes is yet to pick up,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/festive-rush-ksrtc-mluru-division-operates-additional-buses/articleshow/79214012.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||One lakh diyas light up Uttar Pradesh's Gomti banks||LUCKNOW: Banks of the Gomti river at Jhulelal Vatika lit up with one lakh earthen diyas made of cowdung during ‘Gaumay Deepotsav’ on Friday night, making Diwali special for Lucknowites. All the earthern lamps in the event, organized by Lucknow Municipal Corporation, were made at Kahna Upvan, a shelter home for cows, from a mixture of cow dung, giloy and tulsi. The waste can also be use as manure later. The civic body purchased oil worth over Rs 2.8 lakhs for lighting the diyas. The lamps were arranged in shapes of God Ganesha, Goddess Laxmi and Swastika sign. They drew attention of people who came with families to enjoy the festival and were seen taking selfies and making videos while lighting lamps. Arpit Saxena, a visitor, said, “All these lighted diyas were a sight to to watch. I have also called some of my friends to join me and enjoy Diwali. I clicked several photos.” The programme was also attended by deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma, urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon, mayor Sanyukta Bhatia and head priest of Mankameshwar Mandir Mahant along with other officials. Sharma said, “I feel delighted that cows stored at the shelter homes are helping LMC to improve its revenue. Besides lamps, LMC has started making phenoyl from the cow urine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1-lakh-diyas-light-up-gomti-banks/articleshow/79217056.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Times School Parliament: Majority of students say online edu good, but offline best||Staying in the virtual world hasn’t blunted the competitive edge of school students. In fact, they are sharp and alive to the situation more than ever. It was demonstrated at The Times School Parliament, which was held virtually on Friday, ahead of Children’s Day. Students from 15 participating schools voted 9:6 against the motion ‘Schools must remain physically closed for students till a vaccine is available’Nagpur: Schools were the first to be closed when the pandemic struck. Now, businesses and social life are gradually getting back to normal and the government has allowed reopening of schools. Now, the question is whether students are ready for offline learning. The Times School Parliament, held virtually on Friday and not at the NMC Town Hall as it would have happened in normal times, saw an intense debate on the motion ‘Schools must remain physically closed for students till a vaccine is available’. Students voted against the motion 9:6. Two students each from 15 participating schools put forth their arguments with some interesting points backed by figures from various studies. A speaker from Centre Point School International cited increase in mental health issues and suicides as an adverse impact of the shutdown. “Online classes have reached a saturation level. There is uncertainty regarding the arrival of the vaccine. So, let’s get back to school without wasting precious time,” they said, thus setting the tone for the debate. Countering the view, students from South Public School, Omkar Nagar, felt reopening schools now can prove to be a destructive move. “Children can act as carriers of infection. Moreover, online education is available and government has come up with options for students with poor Internet connectivity,” they said. Kids World School speakers pointed out problems being faced by students and teachers during online classes. “The shutdown has affected more than one crore teachers,” said a speaker. Another speaker advocated reopening of schools with precautionary measures in view of the low level of infection among children and decline in the case fatality rate. Being fearless is the best option to fight the pandemic, said a student from Delhi Public School, Kamptee Road. “If commercial establishments can open, why can’t schools,” the speakers asked. According to them, if online education continues, students will face physical, mental, intellectual and social trauma. “Can’t wait for a vaccine forever,” said a speaker. Edify School students favoured the bill stating online education has been a big help in keeping students safe while staying at home has helped them build a strong bond with parents. “Reopening schools now will be like playing with fire,” they said. School of Scholars speakers strongly believed that students will be endangered despite all the precautions if schools are reopened. They even cited examples of parents and teachers protesting against reopening of schools. Many parents are unable to pay full school fees, they said while calling for taking extra precautions in view of the feared second wave of the infection. Opposing the motion, Narayan Vidyalayam felt reopening schools immediately will help support the economy of various sectors as well as test the National Education Policy. They cited the wide urban-rural divide in digital education to back their argument for reopening of schools. Giving the example of the 1918 pandemic, a Modern School speaker said schools were then closed for four months without online help. “So, why can’t we remain closed when online education is available,” said a speaker and added that life is more important. Another speaker, while referring to a survey, said only 30% parents are willing to send their children to school. “Without a vaccine, reopening schools will spell disaster,” the speakers said. Students from Bishop Cotton School were in favour of the motion while pointing out that if they are reopened, aided schools will be financially burdened with cost of daily sanitization and test for teachers without government help. Students of Delhi Public School, Lava, said that online classes have many disadvantages as they supported reopening of schools. “Moreover, many parents are not in favour of online classes and children are missing their friends in schools,” they said. Backing DPS were students from Jain International School who argued that child abuse, trafficking has increased during lockdown. “Also, radiations from electronic devices are affecting health,” they said while supporting reopening of schools as “not all are privileged to attend online classes from home”. Central India Public School students called for reopening schools by taking precautions and letting children feel normal. “Most middle-class families in India cannot afford electronic devices for online education. This has disrupted learning for millions of students and it can have a long-term impact,” they said. Shri Guru Harkishan Public School speakers said schools are not just for academic purpose and build a child’s social, moral and emotional character, which cannot be achieved in virtual learning. “Students without a good environment at home are suffering,” they said while supporting offline learning with safety precautions. According to Montfort School speakers, reopening schools will threaten the lives of youth in the absence of a vaccine. “If reopened now, schools will become a hub for disease transmission. Instead, double the effort in online classes,” said a speaker. “Joh swastha nahi woh bimar, uski har jeet sirf ek haar hain,” said another speaker. Lalitha Public School speakers informed that about 25 crore students are confined to their homes and any further delay in reopening schools will be detrimental from the academics point of view. “Reopen schools with precautions,” they said. Students unleashed their full potential in the open house session that followed. Countering a point made about increase in suicides due to mental health issues, a student said they can be controlled but not infections. Another student argued that people also die due to other diseases like malaria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/times-school-parliament-majority-of-students-say-online-edu-good-but-offline-best/articleshow/79216497.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Author spreads joy among kids||LUCKNOW: Diwali came a day early for inmates of a shelter home located on Prag Narain Road on Friday when two Good Samaritans came bearing goodies and sweaters for them. City-based author and daughter of an IAS officer, Poulomi Pavini Shukla, distributed sweaters, leggings, chocolates, cookies and sweets among the children. She also spent time with the orphaned kids and celebrated Diwali with them. She was accompanied by her husband Prashant Sharma, who is posted as special secretary in UP government. On Maha Navami, the couple had visited an orphanage for girls and arranged pizza treat for the inmates. “Diwali is all about giving, sharing, and spreading happiness as everyone tries to do their best to make their loved ones feel happier and make that particular moment a memorable one,” she said. Shukla has authored a book ‘Weakest on Earth - Orphans of India’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/author-spreads-joy-among-kids/articleshow/79217063.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Covid surge because of bad air, will be under control in 10 days: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Attributing the recent surge in Covid-19 cases to pollution, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday said that Delhi government would be taking multiple interventions next week to check the spread of the viral disease. While testing and contact tracing had been intensified for early detection of infected individuals, the government was also closely monitoring the management of patients in hospitals. The number of deaths in a single day touched 104 on Thursday, while 7,000-8,000 fresh cases are being reported in the city every day. Kejriwal hoped that the situation would be controlled in the next 10 days. However, the CM did not explain what steps the government was planning to take to control the sustained spike in cases and deaths. A meeting of Delhi Disaster Management Authority is likely to be held next week where the existing scenario would be discussed with the members of the expert panel formed by the Centre and appropriate decisions would be taken. An official said it was unlikely that Delhi would witness mini-lockdowns or major economic curbs because making people strictly follow guidelines and adopt Covid-appropriate behaviour was more effective in checking the spread of the virus. Right from the start, Delhi government has maintained that lockdown is not an effective solution to handle the spread of the disease because it affects livelihoods and makes the life of people miserable. The CM had, on multiple occasions, underlined that people would have to learn to live with the novel coronavirus and follow all guidelines to protect themselves. “The situation was under control till last week, but cases are rising now. I’m worried. Delhi government will take several preventive measures in the coming days to bring normalcy. I hope that in the next 7-10 days the number of cases decline and the situation is under control,” said Kejriwal. Since the beginning of November, Delhi has been witnessing a massive jump in the number of Covid-19 cases. On November 11, more than 9,500 cases were reported and the positivity rate was 15.2%. Officials said multiple factors had fuelled this spike, including aggressive testing and contact tracing. “For each Covid-positive person, up to 20 contacts are being traced and tested. Contact tracing was never done at this huge scale in the city. Pollution, coupled with winter, has increased respiratory illnesses due to which more people are getting themselves tested for the infection,” said an official. Massive crowds in markets, where many people were spotted violating social distancing norms and Covid-appropriate behaviour, is also believed to have contributed to the recent spike. Delhi government has banned community celebration of Chhath Puja at ghats, river banks, temples and other public places as a precautionary measure to curb the spread of the virus. All officials on the field have been instructed to ensure that the order is complied with strictly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-surge-because-of-bad-air-will-be-under-control-in-10-days-kejriwal/articleshow/79216412.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||No evidence of mink mutation in India||BENGALURU: SARS-CoV2, the virus that causes Covid-19, has mutated in mink (a mammal) and appears to spread to humans in Denmark, scientists say. While the new mutation has been found in countries that do not have a mink population, indicating a human-to-human spread, scientists are watching India closely. Danish scientists have raised concerns that the mink-related mutation could make future vaccines ineffective and Denmark Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen has ordered culling of 17 million minks after a cluster of human cases were linked to mink farms. However, there’s no evidence of the mutation in India so far, although scientists say: “It has not been found as ‘yet’.” India’s director-general of foreign trade has banned import of mink fur since January 3, 2017 and minks are not native to India. But given that these mutations have appeared in humans in countries where minks are not native, it could ultimately find its way to India. “We’re keeping a close watch on these mutations, especially the one called Y453F in the spike protein of the virus,” India-born Prof SS Vasan told TOI. “My colleague Dr Laurence Wilson and I have analysed the 1,99,321 genome sequences of SARS-CoV-2 available on the global repository (GISAID) as of November 13. There are no sequences with this mutation reported yet from India or Australia.” Vasan leads Covid-19 research at the Australian Centre for Disease Preparedness, the high-containment facility of Australia’s science agency CSIRO and has also been studying mutations of different kinds. Y453F is a virologist’s code word to say that at position number 453 of the spike protein, there is a change in the aminoacid from Y to F. Another mutation which has now become the dominant form worldwide including India is D614G – which indicates that there is a change in the aminoacid from D to G in position 614. Vasan published the first peer-reviewed paper on how this virus is evolving and that vaccines will likely be effective against the D614G mutation or the ‘G strain’. “It’s early days with Y453F and we have to wait for not just laboratory data but also population-level data,” he said, adding, “This virus will mutate – there is nothing alarming about that per se. We have previously shown that ‘G strain’ is unlikely to affect vaccines. It is too early to assess the impact of this new mutation, especially since it has only been detected in a small number of countries. Of the 1,99,321 sequences of the virus on GISAID, 389 have this mutation – 342 from people, 42 from American mink (Neovison vison) and the remaining from European mink (Mustela lutreola).” These animals are closely related to ferrets, which Vasan’s team showed for the first time are susceptible to the virus, as TOI reported. “Ferrets (Mustela putorius furo) are the same genus as the European mink and the same family as the American mink. So far, the mink-related virus sequences are all from The Netherlands, except eight from American mink in Denmark,” Vasan said. The 342 isolates from humans are mostly from Denmark (329), with the remaining from Faroe Islands (1), Netherlands (6), Russia (1), South Africa (2), Switzerland (2), and USA (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-mink-coronavirus-mutation-found-no-evidence-in-india-yet/articleshow/79214652.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 14, 2020||Goa||GIDC appoints consultant to explore coal block in MP||Panaji: Nagpur-based consultant aXYKno Capital Services Pvt Ltd has joined Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) to explore the Dongri Tal II coal block in Madhya Pradesh, corporation officials said. The consultant will now prepare a viability report, conduct a market study, and assist GIDC in preparing the tender document to select the mine developer cum operator (MDO) for the coal block. “We have issued the work order to the consultant, and they have given the acceptance letter,” GIDC managing director Derrick P Neto said. He said that the firm has asked for additional documents pertaining to the allotted coal block. Chief minister Pramod Sawant recently chaired a meeting of the PPP (public-private partnership) cell where a decision was taken to appoint the Nagpur-based firm on a nomination basis. The state cabinet had approved the proposal. Sawant had said that the RFP for appointment of the MDO would be issued by November 10. “We will be issuing the RFP soon,” Neto said. Meanwhile, GIDC has begun the process to improve its functioning, particularly the services offered to industrial units. The GIDC committee to monitor the implementation of its rules and regulations held its first meeting recently. The committee has started drafting new standard operating procedures for granting construction licences and processing transfer and sub-lease applications. Though the GIDC has put in place deemed approval for transfer and sub-lease applications, industrial units which obtained deemed approval continue to get stuck. “Deemed approval within 21 days was only on paper, as other government departments were not honouring the deemed approval and were asking for something in writing. So entrepreneurs had to come back to us and here the file was pending,” the GIDC MD said. He said that GIDC would issue construction licences within 27-30 days if all documents are in place. A timeline for sub-lease and transfer applications will also be fixed. “The committee will devise a SOP which will be given to the concerned dealing hands to be followed,” Neto said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-appoints-consultant-to-explore-coal-block-in-mp/articleshow/79216530.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Buy, buy on Diwali; bye bye to norms||NEW DELHI: A look at the city markets on the eve of Diwali would make one believe that Covid-19 was only a myth. People thronged the popular shopping hubs, paying little heed to the pandemic preventive norms, evading the vigil of police and municipal staff. Market associations claimed to have done their best to enforce the Covid norms, but pleaded helplessness at having to manage such huge crowds. In Lajpat Nagar, both Pushpa Market and Central Market were flooded, though shop owners maintained the melee was around hawkers selling affordably priced items. Ashwani Marwah, general secretary, Traders’ Association of Lajpat Nagar, claimed, “There is no denying that the footfall was enormous on Friday, people were gathered around unpermitted hawkers, who made no efforts to request social distancing. The market has been declared a no-squatting zone by the Supreme Court but the hawkers’ number is growing. Though policemen were present, how much can they do when there are so many people?” The association claimed to have deployed 25 marshals to manage smooth movement of traffic, prevent people from gathering in clusters, enforce wearing of masks and making regular public announcements on adhering to Covid norms. The situation was relatively better in Kamla Nagar. The crowd was manageable, but the parking lot was closed down, inconveniencing everyone. “After we found posters at the entrances of the parking lot about the parking facility not being available from November 13 (after 8.30pm) till November 15 (8am), we approached the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, but the officials denied having any such information,” fumed Nitin Gupta, president, Kamla Nagar Traders’ Association. “When footfall is expected to be high in the market, there is no point in keeping the parking shut.” A north corporation official claimed the engineering department was directed on Thursday not to shut the parking lot. “We know people will crowd markets on Diwali and will not have any space to park their vehicles,” the official said. At Sarojini Nagar too, parking was restricted. “There were at least 50 Civil Defence volunteers engaged in dispersing the crowd. Two Covid-19 testing points were erected by the district administration,” said Ashok Randhawa of Mini Market Traders’ Association. In Karol Bagh, certain roads were chock-a-block in the evening, with traffic jams on sections of Deshbandhu Gupta Road, Arya Samaj Road and areas in and around the mobile phone market. “Despite the peak Diwali season, the situation was controllable on Ajmal Khan Road because there are no illegal hawkers there or haphazard parking of vehicles and loading or unloading of goods beyond the permitted times,” said Sanjeev Kapur, general secretary, Vyapar Mandal, Ajmal Khan Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/buy-buy-on-diwali-bye-bye-to-norms/articleshow/79216457.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||Diwali surprise gift: Uttar Pradesh CM hails local artisans’ work, buys all products||LUCKNOW: Artists who participated in Mati Kala exhibition in Lucknow were in for a surprise when they went to meet Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, carrying gifts for him, on Friday. The CM was so impressed with their work that not only did he heap praise on them but also ended up purchasing all their products for Rs 20,000. According to a government spokesperson, nine artisans had gone to meet the CM after the conclusion of Mati Kala Fair. “The fair was extremely successful and the local artisans managed to sell over 50 lakh items. Friday was the last day of the fair which started last week. After the fair, the artisans went to meet the CM, taking some earthen items with them as gifts,” the spokesperson said. “I cannot explain what this Diwali has brought for us. It has revived our traditional local art and gave us an experience which we will cherish for life,” said Hari Om Prajapati of Badhau Tola, Gorakhpur. “It was just a gesture from us to thank the CM for his concern towards our art. But to our surprise, he not only praised us but also asked us for the price of the products and bought everything. He asked about the wellbeing of our family members and offered us sweets and gifts,” he added Promoting ‘Vocal for Local’ this Diwali, the Chief Minister has been encouraging people to buy local products to help small traders and give a push to local economy. Mati Kala Board, under MSME department, had organised Mati Kala fair where local artisans sold diyas, idols of Lakshmi and Ganesh, besides other decorative items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/diwali-surprise-gift-cm-hails-local-artisans-work-buys-all-products/articleshow/79217069.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: ‘State has 7 virus lineages from across the world’||BENGALURU: When the pandemic hit in March, one person Karnataka depended on to stem the tide was Dr V Ravi, senior professor, head of the department of neurovirolgy, Nimhans. Dr Ravi, who launched the state’s first virology lab in 1985, rose to the challenge by training almost all the staff working in nearly 170 Covid-19 testing labs that sprang up across Karnataka. Set to retire later this month, Dr Ravi says there is a tendency to forget things once an outbreak passes. “We need to sustain activities at least at a basic level so that when the next threat or pandemic hits, our response time will be much less and we can save more lives,” he told TOI in an interview. Excerpts: Tell us about your experience at the forefront of the Covid-19 battle. In April, ICMR directed me to set up virology labs at all medical colleges in the state. I called up every medical college, trained their staff, sent them proficiency samples, asked them to test and send me the results. All medical colleges in Karnataka now have Covid testing labs. When I began my career, I was the only virologist. Now, on the eve of my retirement, every medical college in Karnataka has a virology lab and that’s gratifying. There has been constant friction between humans and viruses… The 21st century has been declared the century of viral diseases. In 2002 we had SARS, in 2005-06 avian flu (no human cases), late 2005 chikungunya, 2009 H1N1, 2012 MERS, 2014 Ebola, 2016 Zika and 2019 Covid. When I was a medical student in 1973, hepatitis emerged. Since then, we have seen 47 viruses emerging or re-emerging, almost one virus every two years. Believe me, in the next 3-4 years, we will have another outbreak. The next virus could be from China, Cambodia, Vietnam or even India. Are we any closer to a vaccine or herd immunity? Long ago I had said that by the end of 2020, half the population would have been exposed to the virus. I was told to be quiet then. But, now serosurveys show we are moving in that direction. Traditionally, a vaccine cycle takes six years, but we want one in six months. For ordinary citizens, a vaccine would be available late 2021. There is no escape from a second wave. Do you think the current strain of the virus has gotten weaker? Strain is a wrong word to use as the genetic composition of the virus has not changed much nor has its virulence. However, there have been many smaller changes within the genetic composition and the terminology for it is clades and lineages. A clade broadly refers to groups and lineages refer to subgroups. In Karnataka, we have four clades and seven lineages -- from USA, Dubai, Iran, China, Indonesia, Malaysia and Italy. This means the virus was brought into the state through multiple ports. Among those who had attended a congregation in Delhi, we noticed that the Indonesian/Malaysian lineage was predominant, while in the Nanjangud cluster, the European lineage was detected. As Covid entered India late, we may have a unique mutation, but we have not seen that yet. Will Covid-19 lead to the development of a robust public health system? Allocation for healthcare has to go up. We should spend at least 5-10% of our budget on health. Look at what Covid showed us. Over 40% of our district hospitals didn’t have ICU and 60% had no piped oxygen supply. Even if we have a public health cadre, it’s so weak. We need people trained in public health and a robust surveillance for febrile, haemorrhagic and respiratory illnesses and encephalitis as there are frequent outbreaks.  Parents are concerned about reopening schools in urban areas. No schools till January, I would say. If schools open, everyone involved must be tested periodically. I suggest writing off this academic year. Covid has taught us that one need not have to go to school to learn. School would be essential for critical classes like class 9 and 10 and PUC students. These students would be more mature and can follow safety instructions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-has-7-virus-lineages-from-across-globe-top-virologist/articleshow/79214726.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 14, 2020||Trichy||Sterilization of stray dogs in Trichy yet to resume for want of right NGO||Trichy: Almost a month after Trichy Corporation invited eligible NGOs to take up the birth control drive for depopulating stray dogs, uncertainty prevails in identifying a stakeholder to initiate the sterilization drive. With Diwali witnessing bursting of crackers on roads, residents complained of a substantial surge in stray dog menace, with the frightened canines troubling the passers-by further.Although the civic body on October 4 had called for a tender inviting NGOs recognised by Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) to take care of the stray dog neutering drive in Trichy, the civic body said that they could not find a suitable NGO. While one NGO was shortlisted in the tender floated last month, Trichy Corporation said that the NGO insisted that the local body catch and leave the stray dogs while agreeing only to sterilize and take care of the canines post the surgeries. But, Trichy Corporation said that such a condition cannot be accepted since they do not have adequate manpower to catch the dogs. “We can provide the infrastructure to sterilize the animals. We will look for qualified NGOs that can take up the sterilization drive by catching the canines on their own,” Trichy Corporation commissioner, S Sivasubramanian, told TOI.The civic body said that a re-tender shall be floated soon to invite NGOs to resume the sterilization drive at the earliest. Since the corporation has not launched a sterilization drive for stray dogs since August 2019, the population of stray canines has surged drastically.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sterilization-of-stray-dogs-in-trichy-yet-to-resume-for-want-of-right-ngo/articleshow/79216459.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 14, 2020||Trichy||Rain, cracker bursting curbs ease burden on fire personnel||Trichy: Incessant rain and timing restrictions for bursting crackers on Diwali have come as a breather to the Tamil Nadu fire and rescue services personnel this year, who are otherwise busy attending to emergencies on the festival day. However, the department is not dropping its guard and mapping fire accident-prone spots. It has mobilized three teams for round-the-clock surveillance in Trichy, one each in Srirangam and Thiruverumbur for the next two days.According to the Tamil Nadu pollution control board (TNPCB), the permitted slot to burst crackers is between 6am and 7am and 7pm to 8pm on Diwali day. Fire department officials said that such restrictions lessen their burden. Meanwhile, with heavy rain lashing the city and possibility of rain on Saturday, the department predicts a safe Diwali.Three locations have manned with fire service personnel and extinguisher vehicle in Cantonment range. Gandhi Market, TVS tollgate and Teppakulam were fielded with a fire tender vehicle each. “On an average, we get 10 to 15 distress calls on Diwali day. If it rains substantially, the number of calls will come down,” Melchio Raja, station officer, Trichy Cantonment fire station said. Fire tender vehicles will also be positioned near the Srirangam temple and Thiruverumbur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-cracker-bursting-curbs-ease-burden-on-fire-personnel/articleshow/79216456.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 14, 2020||Lucknow||Pradhan, aides attack police team||LUCKNOW: Villagers attacked a police and excise team raiding an illicit liquor manufacturing unit in Kotwali area of Gonda late on Thursday night. Police said that eight persons have been named while a hunt was on for the others. ASP Gonda Mahendra Kumar said the raid was initiated after a tip-off about manufacturing of illicit liquor. However, gram pradhan Prakash Sonkar along with 11 villagers started attacking the excise team with bricks and even vandalised their vehicle later. The attackers fled after reinforcement was sought from the UP 112 unit. Excise inspector Ram Kumar Yadav sustained injuries along with head constable Prem Kumar Tiwari, constables Asharam, Amit Kumar and Raina Bano.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pradhan-aides-attack-police-team/articleshow/79217080.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Customs gets court nod to question M Sivasankar in jail||KOCHI: Commissionerate of customs (preventive) would interrogate and record the statement of M Sivasankar IAS, the fifth accused in the case registered by enforcement directorate relating to the money laundering aspect of the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case, on Monday from 10am till 5pm. Customs on Friday moved the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act cases seeking permission to question Sivasankar who was remanded to judicial custody by the court on Thursday and it was granted. “The permission is granted to the investigating officer… to serve summons, to interrogate and to record statement of M Sivasankar…on condition that Sri M Sivasankar shall be allowed to contact his lawyer, if required,” PMLA court said in the order granting permission to customs adding that an interval of half an hour should be given in every two hours. Customs in the petition had said they were yet to find out the exact involvement of Sivasankar in the smuggling case and that he was a suspect. “…It has also come to light that M Sivasankar who has been arrayed as accused no. 5 in the case of the ED, is also involved in the issue. However, the customs is yet to determine the actual involvement. So he is now a suspected accused. That being so, the attendance of the aforesaid person in the inquiry is absolutely essential,” customs said in the request filed in court. According to sources, customs action is a follow-up to the ED finding that Sivasankar was involved in the smuggling. “Since, ED has submitted in court that Sivasankar was fully aware of the gold smuggling and that he was a mastermind, he has to be questioned regarding the same. We would take a decision on arresting him after recording his statement under Section 108 of the Customs Act. In case, we decide to do so, then the permission to record formal arrest would be sought from the ACJM (economic offences) court,” said an official. Customs are also looking into the involvement of Sivasankar in the case relating to the illegal export of currency and in the case of duty evasion registered relating to the import of dates through the UAE consulate. Meanwhile, Customs filed a report at ACJM (economic offences) court urging the court to dismiss the petition filed by Swapna Suresh seeking to direct the customs to file a report naming the officers involved in the leakage of statements and to issue notice to customs officers and media to show cause why contempt actions shall not be initiated against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-gets-court-nod-to-question-sivasankar-in-jail/articleshow/79215407.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Trichy||Active cases continue to dip in central, southern districts||Trichy/Madurai: The central region of Tamil Nadu continues to maintain a low number of Covid-19 deaths, reporting only two on Friday. Fresh cases numbered 176, four more than Thursday’s, in keeping with the below-200 trend in recent days, as in July. Meanwhile, the southern districts recorded less than 200 cases for the second time in more than four months on Friday. The lone death in the region was of an 82-year-old man from Tuticorin. Fresh cases declined in Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur and Trichy while it marginally went up in Karur, Tiruvarur, Pudukkottai and Nagapattinam. Ariyalur and Perambalur continue to maintain low number of positive cases, the two districts together recording 10 fresh cases. The two casualties in the central region were of a 53-year-old man from Ariyalur and a 62-year-old man of Thanjavur, both with comorbid conditions. More number of discharges in the central region has helped the eight districts to reduce active cases. From 1,814 on Thursday, the count dipped to 1,776 on Friday. Perambalur district has only 50 active cases, the lowest in the state. Nagapattinam district with 349 active cases has the maximum people under treatment in the region. A total of 68,328 people have been infected with Covid-19 in the region so far while 65,562 have been discharged.Though fresh cases crossed 200 in the southern districts on Thursday, they dipped to 186 on Friday. All the districts in the region recorded less than 50 fresh cases each. Madurai (46) topped the list followed by Tirunelveli (28) and Kanyakumari (21). The other districts recorded less than 20 cases each with Tenkasi (3) recording the lowest. It was followed by Theni (10), Ramanathapuram (11), Sivaganga (14), Dindigul (16), Virudhunagar (18) and Tuticorin (19) districts.Active cases in the region continued to drop marginally for the third day in a row to 1,837 on Friday from 1,903 on Tuesday. Madurai (406) had the highest number of active cases in the region, but the other districts have less than 300 each. Ramanathapuram (62), Theni (79), Tenkasi (80) and Virudhunagar (98) are districts with less than 100 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/active-cases-continue-to-dip-in-central-southern-districts/articleshow/79216480.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Trichy||Rain dampens sales on Diwali eve||Trichy: Heavy rain that lashed Trichy for hours on Friday spoiled last-minute business ahead of Diwali for street vendors in commercial streets in the city. With the arterial streets inundated and people refraining from venturing out, street vendors’ aspirations of selling their wares were severely hit. Almost all parts of the city including the commercial streets in Thillai Nagar, Woraiyur, Rockfort and Teppakulam witnessed heavy rain on Friday noon and evening. As the streets were flooded, the street vendors were forced to terminate their sales and safeguard their stocks, mostly clothes, footwear and fancy items. “For at least two hours, the business of the street vendors was suspended. They were looking to cash in on the rush on Diwali eve to compensate for the lukewarm reception on the past few weeks. But the rains dashed their last hopes,” K Suresh, district president, AITUC said. As the sales of shops and street vendors were supposed to end by 10pm on Friday as per the lockdown restrictions, the vendors demanded additional time to compensate for the poor sales owing to the rain. “It was not like the last day before Diwali. A very limited number of people hit the commercial streets. With the rains getting stronger even the sparse crowd dispersed,” N Muthuraman, a street vendor on NSB road said.As the streets were inundated, two-wheelers faced a tough time traversing through the commercial streets. The uncovered parking lots too added to the misery, adversely impacting the sales. The weather also disappointed the people who were awaiting the final day before Diwali for purchasing goods with maximum discount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-dampens-sales-on-diwali-eve/articleshow/79216466.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Violate cracker time limit and face FIR, says top cop||Ludhiana: You can lodge a complaint against those bursting crackers beyond the permissible time limit at 112 police helpline. You can also click pictures or capture videos of violators and WhatsApp those to Ludhiana police on 9115601159. Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal says FIRs will be lodged against the violators. As per the National Green Tribunal (NGT) directions, residents can burst crackers only between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali.Agarwal says, “Those found bursting crackers before or after the permissible time limit will be taken to task. We have formed patrolling teams that will keep a check in their respective beats. FIRs will be lodged against all the violators.”  “People can also play a vital role in ensuring the compliance of the orders. They can dial 112 to report against the violations in their localities Also, they can send videos and pictures of violation, along with the location, to the police on WhatsApp number 9115601159. After receiving a complaint, cops will visit the spot and take action,” he adds.About green crackers, he says, “Joint teams of the police as well as the district administration will conduct checks at sale points to ensure sale of green crackers only.” Joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur says, “PCR and patrolling teams have been formed at the level of police stations to ensure compliance of rules. The teams will patrol before 8pm and after 10pm.”A cop, on condition of anonymity, says it will be difficult to ensure sale of green crackers only as fireworks from Delhi have already been dumped in the city and purchased too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/violate-cracker-time-limit-and-face-fir-says-top-cop/articleshow/79214159.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 14, 2020||Ludhiana||Surge in Covid cases pushes occupancy of beds in hospitals||Ludhiana: With the rise in number of fresh Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana during the ongoing festival season, there has been over 30% increase in the occupancy of beds in the hospitals of the district.According to a health department data, on October 26, when the number of active cases at 278 was one of lowest in the district, the combined occupancy of beds in level II and III facilities was 126. These patients in the government and private hospitals included both from and outside Ludhiana district.As the number of cases started increasing in the district and active cases reached 451 on November 2, the occupancy of beds also rose to 146. Two days later on November 4, 154 beds were occupied in Ludhiana hospitals when the district had 527 active cases.The health department data suggests that the occupancy of beds in both government and private hospitals was highest at 173 on November 10 when there were 756 active cases in Ludhiana. On Thursday, 166 beds were occupied in the level II and III facilities.President of Ludhiana unit of Indian Medical Association Dr Sunil Katyal said ground reports suggest that the Covid-19 situation is going from bad to worse in the district. “A reputed hospital, which had around 400 patients at one point of time, was recently left with just 25 cases. Even there the number of cases is around 100 at present. Same is the case with the civil hospital,” he said.Health department authorities, while acknowledging that cases are on the rise, insist that they have adequate availability of beds.“While we have 450 beds in level II and III government setups and 18 of those have ventilator facility, in private hospitals, we have 1,140 beds, of which 147 have ventilators. As of now, the number of cases compared to the count of available beds is much less,” said civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga.At the peak of pandemic, around 1,000 beds were occupied in private hospitals and around 200 in government hospitals, he said, adding, “In level II and III hospitals, we still have around 290 unoccupied beds.”BOX 3:Second surge likely by Nov-end: Civil surgeonCivil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said as per the assessment of social and preventive medicine department, Ludhiana could witness the second surge in Covid-19 cases by the end of November. However, it can be prevented if people follow the preventive norms, including wearing masks, and maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, and go out only if necessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/surge-in-covid-cases-pushes-occupancy-of-beds-in-hospitals/articleshow/79214149.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 14, 2020||Ranchi||Devotees must follow virus norms, says Banna Gupta||JAMSHEDPUR: State health minister Banna Gupta on Friday took a stock of the preparations for Diwali and Chhat Puja in and around the Steel City. After visiting Neel Sarobar in Kadma area, Gupta told TOI, "Every year, several thousands of devotees take part in the Chhath celebrations and offer 'arghya' to the Sun god at various ghats along the Neel Sarobar. However, devotees must follow all Covid protocols, including social distancing, for their own safety this year." Gupta was accompanied by Dhalbhum SDO Nitish Kumar Singh and other top officials of the district administration and civic bodies during his tour of the waterbodies. He directed the officials to ensure that all safety measures are followed during the festivities and asked them to clean the ghats and make arrangements for lighting on a war footing so that the devotees face no problem. The minister also ordered the district police to ensure peaceful and smooth celebrations. Meanwhile, a large number of people from Bihar who are residing in Jharkhand have decided to return to their native villages to take part in the Chhat festivities after the Hemant Soren government gave the nod to re-start the inter-state bus services. The bus owners' association said most buses to Bihar were booked from November 16 to 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/devotees-must-follow-virus-norms-says-banna/articleshow/79215380.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 14, 2020||Ranchi||288 fresh Covid infections, 4 deaths reported in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Jharhand on Friday reported a steep decline in the single-day fresh Covid-19 infections in comparison with recovered cases, bringing down the number of active cases to below 3,500. The state, however, witnessed four Covid-related deaths, taking the toll to 921. In the last 24 hours, the state reported 288 new cases and 606 recoveries after which the number of active cases dropped to 3,291. Of the fresh 288 cases, 84 were from Ranchi alone while Bokaro reported 45, East Singhbhum 29 and Dhanbad reported 26 new patients. Ranchi and East Singhbhum, which are high prevalence districts, have fewer active cases now after the number of recovered cases increased. On Friday, Ranchi reported 155 recovered cases while East Singhbhum reported 317, bringing down the active cases in the districts to 1,044 and 713 cases respectively. The recovery rate in the state is now 96.01%. The deaths were reported from Bokaro, East Singhbhum, Ramgarh and Ranchi. The state's casualty rate stands at 0.87% currently. As of Friday evening, the state has a cumulative caseload of 1,05,781 of which 1,01,569 patients have recovered. The state's seven-day growth rate is 0.21% as against the national average of 0.45%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state is also 330.41 days which is far better than the national figure of 155.76 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/288-fresh-covid-infections-4-deaths-reported-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79215348.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 14, 2020||Ranchi||Police exhumes body of minor to ascertain cause of death||Ranchi: Police on Friday exhumed the body of a 16-year-old tribal girl who had allegedly committed suicide in Varsha village under Thakurgoan police station on August 29. The relatives of the deceased girl had buried the body without informing the police. Rural SP Naushad Alam said the minor girl, who studied in Gumla, had come to her maternal grandfather’s house in Varsha under Nagri police station during lockdown.The girl allegedly hanged herself after her relatives scolded her for dating a local youth. The relatives rushed the body to her native village, Banapidhi, in the middle of night and buried it without informing the police. Alam said, “The body was exhumed in the presence of a magistrate, the local mukhiya and the girl’s father. Police have registered a case at the Nagri police station against seven persons under Sections 306, 201 and 202 of the Indian Penal Code. All the accused persons are members of the girl’s family.” The body has been sent to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences for autopsy to ascertain whether her death was a suicide or a murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/police-exhumes-body-of-minor-to-ascertain-cause-of-death/articleshow/79215649.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Jamshedpur||Steel City cops on toes to enforce NGT guidelines on bursting crackers||Jamshedpur: The station in-charges of all police stations across Steel City have been directed to ensure that the guidelines issued by the Jharkhand State Pollution Control (JSPCB) regarding bursting firecrackers this Diwali are followed to the hilt. In view of the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) recent order to all states amid the ongoing pandemic, JSPCB on Thursday notified an order allowing bursting of green crackers in private places between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali and Guruparv. Deputy superintendent of police (composite crime control) Arvind Kumar said, “All police stations have been asked to ensure that the NGT guidelines are not violated under any circumstances.” All the shopkeepers have been asked to sell only green crackers and make sure that safety norms pertaining to Covid-19 are followed properly. “Local police are making surprise inspections at regular intervals to see that the retailers sell only green crackers and also follow the social distancing norm in their shops,” shopkeeper Lochan Mangotia said. East Singhbhum — which falls in the ‘moderate and below category’ of Air Quality Index which is a prerequisite for bursting crackers this year (as per the NGT guidelines) — may have a tough time in enforcing the two-hour rule on Saturday, according to some locals. A Kadma resident preferring anonymity said, “Youngsters have a tendency to burst crackers late at night and it may be challenging for the police to make them adhere to the two-hour rule.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/steel-city-cops-on-toes-to-enforce-ngt-guidelines-on-bursting-crackers/articleshow/79215590.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Two youths arrested in connection with gang rape||RANCHI: Police have arrested two persons in connection with the gang rape of a 15-year-old girl in Pundaag area of the city. They said that the accused — Sarfaraz Ansari (25) and Md Amanullah alias Amaan (22) — would be forwarded to jail after Covid test. Police added that Sarfaraz was known to the minor girl and he took her to Amaan’s house in Pundaag, where they reportedly committed the crime. A case in this connection was registered on Wednesday at the Lower Bazaar police station under Section 376(D) of the Indian Penal Code and Sections 4 and 6 of the POCSO Act on the basis of a compliant filed by the girl’s father. Meanwhile, police have recovered the body of a 19-year-old girl near Ratantungri under Dasham fall police station. The girl had gone missing from her village Dokapidhi on November 7. Bundu DSP Ajay Kumar said the girl’s boyfriend is the prime suspect in the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2-youths-arrested-in-connection-with-gang-rape/articleshow/79215610.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Ranchi||Festive fears recede as Covid count drops||Ranchi: The rate of fresh Covid-19 infections has almost halved in the first half of November in comparison to the preceding fortnight. According to the state health department, there have been 3,406 Covid cases till now in November, whereas 6,335 cases were reported between October 15 and 30. There were 7,968 recoveries in the second half of October and 4,935 in November. The death count was 63 and 32, respectively for the corresponding periods. This development was in stark contrast to the warnings sounded by most health experts. The latter had said that infections would multiply after the Durga Puja festivities were over. The experts had claimed that the movement of the festive crowd would lead to a surge in cases. When asked about the decline in Covid cases, Devesh Kumar, a public health expert and a professor of community medicine at the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), said: “The ban on entry of devotees to Puja pandals and steps taken to ensure social distancing at all public places have helped in reducing the number of infections. We also need to congratulate the people for adhering to the Covid protocols. Most people were seen wearing masks in public. They should continue to exercise the same discipline, as the next two months are crucial in the fight against Covid-19.” Notably, the decline in Covid cases had started in October itself. As per the data from the health department, 633 fresh infections and 1,053 recoveries were reported on October 14, whereas the figures were 323 and 421, respectively for October 30. On November 12, 269 fresh cases were detected. Meanwhile, some experts continued to predict that the number of Covid cases would shoot up in the near future. “The chances of contracting viral infection increase during winter. Also, many viral infections have symptoms similar to Covid, which make it harder to detect the novel coronavirus. So people should diligently follow social distancing norms and wear masks, or else they might end up infecting themselves” Dr Mithilesh Kumar, a professor of preventive and social medicine at Rims, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/festive-fears-recede-as-covid-count-drops/articleshow/79215252.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 14, 2020||Ranchi||Jumbo calf falls into well, rescued||Ramgarh: A six-month-old elephant calf fell into a well in a paddy field on Friday morning in Lipiya village under Gola block of Ramgarh district. The calf was a part of a six-elephant herd which is camping at a nearby forest. Ved Prakash Kamboj, regional conservator of forests, said, “The calf fell into the well when the herd ventured into the field in search of food early on Friday morning. A team of forest officials rescued the calf with the help of locals and it was later reunited with the herd.” The calf was spotted by locals around 7am and the rescue operation took four hours, forest officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jumbo-calf-falls-into-well-rescued/articleshow/79215396.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||NDA helped migrants, earned their sympathy: Fadnavis||Former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, who was the Bharatiya Janata Party’s in-charge for Bihar elections, told TOI in an interview that the victory “was not unexpected”. “There was a sympathy wave for the NDA,” he added. The city MLA also said that the BJP is not trying to topple the Mahrashtra’s Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “The Uddhav Thackeray government will fall on its own and then BJP will stake claim to form a government and bring stability and growth in the state,” he said. Many believed the results of Bihar elections were unexpected. No. Everyone was rooting for the NDA and PM Narendra Modi as he had extended help to citizens during floods, Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. The central government distributed free foodgrains to crores of people. The transparent DBT (direct benefit transfer) facility during the unprecedented crisis instilled people’s faith in the government. The PM’s call to the people on if they would want a double engine for development or twin-Yuvraj (without naming Tejashwi Yadav and Rahul Gandhi) rule of ‘jungle raj’ worked in NDA’s favour. People realized that with Tejashwi’s return, Lalu Yadav’s misrule could return. This created a huge impact on the voters. After 15 years of governance, it isn’t easy to win the polls. But we were sure about the victory. It was felt that the migrants who suffered during lockdown wouldn’t vote for NDA. The Centre and Bihar made all arrangements for their travel and rehabilitation which earned them sympathy and, this in turn, translated into votes. It’s being speculated that women voters helped the NDA secure victory. Even in Lok Sabha polls, the women voted overwhelmingly for Modi. In PM’s election rallies, the women used to raise slogans while praising him for his good work. More than the men, they are more concerned about their home and family’s survival. The help extended by the Centre in the coronavirus pandemic made them realize that there was someone in Delhi who’s taking care of them. There were also talks that large-scale unemployment had left the youths disenchanted. It was a vindictive and false propaganda unleashed by the opposition. The youths voted in a big way for NDA which is visible in the numbers. For the first time in any polls, the perennial issues of bijlee, sadak and paani (power, road and water) along with the law and order weren’t there. The Nitish government had worked hard to address these concerns all these years. So, the opposition highlighted unemployment and made tall promises that failed to find favour with the voters. Will you be rewarded with a Central cabinet berth? The party leadership entrusted me with the task of being the leader of opposition in Maharashtra assembly and they expect an active contribution from me to keep BJP strong. Therefore, I will remain in Maharashtra. What were the issues you raised during campaigning? We told the people how under Modi the government was promoting atmanirbhar (self-reliant) Bharat and how development has taken place in all these years in Bihar under Nitish Kumar government. We also dwelt on how employment opportunities were being created in the state and how farmers were getting benefited through various policies. We even apprised the people of how the Centre and state were making efforts to take on the Covid-19 pandemic challenge. You think the Bihar tally could have been higher had you not contracted Covid before the last phase of campaigning? A man like me, who’s relatively unknown in Bihar, couldn’t have made a big difference. But, yes, I am a little disappointed as I am a fighter and would have worked harder if I hadn’t taken ill. I would have been more satisfied if I could have continued till the last. How do you analyse the Covid-19 situation in Maharashtra? The MVA government shouldn’t take credit for controlling the Covid-19 pandemic. The state has witnessed an unprecedented number of patients and deaths in India. The corona wave however, is reducing across the country and also in Maharashtra which is a good sign. We need to keep the situation under control and ensure that there is no second wave, particularly after the Diwali festival. The MVA govt is due to turn one shortly. Your views. I’ve been reiterating that such three-party governments don’t last long. There are several internal squabbles among them. Such governments fall on their own burden and there are several examples of it in history. We aren’t making any effort to topple them. We are working as a strong and responsible opposition. However, whenever it falls, we will provide an alternative government in Maharashtra. Currently, the state is witnessing an unprecedented agrarian crisis, which is sadly being ignored by the government. The farming community is worried and observing a black Diwali. We’re fighting to get them compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nda-helped-migrants-earned-their-sympathy-fadnavis/articleshow/79215434.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Times School Parliament: A pleasurable chaos, say students||Nagpur: Away from school for longer than ever before and with few outlets to exercise their intellect, students found catharsis in the Times School Parliament (TSP) 2020. The fact that they were debating whether schools should be reopened made it all the more personal. Riya Thakre from Narayana Vidyalayam, Chinchbhuvan, thoroughly enjoyed the impassioned discourse. “The way everybody fought for and against the motion and the vigour with which we made our points, shows how strongly we feel about it. The youth is clearly alive to the responsibility of bringing change with its views,” Thakre said. Most students felt that while the physical experience of the Town Hall parliamentary proceedings was “something else”, the Covid-induced virtual nature of this year’s TSP made it unique in its own way. “It was pretty cool debating virtually. I had not expected it to be this much fun,” said Sharvari Bhagat from The South Public School, adding that this was her second time at TSP, and she felt “a bit lonely because I did not have my batchmates along as a team.” In consonance with Bhagat, Arjun Rathi from Bishop Cotton School, Sadar, quipped that this debate was “a pleasurable chaos, and not a chaotic one”. Both sides were given a fair chance to speak and put forth their views with perfect timing, he added. Vaibhavi Vyas from Montfort School said the debate exceeded her expectations. “The way everyone was eager to counter others’ arguments was something I had not imagined could be possible virtually,” she stated. A first-timer at TSP, Vyas added that it was “a good learning experience” for her and “informative as well”. Despite being conducted over a Zoom call, Pranav Shukla from Edify School said the debate did not waver in its intensity. “I was a part of TSP last year too and I must say that while physical debating is quite lively, the virtual experience was amazing too. It totally met my expectations,” Shukla added. Ditya Thapar from Centre Point School International pointed out that since the event went on smoothly without any interruptions or network glitches, the excitement quotient stayed high. “It was great to see how elegantly everybody presented their arguments and stuck to them,” she said. Participating in a debate for the first time, Gunjan Kaur Tuli from Edify School found it an amazing ride. “I enjoyed putting out my views so much and look forward to attending more such initiatives. This was a memorable experience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/times-school-parliament-a-pleasurable-chaos-say-students/articleshow/79216587.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Times School Parliament: Teachers, too, had a blast||Nagpur: While students had a great time at the online TSP 2020, teachers, too, enjoyed every bit of it through live streaming. With the exciting debate being webcast live on TOI’s social media page, teachers did not miss out on the traditional format of TSP which used to be held at the famed Town Hall. Vinni Kumar, teacher at Montfort School, said “TSP is something we wait for every year. And this year the new online format was also very interesting. Children got good exposure and it was a great boost for their confidence level. They participated in something which was interesting and will enhance their abilities.” Richa Arora, teacher from Delhi Public School (Kamptee Road), said “It went a great way towards improving awareness of our children by making them participants in this experience towards enlightening the younger generation about Covid and its effect on the world.” Sutapa Sinha, teacher at Edify School, said it was wonderful watching the live webcast of the debate. “It was a wonderful experience to have our students participate in the Times School Parliament and see them perform on the livestream. Everything was very well coordinated. Students were at the top of their game. A couple of students could have got a few more chances to speak but overall it was a great event,” said Sinha. Elveena Biwalkar, teacher at Bishop Cotton School (CBSE), said she is eager to experience the traditional format of TSP too. “Since this virtual experience was so great, I wonder how much better it would be to see it in person. I enjoyed the last round where students countered each other’s points and put their points of view forward,” said Biwalkar. Centre Point School International teachers Sarika Bhowmick and Ketal Kothari said there was great discipline shown by speakers even in the final rounds when everyone was countering each other’s views. Meena Chowdhari, teacher at School of Scholars (Wanadongri), said, “We missed out on the vibrant atmosphere of Town Hall, but conducting it virtually was the need of the hour. Fortunately, students managed to recreate the atmosphere.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/times-school-parliament-teachers-too-had-a-blast/articleshow/79216638.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Tenders final, permanent campus for IIM-Visakhapatnam to be ready by June 2022||VISAKHAPATNAM: Reaching a major milestone in its history, the Indian Institute of Management-Visakhapatnam (IIM-V), has finalised tenders for its permanent campus. The campus will come up at a nearly 240-acre land pocket at Gambheeram in Vizag suburbs. As per tender conditions, the bidder will complete works by June, 2022. Students, however, will be able to move into the permanent campus, nestled in the lap of nature, by December, 2021. Classrooms, hostels and dining facilities are expected to be ready by then. The development comes at a time when this institute of national importance recently celebrated its fifth year of existence. Sharpooji Pallonji & Company Private Limited emerged as the successful bidder in the tendering process, quoting a price of around Rs 392 crore. The business conglomerate has already constructed two IIMs— IIM-Tiruchirapalli and IIM-Kashipur, as well as other premier academic institutions such as IIT-Patna (phase 1), IIT Madras-Research Park, NIT-Rourkela and IISER-Thiruvananthapuram. Speaking to TOI, IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said that this is another important achievement for the institute, which is poised for its next stage of development. “The institute completed all design, engineering and planning work much before floating tenders. A total of 1,800 good-for-construction drawings were prepared, which would help in ready launch of construction work. While the civil and structural designs were verified and certified by NIT-Warangal, the designs for the MEP (mechanical, electrical and plumbing services) were vetted by IIT-Delhi,” the director added. Prof Chandrasekhar further said that IIM-V will invest around Rs 70 crore on ICT infrastructure for full-fledged digital transformation of teaching-learning processes in the first phase of construction itself. “Operation Digital Board (ODB)-compliant digital classrooms, devices and equipment, evolved by the ministry of education would help in provisioning full-fledged blended learning. The institute will take advantage of emerging technologies like artificial intelligence and data analytics for augmented digitisation and holistic digital transformation,” the IIM-V director added. Around 60,384 square metres will be developed in phase-A construction. First phase construction will cover: student hostels, classroom blocks, administration, faculty block, learning resource centre, ICT infra and smart classrooms, conference centre, student activity and sports centre, dining and marketplace, central kund with amphitheatre, water treatment plant, sewage treatment plant, incubation centre and solar farm. Prof Chandrasekhar further said that an air quality monitoring station and contactless fixtures, which weren’t part of the plan earlier, have been included in designs before the issuing of tenders for the safety and health of students, faculty and staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/tenders-final-permanent-campus-for-iim-v-to-be-ready-by-june-2022/articleshow/79214378.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 14, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra CM, governor exchange Diwali greetings||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy called on governor Biswabhusan Harichandan on Friday and extended Diwali greetings. The CM was accompanied by his wife Y S Bharathi. The chief minister apprised the governor of the various welfare schemes being implemented in the state. Jagan also extended his greetings to Telugu people on the occasion of Diwali. “Diwali, the festival of lights, marks the triumph of good over evil. Let the divine light of Diwali bring in peace, prosperity and happiness to all,” the CM said. The governor too extended his warm greetings to the people of Andhra Pradesh and wished them peace, prosperity and happiness. “Diwali signifies the victory of good over evil. I am sure occasions like these will inspire us to conquer the calamities and build a society filled with peace, amity and communal harmony,” said the governor. He appealed to people to take all precautions of wearing a mask, washing hands, maintaining social distance and not let their guard down to check the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/cm-guv-exchange-diwali-greetings/articleshow/79219219.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra CM, governor exchange Diwali greetings||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy called on governor Biswabhusan Harichandan on Friday and extended Diwali greetings. The CM was accompanied by his wife Y S Bharathi. The chief minister apprised the governor of the various welfare schemes being implemented in the state. Jagan also extended his greetings to Telugu people on the occasion of Diwali. “Diwali, the festival of lights, marks the triumph of good over evil. Let the divine light of Diwali bring in peace, prosperity and happiness to all,” the CM said. The governor too extended his warm greetings to the people of Andhra Pradesh and wished them peace, prosperity and happiness. “Diwali signifies the victory of good over evil. I am sure occasions like these will inspire us to conquer the calamities and build a society filled with peace, amity and communal harmony,” said the governor. He appealed to people to take all precautions of wearing a mask, washing hands, maintaining social distance and not let their guard down to check the spread of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-guv-exchange-diwali-greetings/articleshow/79214413.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Amaravati||Covid-19 positivity rate in Andhra drops to 2%||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,593 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,51,298. This is the fifth day in a row that the state has recorded less than 2,000 cases. The toll increased to 6,847 as 10 more people succumbed to the virus. As many as 2,178 patients were declared cured. There are currently 20,262 active cases with 8,24,189 cumulative recoveries. The state also achieved the 9-million Covid-19 testing milestone on Friday. The latest one million tests were conducted in just 13 days, the lowest time taken to complete any one million tests in the state since the beginning of the outbreak. AP continues to retain its lead among all states in terms of conducting the highest number of tests per million population. East Godavari reported 259 new infections, followed by Chittoor (225) and Guntur (202). Seven districts recorded less than 100 cases. East Godavari, which has the highest caseload among all districts, crossed the 1.2-lakh case mark. Of the 10 deaths, three are from Krishna, two from Visakhapatnam, and one each from Chittoor, Guntur, Nellore, Vizianagaram and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh conducted 80,737 Covid-19 tests on Friday and detected 1,593 new cases. This translates to less than 2% case positivity rate, the lowest in several months. The state’s overall case positivity rate is still above 9%, against the national average of about 7%. The mortality rate stands at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-andhra-drops-to-2/articleshow/79219209.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19 positivity rate in Andhra drops to 2%||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,593 Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,51,298. This is the fifth day in a row that the state has recorded less than 2,000 cases. The toll increased to 6,847 as 10 more people succumbed to the virus. As many as 2,178 patients were declared cured. There are currently 20,262 active cases with 8,24,189 cumulative recoveries. The state also achieved the 9-million Covid-19 testing milestone on Friday. The latest one million tests were conducted in just 13 days, the lowest time taken to complete any one million tests in the state since the beginning of the outbreak. AP continues to retain its lead among all states in terms of conducting the highest number of tests per million population. East Godavari reported 259 new infections, followed by Chittoor (225) and Guntur (202). Seven districts recorded less than 100 cases. East Godavari, which has the highest caseload among all districts, crossed the 1.2-lakh case mark. Of the 10 deaths, three are from Krishna, two from Visakhapatnam, and one each from Chittoor, Guntur, Nellore, Vizianagaram and West Godavari. Andhra Pradesh conducted 80,737 Covid-19 tests on Friday and detected 1,593 new cases. This translates to less than 2% case positivity rate, the lowest in several months. The state’s overall case positivity rate is still above 9%, against the national average of about 7%. The mortality rate stands at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-19-positivity-rate-in-andhra-drops-to-2/articleshow/79214426.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||53 paddy-laden trucks, seized on November 8, released after 5 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: 53 trucks, apprehended by Andhra Pradesh police on November 8 at the Andhra-Odisha border check-post in Ichchapuram, were released on Friday. The trucks were charged with illegally transporting paddy from other states. According to police and revenue officials, a group of millers from East Godavari were moving paddy in trucks from West Bengal, Jharkhand and Odisha. Ichchapuram police circle inspector M Vinod Babu said, “We caught the trucks with loads of paddy from other states and handed over the vehicles to state revenue officials. On Friday, we received orders from higher-ups to release the trucks, so we did.” Srikakulam district civil supplies officials said that the state government recently issued a circular among police, civil supplies and agriculture departments regarding a ban on transport of any farm produce, including paddy, from other states. The decision was taken to support farmers who find it difficult to sell their produce, they said. YV Eswara Rao, general secretary of AP Lorry Owners’ Association, said that lorry owners and drivers were in no way responsible for this. They were not aware of the ban on transport of paddy from other states and rice millers also did not inform them regarding this, he said. “We requested the government to release the trucks and assured officials that this would not be repeated. The government responded positively and released the trucks on Friday,” Eswara Rao told TOI. Sources informed that a section of rice millers purchase paddy from other states when the price of paddy in those states is lower than in Andhra Pradesh. Srikakulam district civil supplies officials said that the state government recently issued a circular egarding a ban on transport of any farm produce from other states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/53-paddy-laden-trucks-seized-on-nov-8-released-after-5-days/articleshow/79214437.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Mounting losses force cinema hall owners delay reopening||VIJAYAWADA: Despite getting permission to reopen, most film theatres in Andhra Pradesh continue to remain shut. Many of these businesses have been paralysed by the lockdown. According to Andhra Pradesh Film Exhibitors Association, theatre owners still owe large amounts in electricity bills, maintenance costs and employee salaries. While some multiplexes have managed to reopen, older and single screen theatres have taken a worse beating due to payment backlogs. Theatres like Inox-Gandhinagar, Cinepolis-Ashoknagar opened last week, but they have been forced to run old releases such as Sarileru Nikevvaru, Ala Vaikuntapuramlo, Bheeshma and Kanula Kanula Dochayante, all of which are available on multiple OTT platforms. Audience turnout is less than 50%, the recommended occupancy. The exhibitors association has written to the state government to waive power charges incurred during the lockdown. “Power bills for theatres range between Rs 4 lakh and Rs 5 lakh every month. Over 400 theatres have not been able to pay due to lack of revenue. The overall pending power dues of these theatres stand at around Rs 10 crore. The current 50% occupancy restriction isn’t a profitable proposition,” said Vijay Kumar, a Kakinada-based film exhibitor. Another film exhibitor pointed out that many single-screen theatres had either partially or completely laid off staff and have only started recruiting again. In Krishna district, protests by theatre workers indicate that around 300 workers have been laid off and several hundred are owed months of salaries. Meanwhile, some theatres are looking to reopen from Diwali. Others are biding time in the hope of crowds for new releases. Exhibitors say that the lack of new movies and producers deciding to release their movies directly on OTT platforms have made the future of film theatres uncertain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mounting-losses-force-cinema-hall-owners-delay-reopening/articleshow/79214447.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 14, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Mounting losses force cinema hall owners delay reopening||VIJAYAWADA: Despite getting permission to reopen, most film theatres in Andhra Pradesh continue to remain shut. Many of these businesses have been paralysed by the lockdown. According to Andhra Pradesh Film Exhibitors Association, theatre owners still owe large amounts in electricity bills, maintenance costs and employee salaries. While some multiplexes have managed to reopen, older and single screen theatres have taken a worse beating due to payment backlogs. Theatres like Inox-Gandhinagar, Cinepolis-Ashoknagar opened last week, but they have been forced to run old releases such as Sarileru Nikevvaru, Ala Vaikuntapuramlo, Bheeshma and Kanula Kanula Dochayante, all of which are available on multiple OTT platforms. Audience turnout is less than 50%, the recommended occupancy. The exhibitors association has written to the state government to waive power charges incurred during the lockdown. “Power bills for theatres range between Rs 4 lakh and Rs 5 lakh every month. Over 400 theatres have not been able to pay due to lack of revenue. The overall pending power dues of these theatres stand at around Rs 10 crore. The current 50% occupancy restriction isn’t a profitable proposition,” said Vijay Kumar, a Kakinada-based film exhibitor. Another film exhibitor pointed out that many single-screen theatres had either partially or completely laid off staff and have only started recruiting again. In Krishna district, protests by theatre workers indicate that around 300 workers have been laid off and several hundred are owed months of salaries. Meanwhile, some theatres are looking to reopen from Diwali. Others are biding time in the hope of crowds for new releases. Exhibitors say that the lack of new movies and producers deciding to release their movies directly on OTT platforms have made the future of film theatres uncertain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/mounting-losses-force-cinema-hall-owners-delay-reopening/articleshow/79219233.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||Chandrababu Naidu stranded for an hour after car breaks down on way to Hyderabad||VIJAYAWADA: A mechanical failure in his car left former chief minister and TDP chief N Chandrababu Naidu stranded for nearly an hour near Narketpally area in Telangana on Friday. The incident happened in the afternoon when Naidu, who holds a Z plus category security, was heading towards Hyderabad from his residence in Undavalli. Sources said the car driver noticed an issue with the clutch plate while driving and had to stop the car on the side of the road. While they tried to fix the plate, Naidu’s security brought in another bullet-proof vehicle to escort him. Party sources said the car had already travelled over 60 kilometres by the time the defect was noticed. Naidu was heading to Hyderabad to celebrate Diwali with his family members. TDP leaders criticised the security personnel for not checking the vehicle properly before starting the journey. Eventually, Naidu reached his residence in Hyderabad safely. An internal inquiry had been ordered in this regard by the intelligence security wing, sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/naidu-stranded-for-an-hour-after-car-breaks-down-on-way-to-hyd/articleshow/79214473.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Sombre Diwali: Low-key Kali puja, few customers at firecracker stalls in Vizag||VISAKHAPATNAM: It will be a low-key Kali puja celebration for Bengali community in Visakhapatnam this year in view of the pandemic situation. The RK Beach Kali Bari — one of the oldest Kali puja organisers in the city — have decided to keep the gates closed for public on Saturday. The priest who conducts the main puja has not come down to the beach city this year and will perform the puja in the name of RK Beach Kali Bari from his Kolkata residence. “We are just going to offer a regular puja to Kali matha on Saturday. It would be an entirely closed door affair,” said Sudipta Banerjee, the managing trustee of the temple committee. The Waltair Kalibari, whose Durga and Kali puja celebrations draw huge crowds, has also decided to keep the celebration a low-key affair. “As the puja takes place late at night the turnout would be pretty low and we are going to maintain all Covid protocols. We have formed a team of dedicated volunteers to enforce the norms. We have also cut down on the cultural events this year due to the pandemic,” said Krishnendu Chowdhury, president of Waltair Kalibari. Big residential complexes across the city have made arrangements to ensure that people maintain Covid protocols while celebrating Diwali. Most of these complexes are not holding any celebrations involving residents. Rather, they have asked residents to celebrate the festival inside the four corners of their flats. The district administration has also taken elaborate measures in the wake of apprehensions of a second wave of the virus. “Action would be taken against those violating Covid-19 protocols. We are hopeful that residents will cooperate with us as they did during the Ganesh Chaturthi and Dussehra festivals this year,” a senior police official said. Meanwhile, there are not many takers for firecrackers this year. Traders say this is the first time in many years that their business has fared so poorly. “People are purchasing low quantity of firecrackers this year. Some consumers are also avoiding buying firecrackers as they are not sure if their housing societies will them to burst crackers,” he said. The number of firecracker stalls in Vizag city too have reduced by nearly 50 per cent. Normally, more than 100 stalls come up at Andhra University ground during Diwali. But this year, only 52 stalls have been set up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/sombre-diwali-low-key-kali-puja-few-customers-at-firecracker-stalls/articleshow/79214499.cms||Arpit Basu
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB arrests Australian architect in drugs probe||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau on Friday arrested an Australian architect, Paul Bartel, on charges of procurement and consumption of contraband. While officials did not find any contraband in Bartel's Santacruz flat, they claimed to have come across his WhatsApp chats allegedly discussing drugs. "We have found electronic evidence and his links with Agisilaos Demetriades, a South African national arrested last week," said Sameer Wankhede, NCB zonal director. Bartel, employed with an international infrastructure firm, is the 25th accused arrested in the drugs probe and has been remanded in 14 days' judicial custody. Bartel is close friends with Agisilous, whose sister Gabriella Demetriades is actor Arjun Rampal's partner and was also questioned by the NCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ncb-arrests-australian-architect-in-drugs-probe/articleshow/79217913.cms||S Ahmed Ali
November 14, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Bridge collapses in East Godavari||KAKINADA: An old R&B bridge connecting Pithapuram and Samalkota in East Godavari district crumbled on Friday evening. A gravel-laden tipper was travelling through the bridge when it crumbled. The tipper fell into Yeleru canal. Fortunately, the driver and helper in the vehicle survived the accident with minor injuries. Connectivity between Pithapuram and Samalkota has been shut entirely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/bridge-collapses-in-east-godavari/articleshow/79214510.cms||Samson Raj
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||One killed in group clash in Kondapuram mandal||TIRUPATI: One person was killed in a group clash at Pengi Ananthapur village in Kondapuram mandal on Friday. The deceased was identified as Gurunatha Reddy. The clash happened when an official team visited the village in the morning to conduct a survey to finalise beneficiaries eligible for compensation under Gandikota project. Gurunatha was attacked by a Ramesh Reddy of the same village. He died on the way to Tadipatri Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-killed-in-group-clash/articleshow/79214514.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||Not just Covid cases, deaths too rising in northern states||NEW DELHI: It is not just Covid cases that have gone up in several northern Indian states in recent days, many of these states have reported a spurt in deaths too during this period. Delhi recorded 728 Covid deaths in the past 10 days, the second highest in the country after Maharashtra (1,554), while fatalities had also risen sharply in Haryana and Himachal. Punjab and Uttarakhand too recorded an increase in deaths over the past 10 days after mortalities had dropped in the preceding period. After Maharashtra and Delhi, the last 10 days (November 2-12) also saw a high number of deaths in Bengal (549) and Chhattisgarh (309). But while deaths in Delhi were up 75% from the previous 10 days when 415 fatalities were recorded, the toll had decreased in Bengal and Chhattisgarh.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); The toll was up significantly in Maharashtra as well, from 1,113 in the previous 10 days to 1,554, but that was mainly on account of previous fatalities being added to the count during reconciliation of data. After Delhi, Haryana had the sharpest rise in deaths between the two 10-day periods. Fatalities rose from 105 in the October 23-November 2 period to 169, a rise of 61%. Similarly, deaths in Punjab were up from 132 to 185, in Himachal from 50 to 75 and from 50 to 64 in Uttarakhand. On the other hand, mortalities were down sharply in Chhattisgarh, where 309 deaths were recorded as opposed to 470 in the earlier period, Karnataka (down to 253 from 400), TN (257, from 325) and Andhra (118, from 175). Meanwhile, India reported 44,684 cases and 520 deaths from the virus on Saturday. Watch Covid-19: Not just cases, deaths too rising in northern states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-just-covid-cases-deaths-too-rising-in-northern-states/articleshow/79217864.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Vijayawada||2 electrocuted to death in Chittoor||TIRUPATI: Two persons were electrocuted to death in separate incidents in Chittoor district on Friday. In the first case, a man was electrocuted in new Indira Nagar locality close to DR Mahal road in Tirupati while urinating near an electric transformer. The deceased was identified as 35-year-old taxi driver Ramesh. In the other incident, 33-year-old Sheikh Jaffer got electrocuted while trying to erect a tent for a firecracker sale point near Mulakalacheruvu in Chittoor district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/2-electrocuted-to-death-in-chittoor/articleshow/79214521.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Hiked waqf property rent: Trust to get Rs 1 crore in arrears in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Six years after the Waqf Properties Lease (Amendment) Rules, 2014, was enforced, the state government approved a proposal to hike the monthly rent for a waqf property in Bhuleshwar in south Mumbai. "A revised lease for the Bhuleshwar property has been finalised and the monthly rent increased from Rs 2,500 to Rs 2.55 lakh. This will increase the income of the trust concerned, which will then use the funds for education, health and other social welfare activities," Nawab Malik, minorities department and skill development minister, told TOI. "This decision has set an example. Now, the rent of other waqf properties will also be increased," he added. The Bhuleshwar property of Roghe Charity Trust, registered under the waqf board, had been leased to Indian Oil (formerly known as Burma Petroleum Company), in 1934. The lease agreement was extended from time to time, and rent increased marginally. The oil company paid Rs 800 a month between 1978 and 1983 and Rs 1,750 a month between 1983 and 1988. Later, for some reason, there was a court case in this regard, said a source. Besides the revised hiked rent, Roghe Charity Trust will also get arrears of around Rs 1 crore, said sources. As of October 31, 2018, there are more than 5.7 lakh registered waqf properties in the country, and 24,906 cases pending in various courts pertaining to such properties. In the state, there is no clarity yet on the total number of wafq properties, but till 2018, it was estimated that the board owns about 1 lakh acres of land spread over many areas. The state then decided to digitise all waqf property records to establish the exact number of such properties, their value, locations, disputes and court cases, if any. A waqf property is a charitable endowment under Islamic law used for religious or charitable purposes for the benefit of the community. All mosques, shrines and Muslim religious places are registered with the waqf board. Once a property is registered with the waqf board it comes under the Waqf Act, 1995, and that means it cannot be sold or purchased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hiked-waqf-property-rent-trust-to-get-rs-1-crore-in-arrears-in-mumbai/articleshow/79217924.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Medical and dental colleges in Karnataka to reopen from December 1||BENAGLURU: All colleges affiliated to the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) will reopen from December 1, according to minister for medical education K Sudhakar on Friday. This includes 800 medical, dental, Ayush, paramedical, nursing and pharmacy colleges affiliated to the university. The Karnataka government had earlier announced that degree, diploma and engineering colleges will start on November 17. “I request the administration of colleges and students to strictly adhere to the guidelines issued by the government,” the minister tweeted. RGUHS vice chancellor Dr S Sacchidanand said they are waiting for an official notification from the government to release the standard operating procedures. The VC said while students have to be physically present for the practical classes, they plan to allow them to take theory classes either online or offline, as per their wish. “The stress would be on practicals as this is the area where students missed out on all these days. The practical classes will not just be in labs, but in hospitals in our case. We will have special timetables with students split into batches for the same,” he added. The university is mooting an orientation programme for students on Covid etiquettes to be followed. SOPs for libraries and hospitalsThere will be special operating procedures for hostels and libraries that will have to be followed. In the meantime, the minister said land has been earmarked for construction of a new institute of medical sciences in Chitradurga and the work will be completed in 30 months. Sudhakar said the CM has announced Rs 50 crore for the project. Foundation stonelaying for two more medical colleges at Chikkamagalura and Yadgir will be done by December-end. Work is in progress for Chikkaballapura and Haveri Medical colleges. Over 20 acres of land has been dedicated for the project in Chitradurga. Nursing and paramedical courses will be offered here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/medical-and-dental-colleges-in-karnataka-to-reopen-from-december-1/articleshow/79217921.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Railways gives nod for school staff to board locals||MUMBAI: The railways on Friday gave its approval for teaching and non-teaching staff of schools to travel on suburban local trains with immediate effect. Central Railway chief public relations officer Shivaji Sutar said, "The Maharashtra government had allowed teachers and non-teaching staff to travel. We have approved their request." Those taking locals will have to produce valid identity cards for entry at stations. The state's unlock guidelines issued on October 14 said 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff can be called to schools at a time for online teaching, tele-counselling and related work in areas outside containment zones. The government has also permitted schools to reopen for classes IX to XII from November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-railways-gives-nod-for-school-staff-to-board-locals/articleshow/79217950.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: For health staff, Diwali's just another day at work||MUMBAI: While Mumbaikars lit up their homes and prepared for the Diwali weekend, thousands of healthcare workers gave travelling to their hometowns a miss and chose to tend to Covid patients instead. Many decided against even meeting their near and dear ones despite being in the same city for fear of passing on the infection. This would be 23-year-old Geeta Kumari's first Diwali away from her home and parents. The nurse from Korba, Chhattisgarh, opted not to visit her family as she didn't want to risk their lives. On Friday evening, she reported for her usual shift of eight hours, of which six would be spent wearing PPE kits. The only reminder of Diwali was the rangoli she and her colleagues sketched at the entrance of the BKC's jumbo Covid Centre where she has worked for the past six months. "Diwali means homecoming. Everybody would love to be with their families, but the pandemic is not over, and there are patients to be cared for. I also didn't want to endanger my parents who are in their 60s," Kumari, who recently graduated to a supervisory role, said. Frontline workers stay away from home on Diwali to avoid passing on infectionKumari, who had worked as a nurse for the past four months, has lived in Mumbai only for a year. This was her first Diwali in the city. Intensivist Dr Rakesh Bhadade said he cannot remember the last time he was not with his family in Nagpur to celebrate Diwali. “One does yearn, but the risk of carrying the infection is real. Plus, trains and flights are packed and expensive, so many like me decided to stay back,” he said. At its peak, his team at Nair Hospital has handled several dozens of critical patients. “Thankfully the load is slightly less now as we have empty beds,” he said. While private hospitals have largely postponed elective surgeries for a week, their public counterparts don’t have that luxury. Head of medicine at Sion Hospital Dr Nitin Karnik has allowed resident doctors to go home in batches, but more than 90% are reporting to work. “With private hospitals and nursing homes cutting down services, we usually see a surge in patients during Diwali,” he said, adding that Covid doctors are on call throughout. Another teacher-cum-doctor said after their May holidays were cancelled they were hoping for respite on Diwali. “It seems the state hospitals have been allowed some leave, but we are waiting to hear from the corporation,” she said. At the makeshift Covid Care Centres, scores of patients requested for early discharge. Dr Neelam Andrade, dean at the NESCO facility in Goregaon, said stable patients who wanted to go home were tested and those with negative reports discharged. “A few who tested positive in the repeat test took discharge against medical advice. We told them to maintain distancing, wear a mask at home and stay under home quarantine,” she said. For the 291 patients who remain hospitalised, a special meal and festive decorations await them on Saturday. At the BKC Covid Centre, dean Dr Rajesh Dere ensured that sweets were served with meals to patients as well as healthcare workers in the run-up to Diwali. “We have also planned a small programme in the centre on Saturday so that people don’t miss out on the festivities completely,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-for-health-staff-diwalis-just-another-day-at-work/articleshow/79217953.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 14, 2020||India||WHO to set up traditional medicine centre in India||NEW DELHI: The World Health Organisation on Friday announced that it will set up a Global Centre for Traditional Medicine in India, prompting Prime Minister Narendra Modi to say that just like India has emerged as the “pharmacy of the world”, the WHO institution will become a centre for “global wellness”. WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus lauded PM Modi for his commitment to the universal health insurance coverage under Ayushman Bharat and evidence-based promotion of traditional medicines to achieve health-related objectives. Ghebreyesus made the announcement in a video message at an event in which the PM inaugurated two future-ready ayurveda institutions in Jaipur and Jamnagar via video-conferencing on the occasion of the 5th Ayurveda Day. The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda (Itra), Jamnagar, and the National Institute of Ayurveda (NIA), Jaipur, are both premier institutions of ayurveda in India. The former has been conferred the status of an institution of national importance (INI) by an Act of Parliament, and the latter is an institution deemed to be a university. On the occasion, the WHO DG said this new centre will support WHO’s efforts to implement its traditional medicine strategy 2014-2023.” Calling it a matter of pride, Modi said, “Ayurveda is not just an alternative today but is one of the key basis of the country’s health policy.” He pointed out that, during the pandemic, demand for ayurvedic products had increased rapidly all over the world and exports rose by about 45% in September against last year. The PM said while India is testing vaccines, it is also increasing international cooperation on ayurvedic research to fight Covid-19. Modi said ayurveda is India’s heritage whose expansion entails the welfare of humanity and all Indians will be happy to see that the country’s traditional knowledge is making other countries prosperous. I am confident that just like India has emerged as the pharmacy of the world, in the same manner this centre for traditional medicine will become the centre for global wellness||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/who-to-set-up-traditional-medicine-centre-in-india/articleshow/79217978.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: After 3 months, Porvorim’s active tally drops below 100||PANAJI: This week, Porvorim’s active case tally dropped below 100 for the first time in three months. The Porvorim primary health centre remained at the top of the list for a month-and-a-half with its constantly rising graph. For the last two months Porvorim’s caseload ranged between 300 and 400, the highest for North Goa after Sakhali. However, a host of measures initiated in September, right from activating panch members to coordinating efforts to strictly monitor patients in home isolation, helped to bring down the count. Health officer of the Candolim PHC, Roshan Nazareth, who was given additional charge of the Porvorim primary health centre after Dr Shikandar Talwar was transferred overnight in mid-September, said that one of the immediate steps taken was that of creating data of around 300 active cases on the state portal. It helped in data presentation as well as monitoring and daily reporting with effect from September 23. Nazareth was relieved of the additional charge only this week after Dr Vikash Naik took over as the PHC’s full-fledged medical officer. He added that they also formed teams sub-centre-wise to investigate and manage treatment. This ensured smooth distribution of kits, daily monitoring and referring of cases to either Covid care centres or hospitals in accordance with severity. Nazareth, said the work was distributed among the staff with clear guidelines of what was expected of them. All field staff were moved to their respective sub-centres and routine OPDs and other regular work restarted, he said. A meeting was held with the four village panchayats under the jurisdiction of the Porvorim PHC to seek their cooperation. Panchayat members helped with monitoring people in home isolation as also with the distribution of Covid kits, Nazareth said. He said that they also managed to get a pharmacist on contract basis to help the lone pharmacist. Biomedical waste authorisation for all the sub-centres, which was long-pending, was completed as also most of the waste that was pending disposal for a long spell was lifted through a dedicated agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-3-months-porvorims-active-tally-drops-below-100/articleshow/79216188.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Gurgaon||2020 is worst in November pollution in Gurugram in the last five years||GURUGRAM: The sharp increase in recorded instances of farm fires around Delhi-NCR this year has corresponded with the first half of November, which is seeing the highest number of ‘severe’ AQI days (five) in the past five years. Track the pollution level in your cityA comparison of AQI data since 2016 of the three-month period from September to November, when farm fires are reported, revealed that 2019 saw the most ‘good’ and ‘satisfactory’ AQI days. This year, till November 12, there has only been one ‘good’ air day. Farm fires alone, though, do not determine AQI. Meteorological factors, wind direction and local sources also play an important part. Though the air quality hovers around the severe (401-500) category on the AQI scale during the stubble burning season, the city in the past five years witnessed only one day when the AQI reached the severe+ or the emergency level. On November 7, 2016, it was recorded at 540. ‘Good’ air days — with AQI in the 0-50 range — were seen only twice in the year 2016 and gave the city a complete miss the following year. In 2018, there were three ‘good’ AQI days, followed by a five-year high of nine in 2019. With the exception of 2019, when it saw 23 ‘satisfactory’ air days, the city has seen nearly the same number of such days these past five years — 11 in 2016, nine in both 2017 and 2018, and 10 so far this year. According to the Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB), the city is witnessing the worst AQI in the past five years as it had only witnessed one ‘good’ air day since September 1. A senior HSPCB official said, “There is not a single ‘satisfactory’ day in October and in November it has already witnessed five ‘severe’ AQI days so far.” He added that the board is taking aggressive steps to curb air pollution in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2020-is-worst-in-november-pollution-in-gurugram-in-the-last-five-years/articleshow/79217989.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 14, 2020||Goa||Schools ask Goa govt to release grants for sanitisation||PANAJI: With schools set to reopen for Class X and XII students from November 21, school heads and managements have urged the state government to release maintenance grants due to aided institutions. They said that the grants for the last academic year are yet to be released and the expenditure for schools is going to increase significantly due to the guidelines recommended for sanitisation. As per the directorate of education (DoE) guidelines, schools have to deep clean frequently touched areas every day and provide thermal scanning at entry and exit points, among others measures. “We have 215 Class X students studying in five divisions. As per guidelines, we will have to keep only 12 students in a class. This will mean we require 19 to 20 classrooms and will need 15 litres of sanitiser each day, which works out to 400 litres a month. The government has not said anything about funding. It will cost us Rs 20,000 to 30,000 extra each month. This, when the maintenance grants due to us are yet to be released,” manager of New Educational Institute, Curchorem, Satyesh Kakodkar, said. He said it is also very difficult to ensure that students will continue to observe the guidelines once they step outside the school gates. “They will not maintain social distancing once they step outside the school premises. Also, our PTA has objected already to the proposal of having physical classes for students. The guidelines issued are not feasible to observe. It will take us one-and-a-half hours just to scan each of 215 students per day,” Kakodkar said. Institutes also said that there is no clarity in the DoE guidelines about what course schools are to take if parents are unwilling to send students for the planned physical classes. “Will they ask us to continue online classes as well? This will be a burden on teachers to have physical classes as well as online classes,” president of Goa Headmasters’ Association Mariano Valadares said. He said many aided schools are not financially sound and if the government does not release maintenance grants the institutes will find it difficult to bear the costs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-ask-govt-to-release-grants-for-sanitisation/articleshow/79216200.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||No comments, says Congress on Obama’s Rahul remark||NEW DELHI: Caught in an awkward situation after former US President Barack Obama described Rahul Gandhi as someone eager to impress but without the aptitude to master a subject, Congress on Friday said it had no comments to offer on the remarks of the American leader and that it has never given views on the opinion of individuals made in books. In his forthcoming memoirs, as per reports, Obama says Rahul has “a nervous unformed quality about him, as if he were a student who had done the course work and was eager to impress the teacher but deep down lacked either the aptitude or the passion to master the subject”. Congress spokesman Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “May I ... remind certain overzealous friends of the media... we don’t comment on individual’s views in a book. In the past, a leader has been called “psychopath” and “master divider” by people and agencies. We didn’t acknowledge such comments!” He referred to remarks made about PM Modi a few years ago. May I humbly remind certain overzealous friends of the Media running a sponsored agenda that we don’t comment on in… https://t.co/UGEuuuOjCi— Randeep Singh Surjewala (@rssurjewala) 1605257480000Watch 'Nervous' remark on Rahul Gandhi: Congress refuses to comment, but leaders target Obama||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-comments-says-congress-on-obamas-rahul-remark/articleshow/79217992.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Schools to upload student data online||PANAJI: The Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education has begun preparations for the 2021 Class X and XII public exams. It has asked schools to begin feeding data of students from these classes online through the board’s portal. “It is enjoined upon all the Head of the institutions to take up immediate steps to complete the online submission of students personal data by 20th December, 2020,” the board has told schools in a circular. The board has also put in place a support team to assist colleges with submitting the data through the online mode. “You are required to keep students’ photo ready in soft copy. Instructions for uploading of photo(s) will be communicated at later stagePhoto of the candidate will be printed on the passing certificate,” the board circular to schools states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/schools-to-upload-student-data-online/articleshow/79216216.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘UPSC training centres in all govt colleges’||PANAJI: A centre will be set up in every government college in the state next year to train its students to crack national-level competitive exams, chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Wednesday. Sawant said the centre under the directorate of higher education (DHE) will ensure that Goa sees many more qualifying as IAS officers in the coming years than the current number, which stands low. “It was mentioned that there are few IAS officers of Goan origin. Youngsters from Goa will be able to compete in national level competitive exams. We will take the necessary steps after December,” said Sawant, speaking at an event. He also said that various programmes will be organised in the state soon to mark the 60th year of Goa’s liberation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/upsc-training-centres-in-all-govt-colleges/articleshow/79216227.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Swayampurna mitras start work||PANAJI: Following the Prime Minister’s call for an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, a series of meetings are being held in the state wherein nodal officers appointed as swayampurna parishaks will monitor the work in coordination with the swayampurna mitras nominated in every panchayat to accomplish the objective. Aiming to make Goa self-reliant through this initiative, orientation training to secretaries, HODs and other senior officials was conducted by the directorate of planning, statistics and evaluation last month. The training programme was aimed at sensitising the officials on topics related to Swayampurna Goa, sustainable development goals, Atmanirbhar Bharat, finance management, accounting system, centrally sponsored schemes and vision document of the departments said Prakash Naik Information Officer (DIP). The swayampurna mitras have started visiting the villages to see that the benefits of government schemes reach the needy and ensure its effective implementation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/swayampurna-mitras-start-work/articleshow/79216246.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: No Covid-19 negative certificate? International flyers must be in home isolation||BENGALURU: International passengers landing in Bengaluru must undergo two weeks of home quarantine if they fail to produce a Covid-19-negative certificate of a test conducted not more than 72 hours before undertaking the air travel, the Karnataka government said on Friday. Passengers are exempted from the Covid-negative certificate requirement if they are coming for a death in the family, are suffering from serious illnesses, are pregnant women and or parent(s) with children below the age of 10. Such passengers need to self-monitor their health and alert medical authorities in case of any symptoms of coronavirus. Persons arriving without a negative certificate must undergo Covid test at the airport if available or must go into mandatory home quarantine. Flyers to submit self-declarationA release on Friday sent out by the commissionerate of health and family welfare, detailed the revised guidelines for international returnees to the state. As per the new rules, air or ship passengers planning their journey to the state must submit a self-declaration on www.newdelhiairport.in and opt for airsuvidha or the ministry of civil aviation website through their carrier 72 hours prior to boarding. Apart from uploading the RT-PCR negative test report on the portal, it should be produced at the airport of disembarkation. The returnees carrying a Covid-negative report need not be home-quarantined, but must personally monitor their health for two weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-no-covid-19-negative-certificate-international-flyers-must-be-in-home-isolation/articleshow/79217994.cms||---
November 14, 2020||India||Tablets seized from actor painkiller?||The mystery over the “banned tablets” seized from actor Arjun Rampal on Monday ended on Friday with NCB identifying it as painkillers Clonazepam and Tramadol, which are opiates (containing opium.) They have to be specifically prescribed by doctors for pain. Rampal was questioned by NCB officials for nearly six hours on Friday. The actor submitted the prescription for the two strips of tablets found in his house. “The prescription is subject to verification. We may call him for a second round of questioning,” the official said. His live-in partner Gabriella Demetriades was also questioned twice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tablets-seized-from-actor-painkiller/articleshow/79217999.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Panaji: CCP workers get Rs 6,900 Diwali bonus||PANAJI: In what has been a tough year for workers of the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP), the festival of lights has ushered in Laxmi just in time. Over 400 permanent staffers and workers have been given a Diwali bonus of Rs 6,900 each, being transferred to their bank accounts. Daily wage workers will also receive a bonus later along with their salaries. “We will calculate the bonus of the daily wage workers as per their salaries and give it to them at the end of the month,” mayor Uday Madkaikar said. “All the workers who were sick will be getting this bonus. Only gazetted officers will not receive the bonus from us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-workers-get-rs-6900-diwali-bonus/articleshow/79216279.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Pressure snag: Flight for Mumbai returns to Delhi||MUMBAI: A SpiceJet flight from Delhi to Mumbai had a cabin pressurisation problem, forcing the pilots to divert and land back in Delhi on Sunday morning. The Boeing 737 aircraft operating flight SG-789 touched down safely in Delhi around 8.55am, about half an hour after it took off for Mumbai. "The aircraft was climbing out after take off when the cabin altitude warning went off," said a source. According to flightradar24 data, the aircraft crossed 14,800ft, after which it descended to 10,000ft. "The switch that maintains cabin pressure in the aircraft was apparently not selected. It was left in the off position. Without a functioning aircraft pressurisation system, the pressure and oxygen level inside aircraft cabin would have dropped as it climbed to higher altitudes and the warning went off," a source said. The pilots radioed the Delhi air traffic control and turned the aircraft. A SpiceJet spokesperson said no oxygen masks were deployed and no discomfort was reported by any passenger or cabin crew member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pressure-snag-flight-for-mumbai-returns-to-delhi/articleshow/79218004.cms||Manju V
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Half of Nagpur’s population still prone to Covid||NAGPUR: The detailed report of Sero survey conducted between October 15 and November 5 was finally released by the divisional health authorities. As reported by the TOI on November 10, this sero survey showed that sero-prevalence in the NMC area was 49.7% and Nagpur rural its 20.7%. This means about 50% of the population in city got infected by coronavirus and recovered through own immunity. As per this survey, overall 35.17 % population in the district has developed antibodies. Or, 64.83% population is still vulnerable for Covid infection. Citizens still largely need to follow Covid-19 rules. Zone wise, lowest prevalence was seen in Hanuman Nagar at 35.8% while highest at 65% was in Ashi Nagar zone. Area wise, 80% surveyed candidates in Vinoba Bhave Nagar, and 75% in Tandapeth had antibodies while Janaki Nagar was the cluster with lowest sero-prevalence of 16%. The localities where high number of Covid-19 cases were reported during the earlier phase, like Mominpura, Satranjipura expectedly had higher number of people with antibodies. In case a second wave hits, these localities will have fewer number of cases. On the other hand, localities like Narendra Nagar (24%), Janaki Nagar (16%), Somalwada (32%) may have more cases. People residing in localities where sero-prevalence is less need to be more careful. The sero surveillance was carried out under the guidance of GMCH Dean Dr Sajal Mitra by Dr Uday Narlawar, HoD of community medicine department and Dr B B Murhar, HoD of biochemistry GMC, Nagpur. Dr Sanjay Zodapey, vice-president Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, provided technical support. The designing of the sero-survey protocol, training of staff, compilation and analysis of data were done by department of community medicine, GMC, Nagpur, and logistic support was provided by Nagpur Municipal Commissioner and district collector Nagpur. In this survey, blood samples were collected from all over the district and they were tested for presence of Covid antibodies, which are fighting mechanism developed by body against the disease. Presence of antibodies is indicative of past infection. After analyzing the figures, divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar appealed to the people residing in Nagpur district to follow social distancing norms and avoid crowding. People are also advised to get themselves tested and isolated at the earliest, in case they develop symptoms like cough, fever and breathlessness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/half-of-citys-population-still-prone-to-covid/articleshow/79215148.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 14, 2020||India||Australian architect arrested by NCB for buying contraband||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday arrested Australian national Paul Bartel on charges of procurement and consumption of contraband. NCB officials carried out a search of Bartel’s Santacruz flat but did not find any contraband. However, they claimed to have come across WhatsApp chats where he allegedly discussed drugs. Bartel, an architect employed with an international infrastructure company in Mumbai, has been booked for conspiracy, procurement and consumption. “We have found electronic evidence and his links with Agisilaos Demetriades, a South African national who was arrested last week,” said Sameer Wankhede, zonal director of NCB. Bartel is the 25th accused arrested in a case that began with the arrest of actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik for allegedly procuring marijuana for her boyfriend Sushant Singh Rajput. Paul was produced before the holiday court, which remanded him in 14 days’ judicial custody. Agisilaos and Bartel are very close friends. Agisilous’s sister Gabriella Demetriades, who is the live-in partner of actor Arjun Rampal, too was questioned by the NCB on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/australian-architect-arrested-by-ncb-for-buying-contraband/articleshow/79218009.cms||Ahmed Ali
November 14, 2020||Goa||‘Restart Collem to Vasco train route’||MARGAO: The Sanvordem Curchorem Rail Consumers Association (SCRCA) has demanded that the railways restart passenger trains between Collem and Vasco and the express trains that ran along the Londa-Vasco route before they were suspended in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. SCRCA president Devanand Bhandari demanded that the booking counter at the Sanvordem-Curchorem station be reopened soon. He said that with the booking counter being shut, people who need to avail refund of their train tickets for journeys that were booked before the suspension of trains, have to travel all the way to Vasco for the purpose. At present, while all passenger trains remain suspended, only the Vasco-Nizamuddin Goa Express train service has resumed. Before the suspension of the trains, six trains, i.e three pairs of express and passenger trains, would run daily on this stretch. SWR officials said the ongoing track doubling works would enable the railways to introduce additional passenger train services. “There is huge demand for introducing of new passenger trains from representatives of public connecting Goa with Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, which can be fulfilled only by completing doubling of railway track,” SWR chief public relations officer E Vijaya said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/restart-collem-to-vasco-train-route/articleshow/79216302.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Bengaluru||Trucker gets 110kg ganja to Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 27-year-old truck driver, transporting vegetables from Andhra Pradesh to Bengaluru, was caught with 110kg of ganja in his possession. The accused is Shivakumar alias Shiva, resident of Chikkaballapura. Police said they had received information about a drug peddler visiting a BBMP ground near GKW Layout in Rajagopalnagar on Thursday to meet potential buyers. DCP (north) Dharmender Kumar Meena formed a special team led by inspector Ayyanna Reddy and a trap was laid to nab him. “The accused was caught when he came on a motorbike. When frisked, we found 17kg of ganja in his bag. He was brought to the police station for further investigation. The accused revealed he has more stocked at his house in Chikkaballapura. Our team reached his residence and was surprised to see ganja, weighing around 93kg, stocked inside his bedroom and covered with tarpaulin,” said Meena. Preliminary investigation revealed Shivakumar had been regularly transporting vegetables and other food items from different parts of Andhra Pradesh to Bengaluru. “The accused is a regular commuter between Vijayawada, Tirupati and Bengaluru. A drug peddler met Shivakumar in Tirupati and sold ganja to him. On Thursday, Shivakumar came to Bengaluru with 17kg of ganja, knowing he could get regular customers in the city and make good money,” said Meena. An investigating officer said Shivakumar would hide the ganja between other goods in the truck and dump them at his house. “He’d bring 10-15 gunny bags on each trip. Before coming to the city, he would halt at his house and shift the bags,” he said. As per Shivakumar’s confession, he had been storing ganja for the last five months. “We don’t buy his claim of dealing in ganja for five months. No drug peddler will suddenly supply such huge quantities to a novice, who is a truck driver. Shivakumar seems to have deep contacts in the drug-peddling business and we will question him further,” an investigating officer said. Another officer said they received information from a ganja peddler, currently lodged at Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/trucker-gets-110kg-ganja-to-bengaluru/articleshow/79218006.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Rare butterfly species seen at Japanese Garden||Nagpur: A city-based amateur entomologist Shubham Chhapekar has recorded a rare butterfly species named common banded peacock (Papilio crino) at the Japanese Garden, which is part of Seminary Hills reserve forest, Civil Lines. Though Chhapekar claims the butterfly has been rediscovered by him after 90 years as it was first recorded by a British biologist D’Abreau in 1931, entomologist and expert in butterflies Ashish Tiple said, “It cannot be called a rediscovery but a new report, as it has been sighted after a long gap. The insect is commonly sighted in other parts of Vidarbha and the Western Ghats.” Tadoba divisional forest officer (DFO) Shatanik Bhagwat said, “The common banded peacocks were frequently recorded by him for the last two years in and around Tadoba. This season they are frequently sighted.” The butterflies have also been recorded by bird lover Gopal Paliwal in Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) landscape. Common banded peacock is a gorgeous black butterfly with green bands on its wings, found in India and Sri Lanka. This butterfly can be seen in the moist and dry forest but the population can be quite high in scrub jungles and plantation. Chhapekar, who works as a biologist at Gorewada zoo, recorded the species during an ‘insect walk’, an activity for creating awareness about diversity and appreciating the role being played by the insects in nature. “There have been multiple efforts to document butterfly diversity in the city which did not mention the presence of this species and has been seen after a long time,” Chhapekar said. There are about 19,238 species of butterflies in the world. In India, out of 1,504 species, Tiple reported 167 species in 2011. Nagpur is home to 145 species of butterflies and Seminary Hills has a record of over 100 species as per the research by Tiple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rare-butterfly-species-seen-at-japanese-garden/articleshow/79215282.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 14, 2020||Goa||Goa: Soon, faster trains to run between Londa & Miraj||MARGAO: Trains along the Londa-Miraj and Sanvordem-Vasco section will now run at enhanced speeds. The Commissioner of Railway Safety, following a recent inspection of the route, has permitted increase of sectional speed (speed at which a train runs between stations) for 186 km between Londa and Miraj and 19 km between Sanvordem and Vasco of the South Western Railway (SWR) from the current 100/105 kmph to 110 kmph. Deputy general manager and chief public relations officer, SWR, E Vijaya said that the lockdown period enabled the railways to complete major track maintenance works thus enabling them increase the sectional speed. “Maintenance of track is an integrated part of train operations and has a direct impact on both the safety of tracks as well as in maintaining the maximum permissible speed of the trains. Maintaining the railway lines, points, crossings, sleepers and ballast for enhancing the safety, speed and reliability are being taken-up during the maintenance,” Vijaya said, adding that the enhancement of speed means faster trains can now be run in this section. SWR officials informed that works such as increase in super-elevation at curves, correction of transition length, through tamping, attending points and crossings with track machine named UNIMAT have been completed enabling the speed enhancement. Recouping of ballast to maintain cushion, recouping missing permanent way fittings have also been completed, they said. General manager, SWR Ajay Kumar Singh, said that increase in speed on this section will improve mobility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-faster-trains-to-run-between-londa-miraj/articleshow/79216320.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Noise levels soar as narkasurs await burning in Goa||PANAJI: With the authorities continuing to turn a blind eye, or in this case a deaf ear, rampant sound violations saw blaring music being played next to effigies of Narkasur. The ear-splitting music affected infants and senior citizens, who comprise 11% of the state’s population. Despite sound levels crossing the stipulated decibel levels, government authorities failed to step in and curb the sound levels. In the state capital, the Corporation of the City of Panaji, which had imposed restrictions on the height of the effigy and the use of sound systems, decided to relax the ban on the use of sound system just a few days earlier. “These boys don’t understand that senior citizens, people with high blood pressure and other ailments suffer because of the loud music,” said 65-year old Lalita Malkarnekar. “From evening to early morning they continue playing loud music and we cannot sleep. There are three Narkasurs around our house and they have started playing loud music that it is rattling our windows.” A 2018 WHO report said that noise pollution is an important public health issue, featuring among the top environmental risks to health and can have negative impacts on human health and well-being. Noise is also linked to chronic stress and sleep disruption as proved by a study published in the British Medical Journal in 2013. The study showed that for every 10 decibel increase in noise exposure there was a 3.5% rise in hospitalisations for heart ailments. Questioning the failure to keep a check on music levels, some senior citizens said that most of the music played is not even devotional. “They eat food there and even drink alcohol there. They have made it a party,” said Ashok Rane, an electrician from Chimbel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/noise-levels-soar-as-narkasurs-await-burning/articleshow/79216336.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Concern over Covid, air pollution in states where pandemic strike rate is high||Nagpur: People are most concerned about Covid-19 and air pollution, reveals a public survey conducted in top ten pandemic-hot states. 63% of the respondents in the state, who selected air pollution as their biggest concern, believe that the government has not done enough to address the issue. Conducted through social media by CarbonCopy, the survey was administered in 10 states with the highest Covid-19 cases across the country — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Kerala, West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi. In Maharashtra, 88.7% of the respondents agreed that unsustainable exploitation of the environment is increasing air pollution, water stress and climate change in India. Interestingly, 88.3% respondents said that they won’t burst firecrackers this festive season. “The percentage of female respondents who said they won’t burst firecrackers this Diwali was higher compared to male respondents. 94.1% of all female respondents said they won’t burst firecrackers, against their mail counterpart who stood at 76%,” the survey report stated. 11.7% of the respondents stated that air pollution was their top concern. Of those, 37% were of the view that the government is doing enough to address their concern while 63% respondents think the government was not. Apart from this, 27.8% of the respondents said that economy was their top concern. “The survey clearly shows that respondents in the worst pandemic affected states in India have called for an increased attention to addressing air pollution and economy as urgently as Covid-19. Luckily, fixing all three can be done together by incentivising and supporting industries that add to less pollution, add more jobs, help conserve forest and the biodiversity it supports,” said Aarti Khosla, publisher of CarbonCopy.  “Having environmental issues on an equal footing to concerns about the economy shows a perception change, large part of which can be attributed to the pandemic. The survey also reveals that there is a significant understanding among Indians, between the unsustainable forms of development and its link with air pollution and the climate crisis.” The survey has revealed that large part of the population understands the basic issues of over-exploitation of environment. “For a country where nearly one-third of the population is vague about climate change, this is a high degree of understanding of the lived experience that a changing climate brings. With Covid pandemic still looming, response towards improving air quality needs to be on war footing,” Khosla added. IN A NUTSHELL Survey states | Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Kerala, West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Delhi. Sample size | 2218 Age group | 25-60 years Gender | 50:50 male-female Concerns | 42.9% Covid19; 23.2% air pollution votes; 19.5% economy, 7.1% jobs; 3.8% farmer issue; 3.4% China Are govts doing enough to tackle Covid | Bengal says no, rest yes Air pollution | UP unsure, rest not satisfied||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/concern-over-covid-air-pollution-in-states-where-pandemic-strike-rate-is-high/articleshow/79215294.cms||Manka Behl
November 14, 2020||Goa||Diwali wishes from guv, CM, archbishop||Panaji: Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari and chief minister Pramod Sawant have extended their greetings to the people of Goa on the occasion of Diwali. In his message, the governor said, “The divine festival reinforces our spirit of unity and solidarity. May this wonderful festival herald a brighter year of peace, prosperity and happiness for the people of this beautiful state.” The chief minister said the festival celebrates the victory of light over darkness, good over evil, hope over despair and knowledge over ignorance. “Diwali is a symbol of hope for human kind. The festival also signifies universal compassion, inner joy of peace, love and the awareness of unity to all,” he said. Archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao also extended Diwali greetings on behalf the Catholic community of Goa. “It is my sincere wish and prayer that we, the people of this beautiful land, coming from various religious and cultural backgrounds, may become concrete witnesses of harmony and respect for one another and may work hand in hand for the integral development of our beautiful state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/diwali-wishes-from-guv-cm-archbishop/articleshow/79216370.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Goa||Diwali the confluence of five festivals||KERI: The festivals of Dhanatrayodashi, Diwali, Laxmi Pujan, Bhaubij and Balipratipada together mark the five days of festivities that make up Diwali, the festival of lights. Celebrations always commence with Dhantrayodashi or Dhanteras, the birth anniversary of Lord Dhanvantari, the Hindu god of medicine. The day is an expression of gratitude to the science of Ayurveda. Since 2016, the government of India has marked it as National Ayurveda Day. Speaking about India’s rich plant-based tradition of medical treatment, Madhukar Bachulkar, a retired botany professor from Kolhapur said, “Today, Ayurveda is regaining respect and plant-based medicines are finding preference over allopathic drugs. There is a need to document local medicinal plants used by traditional healers.” On the eve of Diwali, in Goa, the effigy of Narkasur is burnt and from Diwali day people light lamps to express their joy on the killing of the demon king. Mythology has it that Lord Krishna killed Narkasur on chaturdashi. On this day people make a variety of preparations from pounded rice. Sweets form the highlight of the day’s gastronomic offerings. On the third day, people worship the goddess of wealth, Laxmi. In Vasco and in Kajur, Quepem, community celebrations are organised with religious and cultural activities. On the fourth day is celebrated the bond between a brother and sister with Bhaubij. Sisters pray for their brothers' wellbeing on this day. The fifth day is celebrated in honour of the popular king Bali, who undertook many positive measures for the benefit of agriculturists. In Sanguem and Quepem, the Velip women take part in an eco-feministic festival called Dhillo. The tribal Gawda community celebrates the Dhenlo during which an image of Lord Krishna is taken in procession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/diwali-the-confluence-of-five-festivals/articleshow/79216355.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
November 14, 2020||India||Imported RFID tags cost 1,000, desi ones now come for 250||NEW DELHI: The focus on indigenisation of radio-frequency identification (RFID) tags, which are being used for all railway wagons, coaches and locomotives, has helped reduce the cost drastically. While in 2017, the per tag cost was estimated around Rs 1,000, domestic players are making them available at Rs 250. Officials in railways said imports in the beginning could have cost the national transporter up to Rs 5,000 per tag. These tags are being attached to all the four lakh wagons, coaches and locomotives to enable railways to quickly get the exact location of each of these rail vehicles and also help in predictive maintenance for greater efficiency of the rolling stock. The project is being implemented in association with GS1 India, which develops and maintains global standards for business communication. “This is a completely 100% Make in India project and an achievement of the government policy,” said a railway ministry official. Corroborating how the project has made progress despite apprehensions from global players, S Swaminathan, chief operating officer of GS1 India said, “There were several apprehensions from other countries whether we can do this. We tried to work locally with CRIS to make it better to meet our requirements. This will go a long way in improving the efficiency of Indian Railways.” He said the focus is to enhance the service and reliability with regard to availability of rail vehicles. “This will help Railways know where the wagons are across the country. The tags also record the maintenance history of the railway vehicle,” Swaminathan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/imported-rfid-tags-cost-1000-desi-ones-now-come-for-250/articleshow/79218019.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Gadkari sanctions Rs 25cr for 2nd Manish Ngr RUB||Nagpur: Residents of Manish Nagar and adjoining localities got a Diwali gift with the opening of the Manish Nagar railway overbridge (ROB) and underbridge (RUB) and the Wardha Road double decker flyover. However, union transport minister Nitin Gadkari doubled their joy by sanctioning Rs25 crore for a second RUB beside the existing railway crossing at Manish Nagar. The three structures were inaugurated by the city MP on Friday morning. He said that he had sanctioned Rs25 crore for the RUB from the Central Road Fund (CRF) and wanted MahaMetro to construct this structure too. The state election commission (SEC) had asked MahaMetro and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), the funding agency, to hold the inauguration function indoors. Therefore, Gadkari opened the three structures through remote control from the convention hall of the Airport South Metro station. Turning to broad gauge (BG) Metro, Gadkari said that the state cabinet had cleared it and soon, it would get clearance from the central government. “This Metro will provide fast connectivity to people living in towns and cities near Nagpur. Once the Centre clears it, the work of starting the BG Metro will begin on a war footing,” he added. Praising MahaMetro for completing the three structures fast, Gadkari said that when he saw the lights of the double decker flyover from his residence on Thursday night, he felt very happy. “Due to trains, the Manish Nagar railway crossing has to be closed 135 times per day. This causes great inconvenience to people living on the other side of the railway line. Now, their troubles are over,” said Gadkari. Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of the Opposition in state assembly, said that as the local MLA he had been trying to seek government funding for the Manish Nagar ROB but the state government showed no interest. “I thank Gadkari for providing NHAI funds for the project. People of Manish Nagar and other localities will greatly benefit from it,” he added. Guardian minister Nitin Raut and home minister Anil Deshmukh praised MahaMetro for completing the project fast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gadkari-ayes-rs-25cr-for-2nd-manish-ngr-rub/articleshow/79215303.cms||Ashish Roy
November 14, 2020||Mumbai||Diwali weekend witnesses big crowds at glittering Mumbai markets||MUMBAI: Bazaars of Dadar, Crawford Market, Andheri and Bandra were filled with shoppers on Friday, the eve of the biggest Hindu festival of Diwali. Saturday's Naraka Chaturdashi marks the main ritual of Lakshmi Puja whose mahurat falls between 6.01-8.01pm in Mumbai. The day begins with abhyangsnan for the South Indian community and follows with feasting, predominantly on vegetarian items. Certain temples such as Swaminarayan, Mumbadevi and Mahalaxmi commonly perform Chopdi pujan on Diwali day as Gujarati and Marwari businessmen open new account books on this occasion. Yet, the shadow of the Covid-19 lockdown has meant that the ritual is either cancelled or downsized this year. The new Vikram Samvat 2077 will begin on a muted note as places of worship remain closed for devotees. Lights, decorations and feast elements of the festival are on prominent display, though. Traditional Diwali faral items such as chakli, chivda, anarse, chirote, shakkarpare and rava and besan laddoos are fresh, last-minute buys for most households. Women's cooperatives such as Kutumb Sakhi have bravely kept up the tradition of manufacturing and selling these items, although the orders are nowhere close to past volumes. Local housewives and stores are filling the gap. In Dadar, the Joshi Family Store, now in its 75th year, has seen business drop around 25%. Owner Shekhar Joshi said, "Many longtime customers who would come from Virar and Kalyan could not do so this year due to restrictions on train travel. Many other buyers are using private vehicles to pick up faral, and we are delivering to nearby areas." The Bengali community celebrates Kali Puja on the night of Diwali. Bengal Club is celebrating its 85th year of Kali Puja with traditional rituals at its Kali Mata temple in Shivaji Park. "We have been organising this puja since 1935. On Saturday the ritual starts at 9.30pm followed by pushpanjali at 12.30am and bhog aarti at 1am," said spokesperson Prasoon Rakshit. "We worship Dakhhini Kali having four hands. We do not offer any alcohol as we don't feel that is an absolute necessity. Bengal Club does not offer animal sacrifice either, instead we offer gourd or pumpkin," he said. This season's celebration is devoid of public gathering or distribution of bhog prasad. The puja and havan will be streamed online on YouTube and Facebook.  Friday's Dhanteras saw modest jewellery trade. "We are seeing floating crowds, with a few customers staying back to make purchases," said Pradeep Madaye, manager, Waman Hari Pethe Sons, Dadar. See also P 4||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/diwali-weekend-witnesses-big-crowds-at-glittering-mumbai-markets/articleshow/79218020.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
November 14, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: At Hampi, Muslim devotee prays to Shiva in yearly ritual||BALLARI: Amid the ruins of Hampi, near a century-old temple, sits a man offering azaan. Nothing extraordinary about that, one might say, until on closer look, it emerges that Errangalli Nabhisaab is praying by a Shivalinga. And after his prayers, he proceeds for a darshan of the Virupaksha shrine. After Dasara festivities every year, Nabhisaab performs this special ritual of his own, inspired by his uncle, Errangalli Fakirsaab. The latter reads the mythological tale of goddess Durga (Devi Purana) at Huligemma temple in Ballari during Vijayadashami and after attending that, Nabhisaab heads to Hampi. Both hail from Errangalli village in Ballari district. Typically, Nabhisaab says, he arrives a day before and wakes up early the next morning. He takes a holy dip in the Tungabhadra river, carries water to pour on the linga, and then sits in prayer in wet clothes. It has become a staple annual visit for the past five years. Muslim devotee visiting Maha temple for 7 yearsI am doing this for my satisfaction,” he says. “For me, Allah, Shiva, Krishna, Durga... all are one God. The god I love, I pray to. And I pray in my own way.” After his prayer on the river bank, he heads to the famed Virupaksha temple with friends. The ritual, in fact, began when he came to Hampi once with his friends, Nabhisaab recalls. It was a rather private affair until he was spotted by a local photographer, Shivashankar Banagar. “He asked for the photographs I took and I was pleasantly surprised when he gave me his name and details. It just showed how deeply rooted communal harmony is in our culture,” says Banagar. Nabhisaab says he has been visiting Pandarinath temple in Maharashtra as well for the past seven years, going by padayatra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/at-hampi-muslim-devotee-prays-to-shiva-in-yearly-ritual/articleshow/79218017.cms||Shreyas HS
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Why not 50% rent for 50% occupancy, ask theatre planners||Nagpur: The state government’s decision and rules for allowing re-opening of theatres and auditoriums have led to theatre organizers putting off performances for the near future. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Friday released its orders for the city auditoriums. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi’s order allows theatrical events in closed auditoriums as well as open theatres if they follow the Standard Operational Process (SOP) decided by the state government. Theatre organizes in city have raised some issues regarding the SOP. “As per the SOP, theatrical events will be organized on 50% occupancy. Then, would the government reduce theatre rent by 50%?” asked Sameer Pandit, well-known theatre organizer in city. “For a three-hour slot, we have to pay more than Rs30,000, which is just impossible to recover in present Covid-19 conditions, where we are not sure about public response. So, we have decided to wait and watch, and not to hold any event for a few more days,” Pandit added. As per the government SOPs, theatres will run on 50% occupancy, audiences won’t be allowed to carry food items with them, and organizers will be responsible to ensure sanitization of theatre. “More than 80% theatres in the state are managed through government authorities like municipal corporations. Why doesn’t the government itself takes responsibility to sanitize the halls?” said Prasad Kambli, president of Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Natya Parishad. Santosh Kanekar, president of Natya Nirmata Sangh, apex body of state theatre producers, said that a model SOP was submitted to the state government but it was ignored. “In Mumbai, theatres are allowed to reopen from November 5. Till date, not a single theatrical performance was held. We are hopeful about revised SOPs,” he said. As far as Nagpur is concerned, two preferred theatres destinations — Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall and Suresh Bhat Auditoriums — are owned and maintained by NMC itself. There are four other venues in city where shows are organized, but they are maintained by private trusts or groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/why-not-50-rent-for-50-occupancy-ask-theatre-planners/articleshow/79215314.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||On Diwali, 80% Covid beds vacant in Nagpur||Nagpur: Thanks to declining cases of Covid-19 and increasing recoveries in last two weeks, 80% beds in Covid-19 hospitals are vacant in Nagpur district ahead of Diwali. As beds are now available readily in both government as well as private hospitals, people should not hesitate to get themselves tested and admitted in case they develop symptoms like cough fever and breathlessness, said authorities. Officials have informed that despite festivities, all dedicated Covid Health Centers and Covid Hospitals will be working 24X7 and medical facilities will be available at hand for the citizens. “People are advised to follow Covid distancing norms. We must avoid crowding and social gatherings of any sort. Let’s wear masks without fail, and use sanitizers to wash hands often during festivities,” said Dr Sanjay Jaiswal, deputy director of health services for Nagpur division. He also appealed to citizens to get themselves tested and isolate at the earliest if they experience any symptoms. As per the daily Covid-19 report generated from the Civil Surgeon’s office, total 1,116 patients are presently admitted in various medical facilities (Dedicated Covid Health Centers, Hospitals, and Care centres) while 2,063 patients are under home quarantine on November 13. As per the raw estimate, more than 5,500 Covid-19 beds are available now in total 115 medical facilities. With only 1,116 beds occupied, about 80% beds are now vacant. Testing facilities are also available in all testing centres across the district. On November 13, total 5,558 tests were conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-diwali-80-covid-beds-vacant-in-city/articleshow/79215345.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 14, 2020||India||SC allows use of green crackers for 2 hours||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday endorsed the NGT order allowing bursting of green crackers for two hours for Diwali, Chhath Puja, Gurupurab, Christmas and New Year celebrations and modified a Telangana high court order imposing complete ban on crackers. The modification came on a petition by Telangana Fireworks Dealers’ Association which said the HC order created confusion even after the NGT specified categories of cities where green crackers could be burst. “The cities/towns where air quality is ‘moderate’ or below (better), only green crackers be sold and the timings for use and bursting of crackers be restricted to two hours during festivals...,” the NGT had said Watch SC allows use of green crackers for 2 hours on Diwali, other festivals||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-allows-use-of-green-crackers-for-2-hours/articleshow/79218027.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Nagpur||Lonar crater, Sur Sarovar declared as Ramsar sites||Nagpur: The world-famous Lonar crater in Buldhana district has been added to ‘Ramsar sites’, getting the highest level of protection. It got the designation with another wetland, the Sur Sarovar, a bird haven in Agra. The convention on wetlands of international importance (i.e. Ramsar Convention) is an international treaty that provides for international cooperation for the conservation of wetlands. It was signed on February 2, 1971, at Ramsar in Iran. A Ramsar site is a wetland site designated to be of international importance. “The two new Ramsar sites were added to the list on November 11, 2020. Sur Sarovar is listed at 2,440 while Lonar is at 2,441 place. It is a matter of pride for Maharashtra as it emphasizes the conservation and wise use of wetland ecosystems that are important for biological diversity and human communities,” said MS Reddy, APCCF & field director of Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR), which manages Lonar. “Current trends in human settlement potentially pose a major threat to wetland conservation and wise use. As cities grow and demand for land increases, the tendency is to encroach on wetlands. Hence, Ramsar notification is important,” said Reddy. Now, Maharashtra has two Ramsar sites, the first being Nandur Madhmeshwar in Nashik district. The letter of declaration of Lonar lake as Ramsar site is awaited and will be issued soon. Lonar lake is part of Lonar wildlife sanctuary, which was notified on June 8, 2000, with an area of 3.65 sq km. The area of the lake is 77.69 hectares. Earlier, Lonar was under the control of territorial division but it was brought under the control of Melghat on December 4, 2018, as part of the unified control of MTR. Reddy had prepared the proposal to include Lonar in Ramsar and after one year of continuous efforts by MTR team, Lonar lake was declared a Ramsar site. Lonar crater sits inside the Deccan Plateau, a massive plain of volcanic basalt rock leftover from eruptions of some 65 million years ago. Lonar crater is the result of a meteorite impact that occurred 50,000 years ago. The lake is high in salinity and alkalinity, as the lack of an outflow leads to a concentration of minerals as the lake water evaporates. Specialized microorganisms such as anaerobes, cyanobacteria, and phytoplankton survive in this harsh chemical environment. Outside the lake, there is a considerable diversity of plants and animals. Inhabiting the site are 160 species of birds including the vulnerable Asian woolly neck and common pochard, 46 species of reptiles, and 12 species of mammals including the iconic grey wolf. The Sur Sarovar was originally created to supply water to the city of Agra in summer. The wetland soon became an important and rich ecosystem. The site’s patchwork of different habitat types provides refuge to resident and migratory birds, and more than 60 species of fish. Threatened species include the vulnerable greater spotted eagle, sarus crane and catfish. Sur Sarovar is important for bird species which migrate on the Central Asian flyway and over 30,000 water birds visit the reservoir annually. WHAT IT MEANS * Increased publicity and prestige for Lonar wetlands * Access to aid through grant fund * Facilitate development of lake, policies for its wise use * Encourage international cooperation and expert advice on problems of Lonar wetland * Help ensure survival of representative natural eco-systems of Lonar as well as rare and endemic species||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lonar-crater-sur-sarovar-declared-as-ramsar-sites/articleshow/79215417.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Centre clears Rs 2,708cr Amphan relief, TMC says it’s inadequate||Kolkata: The Centre on Friday decided to provide additional central assistance to West Bengal to the tune of Rs 2,707.7 crore for Cyclone Amphan survivors under the National Disaster Response Fund. NDRF released Rs 4,381 crore to six states, Bengal getting the largest share. Immediately after an aerial survey — along with chief minister Mamata Banerjee — of the May 20 devastation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had provided an advance central grant of Rs 1,000 crore to Bengal, already stretched in battling the Covid pandemic. Union home minister Amit Shah headed the high-level committee, which under NDRF released Rs 4,381 crore to six states. For Amphan, apart from Bengal, Rs 128.2 crore was given to Odisha; for Cyclone Nisarga, Rs 268.5 crore was approved for Maharashtra, and for floods and landslides during southwest monsoon, Rs 577.8 crore was given to Karnataka, Rs 611.6 crore to Madhya Pradesh and Rs 87.8 crore to Sikkim. The Bengal government says it has already spent Rs 6,350 crore for Amphan relief and rehabilitation from the state exchequer, and assessed the total damage to be around Rs 35,000 crore.  Banerjee had flagged this to the PM in the July 27 meeting during the launch of ICMR’s high throughput Covid-19 testing facilities in Mumbai, Kolkata and Noida. She had said the Centre also asked the state to spend SDRF funds for Covid expenses. An estimate of Rs 35,000 crore was submitted to the Centre and a detailed report given to an inter-ministerial team, Banerjee had added. She had indicated that even after releasing Rs 6,350 crore, Bengal didn’t receive anything apart from the Rs 1,000 crore advance. “I will request you to look into the matter,” she had told the PM. A week back, Shah, during his two-day Bengal visit, had broached the issue, accusing the Trinamool government of misusing funds meant for Amphan relief. He refused to accept that the Rs 1,000 crore grant had been inadequate. Bengal BJP had on October 5 staged demonstrations across the state, including Kolkata, alleging that cyclone victims were not getting dole and funds had been siphoned off. State BJP vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar iterated this. “The Central relief funds are not reaching people. These are being misused,” he said. Trinamool’s Rajya Sabha chief whip Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said: “The PM, after an aerial survey, had promised adequate help. Clearly, this adequate help isn’t enough. The state had initially assessed that nearly 28.6 lakh homes had been completely damaged, over 17 lakh hectares of agricultural land — most with standing crops — went under water. In addition, local connectivity — roads, bridges, embankments — were destroyed.” “As an immediate step,” he continued, “the state had spent Rs 6,350 crore on its own. While we welcome any help, it is clearly not enough. The Centre should not end up depriving Bengal, which is already stretched fighting the pandemic.” The Centre had sent an inter-ministerial team to assess the extent of Cyclone Amphan damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/centre-clears-rs-2708cr-amphan-relief-tmc-says-its-inadequate/articleshow/79217020.cms||---
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||TMC-Suvendu wrangle sparks Midnapore clash||Egra: A clash broke out between Trinamool Congress and a Suvendu Adhikari-loyalist “dalchhut Trinamool” at Purba Midnapore’s Patashpur on Thursday, sending out clear signals how the war of titans is taki- ng its toll at the grassroots. Toughs allegedly close to local gram panchayat pradhan Bijan Bandhu Nag led a siege on the local TMC office at Udaypur village with lathis and rods while block working president Dipak Das was holding a meeting inside. They smashed some of the motorbikes parked in front of the office and took some with them while Trinamool leaders locked themselves up inside. “Some people had started gathering in front of the party office while we were holding a meeting. They led the attack the moment we opened the door to find out who they were,” said Das. Local Trinamool leaders pointed fingers at Nag. The gram panchayat pradhan didn’t refute the charge. “These leaders do not belong to our party. I took the initiative in building the party office here. Some of these leaders contested the last panchayat polls as independents and are now trying to corner me. What’s the harm if I hang posters in favour of Suvendu Adhikari? He is a party leader and minister,” Nag said. The lack of trust between Trinamool and Suvendu loyalists also showed up in Murshidabad and Malda where zilla parishad sabhadhipatis have come under the scanner for “aiding” the rebel leader. Suvendu kept up his defiance even on Friday, a day after election strategist Prashant Kishor called on his father Sisir Adhikari at his Kanthi residence. “I should not speak for myself. But I want to know who all had come to Nandigram after the Amphan disaster. I came here, worked with the panchayats and restored electricity in the area. I also saw to it that water supply was restored. I come to you whenever you need me,” he said while inaugurating a Kali Puja at Nandigram. In the meantime, TMC organizers are caught in a bind. The party’s Panskura MLA, Firoja Bibi, did a balancing act by making it to the two rallies — one by Suvendu and the other by Trinamool — on November 10. But the situation has become suffocating for people like Abu Sufian and Abu Taher, who are both in Trinamool so far. The organizers want an early resolution of the wrangling match before they become sworn enemies within the same party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-suvendu-wrangle-sparks-midnapore-clash/articleshow/79217009.cms||Suman Mandal
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||RKM congratulates Modi as Vivekananda statue put up at JNU||Kolkata: The Ramakrishna Mission headquarters at Belur Math has congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for unveiling online a life-size statue of Swami Vivekananda on the JNU campus on Thursday. In his message, RKM general secretary Swami Suvirananda said: “We rejoice that the statue of Swami Vivekananda has been installed on the campus and we compliment and congratulate our Honourable Prime Minister for inaugurating it.” In November 2019, the JNU administration had filed a police complaint about defacement of the statue. The congratulatory message mentions the same and says the reinstallation “finally brings happiness” after the past incident had “saddened” the mission. Instead of commenting on the current protests against the statue at JNU, Swami Suvirananda stressed on Vivekananda’s ideologies and called him an embodiment of inclusivity who should be the icon for today’s youth. Quoting from the Vivekananda’s biography by the Starks, he said: “If Columbus discovered the soil of America, Vivekananda discovered the soul of America.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rkm-congratulates-modi-as-vivekananda-statue-put-up-at-jnu/articleshow/79216951.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu issue is Trinamool’s internal matter, says Dilip||Midnapore: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh doesn’t want to take a peek inside a “neighbour’s family” and leave it to Trinamool to handle family matters with Suvendu Adhikari. “This is a problem with their house. We don’t want to take a peek inside a neighbour’s house. We are gentlemen. We are busy with our own family,” Ghosh said in Midnapore on Friday. He was responding to a question on TMC giving an ultimatum to party’s Purba Midnapore chairman and Kanthi MP Sisir Adhikari over disciplining his son Suvendu. The Bengal BJP president, speaking on All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen’s (AIMIM) proposal to Trinamool for an alliance in the upcoming assembly polls, said:. “AIMIM has won five seats in Bihar. The party is now threatening secular parties in Bengal asking them to form an alliance with them. We have no problem.” “We rely on our own strength and ideology,” he said amid speculation that BJP is nursing both Suvendu and AIMIM to cut into the pro-Mamata vote share in Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-issue-is-trinamools-internal-matter-says-dilip/articleshow/79217006.cms||Sujoy Khanra
November 14, 2020||Ranchi||Home alone for some lawmakers, socializing for others this Diwali||Ranchi: The lawmakers of Jharkhand are a divided lot over celebrating Diwali this year amid the Covid pandemic as some will continue with their tradition of meeting visitors while others will stay put at their homes and will not be entertaining any guests. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth said he will throw open his doors for visitors on Saturday evening and greet them with sweets. “Every year, I celebrate Diwali with the people. After the customary puja at home, I will meet visitors as usual and distribute sweets in my parliamentary constituency,” Seth said, adding, “We will observe social distancing protocols while meeting everyone.” Jamshedpur (East) MLA Saryu Rai, while speaking to TOI over phone from Jamshedpur, said, “Every year, I do Lakshmi Puja at home, distribute sweets among the residents of various localities and visit the homes of colleagues, if invited. This year will not be an exception.” State agriculture minister Badal Patralekh, who had tested positive for Covid-19 in August, will celebrate Diwali with underprivileged children from his assembly constituency (Jarmundi). “Every year, he gifts clothes and sweets to the underprivileged families on Diwali and he will do the same this time,” Patralekh’s aides said. Patralekh’s ministerial colleague and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon will spend his Diwali at a city hospital as he is still recuperating from Covid-19. However, some Congress workers will deliver sweets to him on Saturday, party sources said. Like Oraon, Silli MLA Sudesh Mahto will be in isolation, albeit at his home, as he recovers from a second bout of the infection. For Jharia MLA Purnima Singh, Diwali will be a quiet affair this year. “There will be no visitors. After doing puja at home, I will light up diyas and spend time with my family,” she said. Ranchi’s BJP MLA C P Singh, who was also infected with the deadly virus, will remain indoors this Diwali. So far, six cabinet ministers and more than 20 MLAs in Jharkhand have tested positive for Covid-19 since July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/home-alone-for-some-lawmakers-socializing-for-others-this-diwali/articleshow/79214612.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Ditched by agent, 9 Bengal goldsmiths stranded in Iran||Kolkata: Nine goldsmiths from West Bengal are stranded in Iran’s Qisom after their passports were taken away by an agent. They have been in Iran since June 2019 after they had been to Saudi Arabia in mid-2018. In their petition to the external affairs ministry, the goldsmiths, who are mostly from East Burdwan and Hooghly, said they had been sent to Iran on the promise of higher salary by an agent who first brought them to Saudi Arabia. Each used to earn Rs 35,000 a month in Saudi Arabia and were promised Rs 66,000 a month in Iran, but were never paid the amount. Most of the nine men have been without wages for over four months. One of them, Sk Julfikar, who is from Jamalpur in East Burdwan, had posted a video appeal. He said they didn’t have money even to buy food and were now living illegally since they couldn’t return home as their passports were with the agent. Unless the Indian government helped, they could not manage to return, Julfikar added. Sk Jinnar Ali of National Anti-Trafficking Committee, an NGO, said he had tweeted to the external affairs ministry and attached Sk Julfikar’s video appeal. The ministry, Ali added, responded immediately and referred the matter to the Indian embassy in Tehran. “I talked to a senior official who had earlier helped rescue 21 Indian goldsmiths who were similarly stranded in 2018,” Ali said. The embassy official promised to provide food to the stranded men and assured of talking to their employer to locate the agent, he added. Ali further said they were trying to contact an agent from Memari in East Burdwan to help get the goldsmiths home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ditched-by-agent-9-bengal-goldsmiths-stranded-in-iran/articleshow/79217027.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||Friction in Jalpaiguri TMC as MLAs skip function||Jalpaiguri: Five of the six Trinamool Congress MLAs in Jalpaiguri district didn’t turn up for a Bijoya Sammilani organized by former party MP Bijoy Chandra in town on Thursday, raising eyebrows ahead of the Bengal assembly polls. While Trinamool’s Dhupguri MLA Mitali Roy, Anantadeb Adhikary from Mainaguri, Bulu Chikbaraik from Malbazar and Sukra Toppo (Munda) from Nagrakata were among the prominent absentees, state tourism minister Goutam Deb — an MLA from Dabgram-Fulbari constituency — is recuperating from Covid at a Siliguri hospital. Many block presidents, panchayat sabhapatis and former councillors of Jalpaiguri Municipality were not seen at the programme held at an art gallery and the party’s youth president, Sakat Chatterjee, skipped the function as well. Rajganj MLA Khageswar Roy was the only Trinamool legislator present and he didn’t hide his “annoyance” over his truant colleagues. “We have six MLAs in the district. I am here alone. Where are the others? Where are block presidents and panchayat samiti sabhapatis?” he said. Nagrakata MLA Toppo defended their absence. “Three of us — the MLAs from Malbazar and Mainaguri, and I — were at a programme in Kolkata. We reached here late on Thursday and couldn’t attend the Bijoya Sammilani,” he said. However, the party’s Jalpaiguri leadership refused to buy the explanation. “The Rajganj MLA too was at the Kolkata meeting. If he could make it on time, why couldn’t the others?” a district leader said. TMC Jalpaiguri president Krishna Kumar Kalyani reserved comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/friction-in-jalpaiguri-tmc-as-mlas-skip-function/articleshow/79216979.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
November 14, 2020||Ranchi||Healthcare experts urge people to refrain from bursting crackers today||Ranchi: Even though the National Green Tribunal has already allowed bursting of crackers for two hours on Diwali, healthcare experts here are hoping against hope that people will refrain from doing that in view of the risks involved for Covid survivors. “I would request people not to burst any crackers this Diwali as we have curbed the virus spread after a long fight. We have saved some critical patients’ lives too and we will be putting their lives at risk if we burst crackers tomorrow. We have come across several cases where a Covid survivor, especially if he/she has co-mordities like hypertension, diabetes and others, experience respiratory complications even after recovering from the disease months ago. So one can only imagine what the smoke emanating from bursting crackers will do to their lungs,” the head of department of pulmonary medicine at Rims, Dr Brajesh Mishra, said on Friday. He added, “Our battle against the virus isn’t over yet and besides following safety norms like wearing masks, using sanitisers, etc., people should say no to crackers this year.” Meanwhile, some ophthalmologists and plastic surgeons have asked people to be careful while bursting crackers as many come to them post Diwali with severe eye and burn injuries. “We get the maximum number of patients with burn injuries after Diwali. In order to avoid such accidents, people must wear cotton clothes, avoid placing diyas on floors and on stairs and keep the electric sockets covered and out of reach from children,” head of department at burn, plastic and reconstructive surgery at Rims Dr Vikrant Ranjan said. Asked what are the immediate steps one should take in case of burn injuries before he/she is taken to hospital, Dr Ranjan said, “They should immediately be placed under a tap and the water flow must continue till the patient gets some relief. And one of the most important things to keep in mind is that people should never try to remove clothes from such a patient’s body. Instead, he/she should be covered in a clean sheet before being taken to the hospital. In addition to these, such patients should not be given anything to eat immediately after the accident.” Dr Anindya Anuradha, senior ophthalmologist at Medica Hospital here, said, “People often injure their eyes either by standing too close to a cracker or by exposing their eyes to the sulphur particles which are present in the smoke that emanates from bursting firecrackers. People should be careful while bursting crackers and they must not stand near a firecracker if it has already been lit.” She added, “Those experiencing difficulty in their eyesight should immediately clean their eyes with fresh water and consult a doctor, if required.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/healthcare-experts-urge-people-to-refrain-from-bursting-crackers-today/articleshow/79214624.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 14, 2020||Kolkata||‘Deranged’ man beats 4 to death at liquor shop in Burdwan||Jamuria: A 30-year-old man, who is reportedly not stable mentally and was released from police custody in an assault case earlier this week, allegedly bludgeoned to death four persons with a piece of wood at a country liquor shop in West Burdwan’s Jamuria around Thursday midnight. A village mob roughed up accused Sadhu Hembram following the murders at Shibpur Majhipara locality. Police rescued him and took him to hospital. He was arrested after discharge on Friday and produced in court, which remanded him in judicial custody. The victims have been identified as Ambuj Mondal (45), Prasanta Saha (62) and Subodh Bouri (62) of Bankura and Kaliya Bhuinya (65) of Salapur in West Burdwan. While Mondal, Saha and Bouri worked at the liquor shop, Bhuinya was visiting his daughter in Jamuria. The four were chatting when Hembram attacked them. According to residents, Hembram was detained by police after he allegedly attacked his wife a few days ago. He was released from lock-up on Tuesday, they said. Asansol police commissioner Sukesh Jain said Hembram slept at a shop next to the liquor outlet. “He is said to be mentally deranged,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/deranged-man-beats-4-to-death-at-liquor-shop-in-burdwan/articleshow/79217000.cms||Mohammad Asif
