November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru soaks in the spirit of the festival of lights||The pandemic might still have its shadow cast on us, but Bengaluru is not a city to stop, especially during the joyous time of Deepavali. Markets in the city are abuzz with shoppers picking up lamps, decorations and more. Homes are lit up, small and safe parties are still taking place and everyone's wishing the lights bring in new hope in this time of uncertainty. While people might have toned down the scale of their celebrations owing to the pandemic, homes are still being decorated and lamps, lights, flowers and lanterns are still in demand. Popular hubs like Gandhi Bazaar, Malleswaram and Shivajinagar are drawing in festive shoppers, who are in search of these. Armed with their masks, people can be seen shopping in these areas. Given the current situation, events are few and far between in the city. But those that are taking place are ensuring they restrict the number of guests and follow all necessary precautions. These events have also become the places to display ones Indian finery that have not been used much this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-soaks-in-the-spirit-of-the-festival-of-lights/articleshow/79222989.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Trump thrills protesting supporters with motorcade drive-by||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump delighted supporters gathered near the White House on Saturday with a slow motorcade drive-by through downtown Washington on the way to his Virginia golf club. A week after the presidential race was called for Democrat Joe Biden, thousands of Trump loyalists converged on the nation's capital to protest the election results and falsely assert the vote was stolen. Trump persists with his claims and complaints even though a broad coalition of top government and industry officials has declared that the Nov. 3 voting and the following count unfolded smoothly with no more than the usual minor hiccups _ ``the most secure in American history,'' they said, repudiating his efforts to undermine the integrity of the contest. The crowd cheered as Trump's limousine neared and people lined both sides of the street. Some stood just a few feet away from Trump's vehicle; others showed their enthusiasm by running along with the caravan. They chanted ``USA, USA'' and ``four more years,'' and many carried American flags and signs to show their displeasure with the vote tally. After making the short detour for the slow drive around Freedom Plaza, where people were gathering for the afternoon rally, the motorcade headed to the president's club. After an hour of speeches from Trump loyalists from around the country, the flag-waving crowd set off toward the Supreme Court. The ``Million MAGA March'' was heavily promoted on social media, raising concerns that it could spark conflict with anti-Trump demonstrators, who have gathered near the White House in Black Lives Matter Plaza for weeks. In preparation, police closed off wide swaths of downtown, where many stores and offices have been boarded up since Election Day. Chris Rodriguez, director of the city's Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency, said the police were experienced at keeping the peace. ``People who come to the District know that you can't bring weapons to our city and that violence will not be tolerated,'' Rodriguez said. The issues that Trump's campaign and its allies have pointed to are typical in every election: problems with signatures, secrecy envelops and postal marks on mail-in ballots, as well as the potential for a small number of ballots miscast or lost. With Biden leading Trump by wide margins in key battleground states, none of those issues would have any impact on the outcome of the election. Trump's campaign has also filed legal challenges complaining that their poll watchers were unable to scrutinize the voting process. Many of those challenges have been tossed out by judges, some within hours of their filing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-thrills-protesting-supporters-with-motorcade-drive-by/articleshow/79227380.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Trump thrills protesting supporters with motorcade drive-by||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump delighted supporters gathered near the White House on Saturday with a slow motorcade drive-by through downtown Washington on the way to his Virginia golf club. A week after the presidential race was called for Democrat Joe Biden, thousands of Trump loyalists converged on the nation's capital to protest the election results and falsely assert the vote was stolen. Trump persists with his claims and complaints even though a broad coalition of top government and industry officials has declared that the Nov. 3 voting and the following count unfolded smoothly with no more than the usual minor hiccups _ ``the most secure in American history,'' they said, repudiating his efforts to undermine the integrity of the contest. The crowd cheered as Trump's limousine neared and people lined both sides of the street. Some stood just a few feet away from Trump's vehicle; others showed their enthusiasm by running along with the caravan. They chanted ``USA, USA'' and ``four more years,'' and many carried American flags and signs to show their displeasure with the vote tally. After making the short detour for the slow drive around Freedom Plaza, where people were gathering for the afternoon rally, the motorcade headed to the president's club. After an hour of speeches from Trump loyalists from around the country, the flag-waving crowd set off toward the Supreme Court. The ``Million MAGA March'' was heavily promoted on social media, raising concerns that it could spark conflict with anti-Trump demonstrators, who have gathered near the White House in Black Lives Matter Plaza for weeks. In preparation, police closed off wide swaths of downtown, where many stores and offices have been boarded up since Election Day. Chris Rodriguez, director of the city's Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency, said the police were experienced at keeping the peace. ``People who come to the District know that you can't bring weapons to our city and that violence will not be tolerated,'' Rodriguez said. The issues that Trump's campaign and its allies have pointed to are typical in every election: problems with signatures, secrecy envelops and postal marks on mail-in ballots, as well as the potential for a small number of ballots miscast or lost. With Biden leading Trump by wide margins in key battleground states, none of those issues would have any impact on the outcome of the election. Trump's campaign has also filed legal challenges complaining that their poll watchers were unable to scrutinize the voting process. Many of those challenges have been tossed out by judges, some within hours of their filing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-thrills-protesting-supporters-with-motorcade-drive-by/articleshow/79227320.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Will give fierce reply if provoked by expansionist forces, PM tells jawans||LONGEWALA/ RAJASTHAN: Delivering an unambiguous message to India’s neighbours, PM Narendra Modi on Saturday asserted that the country would give a “prachand jawab” (fierce reply) if provoked. Taking a swipe at China without naming it, Modi said the world is troubled by “expansionist forces” and “expansionism shows a distorted mindset that belongs to the 18th century”. “The world today knows that we will not compromise our interests at any cost,” Modi said while addressing soldiers at Longewala Post in Rajasthan on Diwali. In a dig at Pakistan, he said Indian soldiers had entered the homes of the “sponsors of terror” and hit them, a reference to the surgical strikes against terror camps across the LoC. Hailing the valour of Indian troops, he said, “If anyone casts an evil eye on us, our soldiers give them a fitting reply. This establishes the credibility of the Indian Army in the world. Today, the Army is engaged in military exercises with other big countries. We have strategic partnerships to fight against terrorism. Indian armed forces have showed that they can strike at terrorist havens anywhere, anytime.” Modi recalled the battle of Longewala, which has become part of military lore after Indian troops here successfully thwarted numerically superior Pakistani forces in the 1971 war. Watch Rajasthan: Indian Armed Forces can strike on terrorist havens anywhere, anytime, says PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-give-fierce-reply-if-provoked-by-expansionist-forces-pm-tells-jawans/articleshow/79227724.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||East Asia Summit: India stresses on respecting territorial integrity||NEW DELHI: In an oblique message to China, India on Saturday expressed concern over “actions and incidents” that “erode” trust in the South China Sea, and underlined the importance of adhering to international law, respecting territorial integrity and sovereignty. In an address at the 15th East Asia Summit (EAS), external affairs minister S Jaishankar also talked about the Indo-Pacific and noted the growing interest in the region as an integrated and organic maritime space with 10-nation ASEAN at its centre. The external affairs minister, referring to recent announcement of policies by several countries for the Indo-Pacific region, said that harmonising various perspectives would never be a challenge if there is commitment to international cooperation. The summit, held in the virtual format, was chaired by Prime Minister of Vietnam Nguyen Xuan Phuc in his capacity as chair of the ASEAN and all the EAS member nations attended it. India is generally represented at the summit by the prime minister. In his address, Jaishankar also underlined the need for greater international cooperation in the post-Covid world to tackle the challenges cutting across national boundaries such as terrorism, climate change and pandemics, the ministry of external affairs (MEA) said. The East Asia Summit is a premier forum in the Asia-Pacific region dealing with issues relating to security and defence. Since its inception in 2005, it has been playing a significant role in the strategic, geopolitical and economic evolution of East Asia. Apart from the 10 ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) member states, East Asia Summit includes India, China, Japan, Republic of Korea, Australia, New Zealand, United States and Russia. The MEA said Jaishankar re-affirmed the importance of the EAS as the leaders-led forum to exchange views on strategic issues and spoke of the “importance of adhering to international law, respecting territorial integrity and sovereignty, and promoting a rules-based global order”. His comments on the need for respecting territorial integrity and sovereignty came in the midst of the bitter border row between India and China in eastern Ladakh and Beijing's increasing expansionist behaviour in South China Sea and Indo-Pacific. “On the South China Sea, the external affairs minister expressed concern about actions and incidents that erode trust in the region,” the ministry of external affairs said. China claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea, a huge source of hydrocarbons. However, several ASEAN member countries, including Vietnam, Philippines and Brunei, have counter claims. In the midst of the coronavirus pandemic, China has significantly ramped up military offensives in the South China Sea in the last few months, triggering global concerns. India has been pitching for promoting a rules-based order in the region including through upholding adherence to international law, especially the UNCLOS (United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea). “He stated that the Code of Conduct negotiations should not be prejudicial to legitimate interests of third parties and should be fully consistent with UNCLOS,” the MEA said in a statement. On the Indo-Pacific, it said: “The external affairs minister noted the growing interest in the Indo-Pacific as an integrated and organic maritime space, with ASEAN at its centre. He appreciated the synergy between the ASEAN Outlook and India's Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative.” He said India was equally positive about the Indo-Pacific policies announced recently by other nations. At the East Asia Summit in Bangkok last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi proposed setting up of the Indo-Pacific Ocean's Initiative (IPOI) to conserve and sustainably use the maritime domain and to make meaningful efforts to create a safe and secure maritime domain. The concept is gaining traction with Japan already agreeing to be the lead partner in the connectivity pillar of the IPOI. Referring to the Covid-19, Jaishankar briefed the EAS leaders about India's response to the pandemic and highlighted India's efforts to support the international community. He reiterated Prime Minister Narendra Modi's commitment to help make the Covid-19 vaccine accessible and affordable to all nations. The MEA said the leaders underlined the importance of cooperation in ensuring safe, effective and affordable access to Covid-19 vaccines. “They called for greater cooperation in keeping the global supply chains open for an expeditious and sustainable economic recovery. Regional and international issues such as South China Sea, the situation in Korean peninsula and Rakhine state were also discussed,” it said. The summit issued a declaration and also adopted four statements on marine sustainability; epidemics prevention and response; women, peace and security; and steady growth of regional economy, the MEA said. Watch India stresses on respecting territorial integrity at virtual East Asia Summit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/east-asia-summit-india-stresses-on-respecting-territorial-integrity/articleshow/79227858.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Al Qaeda’s second-in-command killed by Israel||WASHINGTON: Al Qaeda's second-in-command, accused of helping to mastermind the 1998 bombings of two US embassies in Africa, was killed in Iran in August by Israeli operatives acting at the behest of the United States, the New York Times reported, citing intelligence officials. Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah, who went by the nom de guerre Abu Muhammad al-Masri, was gunned down by two men on a motorcycle in the streets of Tehran on Aug. 7, the Times reported on Friday. The killing of Masri, who was seen as a likely successor to al Qaeda's current leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri, was kept secret until now, the newspaper said. A senior Afghan security source told Reuters in October that Masri, who has long been on the US Federal Bureau of Investigation's Most Wanted Terrorists list, had been killed in the Pasdaran area of Tehran. Reuters had been unable to corroborate that information. It was unclear what, if any, role the United States had in the killing of the Egyptian-born militant, the Times said. U.S. authorities had been tracking Masri and other al Qaeda operatives in Iran for years, it said. Al Qaeda has not announced his death, Iranian officials have covered it up and no government has publicly claimed responsibility, the Times said. Iran on Saturday denied the report, saying there were no al Qaeda "terrorists" on its soil. Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh said in a statement that the United States and Israel sometimes "try to tie Iran to such groups by lying and leaking false information to the media in order to avoid responsibility for the criminal activities of this group and other terrorist groups in the region". The administration of President Donald Trump's "scare-mongering tactic against Iran has become routine," Khatibzadeh said. A U.S. official, speaking to Reuters on condition of anonymity, declined to confirm any details of the Times story or say whether there was any U.S. involvement. The White House National Security Council did not immediately respond to a request for comment. The Israeli prime minister's office said it was not commenting on the report. Israel has said in the past that its intelligence services have penetrated Iran in recent years, including saying in 2018 that it had smuggled out an alleged archive of Iranian nuclear secrets. Masri, one of al Qaeda's founding leaders, was killed along with his daughter, the Times reported. She was the widow of former al Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden’s son. Osama bin Laden orchestrated the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States and was killed in a US raid in Pakistan in 2011. Shi'ite Iran and al Qaeda, a Sunni Muslim militant organization, have long been enemies. Masri had been in Iran's "custody" since 2003 but had been living freely in an upscale suburb of Tehran since 2015, the Times cited unnamed US intelligence officials as saying. US counterterrorism officials believe Iran, also a US enemy, may have let him live there to conduct operations against US targets, the Times said. It was not immediately known what, if any, impact Masri's death has had on al Qaeda's activities. Even as it has lost senior leaders in the nearly two decades since the attacks on New York and Washington, it has maintained active affiliates from the Middle East to Afghanistan to West Africa. The report of al-Masri's killing comes weeks after the killing of two other senior al Qaeda leaders in Afghanistan by local security forces. In October, Afghan security forces killed Abu Muhsin al-Masri, another person on the FBI's terrorist list, while the Afghan government this month announced that it had killed yet another senior al Qaeda commander.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/al-qaedas-second-in-command-killed-by-israel/articleshow/79227925.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||PDP founder member Muzaffar Baig quits party||SRINAGAR: Founder member of PDP Muzaffar Hussain Baig resigned from the party on Saturday following a disagreement over seat sharing for the forthcoming district development council (DDC) elections in Jammu and Kashmir, party sources said. The sources said Baig informed PDP patron Mehbooba Mufti about his decision of leaving the party with which he has been associated since its inception in 1998. Baig was not immediately available for comment. The party sources said he was very upset over the seat distribution, especially in north Kashmir, by the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), an hurriedly cobbled amalgam of mainstream political parties, including the National Conference, the PDP, the People’s Conference and the CPM. The Congress has also extended support to the PAGD and expressed willingness in seat sharing for the DDC polls, which will begin from November 28. In the first major electoral exercise in the Union territory since the abrogation of Article 370 in August last year, the Jammu and Kashmir poll panel has announced an eight-phase election to 20 DDCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pdp-founder-member-muzaffar-baig-quits-party/articleshow/79227959.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Akhilesh hints at tie-up with estranged uncle for UP polls||ETAWAH: Hinting at a possible electoral tie-up with his estranged uncle’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party for the Uttar Pradesh Assembly polls, Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Saturday said Shivpal Yadav will be given a cabinet berth if his party forms the government in the state. However, he made it clear that the Samajwadi Party (SP) will not enter into any electoral alliance with the Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). “Adjustment will be done with smaller parties, but there will be no alliance with larger parties,” Akhilesh Yadav told reporters here. To a question whether the SP will form an electoral alliance with his uncle Shivpal Yadav’s Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party, he said, “We will adjust that party too. Jaswantnagar is his (Shivpal Yadav’s) seat and the Samajwadi Party vacated the seat for him. In the coming times, we will make their leader a cabinet minister, and what other adjustment is needed?” Legislative Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are scheduled in February-March 2022. Accusing the BJP of using “deceit” for defeating the Mahagathbandhan’ (led by the Rashtriya Janata Dal) in the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections, Akhilesh Yadav said, “The maximum public support was seen at the Mahagathbandhan rallies and all the surveys hinted towards a historic victory for it. But, when the EVMs were opened for the counting of votes, the results were stopped midway and victory certificates were handed to someone else.” When asked about the performance of the SP in the recently held bypolls to seven assembly seats in UP, Akhilesh Yadav said, “When the elections are contested by the election officers, superintendents of police, additional district magistrates, SHOs and police jawans, who will win then.” “The BJP was not contesting the bypolls but the officials of its government,“ he added. The SP chief hit out at the BJP government, saying corruption and injustice have become rampant in the state. “If someone is insulting people, they will overthrow that government as and when they will get an opportunity,“ he said. A number of leaders and workers from the Congress and the BSP joined the SP in the presence of Akhilesh Yadav on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/akhilesh-hints-at-tie-up-with-estranged-uncle-for-up-polls/articleshow/79227966.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||ED director gets 1-year extension to his tenure||NEW DELHI: The Union government has extended the tenure of ED Director Sanjay Kumar Mishra by a year after modifying his appointment order that was issued in 2018, officials said. Mishra, 60, is a 1984-batch Indian Revenue Service officer of the Income Tax cadre and was appointed the Enforcement Directorate chief on November 19, 2018. His tenure was to end next week as the ED director's post comes with a fixed term of two years. As per an order issued by the Department of Revenue under the Union finance ministry on Friday, the 2018 order for appointment of Mishra has been modified. “The President of India is pleased to approve the modification in the earlier order dated November 19, 2018, appointing Shri Sanjay Kumar Mishra as director of enforcement in the Enforcement Directorate,” it said. It added that his appointment will be for a period of three years from the date of assumption of charge of the post or until further orders, whichever is earlier. The ED is a central investigative agency that enforces two central laws-- the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) and the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). These laws were enacted to curb money laundering, terror financing, black money and hawala or illegal financial transactions that have cross-border ramifications.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-director-gets-1-year-extension-to-his-tenure/articleshow/79227975.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Mehbooba Mufti asks India, Pak to rise above political compulsions, initiate dialogue||SRINAGAR: Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Saturday asked India and Pakistan to rise above their political compulsions and initiate dialogue, saying it was sad to see mounting casualties on both sides of the Line of Control (LoC). Mufti's remarks came after the two countries traded heavy fire on the LoC following ceasefire violations by Pakistan on Friday. The firing resulted in loss of lives on the both sides.  The former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister said restoring the ceasefire that was agreed upon and implemented by former prime minister A B Vajpayee and ex-Pakistan president General Pervez Musharaf is a good place to start. Sad to see mounting casualties on both sides of LOC. If only Indian & Pakistani leadership could rise above their p… https://t.co/jWWojuOKJe— Mehbooba Mufti (@MehboobaMufti) 1605331972000“Sad to see mounting casualties on both sides of LoC. If only Indian and Pakistani leadership could rise above their political compulsions and initiate dialogue. Restoring the ceasefire agreed upon and implemented by Vajpayee ji and Musharaf sahab is a good place to start,” she said in a tweet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mehbooba-mufti-asks-india-pak-to-rise-above-political-compulsions-initiate-dialogue/articleshow/79227980.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||Samvat 2077 starts with sensex at a new life high||MUMBAI: Samvat year 2077 started on a strong note with the sensex scaling a new life-high at near 43,850 mark and closed with a 195-point gain at 43,638 points, also a new closing high. Continuing with the recent euphoric trend, the special hour long trading session on Saturday evening started on a high with the sensex at 43,815 points, up 372 points with HDFC Bank, Infosys and Reliance Industries leading. On the NSE too, the nifty closed at a life-high at 12,771 points, up 51 points on the day. Samvat, also called Vikram Samvat, is the year according to one of the Hindu calendars that is followed mainly by the Gujarati trading community who dominate Dalal Street. Every year BSE conducts a special trading session on the first day of the Samvat year, which also happens to be the Diwali day. This trading period is called the Muhurat session. Before the start of the hour-long Muhurat session, every year BSE has a Lakshmi Puja at the exchange’s Convention Hall, usually attended by most brokers, their families, friends and other people. This year, however, due to the ensuing Covid-19 pandemic, attendance at the exchange was restricted. Dalal Street veterans say that on this day, those who follow the Samvat year should always buy some shares, even if in small lots and should never sell any. With a large number of individual traders and traditional brokers resorting to only buying stocks while most of the institutions are closed for Diwali, the sensex usually shows an uptick during the Muhurat trading session. Historically, on most of the Muhurat sessions the sensex had closed higher. In the last five years, the sensex closed higher on three occasions but had closed deep in the red during Samvat year 2074 and only marginally lower during Samvat 2073. Brokers remain optimistic about the market for the next one year, despite the unprecedented damage done to the economy by the pandemic. The main reason for such optimism is the steps taken by the government in the last seven-eight months. “The formal economy is back on track, but the hurdle now is how to get the unorganized economy back on its feet,” said Uttam Bagri, chairman, BSE Brokers’ Forum. Market players also feel that with India Inc taking every step to revive their businesses with cost-cutting being one of the main strategies, investors have responded well. These measures have taken the stock market to a new high while the economy is still languishing. They also feel that the government’s recent policy initiatives would now help the revival in the economy in the medium to long term. Watch Vikram Samvat year 2077 starts with sensex at a new high||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/samvat-2077-starts-with-sensex-at-a-new-life-high/articleshow/79227985.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Prison forays into footwear making||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After making successful ventures of pocket-friendly food production and textile business, the prison department is venturing into a new field – footwear manufacturing. The Central Prison will now be producing Hawai sandals on commercial basis using the manpower of prison inmates. The sandals will be sold under the label of Freedom Walk. Five inmates have been given training in this. Director general of prisons Rishiraj Singh inaugurated the new footwear- manufacturing unit of the Central Prison at the Jail Cafeteria on Saturday. Young actor Chandunath G, who is the recipient of State Film Critics Award this year for the best debut for his role in the movie Pathinettam Padi, was the chief guest during the event. Central Jail superintendent Nirmalanandan Nair said that the idea for a footwear-manufacturing unit was born out of thought to how to effectively utilise the staff in the post of shoemaker at the prison. “Several decades ago, the prison department used to make uniforms and boots for the state’s uniformed forces, including the police. Even though that practice was stopped, the prison department continued to have the post of a shoemaker,’’ the superintendent said. Staff who currently occupies the post of shoemaker was in another district on deputation until recently. When the staff returned to the parent department, prison authorities thought about how to utilise his services effectively and came up with the idea of footwear- manufacturing unit. A pair of sandals is priced at Rs 80. The Freedom Walk Hawai sandals will be available in the sizes 7, 8, 9 and 10. The prison authorities said that the expansion of this initiative by introducing more varieties of footwear models will depend on the success of the Hawai sandals. The prison department’s Freedom brand of food, mainly Chapati and Chicken Curry, is a huge hit among the people in the city owing to its cheap prices. The Central Prison here also has a textile showroom, where the production is handled by trained inmates. Besides this, the Central Prison here is also commercially producing hand sanitizers and soaps. Recently, they had launched a fuel station too outside the prison complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/prison-forays-into-footwear-making/articleshow/79227246.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||Sanskarinagari women feel threatened by online vultures||Vadodara: Social media has turned out to be boon and a bane for Indian women. While it empowers them, around 53.3% of Vadodara women shared that they feel unsafe while navigating in the uncharted virtual world. And why not? From getting obscene messages and comments to stalking and creating fake profiles with morphed photographs, women using social media have faced all of it.Vadodara-based cyber crime expert Mayur Bhusavalkar, an IT engineer, involved 1,565 women of various age groups and professions in his study on the double-edged medium which becomes an agent in empowering women in several ways, while also turns into a tool to attack the user. His study underlined the details of distrust. Bhusavalkar has been helping police and lawyers crack cyber crimes. “The number of cyber crime cases getting registered have increased in the past couple of years due to awareness, but these numbers are also miniscule. Women face several issues which would come under the definition of cyber crime on a daily basis unknowingly,” he said. “Due to such issues, 72.1% women have blocked some or the other person on different social media platforms while 58.2% women completely withdrew from social media by shutting their profile,” Bhusavalkar added. Highest number of blocks were reported on Facebook followed by WhatsApp and Instagram among other applications in Bhusavalkar’s study. Around 70% respondents of his survey also blamed social media for increasing crime against women. “This can be prevented only if the government and its agencies spread more awareness on using social media. There are several applications related to photography, beauty products and medical tips wherein the users allow permission to applications to access their photos, cameras and files,” he said. “Data analysts use this data to show advertisements, pop-ups and send spywares which harm the users,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sanskarinagari-women-feel-threatened-by-online-vultures/articleshow/79227444.cms||Jay Pachchigar
November 15, 2020||Rajkot||Rajkot: Man booked for illegal Covid-19 test||RAJKOT: A multi-purpose contractual health worker of Porbandar has been booked for negligence towards the seriousness of Covid and causing health hazard. According to an FIR registered with the Kamlabaug police of Porbandar on Friday night, medical officer of Visavada primary health centre, Chandni Depani, health worker Lila Karavadra who had been attached with the Vadala sub-centre for the past three months collected sample of Covid-19 without authority and sent it testing to a private laboratory of Jamnagar in unauthorized vehicle. The FIR alleged that by taking samples without authority he was risking the life of others, he was booked under IPC sections 269, 336 and The Gujarat Medical Practice act’s section 30. According to the complaint Karavadra, who not a lab technician nor authorized to collect any such samples, was only assigned the duty to assist the team of infectious disease control, provide necessary service to the Covid patients and complete formalities of declaring containment zone and educate residents in the neighbourhood. However, on November 2, he collected sample of one Hardik Parmar and sent it for testing to Jamnagar metropolis pathology specialist where the sample tested positive of the virus. Karavadra also collected samples of another Vrajlal Parmar on November 9 and the latter too tested positive. District development officer of Porbandar, V K Advani said, “According to law only lab technician is authorized to collect the samples of a patient, as any other person may hurt the patient. This accused has not studied anything about collecting samples and is not trained. He was taking samples for a private laboratory though he was working with the district health department.” According to health department the accused was sending samples in buses and private vehicles without understanding the seriousness of the matter. Such samples need special preservation and transportation in specific temperatures only. “For RTPCR test, samples should be kept in 2 to 8 degrees for first 24 hours and up to four days it should be preserved in minus 20 degrees. If the tempered sample gives negative report of a positive person this may create a bigger problem,” Advani added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/contract-health-worker-collects-samples-for-covid-test-illegally-booked/articleshow/79227545.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Surat||Surat BJP leader P V S Sarma booked for forgery, cheating||SURAT: A Surat city BJP leader and former I-T officer P V S Sarma was booked on Saturday on charges of forgery and cheating. Sarma allegedly forged documents to show high circulation of two newspapers to get advertisement from government and private parties. The complaint was lodged by an Income Tax deputy director investigation Pammayya K D. Sarma had last month alleged huge financial scam during demonetisation and claimed involvement of jewellers and I-T officials in it. Soon after his allegations, his residence and offices were raided by the I-T sleuths. Based on a complaint filed by Pammayya, Sarma and his partner Sitaram Adukiya were booked by the police under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), 471 (use of forged documents), 420 (cheating), and others. Sarma was vice-president of city BJP unit that was dissolved recently after the appointment of new city BJP chief. During raid on Sarma’s home, office and premises of his associates on October 21 by 12 teams of I-T sleuths I-T officials gathered various documents related to the Gujarati and English language newspapers that Sarma and Adukiya run as directors. I-T officials found that the accused had claimed higher circulation of copies of his newspapers using forged documents to get advertisements from Directorate of Advertisement and Visual Publicity and private parties. During inquiry, I-T officials also searched premises of individuals like Kaushal Khandeliya which are associated with Sarma and found suspicious financial transactions related to Sarma, Pammayya claimed in the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bjp-leader-sarma-booked-for-forgery-cheating/articleshow/79227439.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Rajkot||Covid throws cold water over Savarkundla’s fiery Ingoria fest||RAJKOT: Every year on Diwali, a battle line separates Savar and Kundla on the banks of Navli River where thousands battle it out with inflamed balls aimed at either side. While not a single person actually has been reported of getting injured in this fiery festive spirit, the centuries-old tradition of throwing burning rags called ‘Ingoria’ has been the cynosure of all Diwali festivities in Savarkundla. The harmless sport, ‘Ingoria battle’ that had been waged through generations, has, however, met its waterloo in the coronavirus pandemic this year. Himanshu Bhatt, an Ingoria enthusiast, explained the legend behind the friendly fireball fight. Legend has it that there had been a friendly rivalry between the people of Savar and Kundla who would engage themselves in the battle of Ingora on every Diwali night, he said. Sahir Jiruka, another Ingoria reveller, claims that the fire battle is harmless. He, however, lamented that Covid-19 and the subsequent lockdown have dampened the spirit of this sport this Diwali. “We were unable to go to the forest to collect Ingoria. Only few of us have been able to lay their hands on these fruits,” Jiruka informed TOI. Jiruka explained the process of how gunpowder, made of coal and herbs, is used in filling the ingoria fruits. “Even if the fruit fireball bursts in your hand, it can’t harm you. It is meant to provide thrills to the participants and those watching the game,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ncov-throws-cold-water-over-savarkundlas-fiery-ingoria-fest/articleshow/79227589.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||Man found murdered near Karjan station||VADODARA: An unidentified male body was found beside the railway tracks near Karjan railway station on Saturday morning. According to police, the body was lying near an electric sub-station room on the northern end of the railway station. Police suspect that the man, whose identity was yet to be ascertained, was murdered as his throat was slit and there were a few injuries on his body. “We have just found a broken suitcase near the body and nothing else. There were no identity cards too on the body,” said a police official. “The man could be aged around 40 years and has a height of 5.7 feet. We have shifted the body to the hospital for post-mortem and have registered a case of murder,” the police official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-found-murdered-near-karjan-station/articleshow/79227542.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||Peeved workers question appointment of new Vadodara BJP chief||VADODARA: Days after Dr Vijay Shah was appointed as the president of the city unit of the BJP stunning many within the party, a controversy is being raked up about his employment at the Gujarat Medical Education and Research Society (GMERS) Medical College, Gotri. Shah is the head of the department of forensic medicine there. A group of BJP workers peeved at Shah taking over the reins of the city unit of the party raked up the issue about Shah’s job. It has been alleged that Shah cannot get affiliated to a political party till he is in government service. However, Shah said that an unnecessary controversy was being raked up despite him resigning from the medical college. Shah said that he had resigned from the college on November 10. According to sources, apart from this fact, whether an employment in GMERS can be considered as government service is in itself a grey area. Earlier, a similar controversy was raked up regarding former mayor and former BJP city president Bharat Dangar, who was an assistant professor at the M S University (MSU). At that time also it was questioned if a job in the MSU could be considered as a government job. Shah’s appointment has not gone down well with persons who were eyeing the president’s post and also the established leadership of the party in the city. The appointment came as a surprise to most with no clue as to how he managed to get the post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/peeved-workers-question-appointment-of-new-vadodara-bjp-chief/articleshow/79227523.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||Gujaratis go for bright Indian lamps over low-priced Chinese lights||VADODARA: Every Diwali, Ripal Patel used to decorate her home with Chinese string lights and lanterns. But this Diwali, she decided not to buy any Chinese item and instead go for lamps made by local artisans. And, Patel is happy that she brightened the Diwali of the talented artisans. “The Chinese killed our soldiers some months ago and are constantly trying to invade our borders. So, as a patriot, I decided not to buy any Chinese product. This year, I bought the earthen lamps made by our local potters instead of those imported light strings. This way our artisans can also earn some money,” Patel, a resident of Manjalpur, told TOI. Patel added that she also urged her friends and family members to boycott Chinese lamps and products. The ‘boycott Chinese items’ campaign had picked up in the state in July this year after several Indian soldiers were killed in close combat with their troops. Over the last few years, the Chinese string lights and lamps have invaded Indian markets and are in much demand as they are cheaper in price as compared to the Indian products. “I didn’t want to spend a single penny on any Chinese item. So I decided to buy some beautiful lamps made by a local artist and install them in my home. The lamps and lanterns made of paper and wood are definitely better than the imported Chinese products,” said Archana Gokhale, who is in the business of making jewellery and accessories. “This time not a single customer, who visited my shop, demanded Chinese lights. In fact, they said that they would buy only Indian string lights or lamps. I had expected that the Chinese items won’t sell much this time but I never thought that all the customers would go only for Indian products. I couldn’t even clear my last year’s Chinese stock,” said Hiren Rajput, owner of Shree Electric in Warasia area. The pottery market in the old city area also witnessed a lot of crowd over last one week as Gujaratis flocked the shops of local artisans and bought designer lamps of all shapes and sizes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/gujaratis-go-for-bright-indian-lamps-over-low-priced-chinese-lights/articleshow/79227601.cms||Tushar Tere
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||No let up in Covid-19 cases||VADODARA: There was no let up in Covid-19 cases in the city with 93 cases being registered in the 24 hours ending on Saturday evening. The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed the death of one more person due to the disease. The 93 cases reported in the city include 58 from the VMC area and the remaining from areas of the district outside the limits of the civic body. With the new cases the total number of cases in the city and district went up to 16,365. With one more death, the total number of deaths in the city went up 216. This does not include deaths where the primary cause of death is not Covid-19. As many as 74 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation in the city. With these the total number of discharged persons went up to 14,983. This left 1,166 active cases in the city including 59 serious patients who were breathing with the help of ventilators or BIPAP machines. Another 152 persons were on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/no-let-up-in-covid-19-cases/articleshow/79227520.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Toxic froth floats on Mahisagar river, GPCB begins probe||VADODARA: Froth floating on the surface of Mahisagar river for several kms on the outskirts of the city has raised serious concerns. On Saturday, a thick layer of yellowish-white foam, believed to be toxic, was found floating on both the banks of the river after which environment activists along with members of the Gujarat Pollution Control Board (GPCB) rushed to the spot. “According to locals this is a routine phenomenon that they are witnessing during every full moon and new moon,” said GPCB’s regional officer R B Trivedi. “As per norms, the treated effluent should be discharged only during low tide so that the effluent reaches the deeper depth of the sea. It is quite possible that the discharge has not been done during low tide. If the discharge is done during high time, the foam would have floated from ‘J point’ on down stream of Sarod (Jambusar, in Bharuch district) and reached Mahi’s stretch near Vadodara,” he said. Samples have been collected from Padra taluka’s Dabka village. “We are investigating into the matter,” said Trivedi. “The situation has turned grave,” said activist Rohit Prajapati, “the river has been left polluted. The damage is irreversible.” Prajapati said that there is no dispute that the Vadodara Enviro Channel Ltd (VECL) which is responsible for disposal of treated waste water of hundreds of industrial units in and around Vadodara through the 55 km long effluent channel project (ECP) has been discharging effluents into the Mahi estuarine of Gulf of Khambhat without meeting the prescribed environmental norms. “This effluent is discharged into the estuary at ‘J point’ on down stream of Sarod (Jambusar, in Bharuch district). It is a matter of concern that from Sarod the effluent has reached Vadodara as the sea is not accepting the effluent. In other words, the effluent is returning into the river and polluting the entire river,” said Prajapati. While terming it as contempt of court and violation of Supreme Court’s order of 2017, Prajapati alleged that this is happening as industries are no longer afraid of Gujarat government, pollution watchdogs like GPCB and Central Pollution Control Board or centre’s environment ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/toxic-froth-floats-on-mahisagar-river-gpcb-begins-probe/articleshow/79227451.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Couple makes traditional lamps using cow dung||KOPPAL: A couple of Murudi village in Yelburga taluk of Koppal district is into making ‘Hanate’ (traditional lamp) and ‘Dhoopa’ (vapour) using cow dung. And their wares have caught the fancy of many people who think twice before buying Chinese products, thanks to anti-China sentiments. Ashwini and Shrinivas Divakar, who currently live in the neighbouring Hosapete, have been making traditional lamps and vapours for a year now. “The idea struck after we observed cow dung lying waste here and there. As the voice against Chinese products grew louder, we started making vapours. My entrepreneur-husband Shrinivas assured me of getting cow dung and offered other logistical support. He prepared moulds measuring 2 inch (length) and 0.5 inch (diametre) using PVC pipes. I have earned more than Rs 15,000 while being a homemaker,” Ashwini said, adding they also pay the farmers who supply them cow dung. “We use cow ghee, desi camphor, turmeric powder, clove powder, guggul in vapour so that it can spread fragrance when it is lit. Smoke of vapour has anti-virus and anti-bacteria properties. The vapours, being free of chemicals, are eco-friendly too.” Shrinivas credited his cousin Raghuveer Desai, a software engineer in Bengaluru, for the green initiative. “We started making traditional lamps using moulds. Glad to say that no machinery is involved in this. We just bring cow dung and filter it and mix it with non-chemical powder involving powder of tamarind, multani mitti and cluster beans so that lamps get rigidity to avoid breakage. We sun-dry the mix before putting it in moulds. We also make paintings of various symbols - Shree, Om and Swastik — using water colour,” he explained. Dr P R Badariprasad, entomology scientist at Agricultural Extension Education Centre (Koppal), said that the initiative has a larger interest of environment, promotes animal husbandry among farmers and also supports rural economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/couple-makes-traditional-lamps-using-cow-dung/articleshow/79227173.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 15, 2020||Hubballi||SBI Foundation adopts 5 villages in Gadag||GADAG: SBI Foundation (Mumbai) has launched its Gram Seva project for the first time in Karnataka. For this, it has chosen five backward villages of two gram panchayats — Harogeri and Petalur — in Mundargi taluk of Gadag district for digitisation, promotion of quality education among rural students, improvement of primary health services and to improve farmers’ income and the like. The 3-year-long project has various activities lined up. Once done, the project will be handed over to GPs and local bodies. Jyoti Prakash Guru, assistant programme manager of SBI Foundation, told TOI that the project has an integrated rural development approach. “SBI Foundation believes in social development with a focus on education, health, environment and economic objectives of society. It has set objectives like digitisation of villages, promotion of quality education for rural students, improvement of primary health services, improvement in accessibility to safe drinking water and sanitation, promotion of sustainable livelihood practices and improving farmers’ income, improvement in coverage of benefits and schemes of the government, capacity-building for participatory rural development and many more,” he explained. Siddalingesh Ballolli, coordinator of SBI Gram Seva, said that SBI Foundation, in association with SBI General Insurance company, has planned to implement the project in 100 GPs across the country. “We have chosen two GPs of Mundargi taluk where drought is severe and villages are dependent on groundwater. The survey results show presence high fluoride content in water. In a nutshell, through Gram Seva, SBI Foundation will work towards building self-reliant (Atmanirbhar) villages which would continue to grow sustainably, thereby truly realising Gandhian philosophy of Gram Swaraj,” he said, adding that Sankalp Rural Development Society (SRDS, Hubballi) is the implementing agency. SRDS CEO Sikandar Meeranaik said the project duration is proposed to be for three years of intervention in various activities and handing over of the project on self-sustenance basis to GP and local bodies. “We aim at achieving four basic goals — to link various government schemes/ services to each of the activities and to individuals, to lay emphasis on digital concepts and create awareness and access to various information online, developing villages through holistic intervention for improvement of infrastructure and basic facilities therein, and to involve the panchayat in development programmes and to create an environment for participatory efforts by encouraging rural asset creation and sustainability. Our activities are expanded in Petalur, Harogeri, Tambaragundi, Basapur and Kelur villages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sbi-foundation-adopts-5-villages-in-gadag/articleshow/79226858.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 15, 2020||Surat||AAI awaiting ONGC’s feasibility report on sour gas pipelines||SURAT: The extension of the runway at the Surat airport has run into rough weather with the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) yet to submit the report on feasibility survey as its sour gas pipelines passes from close distance to the runway. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) had proposed the expansion of runway from the current 2,905 metres to 3,705 metres towards the Dumas side. Currently, the 36-inch diameter pipeline of ONGC passes about 250m away from the runway and the 42-inch pipeline is 350m away. The proposed extension of 800m is towards 36-inches diameter pipeline on Dumas side. ONGC had raised concerns for the safe operation of both the pipelines due to proximity to airport runway, which has undergone extension from 1,400 meters to 2,250 meters towards route of 42-inch pipeline in south-east direction in 2007 and from 2,250 meters to 2,905 meters towards 36-inch pipeline in the north-west direction in the 2015-16. Official sources said that the feasibility survey by the ONGC was completed in December last year and that they are yet to submit the report to the AAI. A senior AAI officer told TOI, “We have sent more than a dozen reminders to the ONGC authorities to share the feasibility report for the sour gas pipelines. But they are yet to reply about their plans to either shift the pipeline or to construct culvert on the pipeline.” ONGC had concluded its feasibility survey for gauging the possibilities for constructing a culvert to protect its buried sour gas pipelines, which are the major hindrance in the runway extension project, in November 2019. The culvert will be a concrete structure, which will cover the buried pipeline, and have the capacity to handle more than 140 tonne per square metre weight, which is enough for the wide-bodied aircrafts for landing and take-off. The two pipelines 36-inch and 42-inch South Bassein Hazira Trunk (SBHT) pipelines were laid in the year 1985 and 1996 respectively to transport sour dry natural gas from Bassein Platform A (BPA) and Bassein Platform B (BPB) offshore process platforms to the onshore gas processing plant located at Hazira in Surat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/aai-awaiting-ongcs-feasibility-report-on-sour-gas-pipelines/articleshow/79227431.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Rajkot||Father-son killed in clash over fencing of gauchar land||RAJKOT: An old enimity over the fencing of paddock between two groups in Harunvandh locality of Dinara village near Khavda of Kutch district on Saturday flashed into a clash resulting in the death of two people and leaving three others injured. The dead include a father and son. While both groups have filed cross complaints, three more persons – Hamid Abdrim, Jusab Dawood and Rayab Juma – allegedly involved in the clash are still at large, said cops. According to police, Bhilal Ismail (55) and his son Ishaq (25) were killed after the opposite group attacked them with sharp-edged weapons and sticks and bamboos. Three accused — Dawood Juma, Hakim Rayab and Soyab Rayab — who are alleged of killing the father-son duo too received injuries in the clash and have been shifted to G K general hospital in Bhuj for further treatment. Talking to TOI, Superintendent of police Kutch (west), Saurabh Singh said that police are probing as to who initiated the fight. “It was the fight over the fencing the paddock in the Gauchar land to tether animals,” he said. The police personals of local crime branch, special operation group, Bhuj A division and B division police stations are deputed in the village to control any untoward incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/father-son-killed-in-clash-over-fencing-of-gauchar-land/articleshow/79227631.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Rajkot||Seven held for gambling, valuables worth Rs 1.7 lakh seized||RAJKOT: Seven persons were detained for allegedly gambling on the bank of Bhadar River in Supedi village of Rajkot taluka on Saturday. Rajkot rural local crime branch (LCB) which effected the detention said they caught Jitendra Ujiya (34), Hemraj Amrutiya (70), Natwarlal Gowani (63), Kantilal Govani (68), Gordhan Dadhania (70), Bharatsinh Jadeja (38) and Kishorsinh Jadeja (40) for the crime. “We recovered Rs 43,510 cash, five cellphones worth Rs 11,500 and five motorcycles worth Rs 1.15 lakh, all worth Rs 1.70 lakh, from the possession of the accused,” said A R Gohil, inspector with Rajkot rural LCB. “All the accused have been detained at present. They will be formally arrested once they undergo the mandatory Covid-19 test,” added Gohil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/seven-held-for-gambling-valuables-worth-rs-1-7l-seized/articleshow/79227517.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||Maharashtra man held for issuing fake SSC, HSC marksheets||Vadodara: A man from Maharashtra, running an institution for issuing fake marksheets of Class X and XII, was arrested on Saturday.Accused Dileep Mohite, a resident of Dhulia, had established Maharashtra Board of Higher Secondary (MBHS) in 2016 and has so far given fake marksheets to thousands of students, many of whom are in Vadodara. Mohite’s name was revealed while police were investigating the bogus marksheet scam it stumbled upon on November 6. Police were probing a betting scam on cricket matches when it found photos of fakemark sheets in an accused’s mobile phone. While following the trail of marksheets police reached till Jigar Gogra, a resident of Refinery Road. Gogra had sent the photos of the marksheets to the betting accused. On digging out more about MBHS, cops found out that it is an institution which only provides marksheets to students through its agents for an amount ranging from Rs 3,500 to Rs 4,000. It had appointed four agents in Vadodara. Cops believe that Mohite has given certificates to over 5,000 students who have taken admission in several universities including MS University and have even sought jobs or gone abroad for higher education. “We are compiling a database of the students who were given the fake marksheets. An exact figure can be known only after we have all the data,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/maharashtra-man-held-for-issuing-fake-ssc-hsc-marksheets/articleshow/79227490.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Rajkot||Cops step up vigil to ensure safe Diwali, detain 13||Rajkot: Every year during Diwali, a sudden surge in the cases of house break-ins is witnessed. In order to prevent this trend, the Rajkot police carried out a combing on Friday night. The police tracked down and detained 13 absconding accused involved in different criminal activities. “Following the instructions of Rajkot police commissioner Manoj Agrawal, we carried out combing on Friday night. We checked a total of 676 vehicles, 73 establishments including roadside dhabas (eateries), hotels, guest houses and dharma shalas (inns) and 32 farm houses,” said a senior official from the Rajkot police. “We also tracked down and detained 13 absconding accused. We checked on 14 prisoners out on bail and four prisoners out on parole. We probed 63 suspected criminals and 61 historysheeters. We also checked on 15 accused involved in thefts, five accused who have been externed, 13 accused charged with Motor Vehicle Act, seven bootleggers and six booked under Prohibition Act for liquor consumption,” added the official. In order to prevent the cases of molestation during Diwali festivities, the Rakot police has formed nine teams of anti-romeo squads consisting of women police personnel. The women cops clad in plain clothes will be patrolling the crowded places in the city to keep a watch on molesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/cops-step-up-vigil-to-ensure-safe-diwali-detain-13/articleshow/79227581.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata shows restraint, keeps air free of toxic fumes||KOLKATA: Unlike earlier Kali Pujas or Diwalis, the city’s air quality index did not go through the roof on Saturday and it was the cracker ban that made all the difference. Courtesy of the court ban and compliance by the public, the high amount of particulate matter that usually gets released into the air due to fireworks was absent this time. “It is largely because of the shift in focus from noise to air pollution. Till now, thanks to the Calcutta High Court order, we were mandated to control noise pollution by prohibiting high-decibel fireworks. But the court banned all fireworks this year. Later, the NGT and the Supreme Court, too, championed the same cause. Naturally, the focus shifted from noise to air. Since air pollution entails all kinds of fireworks, it made all the difference,” said a WBPCB officer. “The low-decibel yet high-emission fireworks never come under enforcement. So, over time, these high-emission fireworks have gained popularity. The more dazzling the fireworks, the higher is the emission level. In 2019, the PM2.5 concentration rose to 700, nearly 12 times the permissible limit,” said a WBPCB scientist. Controlling air pollution had become a huge challenge for enforcement agencies. But Covid changed plans. “Covid did what we could not achieve despite our long battle against fireworks polluting the air,” said Subhas Datta, an environment activist. The frontline health experts also raised a timely alert about the havoc that foul air can cause. “These inputs were considered by the judiciary before passing the order,” said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, another activist. However, it is largely due to the people’s exemplary restraint that the endeavour was successful. Although there were some pockets of aberrations, the overall impact has been good. Barring Rabindra Bharati University (RBU), monitoring stations recorded AQI to be under 200. At RBU, the AQI rose beyond 200 (poor) after noon, and gradually rose to 226 at 8pm. “The spike happened at noon when there were no fireworks. So it might have been due to smoke from the Pramod Nagar dumping site,” said a WBPCB officer. “AQI remained within the moderate level across the continuous ambient air quality monitoring stations, which was a big change,” said Sudipto Bhattacharya of Saviours and Friends of Environment. Social scientist Pradip Chakraborty said, “The pandemic has instilled empathy among citizens as they saw death in the neighbourhood. These were jolts to people who had no awareness about the environment, leading to a large number of people suddenly taking keen interest in the environment and air quality.” “Ultimately it is people’s awareness that matters. I know a friend who used to spend a few lakhs on fireworks. This time he spent only on LED lamps to decorate his house. It is a welcome change. I think a lot of kids also persuaded their parents not to buy fireworks,” said Ajay Mittal of Bengal Clean Air Network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-shows-restraint-keeps-air-free-of-toxic-fumes/articleshow/79227252.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Hard work’ went into a Kali Puja that was not ear-splitting||KOLKATA: An appeal by the state chief secretary to refrain from bursting crackers followed by a string of judicial orders coupled with repeated warnings from Covid warriors about the possible worsening of the pandemic and sustained campaign by the state environment watchdog paid dividends as Kolkata celebrated Kali Puja and Diwali sans crackers this year. Well, almost. There were some who defied the ban and burst crackers as the night wore on. But they were a minority on Saturday. “People are now much more aware. Judicial orders and effective enforcement yield results, quite unthinkable even a few years ago. I think a lot of children have persuaded their parents not to indulge in fireworks,” said West Bengal Pollution Control Bo-ard (WBPCB) chairman Kalyan Rudra. This year, the judicial order of Calcutta High Court and subsequent resonance by the NGT and the Supreme Court gave the police enough authority to enforce the ban. Even the odd use of crackers that was seen late on Saturday evening could have been avoided had the orders been issued earlier, said a senior police officer. WBPCB’s identification of firework hotspots through data analysis also proved handy. “We shared the list of hotspots with police commissionerates concerned for a special vigil,” said WBPCB member secretary Rajesh Kumar. The fact that the Covid warriors themselves led the chorus for a ban went a long way in establishing the sanctity of the ban. Besides, the plan to slap charges under the stringent Explosives Act — around 31 of them — and the threat to slap even harsher Environmental Protection Act acted as a massive deterrent. By 9pm on Saturday, police arrested 21 people for lighting fireworks. Over 2,800kg of firecrackers got seized in the past few days, not only from the known Burrabazar-Posta markets or the usual border nakas put up everywhere but even local pan and grocery stores in neighbourhoods. Residents of traditional trouble spots said they could not remember a more quiet Diwali. The police said that the decision to deploy police at the specific trouble spots, including in and around Covid hospitals, helped send a strong message. “We had deployed men in civil clothes. In others, we set up the mobile patrol vehicles — jeeps, autos and bikes — to chase and challan. We increased our presence that acted as a deterrent,” said an officer. The cops though said that they will also make an example of these arrests beyond Diwali. Aware of the criticisms from last year, the police have formed a special cell to provide assistance and build evidence in the 31 FIRs drawn up under the Explosives Act. Even as its main job is to provide legal help, the cell is now collecting evidence from even social media and has asked Twitter and Facebook users to send photographs actively so that they can build upon the evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hard-work-went-into-a-kali-puja-that-was-not-ear-splitting/articleshow/79227266.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cracker-less celebrations bring relief to health workers, Covid winners||KOLKATA: For hundreds of Covid warriors and survivors across Kolkata, the firecracker-free Kali Puja and Diwali on Saturday came as a huge relief and made them look ahead with hope. Even as the city breathed easy without the cracker-induced haze that would engulf Kolkata every Kali Puja evening, many said that the ban on fireworks would not only go a long way in preventing pollution-triggered illnesses but also help to check the transmission of coronavirus. They also pointed out that since Kolkata, like the rest of the country, is still reeling under the impact of the pandemic, a celebration with firecrackers would have been inappropriate. Salt Lake medic Sankha Subhro Chowdhury had Covid in July. After serving a 14-day quarantine period, he was back at work, attending to Covid patients. “This year, the pandemic has been the only priority for frontline health workers like us and we had been dreading the advent of the festive period due to the firecracker menace. Not only does it lead to pollution that affects the lungs, which are already more vulnerable due to Covid this year, but also affects those with diseases like COPD and asthma," said Chowdhury. The prohibition of cracker bursting and the compliance by citizens made him heave a sigh of relief. “It would have been far worse had fireworks been allowed and now we can hope for better days ahead,” he said. It is time to take ownership of our own health if Covid has to be checked, said pulmonologist Raja Dhar. He said he was pleasantly surprised by the compliance to cracker ban, which, Dhar pointed out, would eventually help to wipe out the pandemic. “There would have been more pollution and a faster transmission of the virus had firecrackers been allowed. It’s important to realize that we must all look after ourselves for the sake of others. It’s good to see that measures are being taken to ensure compliance to the rule. I expect this to have a positive impact,” said Dhar, who himself suffered from Covid and spent two weeks at the hospital. Covid survivor Somava Gupta, an assistant engineer with a civic body, said he was still weak after getting infected in September. “Thankfully, my lungs will be spared the pounding of pollutants this time,” he said. Doctors for Patients (DOPA), a forum of doctors that had filed a PIL at the court for banning of crackers, said that the organization was happy with the execution of the court order by the administration. It had sought the ban not only for Diwali and Kali Puja but also for Chhath and Jagaddhatri Puja. “The kind of administrative and police action to stop people from using crackers is quite satisfying. It has brought a sea change with people staying away from crackers. We wish the administration does not wait for some organizations to knock the doors of the judiciary each time when it comes to taking decisions like this,” said oncologist Sharadwat Mukhopadyay of DOPA. “It is nice that good sense has prevailed so far. Firecrackers would have been the last nail in the coffin of Covid patients with lung issues. And it would also impact discharged patients who still have borderline lung problems,” said ECMO specialist Arpan Chakraborty of Medica Superspecialty Hospital. Firecrackers not just trigger pollution but also lead to congregations which could be equally dangerous now, pointed out internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. “People tend to burst crackers in a group and social distancing norms would have suffered,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cracker-less-celebrations-bring-relief-to-health-workers-covid-winners/articleshow/79227277.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 15, 2020||Rajkot||SUV veers off road killing three farmers in Patan||PALANUR: Three farmers were killed after an SUV veered off the road and rammed into them while they were working on a farm in Patan district on Saturday, police said.According to Radhanpur police inspector A P Solanki, the driver lost control and the SUV which was on its way to Palanpur and veered off the road near Kalyanpura village about 7km from Radhanpur town. “The SUV entered a farm and rammed into three farmers were working. All died on the spot,” said Solanki. The deceased were identified as Dhanabhai Thakor (30), Prabhu Thakor (35) and Nabha Thakor (40). Their bodies were sent for post-mortem at Radhanpur referral hospital, he said. As soon as the news spread, the family members of the deceased rushed to the farm where the incident took place. The angry crowd also thrashed the driver of the SUV, said police. However, some people from the crowd took the driver to safety and called the police. Action is being taken against the driver of the vehicle that was going to Palanpur with a family from Kutch, Solanki said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/suv-veers-off-road-killing-three-farmers-in-patan/articleshow/79227656.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||NGO cons over 2 lakh women of Rs 42 crore in Gujarat||VADODARA: Vadodara police busted a racket being run by an Ahmedabad-based foundation which was collecting money from women in central Gujarat and parts of Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh in exchange for aid. A case of cheating, forgery, criminal conspiracy and under the Gujarat Protection of Interest of Depositors (In Financial Establishments) Act was registered at Makarpura police station. The foundation’s secretary Deepaksinh Rajput and a manager Ramji Rathod were arrested by the prevention of crime branch (PCB) on Saturday. Another manager Bharat Soni is on run. Police investigation revealed that they had collected Rs 42.5 crore from 2.5 lakh women. According to police, the trio operated Unity Foundation, asn NGO, which collected Rs 1,700 as deposit from the individuals who they lured with interest-free aid up to Rs 1 lakh in a phased manner. The aid was promised for women to start cottage industries or for their children’s education. They frauds also had appointed 32 agents and 431 sub-agents to collect the money from women. The agents too were promised commission on every deposit they would bring. “Their targets were women from a humble background in villages and small towns of Vadodara, Panchmahal, Dahod, Ahmedabad and parts of Rajasthan and MP. The money collected used to go to the higher-ups through the chain of agents,” said inspector R C Kanamiya of PCB. The foundation collected money from women until the lockdown came into effect. But after the lockdown was lifted no aids were given to anyone. “When the depositors used to inquire with their agents they would be sent to an agent above the sub-agent and so on,” Kanamiya added. An agent living in Tarsali whose wife had lost money approached the police commissioner on November 8. During interrogation, police learnt that Rajput is a history sheeter and was booked at Paldi police station in connection with a cheating case and later sent to Rajkot jail under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act. After coming out of jail, he started the foundation around 18 months back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ngo-cons-over-2l-women-of-rs-42cr/articleshow/79227467.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Woman pushed off fouth floor by jealous neighbour survives fall||SURAT: Jealousy over her friendship with another female neighbour, a 30-year-old woman pushed off a 27-year-old woman from the fouth floor of the residential building on Friday. However, Bharti Bodhra, a resident of Yogi Chowk area luckily survived the fall though she suffered serious injuries on her body as the fall was arrested by a railing on the first floor. Bodhra suffered a fracture in her leg and is currently under treatment at a private hospital. Currently undergoing more tests to ascertain any internal impact from the fall, the victim surprised doctors and police by not fainting despite falling off four floors and had the sense to lodged a complaint with the police herself in this regard. Police booked Aakhja for attempt to murder under Indian Penal Code. Bodhra was arrested by police on Saturday and produced in a local court. The court sent the accused in judicial custody. According to police, Bodhra was pushed by her neighbour Daksha Aakhja who did not like the former’s friendship with another neighbour named Dharmishtha. When the victim was combing her hair in the common passage of the apartment near the staircase on Friday morning, the accused accosted her about her friendship despite being warned not to keep good relations with the other woman. In a rage, the accused then pushed Bodhra who fell in gap between the stairs. “The gap between the stairs is narrow due to which the victim’s fall was restricted. She fell on the grill on the first floor and then on the ground floor. Due to the obstructed fall she is alive,” said a police officer at Sarthana police station. Bodhra’s husband is a diamond broker and the family is from Judala village in Rajkot. While there are other issues too, but primarily it was friendship with Dharmishtha that irked the accused to push Bodhra. In her complaint, Bodhra claimed she and Dharmishtha share a good rapport and often spend time together. Their families too are in good terms and regularly visit each other’s home. On that day, Bodhra and Dharmishtha had gone out shopping which accused Aakhja did not like, said cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/woman-pushed-off-4th-floor-by-jealous-neighbour-survives-fall/articleshow/79227405.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||No decision on diploma engineering seats||AHMEDABAD: The admission committee has entrusted the self-financed colleges to fill up the vacant seats for diploma to degree engineering by November 30. This step was taken after completing two rounds of admissions. In all, about 40,397 seats are lying vacant. But, the committee is yet to take a decision on the vacant seats in government colleges, said sources in the admission committee. This year, the admission committee had initiated the process for filling up 50,797 seats. About 12,000 students were enrolled in the first round. Of this, only 8,000 students confirmed their admission. In the second round, about 3,000 students were confirmed. So, at the end of the two rounds, a total of 10,397 students were admitted, leaving 40,397 seats were vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-decision-on-diploma-engg-seats/articleshow/79227242.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Surat||16-year-old drowns, two others rescued from Tapi river||SURAT: A 16-year-old boy drowned in the Tapi river at weir-cum-causeway when he had gone a swim with his two other friends on Saturday morning. Sources in the fire and emergency department of Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that three teenagers had gone for a swim at the weir-cum-causeway at Singanpore at about 9am. The boys Kalpesh Upadhyay (160, Satyam Shah (12) and Ravi Upadhyay (16)—all resident of Anand Park society in Ved Road— got carried away by the strong current of the river and started crying for help. People present on the embankment immediately dived into the water and rescued two boys — Satyam and Ravi, while the Kalpesh went missing. The residents immediately contacted the fire department. Body of Kalpesh was later fished out by the firefighters from the river and shifted to the SMIMER hospital where he was declared dead on admission. SD Dhobhi, fire officer of Rander fire station told TOI, “When we reached the spot, two boys were already rescued by the locals. We began searching for the missing boy and found his body in deep waters in the causeway.” Dhobhi added, “The weir-cum-causeway is the favourite spot for the people for swimming. The victims were not the expert swimmers, but still, they dived into the river whose depth is 30 feet at the causeway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/16-year-old-drowns-two-others-rescued-from-tapi-river/articleshow/79227412.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||MSU’s second round of online final exam from Dec 3||VADODARA: M S University will conduct second round of online final examination from December 3. The second round of the final examination will be held for those post graduate students and final year (final semester) under graduate students who could not appear in the first round of online final examination that was held between August and October. Those students who had appeared in the first round of the final examination but had failed can also appear in the second round. “Those post graduate students and final year (final semester) under graduate students who had appeared in the first round but are required to re-appear in the concerned subject or paper due to unfair means matter will also appear in the second round,” said K M Chudasama, officiating registrar of MSU. Such students have been asked to pay the examination fees (online) between November 19 and 25. “The detailed timetable of the second round will be displayed on university website by November 25,” he said. Students can appear in their examination using the same login credentials (user ID and password) which they had received for the online mock test or the first round of the final examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/msus-second-round-of-online-final-exam-from-dec-3/articleshow/79227455.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Rajkot||Bootlegger detained in Rajkot with IMFL bottles, beer cans||RAJKOT: A bootlegger was detained with a total of 260 bottles of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) and 144 cans of beer, all worth Rs 1.70 lakh, from a flat on Sadhu Vasvani Road in Rajkot on Saturday. The accused was identified as Ajitsinh Tevatia (29). “Our constables — Harpalsinh Jadeja, Jentigiri Goswami and Mukesh Dangar — received a tip-off that Tevatia had kept a large liquor cache at his flat in Palm City Apartment at Patidar Chowk,” said A B Jadeja, sub-inspector with D staff of Rajkot police. Acting on the information, the cops raided the flat and caught Tevatia with IMFL bottles and beer cans. “At present, Tevatia has been detained. He will be formally arrested after he undergoes the mandatory Covid-19 test,” added Jadeja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/bootlegger-detained-in-rajkot-with-imfl-bottles-beer-cans/articleshow/79227637.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Vadodara||Vadodara: Cracker of sale no more this year||VADODARA: For the first time in decades, the cracker market in the region is witnessing a major slowdown. Despite no significant rise in prices, the sellers are struggling to even equal the sales last year. In wake of the health concerns over the Covid-19 pandemic and income of several persons having taken a hit, it was expected that business may not be great. At a time when many sellers used to procure a second lot to ensure that they had enough to sell on the Diwali eve, this time around they are not even sure if they will be able to sell off the first lot they ordered. Said Jignesh Thakkar, a partner in one of the bigger cracker outlets in Subhanpura, “We ordered less stock this time around. Sales have picked up to some extent only since Wednesday. In previous years, we used to do brisk business from early days. The prices of crackers too have not seen any significant rise.” Chetan Bhagat, who has been dealing in firecrackers since over two decades in Godhra, said that he had not seen such a slowdown ever since he started selling crackers. “The prices are lower this year in the cracker marker set up here. Till last year, we used to sell 60 % of our stock by this time. This year, we have managed to do only 20 per cent business so far. Even if the next few days are good, we will not be able to equal the sales last year,” he said adding that those who had entered the market this year, will face a tough time. Another seller Kamlesh Pandya pointed out that he had procured a lesser stock as compared to last year, but it was evident that even that would not be sold. “I do not expect to sell even half the amount of crackers, I sold last year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cracker-of-sale-no-more-this-year/articleshow/79227618.cms||Sachin Sharma
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Fee deadline nears, schools send reminders to parents||KOLKATA: With a sizeable number of parents reportedly yet to make a move to clear the outstanding fees, even though most schools uploaded the revised structures on their websites by October 31, the institutes have started issuing notices, alerting guardians about the deadlines by which they will have to apply to avail of the 20% waiver on tuition and session fees. This, schools felt, will be a written assurance that payments will be made before the court-assigned deadline of November 30 deadline. A majority of parents are waiting for the Supreme Court hearing on November 16 when the appeals filed by schools will be heard on the points that have been stayed for the moment, thinking that some change might come in to influence their repayment decision. Many schools have set November 15 as the deadline for parents to show their intent. A notice from Vivekananda Mission School Joka sent to parents on Wednesday said it was a “reminder” to parents who were “willing” to avail of the 20% reduction in fees, to write back to a designated e-mail ID by November 15. “Forms received after November 15 will not be entertained. We need this for NACH or inter-bank transfers,” said a member of the administration. Loreto Schools, six of which are in the city and two in Asansol and Darjeeling, have also set a November 15 deadline for parents to make a choice. A central Covid committee has been set up for all the Loreto schools to look at dues, revised fees, collections and defaulters’ lists. At Loreto Elliot Road, teachers are helping the accounts department connect with parents over outstanding amounts. The two La Martiniere schools have not left it just to the their websites but have also sent letters to individual defaulters, mentioning their outstanding amounts and the fact that their wards will be removed from online classes and other facilities if payments is not made by November 30. Though there is no set format, South Point School has told parents to send a mail, saying they intended to obtain the benefit of the waiver in terms of the court order. “Though parents have started paying the reduced fees, the number is quite low till now,” said spokesperson for the school Krishna Damani. The views among most school authorities were similar. “Parents should understand the seriousness of the situation and start paying up now that the revised fee is in place. In my school, instead of collecting a daily amount of Rs 2 lakh, we are now collecting an approximate Rs 19,000. How will the school survive?” said Father Rodney Borneo, principal of Loyola High School, Kidderpore. Very few parents have reportedly turned up to get the necessary corrections done in their fee books, as was requested of them. Given the delay in payment , Asian International School has also made appeals to parents, requesting them to mail and indicate whether they were choosing to pay the revised fees or the full amounts, said principal Vijaylakshmi Kumar. DPS Howrah principal Sunita Arora said parents had made a start but the school was yet to realise the entire amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fee-deadline-nears-schools-send-reminders-to-parents/articleshow/79227638.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Saas-bahu file cross-complaints for assault||AHMEDABAD: A 23-year-old woman from Sabarmati, Valentina Shah, lodged a complaint at Satellite police station alleging assault by her mother-in-law and sister-in-law. Shah alleged that at about 1am on Saturday, when she went to Vasupujya Society, Satellite, to meet her husband Kuldeep — who she has separated from — her mother-in-law Chetna Sharma and her sister-in-law beat her up, asking her why she had come to meet her son. According to the complaint, Sharma and her older daughter-in-law, Abi Gangdev, dragged her by her hair and threatened her saying if she went there again they would publish a video of hers. The complainant said it was Kuldeep who had called her and asked her to meet him. Later, they met at a tea stall on SG Highway and as Kuldeep did not have a vehicle, she had gone to drop him off. Police sources said in the cross complaint, Chetna Sharma, 52, stated that Kuldeep had married Valentina about a month ago and the two then separated. “She has claimed that her paying guest called her on Friday night and told her that a woman had come to their house was assaulting Kuldeep,” said a Satellite police official. The FIR states that they reached Vasupujua Bungalows at about 1.45am and saw Valentina attacking Kuldeep. Police sources said, “According to the FIR, when they asked her why as she had come, Valentina got angry and started abusing them and tried to hit them with a steel rod. As Gangdev intervened, Valentina grabbed her by her hair and bit her finger. She also allegedly tried to throttle Kuldeep,” said a police official. Satellite police said they are investigating both complaints and are gathering evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saas-bahu-file-cross-complaints-for-assault/articleshow/79227248.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Principals at a loss over no guideline for internal exams||KOLKATA: Several principals of colleges affiliated to Calcutta University are confused over how to conduct the undergraduate intermediate semester exams as they have not received any uniform guidelines on the format. Similar is the confusion over postgraduate intermediate semesters. “While some undergraduate departments have been able to seek clarification from CU’s UG councils for themselves, several others are yet to figure out how the 50-mark exam will be conducted,” said the principal at a city college. The intermediate semester exams are supposed to be held between November 23 and December 23. On November 6, it was announced that UG students at CU colleges, who had been promoted to the third and fifth semesters without having to appear for any exam due to the pandemic, will be now be evaluated through internal assessments between November 23 and December 23. CU instructed its affiliated colleges that for the UG intermediate semester exams, they will have to follow the UGC guideline issued on April 2020, stating 50% of their grading should be on internal evaluation and the remaining 50% on their performance in previous semester. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar said, “I had sought clarification from the examination controller on which semesters should sit for tests on UG as well as PG and the formats to be followed . Several UG Councils have informed about the patterns.” Tapan Poddar, principal at Vivekananda College in Behala, said he had also sought clarifications from CU. “I have been told that each college can hold the exams, according to their understandings. I will call a meeting of all department heads where a uniform pattern will be discussed . Students will be marked on attendance as well,” he said. Some heads pointed out that while some departments will ask for project work, others may take MCQ tests and ask students to upload answer scripts . “There is no clarity on practical exams either,” said the principal at a north Kolkata college. Controller of examinations at CU, Jayita Chakraborty, declined to comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/principals-at-a-loss-over-no-guideline-for-internal-exams/articleshow/79227643.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Court junks claim of mistaken identity||AHMEDABAD: Pavankumar Sharma, 54, from Alvar district in Rajasthan approached the city sessions court urging it to restrain the police from arresting him in a 33-year-old narcotics case, when one Pavankumar Brahmin was arrested with 15 grams of charas from the metropolitan court’s gate. Sharma was seeking anticipatory bail from the court claiming that the case registered in 1987 and the chargesheet filed later showed that the accused was 48-year-old then. The original accused must be 80 years old at present and he is only 54 years old. He submitted that there was a misunderstanding regarding similar names and native place, but he is certainly not the person police were searching for so many years. Sharma placed his identification cards and certificates in support of his claim that he was born in 1966 and had nothing to do with the matter. On the other hand, the police admitted before the court that it was a slip of pen that led to the wrong entry in chargesheet about the accused person’s age. Instead of mentioning 28 years, the chargesheet wrongly mentioned 48 years. The accused remained in jail for three years and was released in 1991. At the time of his release on bail, the jail records suggested he was 31 years old. The investigator from Karanj police station told the court that the accused absconded after bail in 1991. He was traced after so many years. Investigation found that Sharma is a Brahmin and he was trying to take advantage of the mistake committed in the chargesheet. However, the police had in 1991 requested the court to rectify the mistake. Principal sessions judge S K Baxi rejected Sharma’s application and observed that the investigation revealed that there was only one person living in the village by this name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/court-junks-claim-of-mistaken-identity/articleshow/79227267.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Narayan Sai seeks bail to perform sadhna||AHMEDABAD: Rape convict Narayan Sai Harpalani, the son of self-styled godman Asaram, has requested the Gujarat high court to release him on bail for 10 days so he can perform sadhna and meet his father and spiritual guru, who is also serving a life sentence in Jodhpur jail in a case of sexual assault. While Sai, who identified himself as a social worker in the petition, is serving a life sentence in Lajpore Jail after a Surat court convicted him of rape, his father Asaram is undergoing life imprisonment in Jodhpur jail for sexual assault on a minor in 2013. Both father and son were arrested on charges of rape levelled by two sisters, who were their former devotees. Sai submitted in his bail plea that his bond with his father is based on a holy, spiritual and religious relationship because Asaram is his spiritual guru. As he has not met him for seven years, “spiritual practice of the petitioner as well as fatherly love require that the petitioner meets his father for the fulfilment of his spiritual sadhna and his love and affection for his father”. Sai also submitted that a Surat court had earlier ordered the jail authorities to arrange for his meeting with his father, but the court order was not followed. Sai also sought bail to meet his mother, who is ailing and under treatment. He has submitted that he wants to spend quality time with his parents and comfort them. His disconnect with them for seven years has caused him great mental torment and is affecting his health as well. Justice Nikhil Kariel posted the hearing on Sai’s bail plea for December 12 and permitted his advocate Rafik Lokhandwala to place additional documents on record. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/narayan-sai-seeks-bail-to-perform-sadhna/articleshow/79227276.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Vizhinjam Port: Protesters happy over steps of govt||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: This time, the government seems to be serious about fulfilling all promises given to local fishermen who were agitating at Vizhinjam International Seaport Limited project site in a timebound manner. It has been two weeks since the fishermen called off their agitation temporarily with a warning that they will relaunch the agitation after 30 days if they felt that government was delaying the implementation of rehabilitation package again. Even though the government was not able to issue any order related to rehabilitation package during this period, they have managed to win the trust of the agitators in the meantime by initiating works of the orders issued in the previous month. Speaking to TOI, Father Michael Thomas, the vicar of Our Lady of Good Voyage Church, Kottapuram, who led the fishermen’s agitation, said that they were satisfied of the efforts being taken by the government. “A few days ago, the special monitoring committee constituted by the government to oversee the pace of works held a meeting with us here. Officials concerned of all departments related to addressing our grievances were also there and they all appeared to be committed to carrying out the works without any more delay,’’ the vicar said. He added that though they are still concerned about a few of their grievances that still remain unaddressed, they hope that those will be addressed in the next meetings of the committee. The committee will be meeting regularly at an interval of 10 days to monitor the progress of the rehabilitation works. On Friday, a team of officials of minor Irrigation department visited Kottapuram as part of site inspection before commencing the renovation of Gangayar drain that pass through the port site. The renovation of Gangayar drain was one of the 18 grievances the agitators listed out before the government. The harbour engineering department officials too have initiated steps to secure the breakwater, which according to fishermen, is posing danger to the fishing boats as its boulders are loose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/vizhinjam-port-protesters-happy-over-steps-of-govt/articleshow/79227275.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Bombay HC allows sale of flat to meet bedridden woman’s expenses||MUMBAI: Bombay high court has allowed the sale of a flat at Cuffe Parade to meet medical and other expenses of a woman bedridden for 14 years after suffering irreversible brain damage. The direction by a bench of Justices Burgess Colabawalla and Abhay Ahuja came on a petition by 59-year-old Anjali Mehta’s two guardians, including brother-in-law Hormuz. City civil court directed them to move HC, as it did not have jurisdiction to allow alienation of property. Admitted to a city hospital in October 2006 for chest pain, Anjali suffered a cardiac arrest and then anoxic brain affectation, which affected her mental capacity. She requires nurses and attendants to look after her round-the-clock. In September 2015, her husband, as guardian and manager, was permitted to negotiate sale of the flat, but before it could be concluded his health deteriorated. The couple then moved to a flat at Commonwealth Building on Madame Cama Road, where Hormuz also lives. Neville died due to cancer in April 2016. The petitioners were appointed guardians and managers of Anjali’s person and property in August 2017. The petitioners’ advocate, Jehangir Jeejeebhoy, said Anjali had no money in her bank account to meet daily medical and other expenses, including maintenance of properties. She is sole and absolute owner of the flat at Pallonji Mansion and properties she inherited from her late parents. A person has offered Rs 19.5 crore for the flat, and is willing to pay related charges, but the sale transaction should be completed by December 31. The judges noted that the petitioners spent over Rs 1 core from Anjali’s account to look after her and her properties from April 2017-October 2020. They have themselves also infused nearly Rs 26 lakh in her account to meet her expenses. The judges said it was clear Anjali was incapable of taking care of herself. “In these circumstances, considering totality of facts, it will be in the interest of Anjali if permission is granted for sale of Pallonji Mansion flat,’’ they said in their November 11 order. They directed the petitioners to invest proceeds “to earn optimum returns and to utilize the money for Anjali’s proper upkeep and fulfilling her needs and requirements”. They have to file a detailed report a month after sale, stating what they have done with the proceeds, and quarterly reports on expenses for maintenance of Anjali and her properties. The judges said the flat should not be sold for less than Rs 19.5 crore, as mentioned in the petition. Since Pallonji Mansion is on collector’s land, they requested the collector, through assistant government pleader Jyoti Chavan, to consider granting an NOC to the sale before December 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bombay-hc-allows-sale-of-flat-to-meet-bedridden-womans-expenses/articleshow/79227340.cms||Rosy Sequeira
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||GPSC vs virus duty: Docs in a fix||Ahmedabad: Gujarat Public Service Commission (GPSC) has recently announced the entrance test for various posts including faculties in medical colleges. Many doctors feel they are at a disadvantage for they are busy serving in Covid-19 duties. While this would give them very little time for exam preparation, many are of the view that their hectic schedules may not allow them to participate altogether in the exam. Despite various representations by Medical Teachers’ Association to the state government, no amicable solution has been found so far, said sources in the state government. Currently, all holidays for faculties serving in government medical colleges and hospitals have been cancelled by the government. “The examination has been declared by GPSC despite the health department being apprised of the situation,” said an official of the association. The exam is in MCQ format, so it is necessary to get proper time for preparation and for this the candidates need leave to study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gpsc-vs-virus-duty-docs-in-a-fix/articleshow/79227278.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Active case percentage is lowest in three months||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There has been significant drop, not just in active cases but in test positivity rate, ICU occupancy and patient load under categories B and C in the district. The active case percentage as on Friday has been the lowest in the district in the past three months. The district’s active case percentage on Friday was 10.47 and between August and October the percentage has rarely come down below 30%. It was only in the middle of October that the percentage of active cases came down below 20%. The patient load under category C, which requires critical care, had gone as high as 315 in the second week of October. From the third week of October, the category C admissions in government and private hospital have begun to drop and as on November 10, the number stood at 216, which is almost equivalent to what the district was handling just before the pre-Onam peak. The patient load under category B, which has been peaking since September, came below 1,000 for the first time in two months. As on November 10, the patient load under category B including figures from Covid hospitals, private hospitals and secondary-level treatment centres was 918. The admissions had declined from 1,239 to below 1,000 in two months. The ICU occupancy has also shown a slight drop in November so far. The occupancy in ICU facilities in the district swelled since the first week of September and was inching towards the threshold; however, it was well under control by October and in the first week of November, the occupancy dipped from 189 to 171. The test positivity rate, which has always been a concern for the district, recorded 10.37% on November 10, which was even lower than the state’s TPR of 10.98%. The TPR of district has swayed between alarming scales — 13-19%. The weekly positivity rate in the district rose from 13.3% in the first week of September to 17.6% by the month end. A total of 24,411 cases were detected in five weeks, out of 1,55,342 tests which were done in September. Over 1.6 lakh samples were tested in October in first four weeks itself and the weekly positivity rate ranged between 13.7 and 16.8. Right from the first week of October which recorded the highest number of samples tested for a week so far, positivity rate had dropped slightly from 17%. The data show that since the second week of July, Trivandrum’s weekly positivity rate has never gone below 5. From the third week of July when coastal community spread ballooned to a huge crisis for the district, the positivity rate has gone above 10%. Even with encouraging signs, officials warn that they can hardly let the guard down. “The local body election period is going to be crucial. If we could prevent a post-poll surge we could say that we did well. However chances are too high for another peak in cases. At present, active cases have evidently dropped, however just like during Onam, it could go up any time,” said an official. Meanwhile, the district recorded 468 Covid-19 positive cases on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/active-case-is-lowest-in-3-months/articleshow/79227280.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Samvat 2077 starts with sensex at new life-high||Times News Network Mumbai: Samvat year 2077 started on a strong note with the sensex scaling a new life-high at near 43,850 mark and closed with a 195-point gain at 43,638 points, also a new closing high. Continuing with the recent euphoric trend, the special hour long trading session on Saturday evening started on a high with the sensex at 43,815 points, up 372 points with HDFC Bank, Infosys and Reliance Industries leading. On the NSE too, the nifty closed at a life-high at 12,771 points, up 51 points on the day. Samvat, also called Vikram Samvat, is the year according to one of the Hindu calendars that is followed mainly by the Gujarati trading community who dominate Dalal Street. Every year BSE conducts a special trading session on the first day of the Samvat year, which also happens to be the Diwali day. This trading period is called the Muhurat session. Before the start of the hour-long Muhurat session, every year BSE has a Lakshmi Puja at the exchange’s Convention Hall, usually attended by most brokers, their families, friends and other people. This year, however, due to the ensuing Covid-19 pandemic, attendance at the exchange was restricted. Dalal Street veterans say that on this day, those who follow the Samvat year should always buy some shares, even if in small lots and should never sell any. With a large number of individual traders and traditional brokers resorting to only buying stocks while most of the institutions are closed for Diwali, the sensex usually shows an uptick during the Muhurat trading session. Historically, on most of the Muhurat sessions the sensex had closed higher. In the last five years, the sensex closed higher on three occasions but had closed deep in the red during Samvat year 2074 and only marginally lower during Samvat 2073. Brokers remain optimistic about the market for the next one year, despite the unprecedented damage done to the economy by the pandemic. The main reason for such optimism is the steps taken by the government in the last seven-eight months. “The formal economy is back on track, but the hurdle now is how to get the unorganized economy back on its feet,” said Uttam Bagri, chairman, BSE Brokers’ Forum. Market players also feel that with India Inc taking every step to revive their businesses with cost-cutting being one of the main strategies, investors have responded well. These measures have taken the stock market to a new high while the economy is still languishing. They also feel that the government’s recent policy initiatives would now help the revival in the economy in the medium to long term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/samvat-2077-starts-with-sensex-at-new-life-high/articleshow/79227872.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Parties struggle to play the right card in coastal wards||Thiruvananthapuram: More than 15 coastal wards that had always bolstered UDF presence in the corporation council will be the key to ensuring a better performance from UDF in this election.Rebel candidates along with dissidence among allies in consenting to a candidature could badly hurt the prospects of UDF. LDF had cashed in on a similar internal strife in 2015 to walk away with a few sure seats of UDF. At Kottapuram, UDF’s Gladis Alex, former councillor, had lost out to Shyni W in 2015. The rebel candidate of UDF had polled 1,240 votes at Vizhinjam and had come second, ensuring a victory for CPM candidate Abdul Rasheed. There were places where UDF had to really sweat it out. In Harbour ward, Congress candidate Nisabeevi had scraped through with a meagre majority of 19 votes in 2015. As UDF was drowned in inner conflicts, LDF clinched seats at Poundukadavu, Shangumugham and Kottapuram. While LDF has had the last laugh in 2015 with surprise victories in a few coastal wards, things may get tough this year. At Vallakadavu, the candidature of Shajida Naazar for the fourth team has set off dissent among a few party men. UDF hopes that they could benefit from this disapproval as leakage of votes might spring a rude shock for LDF. SDPI is also harbouring colourful dreams at Vallakadavu owing to this dissent among Left party workers at Vallakadavu. Peter Solomon had a smooth sail in 2015 as he won with a majority of over 300 votes at Poonthura, contesting for UDF under KC(M). His name is yet to figure in any of the talks regarding candidature. Solomon, who switched to Joseph group recently, made his intentions clear during his farewell speech in the final council meeting held recently. While all the other councillors exchanged pleasantries, Solomon was keen on recounting his work during Covid-19 outbreak at Poonthura. It seems that he was giving clear hints to the party. Sources confirmed that Solomon may contest as an independent candidate from Manikyavilakom. He is certain of sweeping over 2,000 votes from this belt. Former councillor Gladis who has been denied a seat despite her active interest may enter as a rebel candidate at Vizhinjam. The candidature of Beemapally Rasheed at Beemapally East has also become uncertain suddenly as there is a clamour for a new face. Sajeena teacher has already raised her hand for the seat and it’s upto the league to take a final call here. UDF may face a rebel candidate at Harbour ward as well and could well spoil its chances of retaining the seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/parties-struggle-to-play-the-right-card-in-coastal-wards/articleshow/79227322.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Probing flaws not privilege breach, says ED||KOCHI: Nearly a week after the ethics committee of Kerala legislative assembly issued a notice seeking explanation from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for its intervention into the Life Mission project, the agency has sent a letter stating that the summons issued by it will not in any way amount to interference on the constitutional rights or privilege of assembly and legislators. ED had sought files relating to ongoing projects of the Life Mission. Following the move, a notice of privilege motion was moved citing that ED probe into the irregularities in the Life Mission project was intended at stalling the entire project. Subsequently, the ethics committee sought an explanation from ED. ED in its response said that the issuance of summons did not mean to stall or interfere in the project. The letter states that the ongoing investigations are on the reported financial irregularities involving individuals, private and state government entities, including ‘Life Mission Society’. It is said in the letter that consequent to the gold haul by customs, investigations began on the trail of gold smuggling, the trail on the raising of funds for procuring gold from abroad, involvement of hawala transactions, the dispensation of gold and its proceeds and further on, the application of proceeds of crime. “It was prima facie revealed in the (ED) probe that there has been a larger network in operation, hand in glove with state executive authorities, for siphoning out huge money running into crores of rupees out of public contracts,” the letter states It stated that one of such objectionable deals which came to the ED’s notice was in respect of some contracts involving the Life Mission Society; there had been a systematic way of illegal syphoning out of commission from the contract amounts, leading to undue enrichment of some individuals or entities. “The details of such illegal instances of undue enrichment which form an integral part of the chain of offending transactions, are to be investigated further by ED as it is deemed necessary. It has been in this context that information has been sought from Shri U V Jose, being CEO of Life Mission, through the summons dated 30.10.2020,” the letter states. The letter is learnt to have been sent on Friday by assistant director of ED P Radhakrishnan, the investigation officer in the money laundering case relating to the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling case. The letter also pointed out that it will not be proper or permissible to attribute privileges of legislature to Life Mission, which is only an implementing agency of the state government. The letter also explains the powers vested upon the Directorate by the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. “…a proper cooperation to the notice by furnishing the legitimate information sought by the Enforcement Directorate, would only enhance the majesty of any institution under the state government and would help to demonstrate that the state instrumentality has nothing to cover up,” the letter states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/probing-flaws-not-privilege-breach-ed/articleshow/79227327.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||After PM Modi’s Arjun tank ride, DRDO hopes to get orders for advanced tank||NEW DELHI: Buoyant after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s Arjun tank ride in Jaisalmer, the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) on Saturday expressed hope that it would soon be getting an order for supplying 118 Arjun Mark 1A tanks which are far more advanced than the present version. “We were really proud to see the Prime Minister taking a ride in the Arjun tank in the deserts of Jaisalmer. We are now hoping that the Army would soon be placing orders for two more regiments of Arjun Mark 1A tanks,” DRDO’s scientist V Balaguru said. Balaguru is the Associate Director of the Combat Vehicle Research Development Research Establishment laboratory of DRDO in Chennai. The Army has, so far, inducted 124 Arjun tanks which are deployed in the deserts of Jaisalmer along the border with Pakistan. Balaguru said the Arjun Mark 1A has 72 added features than its older version with the capability of taking care of anti-tank mines on its own with its mine ploughs. The 12.7-inch air defence gun also can now be operated from inside the tank by the tank commander using a remote control without exposing himself to the enemy firing in times of tank battles in open fields. The exiting two regiments are deployed around Jaisalmer as part of an armoured brigade there. DRDO is also hoping to provide the solution for Indian Army’s next-generation main battle tank requirements as part of the Aatmanirbhar Bharat initiative of PM Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-pm-modis-arjun-tank-ride-drdo-hopes-to-get-orders-for-advanced-tank/articleshow/79227993.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram: Poonthura Siraj joins LDF fold; to contest corporation poll||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Three-time councillor and former PDP state vice-chairman Poonthura Siraj emerged as the LDF candidate at Manikyavilakom as he announced his membership with Indian National League, an LDF ally here, on Saturday. Priya Biju of INL had won from Manikyavilakom with a comfortable majority of over 450 votes in 2015. Siraj, who had been an active member of PDP, said his move is aimed at strengthening the secular framework of LDF. “My decision to join INL will strengthen the efforts of LDF to propagate secularism,” he said. Siraj had been councillor of Trivandrum Corporation thrice in 1995, 2000 and 2005. He had represented PDP in first two terms and then contested as an independent candidate in 2005. During his term in the council, he had kept distance from both the fronts. It is learnt that INL had planned another candidate at Manikyavilakom; however it wasn’t a popular choice among the Left front and a new candidate had to be chosen. It was at this juncture Siraj decided to join INL and his candidature was declared by INL on Saturday. “Many people have shifted alliance from Congress and Muslim League to the Left front. My experience of three decades has forced me for a rethink. I have decided to become a part of INL and to work for LDF,” Siraj said in a statement. Siraj’s candidature at Poonthura comes at a time when UDF is likely to face strong contest from its own rebel candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/poonthura-siraj-joins-ldf-fold-to-contest-corp-poll/articleshow/79227329.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Faculty crunch in colleges as filling vacancies delayed||KOCHI: The delay in filling vacancies of teachers, both regular and guest, has affected academic activities in several colleges in Kerala and now the pandemic and the resultant financial crunch is further worsening the situation. The directorate of collegiate education (DCE) has restricted the appointment of teachers in higher educational institutions under its ambit during the pandemic. Besides the delay in regularizing appointment of faculties, the heads of institutions were asked to temporarily stop appointing guest lectures until further notice, and emergency appointments could only be made after special permission from the department. Moreover, in case if any college faces severe shortage of teachers leading to interruption in teaching of subjects, the principals/HODS will have to make arrangements with other colleges and avail online lessons on respective subjects from the teachers there. A circular regarding this was sent by the DCE to all heads of institutions through deputy directors. Many colleges are struggling to complete syllabi through online classes, and with the classes of first-year undergraduate and postgraduate students beginning in most colleges by next week, the faculty crunch will be a problem. Even though many colleges have conducted interviews, they are hesitant to make appointments fearing government action. The situation is worse in aided colleges compared to government colleges, where appointments through transfer is possible to meet the requirements to a certain extent. College principals and teachers said that the government will have to clear the delay in appointments immediately. “There are around 28 unfilled vacancies across departments in the college and the coverage of portions was mostly managed through guest lecturers. The restrictions in appointing guest teachers are affecting academics. Though we held interviews to find qualified teachers, they are doubtful about getting salaries due to the present restrictions and hence have not joined. It is impractical to avail online classes from other colleges to compensate for faculty crunch. With the classes of new batches beginning, there will be additional workload on teachers,” said a HOD at St Albert’s College, Ernakulam. Fr Prashant Palackapilly, principal of Sacred Heart College, Ernakulam, said that faculty crunch will affect the quality of education imparted. “The system of filling vacancies in Kerala has several flaws and delays. This has worsened during the pandemic. Getting qualified and efficient guest lecturers itself is a difficult task and even if we find someone the appointments are not possible,” he said. The higher education department has recently approved 197 hybrid courses, including nearly 20 integrated courses, across the state and gave the permission to start the course this month itself. But only guest lectures will have to be appointed for these new courses until 2025. The restrictions in appointment of guest lecturers are delaying the implementation of new courses too. Higher education department officials said that the government will have to issue a new order regarding the appointments for these courses. “The reports and complaints from colleges about faculty shortage have increased since the pandemic began. But the government circular will exist until offline classes are resumed. For appointments of teachers in newly-announced courses, we are awaiting further orders,” a senior official with DCE said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/faculty-crunch-in-colleges-as-filling-vacancies-delayed/articleshow/79227334.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||How two kids beat Covid and serious ailments too in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: While Covid infection is delaying emergency surgeries or worsening the condition of many people with existing morbidities, the challenge for doctors is significantly higher when the patients are children. Two children in Bengaluru not only battled their existing health complication, but beat the virus too. Case 1: Kidney transplantKethan (name changed) 7, suffered renal failure a year ago, but now has a new lease of life with his mother donating a kidney on October 29. However, what should have been a routine surgery became a challenge when both mother and son tested positive for Covid in August. The transplant was called off and although both were asymptomatic, the boy’s disorder worsened and he needed dialysis four times a week. The American Society of Transplant says there must be a gap of three months between Covid infection and a transplant. But owing to the deteriorating condition of the boy, Dr Vishwanath Siddini, head, department of nephrology, Manipal Hospitals, decided to go ahead with the transplant. Doctors ensured the duo tested negative twice to ensure they had recovered completely from Covid. Another complication was that mother and son belonged to different blood groups. While the mother was AB positive, the son was B positive. This required ABO incompatible transplant, or across the group transplant. “We conducted a procedure called plasmapheresis on the boy to reduce chances of organ rejection,” said Dr Siddini. Kethan’s father said, “Covid infection shook us initially as it delayed the surgery, but now, both my son and the wife are doing fine.” Case 2: Toxic poisoning A one-year-old baby girl Saina (name changed) was brought to the emergency unit of Columbia Asia hospital, Yeshwanthpur on November 5 in severe respiratory distress. Mucus was oozing from her nose and mouth and the girl was near cardiac arrest. She was immediately intubated and put on supportive ventilator. The girl lost consciousness and had seizures. Suspecting Covid, Saina was subjected to an RTPCR test. “However, we felt something wasn’t right,” Dr Supraja Chandrashekar, paediatric intensive specialist. “She had pinpoint pupils, where the pupils appear smaller than normal. These were typical symptoms of organophosphorus poisoning.” Tests on her swab samples also tested positive. After much discussion with her parents, it was learnt that the family had sprayed their home with a pesticide to get rid of bed bugs. Metacid, a highly toxic chemical, was used. “Saina was inadvertently exposed to a poison. The baby was shifted to Covid ICU. Tests confirmed organophosphorus poisoning,” said doctors. The child responded well to treatment and was discharged on Thursday. “Parents must be aware of the dangers of using pesticide sprays at home, especially when children are around,” says Dr Supraja. The hospital also registered a medico-legal case with the police. However, the parents said they had no clue their child would be poisoned. “We were out of station when the spraying was done. We returned three days later. We did notice the smell of the chemical, but didn’t think much of it. Our baby began showing signs of uneasiness weeks after the spraying,” Saina’s mother said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/how-two-kids-beat-covid-19-and-life-threatening-conditions-too/articleshow/79226841.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 15, 2020||Pune||With cold chain limits, some vaccines not ‘ideal’ for India||PUNE: Leading health experts in the country have expressed concern over the number of cold chain facilities that’ll have to be readied to deploy vaccines with recommended storage temperatures as low as -70°C. Former director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr NK Ganguly, told TOI that most of the Covid vaccines being developed require super-cold storage and may prove difficult for even the most sophisticated cities to store and transport. “Medical freezers that go down to -70°C or -80°C are rare even in American and European hospitals. Most, if not all the current vaccine frontrunners, require stringent cold chains, making them immensely challenging for India to deploy,” he said. Their concerns come amidst reports that said the Pfizer vaccine, which promises 90% efficacy, will need to be stored in -70°C. The Moderna vaccine too — its efficacy rating is expected by December-end — needs -20°C to survive. The experts added such vaccines will not be ideal for developing countries. Dr Ganguly said the Pfizer vaccine may prove to be a “logistical nightmare” for India, with heatwaves, widespread power outages and large rural belts. “Also, massive pre-orders for the vaccines (Pfizer and Moderna’s) from the United Kingdom, United States and Japan will make them mostly unavailable for us until 2021,” he said. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the ICMR, said some vaccines will not be feasible for India. He said, “Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are mRNA (messenger RNA) shots that require ultra-low storage temperatures. We do not have such freezers in our country. Pfizer has announced it will provide a dry ice container that will be able to maintain a temperature of -70°C for up to 10 days. But it is still not logistically feasible,” he said. However, Dr Kant said there are vaccines in development that can be stored in temperatures between -2°C and -8°C. “I think India should wait for such vaccines that will be affordable, easy to store and transport,” he said. “The key challenge ahead of Covid-19 immunisation will likely be last-mile distribution and ensuring each vaccination site has enough cooling equipment to maintain efficacy of these valuable vaccines,” Dr Kant added. Health officials said existing cold storage networks fulfil requirements of three vaccine candidates — from Bharat Biotech, Zydus Cadila and Serum Institute — that are being tested for Indian conditions. A senior central health official said the doses would require more than 16,000 cold chain storages. Worldwide too, experts have said governments need to ramp up their cold chain networks. The World Health Organisation has estimated that 70% of the global population has to be inoculated to end Covid-19. And there’s now growing concern that some populations may be left out of vaccine interventions almost entirely. In fact, nearly 3 billion of the world’s 7.8 billion people live in places with insufficient storage facilities for a Covid vaccine. The WHO’s chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan said countries will now need to prepare for logistical challenges. She said, “India has huge experience with the national immunization program. But this has been targeted mainly for childhood vaccines. Apart from cold chain and supply chain issues, countries will need to prepare and train their health workforce, deploy digital tracking systems, ensure safety surveillance protocols are in place and undertake community preparedness activities. Most vaccines being developed require at least two doses and we’ll need follow-ups for the repeat vaccination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-cold-chain-limits-some-vaccines-not-ideal-for-india/articleshow/79227332.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 15, 2020||Pune||Social factors causing fluctuations in Covid-19 positivity rate: Experts in Pune||PUNE: Sporadic Covid-19 case spikes over the last few days with fluctuations in the positivity rate — from as low as 9% to 13% — should not cause concern, experts have said. Scientists who study infection spread call it the ‘social epidemiology’, and it has to do with the way people move about and interact. Influx of people and increased mobility — due to unlocks and festivities — within the city’s otherwise stabilised population has considerable bearing on key indicators, the experts said. “A large influx of people, who have not yet been infected, into Pune’s Covid-stabilised population is causing small spikes in cases. This is an evolving situation. So we’ll have to observe this for a while,” epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee said. Also, many who were home all through the lockdowns have now started mingling with the immune population. “This movement is diluting the ‘herd immunity’,” Dr Banerjee said.  The positivity rate can also fluctuate with testing. “As the situation stabilises, there may be a tendency to test only symptomatics, which is likely to dip the positivity rate. We are currently testing asymptomatic contacts who may have had Covid, with dead virus particles in nose and throat cavities. These particles get picked up by RT-PCR tests and that adds to the positivity rate,” Dr Banerjee said. Social behaviour has a role too. “Respiratory infections spread more indoors and in close quarters. People wear masks in the open (where the risk is less), but once they enter a shop many pull down masks to speak, in close quarters,” he said. Social scientist and anthropologist Aarti Nagarkar also spoke of inequalities. “Social inequalities in terms of access to resources impact not only those who are at greater risk of infection or death, but also those who are taking precautions.” Pune’s sero surveys have found that people living in small houses; who’re are semi-literate and working in the unorganized sector had higher sero conversion (antibody protection). “Economically disadvantaged people with weak immune systems also often find it impossible to maintain physical distance. They cannot avoid public transport and are susceptible to fake news. Such social factors are more at play during the unlock,” Nagarkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/social-factors-causing-fluctuations-in-covid-19-positivity-rate-experts/articleshow/79227336.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 15, 2020||Pune||Once worst-hit, Khadki Cantonment has no Covid infections in 72 hours||PUNE: The Khadki Cantonment Board has not recorded a single new Covid case in the last three days. And its main hospital has not had a patient under treatment in six days. The KCB has reported 1,766 Covid-19 cases so far — 1,700 were discharged, 46 succumbed and 20 are active cases. “But all active cases are now being treated outside KCB limits,” said Pramod Kumar Singh, chief executive officer of the KCB. He added, “This is a very positive development for us. Our hospital doesn’t have a single Covid case now. Our teams are taking about 25 to 30 samples daily. For the last three days, we haven’t reported a single covid case.” Singh said precautionary measures continue across the KCB limits. “We have deployed two teams in the Khadki bazaar area for crowd management as per guidelines from the district administration.” Khadki was one of the worst-hit cantonments of Pune district, reporting at least 50 new daily cases through the months of July and August.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/once-worst-hit-khadki-cantt-has-no-infection-in-72-hours/articleshow/79227344.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||‘Can’t seek review of college fees with retrospective effect’||MUMBAI: Educational institutions cannot retrospectively seek review of fees fixed by Fee Regulating Authority (FRA), ruled the quasi-judicial body after a complaint by students from a private management institute. FRA, in a “well-reasoned and an elaborate” order, pointed out that the institute cannot seek review of fees fixed in 2018, when it had opted for no revision in the subsequent year, acquiescing to the fee structure fixed by the authority for two academic years. N L Dalmia Institute of Management Studies and Research from Mira Road charged MMS students of 2019-20 batch fees of nearly Rs 2.3 lakh, over and above fees (tuition and development) approved by FRA of nearly Rs 1.9 lakh. Two students from 2019-20 batch complained to the authority that the college collected extra and submitted receipts for their claim. Times ViewFRA gives colleges 15 days to seek review of fees fixed by it. Colleges are expected to file a review application justifying higher fees within that period if they are not convinced with the approved fees. If the college has voluntarily accepted the fees, it weakens its stand in charging excessive fees. Anything charged above tuition fees may be seen as capitation fees by the regulatory body.FRA sought an explanation from the institute, which sought review of the fee structure approved by the authority on January 24, 2018. Citing a provision of the regulatory act, FRA stated that “if the fee approved by the authority is not acceptable to the institution, it may file a review application with detailed reasoning, within 15 days from the date of communication”. The institute did not file any review application in 2018. It voluntarily opted for no upward revision on FRA’s portal in 2019, retaining fees at nearly Rs 1.9 lakh even for 2019-20 batch of 240 students. Therefore, the review application filed now cannot be applicable for both academic years, said the order. The 2018-19 batch graduated and 2019-20 batch will complete the course in six months. “It is strange that a review application for hike in fees is retrospectively being sought, which in no circumstance is permissible,” stated the order passed by the regulatory body, headed by retired high court judge, Justice M N Gilani. The institute authorities were not reachable for comments. An institute official said they provide value-added courses to students to make them industry-ready and receipts were provided. The institute CEO , before the FRA, mentioned “excellent infrastructure, best placement record and many other welfare measures undertaken by the institute”. The CEO even claimed fees were justifiable in view of an value-added course the institute offered. FRA gave the institute a week to submit an explanation with full disclosure related to extra fees charged. An FRA member, calling the order well-reasoned, said the institute will be given a chance to justify excessive fees but if there is no valid reason, as in most such cases, institutes are told to refund excessive fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cant-seek-review-of-college-fees-with-retrospective-effect/articleshow/79227367.cms||Yogita Rao
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Customs returned gunman’s phone, K T Jaleel claims on Facebook||KOCHI: Higher education minister K T Jaleel wrote a Facebook post on Saturday in which he claimed that the phone of his gunman, which was confiscated by Customs, was returned. In a seemingly sarcastic post, Jaleel said that neither the sky fell nor the earth fell apart. “I would like to happily inform all my ‘well-wishers’ that the phone of the gunman, which purportedly had important details about ‘mysterious moves’ of the minister, including ‘calls to Syria and Pakistan’ and ‘involvement in gold smuggling’, which was confiscated by Customs, has been returned,” the minister wrote in his Facebook post. Jaleel was questioned by Customs for around six hours on Monday. Customs sources had maintained that the agency had summoned him to clarify suspicions it had in issues related to the UAE consulate, including the distribution of Quran imported by the consulate. Customs sources, on Saturday, refused to comment on the gunman’s phone but maintained that the investigation involving the minister was still an ongoing matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-returned-gunmans-phone-jaleel-claims-on-fb/articleshow/79227346.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Pune||Slight uptick in PMR daily cases, 14 people succumb||PUNE: The Pune Metropolitan Region on Saturday reported a total of 509 fresh cases of Covid-19. This was a slight increase from the 468 cases reported in the region on Friday. Also on Saturday, 475 people were discharged after recovering from the contagion. This was the first time in 10 days that there were more cases than recoveries. The total progressive caseload (total number of cases reported since the outbreak) crossed 3.31 lakh, while around 3.13 lakh people have recovered so far. Of the 509 cases reported on Saturday, Pune Municipal Corporation limits added 248 patients. Pimpri Chinchwad, with 128 cases, and 133 cases combined from the rural areas, cantonment limits and municipal council areas made up the rest. While the PMC areas had more recoveries than fresh cases, it was the opposite in the other parts of the district, including the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits. A report released by the district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated that as many as 14 patients succumbed to the infection on Saturday in the region, taking death toll to 8,163. Pune city limits reported 8 deaths during this 24-hour window, while four people breathed their last in the rural areas. Two people succumbed to the contagion in Pimpri Chinchwad. The overall death toll in Pune went up to 4,545, which was the highest in the region, followed by followed by the rural, cantonment and municipal council areas (2,057) and Pimpri Chinchwad (1,561). Meanwhile, the tally of active cases dropped below the 10,000-mark on Saturday, reaching 9,462. Of these 4,111 patients were being treated at various hospitals in the region, while as many as 5,351 people were under home quarantine. Also on Saturday, 5,062 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested in the region over 15 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/slight-uptick-in-pmr-daily-cases-14-people-succumb/articleshow/79227342.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 15, 2020||Pune||Many in India face complications due to delaying cataract removal, recovery takes weeks||PUNE: A sizable number of patients who delayed cataract removal procedures during the early phase of the pandemic are now presenting with mature or hyper-mature cataracts, making the surgery more difficult and prolonging the post-operative recovery. When the cataract becomes over-mature, it can lead to lens-induced glaucoma and irreversible blindness, eye surgeons warned. “Across the country, eye surgeons reported a 70% drop in cataract surgeries in initial months of the pandemic. The numbers are about 70-80% of pre-Covid times now,” Pune-based eye surgeon Vardhaman Kankariya of Asian eye hospital said. In many patients, the delay in consultation has led the cataracts to progress to advanced stages, increasing the complexities resulting in delayed post-operative recovery and sub-optimal outcomes, Kankaria, who is also the secretary of the Maharashtra Ophthalmological Society, said. Kankariya is seeing about 40 cases associated with the delayed removal of cataract in a month now as against four to five during the pre-Covid period. “At the over-maturation stage of the cataract, the pressure in the eye can rise to seriously high levels. More laser may be required to break the cataract then, leading to corneal swelling or retinal edema (swelling). Besides, delayed recovery will make a supporting capsule of cataract break. This will make the lens implantation difficult,” Kankariya said. There are many patients with cataracts in both eyes. Some of them got operated on one eye before the pandemic, but presented very late for the second eye surgery. Besides, patients with other eye-related ailments such as glaucoma or diabetic retinopathy have also put off their regular eye tests, leading to an increased risk of vision loss. Bengaluru-based eye surgeon Sri Ganesh said, “Most patients have delayed getting cataract surgeries for over six months and many of them are coming with mature or hyper-mature cataracts. This is causing a lot of undue complications, which could have been easily avoided had the patients reported early.” Delhi-based eye surgeon Rajesh Sinha, professor, Department of Ophthalmology, AIIMS, said, “Eye Hospitals around India are taking maximum precautions for Covid Safety. Patients with cataracts and other eye ailments should not delay treatment.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/many-face-complications-due-to-delaying-cataract-removal-recovery-takes-weeks/articleshow/79227348.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Thiruvananthapuram DCP to oversee state industrial security force team in Secretariat||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has given the supervisory responsibility for handling the state industrial security force (SISF) personnel inside the Secretariat to deputy commissioner of police (law and order) Divya Gopinath by giving her the additional charge of commandant of the force. Surprisingly, IG and city police commissioner Balram Kumar Upadhyaya has been kept out of any intervention regarding Secretariat security, which means that the DCP would double up as DCP (law and order) as well as SISF commandant, taking instructions from multiple seniors regarding secretariat security and law and order that is differentiated by a thin line. State police chief Loknath Behera said that the charge would only be temporary until a new commandant is posted as the police is facing shortage of officers. “The DCP has also been given charge of commandant of SISF. We don’t have enough people, so till a new commandant is posted in January, the DCP will hold the charge,” Behera said. TOI had earlier reported about how the deployment of SISF personnel, originally meant “for providing sufficient security coverage to vital institutions under both public and private sectors, like dams, power plants, banks, etc, on payment basis” would create confusion over Secretariat security. The decision to deploy SISF was taken after recent protests against the government, in which the protestors entered the Secretariat compound many times. Even though SISF has been deployed in the Secretariat, a proper security plan and the positioning of the personnel are yet to be finalized. “The deployment should be in such a manner that armed SISF personnel should be positioned outside the Secretariat building, like it is done in crucial central government ministries in New Delhi. But there are also demands for deploying SISF personnel immediately outside the offices of key officials like the chief secretary, citing security threat,” secretariat sources said. However, the state police chief said that there would be no interference from the police in the deployment of SISF personnel. “We will not interfere in such matters. It is for the SISF commandant to decide on who should be posted where inside the Secretariat,” he said. Meanwhile, it is learnt that the chief secretary has also sought an explanation from police on charges that he was not attended to by the police officials present inside the Secretariat compound when media gathered around him up when the fire incident broke out in the Secretariat. However, police sources said that the limited available police personnel were engaged in removing BJP state president K Surendran and party activists from the Secretariat premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tvm-city-dcp-to-oversee-sisf-team-in-secretariat/articleshow/79227355.cms||KP Saikiran
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Positivity rate among Mumbai essential staff less than 1%||MUMBAI: While the daily positivity rate among those tested for Covid-19 in Mumbai is under 10%, civic officials said less than 2% of essential or frontline workers tested every day are positive. BMC conducts random tests among some frontline staff and office-goers daily. “This is almost like random sampling as we test a certain number of staff every day,’’ said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. “In the last fortnight, we have witnessed that the number of Covid-positive people reduced to 1-2%,’’ he said. For instance, BMC conducted Covid-19 tests for 30,250 police staff and 30,000 staff of the its solid waste management (SWM) in the last 15 days. “While 0.5-1% of the police personnel tested were positive, the corresponding number among SWM staff was 0.75-1%,’’ said Kakani. As police and SWM officials travel to work by public transport and interact with many others in their line of duty, the positivity rate among them is an indicator of the spread of the infection. “Hence, such daily surveys are as good as random surveys and tell us about the extent of exposure among people,’’ said Kakani. Even sero-surveys of July and August indicated that the percentage of healthcare workers who tests positive is lower than in general population. This is perhaps due to better Covid safety behavior among healthcare workers. The Covid-19 infections in Mumbai dropped drastically in the last month; from 2,500 daily cases in late September, the numbers now hover between 500-1,000. A BMC official pointed out that about 50% staff of Bharat Diamond Bourse in BKC tested on a single day in September were positive. “But last week, during a similar survey, only 1% staff of the same company tested positive,’’ said the official. However, BMC officials are bracing for a third surge in cases after Diwali. “Apart from intermingling during Diwali, we expect reverse migration. This increases the risk of Covid infection,’’ said Kakani. The next 45 days are crucial for the city as some experts fear a second wave, like in Europe, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/positivity-rate-among-mumbai-essential-staff-less-than-1/articleshow/79227375.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Hubballi||‘Nodal officers will help farmers, traders get benefits of Atmanirbhar scheme’||DHARWAD: The government will appoint a nodal officer for each of the four revenue divisions in the state to facilitate smooth disbursement of loans to farmers, traders, businessmen and self-help groups through the cooperative department, said cooperation minister S T Somashekhar. He was speaking at ‘Aarthika Spandana’, a function organised by the department at Kala Bhavan here on Friday, to disburse loans to beneficiaries under various schemes announced by the state and central government during Covid-19 crisis. He said nodal officers are necessary to ensure that the benefits of government schemes reach the target group in a hassle-free manner. The minister said during the pandemic, the cooperation department has distributed an incentive of Rs 12,07,50,000 to 42,540 ASHA workers who had served as Covid warriors and Rs 15 crore has been given by various cooperative societies to the CM’s Relief Fund. Jagadish Shettar, minister for large and medium industries, called upon people to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines during Diwali. Union minister Pralhad Joshi said Karnataka is in the forefront to utilise the benefits of Centre’s Atma Nirbhar schemes. “It has already submitted more than 500 proposals. Of them, the Centre has approved 215 proposals and the state is using the funds properly,” he said, adding 12,000 families of farmers have benefited from Atma Nirbhar scheme. Karnataka Central Cooperative Bank president Bapugouda Patil also spoke. The programme was jointly organised by the District Central Cooperative Banks and District Cooperative Milk Unions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/nodal-officers-will-help-farmers-traders-get-benefits-of-atmanirbhar-scheme/articleshow/79226883.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Nagpur||VNIT students start podcast on non-engg career choices||Nagpur: VNIT students have started a unique podcast which focuses on non-engineering career choices by their alumni. The podcast, titled ‘Career Brew — Inspired by experience’, aims to help students make informed decisions during these uncertain times. Under the umbrella of ‘CollegeTime’, a start-up by VNIT students, the podcast strives to find that missing puzzle piece in every student’s life which is often a cause of anxiety and distress. The aim is not to glorify the glamorous but to bring the unheard stories of struggle, hustle and hard work which eventually lead to success. Career Brew urges students to identify and follow their passions, regardless of society’s prevalent norms. The podcast targets students from class XI to the undergraduates across all fields of education and presents diverse ideas. The talk is designed to resonate with students and is hence relatable. The guest panel boasts of a mix of young and dynamic individuals who are alumni from VNIT, working in fields like marketing, music, food blogging and investment banking. Season 1 was released on November 9 and is available on streaming platforms like Spotify, Anchor and Google Podcasts. The institute’s podcast team plans to extend Career Brew into a full-fledged alumni podcast network once the pandemic eases. The idea was conceptualized by Digvijay Thorat and Sarthak Sharma, third year students at VNIT, and hosted by Richa Mohta (second year). The process was carried out by a team of students comprising Bhavin Yardi, Rashmi Hegde, Anshu Behera, Sourav Agrawal and Apoorv Umredkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vnit-students-start-podcast-on-non-engg-career-choices/articleshow/79232494.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Additional Skill Acquisition Programme to be a company, doubts raised on viability||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In yet another example of floating institutions that might only add to the list of ‘white elephants’, state government has decided to register Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP), which was an externally-aided project, as a new company, with an initial authorized capital of Rs 5 crore. ASAP was a project intended to impart skills to students. It was funded by Asian Development Bank. The project, which began in 2012, came to a close in September this year. “By transforming ASAP into a more permanent and formal structure in the form of a limited company, government would be able to ensure the continuous functioning of ASAP and as a separate entity, ASAP would be in a position to play a bigger and meaningful role in future in a self-sustainable manner,” the order issued by the government in this regard said. The government order for registering ASAP as a company also says that it would serve as a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for the implementation of KIIFB and other government projects. By forming a new company, ASAP is now seeking to duplicate the functions of an already established government company Kerala Academy of Skills Excellence (KASE), which has been designated as the State Skill Development Mission (as per the G.O.(Rt) No.1501/16/LBR) in December 2016. KASE is functioning as the nodal body for the convergence of all the ‘skill initiatives’ in the state which has been recognized by the ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship as the state’s nodal agency for implementing the national skill mission. The government has also appointed principal secretary (higher education) Usha Titus as the first chairperson and managing director of the company. The officer is set to retire from the service on January 31 next year, which would mean that she can continue as the CMD of the company even after retirement. The directors and the promoters of the newly floated company include Usha Titus, ASAP chief executive officer and additional secretary (higher education) Veena N Madhavan and Kudumbashree executive director S Harikishore. The order further says that the government would nominate experts from relevant fields to the board soon. This implies that apart from re-employment of the retired bureaucrat, more political appointments would follow. Even as the government makes tall claims about ASAP, an RTI reply obtained last year says that after spending over Rs 365 crore in six years, the ASAP could help only 504 candidates find jobs in various industries across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/asap-to-be-a-company-doubts-raised-on-viability/articleshow/79227373.cms||KP Saikiran
November 15, 2020||Pune||September-November property registrations up 36% in Maharashtra thanks to stamp duty cut||PUNE: Property registrations in the state increased by 36% between September and mid-November this year as against the figures during the corresponding period in 2019. Maharashtra registration department officials said though the post-pandemic period had registered a dip in registration, the performance of the real estate sector improved after the state announced the reduction of stamp duty for a limited period in August. A registration department official said 1.9 lakh documents were registered in September last year. The number rose to 2.47 lakh in September 2020. Similarly, the number of registrations rose to 2.73 lakh this October from 1.93 documents registered in October last year. The first 13 days of November last year saw 88,000 registrations. The number was 1.21 lakh during the first 13 days of November 2020. State Inspector General of Registration and Stamps Omprakash Deshmukh told TOI that the reduction of stamp duty had helped many citizens to take the plunge and invest in the sector. “Registrations started slowly picking up from August this year. The initial pandemic period had seen a dip in registrations, as most of the offices were closed because of the lockdown. But as the offices reopened, the online registrations picked up.” Deshmukh said, “During the unlock period from September, the registration has increased. The state announced the reduction in stamp duty till March 31, 2021. People are availing of the benefits.” Confederation of Real Estate Developers' Association of India (Credai)-Maharashtra president Rajiv Parikh told TOI the stamp duty reduction had encouraged the fence sitters to take the plunge. “The developers also stepped in and offered different sops to ensure that the citizens invested during this period, when stamp duty waiver was totally in place. The stamp duty waiver and GST reduction in residential homes helped many people invest. Nearly 3,000 Credai members said the stamp duty waiver was beneficial. Another boost was the reduction of home loan interest rates to around 7%.” Pune Credai president Suhas Merchant said, “Intelligent buyers will not waste time and will book projects now. The advantage of the stamp duty waiver will not be in place six months down the line. The costs are bound to increase after six months, as the material and labour expenses will increase.” Managing director of Gera Developments Rohit Gera said the return to normalcy was fuelling the need for housing being converted to demand. “As companies come to terms with the effects of the pandemic and the lockdown, the uncertainty around job security is rapidly lifting and this is leading to people to buy homes this season,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sept-nov-property-regns-up-36-in-state-thanks-to-stamp-duty-cut/articleshow/79227371.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: No dates announced, yet villages get ready for gram panchayat polls||MYSURU: Villages are getting ready for gram panchayat elections, which was earlier scheduled in June and then postponed due to Covid-19. Even though the date has not been fixed for the election, political activities are heating up in villages. Burning issues like Covid-19 management, new farm acts and job loss are unlikely to become an election issue. TR Vidyasagar, district Raitha Sangha said none of the burning issues will ever be an election issue. Only cash, caste and liquor will play an important role. It is really sad,” he said. According to the Mysuru zilla panchayat, there are 266 gram panchayats in the district. Hunsur has the highest number of GPs at 41. Election process for GPs is yet to commence. Administrators are now heading GPs as the term of elected representatives ended in the first week of June. Mahadeva Swamy TM, a resident of Talur, and Basalingaiah, a resident of Shivapura said political activities are already happening in villages. “As reservations for all the wards are already finalised, political parties are busy identifying the candidates. Caste equations and political affiliations are the only factors considered for candidate selection even though GP elections are apolitical one. “Election process is yet to be notified. But political parties are playing all cheap tricks to win the election,” said Mahadeva Swamy. Badagalapura Nagendra, state president, Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha-Hasiru Sene said due to the Covid-19 SoPs, organisations were unable to take issues to the people. “We are planning to contest in the election,” he added. ‘Local issues matter’ Muzaffar H Assadi, professor and chairman, political science department, UoM, who had also served at Raichur University as the Special Officer earlier said, “In GP elections, local issues like drinking water, tank water for irrigation, availability of seeds and fertilisers, free rice under Anna Bhagya scheme, etc play an important role. As Covid-19 has an uneven effect in old Mysuru region but may not be an election issue. As the farmer’s movement failed to consider the recent developments in the farm sector, it may also not be discussed in the election. Generally, local issues play a main role.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/no-dates-announced-yet-villages-get-ready-for-gp-polls/articleshow/79226902.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: G Sudhakaran blasts reports on tunnel road project||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: PWD ministerG Sudhakaran termed reports questioning the seriousness of the government about the proposed tunnel road project to Wayanad as baseless. He also rubbished claims that there was no environmental clearance for the project. “The project was considered by the government upon the demand of people and people’s representatives over several years,” Sudhakaran said. “The government appointed the Konkan Railways as a special purpose vehicle for the project as it is experienced in such projects and also because the state government is a shareholder. The procedure is to conduct a technical and detailed study, preparation of blueprint and forest map, fixate the forest boundary and conduct the environmental impact study before submitting the online application for clearance from the ministry of environment and forests.” The minister said that those spreading negative news on the project were clueless about the fact that it was being proceeded by taking the necessary clearances at the appropriate level. "People should not be under the impression that the government is dropping the project. In all development projects, the government had taken the same policy of availing the clearances at the appropriate time," Sudhakaran said adding that the estimate is Rs 900 crore and that it will be met through KIIFB. The reports that the government is not serious about the proposed tunnel road project to Wayanad parallel to the existing route and there is no environmental clearance for the project, is baseless and without the knowledge of facts, PWD minister G Sudhakaran said. The proposed tunnel road project was considered by the government on the basis of the demands of the people and people’s representatives over several years. The government then appointed the Konkal Rialways as the special purpose vehicle for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/minister-blasts-reports-on-tunnel-road-project/articleshow/79227381.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mangaluru||No hometown wedding for Mangalureans working in the Gulf||MANGALURU: Orvin Menezes and Lavina D’Souza, who both work in Kuwait, had planned to walk down the aisle in Mangaluru in September. But then, the pandemic struck and their plans were turned topsy-turvy. The couple was forced to marry in Kuwait itself. “With both our parents and close relatives working here, we decided to say ‘I do’ in Kuwait Church,” the couple said. “We had wished to marry in our hometown Mangaluru and hoped relatives and friend would be there to witness our exchange of vows, but the pandemic played spoilsport.” Like Orvin and Lavina, several couples working in the Middle East, who had planned to marry or are planning to wed in Mangaluru, are tying the knot in the countries where they work after fulfilling legal requirements. With employers only sanctioning short leave which includes a quarantine period, job uncertainty due to the pandemic and other factors, couples from the coastal districts are being robbed of the warmth and affection of family and friends which are generally associated with nuptials. Another couple working in UAE had fixed their wedding for the last week of December in Mangaluru. But they got married recently in the UAE because of job uncertainty. “There is a high chance of [either of] us losing jobs in case we take leave to return home and get married,” the couple said. The plight of Ramesh (name changed), who was working in Dubai and had returned to India before the March lockdown, was even more piteous. “I returned home for my wedding in April, but it wasn’t possible then due to the lockdown. Finally, I got married in October and around the same time, I lost my job in Dubai,” Ramesh said. Usually, those working in the Middle East take leave for a month. Currently, anyone flying in from abroad has to stay a minimum 15 days in quarantine in India. Again, the same formality has to be followed while returning. For countries like Kuwait, one cannot directly fly to the country and instead must fulfil quarantine requirement in another country like UAE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/no-hometown-wedding-for-mangalureans-working-in-the-gulf/articleshow/79226929.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Alappuzha: Greens turn dumpyard into leisure spot||ALAPPUZHA: What do you do when a spot in your neighbourhood turns into a dumping ground? You just find the solution and that is what Pathinonnam Mile villagers in Cherthala did. A group from the hamlet, which became tired of knocking on many doors seeking help from authorities to end waste dumping by outsiders, created a green outfit. Here is their inspiring story. Subash Chandrabose, a youth from the village, reminisced how miserable their lives were after the public place in the village – close to Pathinonnam Mile-Muttatahiparambu road – were used by outsiders to dump waste. “The spot lies adjacent to NH-66 and it was filled with bushes that was a haven for snakes. Septic tank waste from neighbouring districts and places were dumped here in addition to waste from abattoirs and usual garbage. We first approached our local body and later others to end this nuisance,” he said. Nothing happened despite their repeated requests. “We decided to redress the issue four years ago. As a first step, we formed a green army with children, youngsters and even the elderly,” said Roy Cherian, an active member of the outfit. Then their goal was collecting funds for small clean-up works. Despite most families being daily-wage workers, everyone gave Rs 100/month for activities to end waste dumping. “We cleaned up the area and decided to convert it into something beautiful. We started works to begin a small garden. Public works department tiled the section beside the road as part of road-widening works, adding colour to our garden.” he said. Four years on, the place has become a bright spot and public site for shoots and photography. “We are happy when we see that our efforts have borne fruit. Once people walked here with hanky covering their nose to escape the stink. Today, it is present on social media in videos made by youths. For us, that change in perception brings joy,” said villagers. The green army has started daily night patrolling in the area and nobody has returned to dump waste. They have also started steps to set up CCTVs in the garden. In order to stop the use of plastic materials at functions held here, the green army has bought 500 steel plates and glasses. These items can be used by villagers during functions at no additional cost.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/greens-turn-dumpyard-into-leisure-spot/articleshow/79227386.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Minor victim of assault by constables undergoes counselling||Mangaluru: The Child Welfare Committee has conducted two rounds of counselling for a 16-year old girl and I PU student. Three women constables from the Bajpe police station were accused of assaulting the minor last week. Renni D’Souza, chairman, Child Welfare Committee (CWC) said, “If needed, she will be provided with residential care. The victim is under severe trauma due to the incident. Currently, a case has been registered under the Pocso Act and other Indian Penal Code sections. So far, she has been counselled twice, and we have realised that she is still in trauma. In case her parents agree, we are ready to provide residential care as part of her rehabilitation.” He said that they are yet to commence an investigation, as the victim is not in the right state of mind. It may be recalled that the victim’s father, in his complaint, has stated that his daughter was kicked and caned, when they had gone to the Bajpe police station with a complaint regarding harassment on social media on November 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/minor-victim-of-assault-by-constables-undergoes-counselling/articleshow/79226962.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||EOW begins probe into Rs 1.5k crore Cox & Kings staff loans||MUMBAI: City economic offences wing (EOW) began a probe in two cases registered against some office-bearers of the travel firm Cox & Kings (CNK) Ltd and its sister company Ezeego, for not repaying loans taken from Axis Bank and Investment Opportunities IV Pte Ltd, collectively amounting to Rs 1,582 crore. Based on Axis Bank vice-president Prakash Rao’s complaint, an FIR was lodged at Cuffe Parade police station against the promoter, directors, auditors and several office-bearers of CNK for breach of trust, cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. He told police some office-bears of CNK and Ezeego had taken loans collectively amounting to Rs 1,030 crore and cheated the bank by not repaying the amount. Another FIR was lodged after Dinesh Goyal, director, Investment Opportunities, complained to MRA Marg police against some CNK and Ezeego officials for not repaying a loan of Rs 552 crore. Investment Opportunities is an investment company incorporated under laws of Singapore and SSG Capital Management (Singapore) Ptd Ltd is an investment advisor to the complainant. Officers Kishore Parab, Pradeep Warang, Santosh Dhebre and Anjali Khare are probing the cases. On the MRA Marg FIR, an officer said, “The accused hatched a criminal conspiracy to fraudulently induce the complainant to provide loans to CNK group entities on the basis of false debt position of CNK, and they never intended to repay the amount.” EOW will take help from a forensic auditor to establish where the money taken as loans was used. So far four FIRs have been registered against CNK. Kerkar had also filed two cases at Nagpada police station. Kerkar accused managers and officials of his company and three banks of misappropriation and taking loans without the knowledge of promoters and directors of his company. The accused allegedly took loans for personal purposes, said a police officer. Both cases have been transferred to EOW. Kerkar stated, “In our FIR, investigated by EOW, we have shown the modus operandi of Axis Bank with proof of collusion of Axis Bank officials to divert money from CNK and Ezeego to other companies with their full knowledge. It is clear this was simply a counterblast to divert attention from their obvious crime and mislead media.” About Investment Opportunity case, he stated in an email, “This is an entity controlled by SSG. There has been a consistent record of dishonesty by SSG. I accused them of colluding with CNK staff to transfer assets to themselves illegally/.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/eow-begins-probe-into-rs1-5k-cr-cox-kings-staff-loans/articleshow/79227339.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Youths collect fruit seeds from juice centres to grow plants||MYSURU: In order to grow fruit-bearing trees on vacant land for birds and animals, young professionals from Mysuru have started a unique initiative — they collect seeds of fruits from juice centres and strew them around in vacant plots. The professionals, who are all childhood friends and now working in various sectors, have named the initiative ‘Green India’ aimed at improving the green cover with fruit-bearing plants and trees so as to feed birds and animals. The team is led by Anil Kumar S, a guest faculty at the department of criminology and forensic sciences at Maharaja’s College, and comprises Nrupathunga P R working at Paysquare Consultancy, Kodandaramu M from Siderfforgerossi India, and Shilpa Shree, guest faculty at Maharaja’s College. Under the initiative started three years ago, the team collects seeds of papaya, jackfruit and other fruits and dry them up for a few days. The dried seeds are usually taken to vacant plots and forest areas for sowing before the rainy season so they grow naturally. Anil told STOI that they started collecting seeds of fruits, mostly papaya and jackfruit, bought for consumption at their houses. Anil said, they later decided to make it big by approaching fresh fruit juice centres in the city for seeds. However, they did not get a positive response from vendors initially. The first one to oblige, has his shop opposite the district court. “Later, a jackfruit vendor agreed to give seeds, but in exchange for Re 1 per seed. But after realising our good intention, he started giving 200-300 seeds for Rs 100,” Anil said. Nrupathunga said while some seeds are eaten by animals, the rest grow into plants. “During our subsequent visits, we see them having grown into plants with fruits. We feel gratified with this service to mother nature,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/youths-collect-fruit-seeds-from-juice-centres-to-grow-plants/articleshow/79226981.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Manipal students divided about returning on campus||MANGALURU: Opinions seem to be divided among protesting students of Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), on returning to the campus. A section of students, who are willing to return to Manipal and write proctored examinations, alleged that the students who were protesting want online exams to be conducted, only because it is easier to score more by using unfair means. They have resorted to strategies like making WhatsApp groups, so that they can share answers while the examination is on. Even many professors have acknowledged that most of the students taking the online exam, give the same answers in internal exams. A mechanical engineering student told TOI that MIT has not forced anyone to come on campus for examinations. The college has given an option to write exams after May 2021. The student alleged that in the last semester, the college had arranged for an online exam, but students protested, complaining that laptops and desktops are not compatible. “I understand that the college is yet to create an environment to conduct online examinations. Students even protested using proctored software, to conduct the exam, as it asks to disable the antivirus (a required practice for many proctoring software, even used in NQT conducted by TCS),” the student said. “A bunch of students are protesting against this, and the rest were forced to follow them,” said the student. Sources from the MIT college administration said that they have not forced anyone to return to campus. Examinations and classes will be conducted for students who voluntarily come back to the campus. Standoff between students and MAHE continues The standoff between students of Manipal Institute of Technology and MAHE administration has continued as agitating students have not stepped down. “The engineering college with 8,500 students will definitely violate several guidelines of the UGC directives for reopening educational institutions. We will be at risk after coming on campus, as no safety procedures to tackle the pandemic are in place,” said parents and students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/manipal-students-divided-about-returning-on-campus/articleshow/79226975.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Idukki: Temporary ban on felling eucalyptus trees||IDUKKI: District collector H Dinesan has issued a temporary ban on felling eucalyptus trees on private lands in Vattavada, including Anchunad village, in Idukki. Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan said the government had issued permission to cut eucalyptus trees from farmlands and convert it to cultivable land. The temporary ban was issued after many farmers failed to remove tree stumps and roots of trees that were cut, resulting in its growth again. “The collector has ordered village officers not to issue new tree cutting passes in the region. Also, new passes will be issued only after ensuring that stumps and roots of trees were removed,” said Krishnan. In 2015, the government had imposed a ban on cutting trees in Kanthalloor, Marayoor, Vattavada, Kottakamboor and Keezanthoor based on a report by former revenue principal secretary Nivedita P Haran. In 2019, the government gave permission to cut trees on private lands after submitting an application with proper documents to village offices concerned.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/temporary-ban-on-felling-eucalyptus-trees/articleshow/79227391.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Fire from your crackers, smoke in the sky||AHMEDABAD: Despite a police notification specifying that bursting only green crackers would be allowed and that too between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali night, Amdavadis went overboard in their festivities bursting crackers with a vengeance, well past the deadline. In many areas, smoke from burst crackers entered homes through open windows and doors resulting in people feeling as if they are inhaling the cracker fumes on even the fifth floor. If the past research is any indication, citizens should brace up for braving air pollution for the coming days. A multi-institute study has revealed that firecrackers’ smoke not only pollutes our breathable air, but aerosols formed as a result of firecrackers’ smoke also hang thick over Ahmedabad up to 5km from the surface. These aerosols also have the potential to warm, to a small extent, the local atmosphere over the city owing to their radiative effects which are suspension of liquid or solid particles in gas. This can also affect the cloud formation activity. A team of scientists and researchers from Space Applications Centre (SAC), Indian Space Research Organization (Isro); Physical Research Laboratory (PRL), Indian Institute of Remote Sensing, (IIRS) Dehradun, and St Xavier’s College, Ahmedabad studied for six days the black carbon (BC), particulate matter (PM) and aerosol optical depth (AOD) in the air column prior to and after Diwali using specialised instruments as well as satellite data. “We observed an increase of 286%, 89.5%, and 60.5%, in BC, PM10, and PM2.5 concentrations, respectively on festival (Diwali) night as compared to pre-event days,” claims the research paper authored by Abha Chhabra of SAC, Isro, Som Sharma and Sourita Saha of PRL, Rajesh Iyer and Tejas Turakhia of St Xavier’s College, and Prakash Chauhan of IIRS, Dehradun. Using a specialised instruments like the ground-based Raman-Light Detection And Ranging (LiDAR) researchers found an increased concentration of ‘anthropogenic aerosols’, precipitated by the increased use of firecrackers during Diwali. Researchers also relied on space based CALIPSO LiDAR observations to validate the presence of ‘polluted dust’ and ‘smoke’ types aerosols at the near surface to 5 km altitude over the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fire-from-your-crackers-smoke-in-the-sky/articleshow/79227717.cms||Paul John
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Accused in murder bid held after 24 years||KOLLAM: Kottiyam police on Saturday arrested an accused in an attempt to murder case 24 years after the incident. Shaji, son of Ali Akbar of Mukkam, Mayyanad was arrested for trespassing into the house of Noushad, son of Subairkunju of Mayyanad, and hacking Noushad in 1996. Though the arrest warrant was in force, the accused could not be traced. Immediately after the incident Shaji went absconding and later managed to escape to the Gulf. He found employment there and used to visit his family at regular intervals. His family had shifted to another place. Two months ago he returned to settle down near NS hospital, Kottiyam. “As part of a special drive by the district police chief, we reached his brother’s house from where we got his new address. In fact, he was not hiding. As he was working in Gulf all these years he thought that the case would not be pursued,” police said. The accused has been remanded in judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/accused-in-murder-bid-held-after-24-years/articleshow/79227393.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||They came home to mounting debt, then became crorepatis||Aman Bisht was 19 when he left home, the remote village of Pabhe in Pithoragarh, to go make a living in Maharashtra. He had studied up to Class X, had limited prospects at home. He found work as a cook. It didn’t pay much — just enough to get by. But the little he could count on was gone when he lost his job in March. Like lakhs in India, he made his way back home, knowing there was little to look forward to except mounting debt and hopelessness. What was initially a reprieve — the IPL fantasy league — eventually turned his luck around. He won Rs 1 crore by making all the right calls in a game between the Punjab and Hyderabad teams. Innumerable apps have made fantasy leagues, in which anyone can “create” a dream team of players whose real-time performance reflects on how the fantasy points accumulate, more accessible. And for several youths from the hill state, what is usually a pastime has made them crorepatis. “My parents are small farmers. They only produce enough for us to get by. There isn’t even enough to sell in a market,” said Aman, now 25. “We have always lived hand to mouth. This was a windfall.” It was the same for Darshan Singh Bisht, 24, who worked as a cook at an eatery in Jaipur but lost his job in April — he had to come back home to Thala village in Chamoli. And for Bhagat Singh Khatri, who was 11 when his father died after being electrocuted doing his work as an electrical operator. Two years later, he moved out of his village, Lal Nagari in Uttarakhand’s Almora, in search of work. Now 24, he would work as a helper in taxi services in Gujarat and Delhi. Then, he came home to work as a labourer. He had to support his mother and siblings. Bhagat won a crore in a game between the Kolkata and Hyderabad teams. “You only need basic knowledge of cricket. I used to place two to three entries in a match and focused on players whom few others selected. I would make high-risk teams,” said Bhagat. Some financial investment would also be involved. “I spent about Rs 5,000-6,000 on the fantasy league. But it paid off,” said Aman. Bhagat had spent even more — about Rs 45,000. “But I don’t think I’ll play any more. I have made enough,” he said. In fact, he has used most of the money — it was down to Rs 70 lakh after taxes — to pay off debts and help a few neighbours out. “I have seen tough times. I don’t want anyone else to.” Darshan, meanwhile, plans a startup with his winnings. And Aman is thinking of a restaurant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/they-came-home-to-mounting-debt-then-became-crorepatis/articleshow/79228067.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Diwali spirit shines through pandemic||AHMEDABAD: So what if gatherings were limited to video parties and meetings! So what if diyas and gleaming fairy lights were the only phooljhadies! So what if festivities meant laying out beautiful rangolis at home and helping mom make besan laddoos and fry mathiyas, enjoyed with the humble dal chawal at home! So what, if the pandemic clouded much of what otherwise happens on Diwali – the festival that brings the city alive and breathes life into its spirit! “Diwali was all about meeting loved ones, getting new sweets and clothes and shopping till one drops, buying clothes, decorations, jewellery and whatever else I couldn’t really spend on through the year. But this year was utterly different. It was more about being at home, catching up with family over a group video call and making home-cooked delights in small batches. It was truly a sense of slowing down,” said Nishita Sheth, a resident of Prahladnagar. For some, short getaways from the mundane routine meant celebrating Diwali. Gauri Wagenaar, a professional from Ahmedabad, said, “A long drive to the Polo Forest and a relaxing getaway over the entire weekend is just what I need to soothe my soul. For a change, I’m going to be off the computer screen and basking in the company of good friends and that’s Diwali for me!” Even in the pols, where celebrations meant socializing, helping one another out for preparing Diwali sweets and following the age-old traditions, this year’s festivities had a subdued tone. “A lot of people used to buy snacks and sweets from outside. However, this time, in the wake of the pandemic, people are extra cautious. Many are moving back to their old recipes and are preparing traditional sweets at home,” said Jaival Bhatt, a resident of Khadia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/diwali-spirit-shines-through-pandemic/articleshow/79227718.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru: Allow us to sell the regular crackers, vendors urge DCP||MYSURU: Vendors of firecrackers at JK Grounds pleaded with DCP (law and order) AN Prakash Gowda with folded hands to allow them to sell firecrackers which do not have ‘Green Fireworks’ label on them. They also tried to fall at his feet while seeking his help. The incident took place on Friday when DCP Gowda visited the grounds to check whether the vendors were selling green crackers at their stalls. To prevent the spread of coronavirus, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) has restricted the number of shops to just 12. During the inspection, DCP Gowda found that the vendors had stocked both regular and green crackers. After checking the labels in all the shops, he directed the vendors to sell only green crackers. But the vendors said they had invested lakhs of rupees on purchasing crackers from Shivakasi in Tamil Nadu and if they are not allowed to sell the crackers, they will suffer a huge loss. “We will not sell regular crackers next year, but please allow us to sell the crackers this year. We are already in deep financial trouble due to the lockdown,” they urged. However, DCP Gowda cited the Supreme Court order barring the sale of regular crackers and said he was helpless and that legal action will be initiated against those who sell regular crackers. Police closed all the stalls and stationed policemen at each shop to prevent illegal sale of crackers. DCP Gowda on Saturday issued a reminder circular to all police inspectors to take action against those persons who sell and burst banned firecrackers. He directed the station heads to conduct patrolling in their jurisdiction and ensure that only green crackers are sold and used to celebrate the festival. He also directed the policemen to ensure bursting of crackers are not continued after 10 pm. Mysuru Zilla Pataki Varthakara Sangha secretary S Suresh told STOI that the government ordered for sale green crackers at the last moment. “Only Standard company firecrackers have green crackers label on the boxes. But we have purchased crackers from companies in Shivakasi which have acquired certificates of producing green crackers but their products do not have the label. We told the police officer, but he wanted only the green label boxes to be sold,” he said. Suresh said each shop has paid a fee of around Rs 50,000 including tax at Shivakasi, at the inter-state border, for transportation and even for MCC to set up stall at JK Grounds. “Each shop has around Rs 6 lakh worth crackers. For 12 shops at JK Grounds, around Rs 5 crore has been invested. We have taken loans to procure crackers. We are in deep trouble,” he said. Suresh said they have already communicated with district minister ST Somashekar and had requested him to allow sale of crackers. “We are hoping that the minister will accept our request,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/allow-us-to-sell-the-regular-crackers-vendors-urge-dcp/articleshow/79227007.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 15, 2020||Goa||Goa with 116 fresh Covid-19 cases, active caseload touches 1,261||PANAJI: Covid-19 fatalities inched up with three new deaths, taking Goa’s Covid deaths to 675 on Saturday, said the directorate of health services in its daily medical bulletin. The number of new Covid-19 cases continue to show a declining trend with the state’s coronavirus caseload going up by 116 to touch 1,261 active cases. Recoveries continued to outpace the number of fresh cases with 147 patients being discharged in the last 48 hours, the government said. The three Covid fatalities occurred at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital with all the three deceased also suffering from co-morbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. All the three who succumbed to the deadly virus were senior citizens. The mortality bulletin showed that all three were undergoing treatment for a while at GMC. Data shows that the urban pockets of Margao, Ponda, Panaji and Porvorim account for most of the active Covid-19 cases in the state. Goa’s cumulative Covid-19 cases touched 46,748 with the recovery rate hovering at 95.86%. A total of 3,31,599 tests have been conducted in Goa with 1,850 new tests being conducted in the last 24 hours. Of the 1,850 tests, just 116 new cases of infection were detected. Of these, 89 individuals opted for home isolation while 48 patients were hospitalised. The data also shows that with higher recovery and a drop in cases, most of the beds at the Covid care centres are vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-116-fresh-covid-19-cases-active-caseload-touches-1261gfx-54h/articleshow/79345349.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Dose habba makes Diwali celebrations unique||MANGALURU: When the coastal district was illuminated with people celebrating the festival of lights, the BJP Yuva Morcha of Belthangady organised ‘dose habba’ and ‘Gau puja’ to mark the occasion. While the whole town from Santhekatte to Laila was illuminated with decorative lamps and lanterns, the dose habba at the bus stand premises gave opportunities for over 5,000 people to savour the traditional food as part of the Diwali celebrations. In fact, it was a concept of Belthangady MLA Harish Poonja that saw support from BJP constituency committee president Jayanth Kotian and party workers. People relished dosa with sambar, chutney and ‘kashaya,’ which was served as part of the celebrations. The MLA, who inaugurated the celebrations by pouring the dosa batter on the pan, said, “When the whole world is celebrating Diwali, we thought of doing something new here. Hence, we planned dose habba and Gau puja. Traditionally, people of Tulunadu prepare dosa at homes during Diwali celebrations. We have planned the festival, intending to preserve the tradition of the land.” Jayanth Kotian said the message of Diwali, which is a part of our culture and heritage, should be passed on to the young generation. Dakshina Kannada District Yuva Morcha president Gurudath Kamath was the guest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/dose-habba-makes-diwali-celebrations-unique/articleshow/79226992.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Soon healthy liquid jaggery to hit stores||KOZHIKODE: You can soon look forward to sweetening your favourite payasam and other traditional delicacies by using liquid jaggery. The Sugarcane Breeding Institute (SBI) has commercialized the technology developed by its research centre (SBIRC) based in Kannur to manufacture liquid jaggery without use of any chemicals. The institute has issued licences to three entrepreneurs in the state, paving the way for the healthy sweetener to hit the market soon. Liquid jaggery is touted as an adulterant-free sweetener especially at a time when there have been many widespread complaints of adulteration in solid jaggery, including excessive use of chemical additives, bleaching agents and harmful colouring agents. The state food safety department had conducted a special drive ‘Operation Panela’ in 2018 after it found harmful colouring agents in jaggery including synthetic colours like Rhodamine B and Brilliant Blue. Bakshi Ram, director of the Coimbatore-based Sugarcane Research Institute, said that Agroinnovate India under the Union ministry of agriculture which has the mandate to popularize and commercialize ICAR’s technologies has cleared the ICAR-SBI standardized liquid jaggery process following which licences have been issued to three entrepreneurs. “The main advantage of liquid jaggery is that the process of manufacture is entirely organic and does not involve addition of any chemicals. Another advantage is that it can be used as spreads,” he said, adding that the product has a shelf life of six months. K Chandran, principal scientist at SBIRC, Kannur, said that while authentic jaggery is dark in colour, often manufacturers use artificial colours and bleach above prescribed limits to lighten the colour. “But the liquid jaggery manufacturing process does not involve any use of chemicals and only a dash on lemon juice is used for flavour,” he added. Under the simple process developed by SBIRC, the sugarcane juice is boiled and good clarity is achieved by removal of heat coagulated suspension of floating impurities in two states. The product does not need addition of chemical additives like clarificants, colouring agents and preservatives. The technology also has the potential to spur small-scale enterprises given the low investment required to set up a plant. U P Sreedharan, a small-scale entrepreneur based in Chittariparamba in Kannur who is one of the licensees, said that the liquid jaggery manufactured by them would hit the markets by November 20. “Liquid jaggery is a healthy and fully organic product. We ventured into the field sensing the demand for healthy jaggery in the state, especially following reports that even the solid jaggery distributed in the Onam kits this year were adultered. Also, it provides added convenience in cooking as the syrup can be poured directly into the preparation. Liquid jaggery can be used for almost all preparations in which solid jaggery is used,” he said. He said that he will be procuring sugarcane from Gundlupet and other border districts of Karnataka. Chandran said that the cultivation of sugarcane has over the years declined sharply in the state to just around 1,200 hectares of which around 1,000 hectares were in Idukki district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/soon-healthy-liquid-jaggery-to-hit-stores/articleshow/79227400.cms||K R Rajeev
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Dry fruits are low-hanging as prices fall||AHMEDABAD: Looking to buy a pack of dry fruits to kickstart Diwali? While there is adequate supply of dry fruits due to a good season, lower consumption has caused prices to fall drastically. Industry estimates say the prices of almonds, walnuts, cashews and pistachios have fallen by 20% this Diwali. “The crop has been good this year while demand from the commercial sector such as bakeries, sweet shops, and ice cream makers, has remained very low. Consequently, the prices of dry fruits such as almonds, cashews and pistachios have declined this year. They are at least 20% lower than last year,” Dharmesh Pariyani, a city-based dry fruit importer. The price of cashew has fallen dramatically, due to the lack of demand from the HORECA (Hotels Restaurants and Catering) segment, due to the pandemic. Kaushik Patel, a wholesale dry fruits trader from Madhupura, who runs a 63-year-old business, said, “Demand for cashew splits and pieces, which are typically used to prepare sweets and even curries, has fallen significantly as the restaurant business has not done well due to the pandemic and catering has not picked up with barely any social gatherings taking place. With demand low, the price of cashew splits and pieces have come down by at least Rs 100-150 per kg from last year.” Similarly, the prices of several other dry fruits such as almonds and pistachios have also declined. “With the reduced cost of the main raw materials, i.e. dry fruits, the prices of sweets are bound to come down,” said Hiren Gandhi, chairman of the food committee of the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). Industry players claim say demand for sweets overall taken been hit after the lockdown, and even in the festive season sales are not picking up. “Consumption of sweets has gone down drastically due to the pandemic. Despite lower prices, demand has gone down by at least 50% from last year,” Gandhi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dry-fruits-are-low-hanging-as-prices-fall/articleshow/79227737.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Nashik’s air quality deteriorates||NASHIK: The air quality of Nashik is showing signs of worsening since November 9, according to data available with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The city’s air quality index (AQI) which was in the satisfactory category till November 8 moved to the moderate category from November 9. On November 12, the city’s AQI stood at 190, just 11 points less than the poor category. According to CPCB, AQI up to 50 is supposed to be good, between 51 and 100 is satisfactory, between 101 and 200 its moderate, between 201 to 300 poor, 301 to 400 very poor and over 400 is severe. Although the AQI was less than 100 (satisfactory category) on November 13 and 14, both Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) and Maharashtra Pollution Board (MPCB) have warned Nashikites to refrain from bursting crackers during Diwali as the city’s air quality could deteriorate further. “When the AQI shoots over the 180 mark, it is always detrimental for people with comorbidities like lung and heart ailment and asthma. They can have breathing discomfort,” said officials of the civic body’s health department. According to a senior doctor of the NMC, the poor air quality in the city can aid the spread of novel coronavirus and the severity of the pandemic can increase. The state government, district administration and the civic body have appealed to people to refrain from celebrating the festival by bursting crackers to prevent any fresh spike in Covid-19 cases. NMC health officials said that lower temperature coupled with air pollution enables particulate matter to remain suspended in the air for a long time. And, this enhances the chances of transmission of the Covid-19 virus. MPCB authorities in Nashik said that unlike many other cities in the country, the air quality of Nashik does not worsen alarmingly during winter. “But, this time since the Covid-19 is still prevalent, people should be responsible enough not to pollute the air that could help in fresh surge of cases in the city. We would appeal to the people to celebrate Diwali without bursting crackers,” said officials of MPCB.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashiks-air-quality-deteriorates/articleshow/79227396.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Only ‘green’ crackers allowed for 2 hours in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The district administration has permitted to burst only ‘green’ firecrackers between 8 pm and 10 pm during the ongoing Diwali festival. Referring to health concerns amid the outbreak of Covid-19, Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan said the curbs have been in place in keeping with the directives from the National Green Tribunal (NGT). “Acting on the instructions from the NGT, Maharashtra chief secretary and the state police chief have allowed the use of only ‘green’ firecrackers. While mandating the use of such eco-friendly firecrackers, the top authorities concerned have also put restrictions on the timing of bursting the firecrackers,” he said. The district administration has warned of action against those violating the restrictions under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act 2005. This move has evoked mixed reactions with a section of stakeholders. Nilesh Gangwal, a firecracker seller, said the authorities should have announced the curbs well in advance. Nirmala Thorat, a recovered patient of Covid, said the smoke caused due to excess busting of firecrackers can pose difficulties for recovered patients like her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/only-green-crackers-allowed-for-2-hrs/articleshow/79227399.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Air quality in Aurangabad improves||AURANGABAD: The citizens of Aurangabad have been breathing cleaner air this year as compared to the previous year, official data available with the regional office of Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) shows. As per MPCB data, the air quality index (AQI) of Aurangabad was in the range of 25 to 70 during April to November which falls in the category of good to satisfactory. The parameter concerned was hovering in the range of 69 to 77 during the corresponding period last year which is considered as only satisfactory. “Aurangabad city has witnessed improvement in air quality as compared to last year. The relatively lesser movement of vehicular traffic this year due to outbreak of Covid-19 is one of the key reasons for drop in the air-pollution,” MPCB authorities said. The AQI in the range of 0–50 is referred as good and considered to have minimal impact whereas the range 51–100 is known as satisfactory. It may cause minor breathing discomfort to sensitive people. The high AQI levels 101–200 and 201–300 are counted as moderately polluted and poor air quality respectively. The moderately polluted air may cause breathing discomfort to people with lung disease such as asthma and discomfort to people with heart disease, children and veterans. The poor air quality offers risk of breathing discomfort to people on prolonged inhaling and problems to people with heart disease. The AQI above 200 is considered as very poor and severe air quality depending upon the concentration of air pollutants and poses risk to public health. Green activist Prashant Gire said that the increased number of plantations in and around Aurangabad can put a check on air-pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/air-quality-in-aurangabad-improves/articleshow/79227397.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: At 92, she creates doormats from old clothes||MANGALURU: Her hands may tremble as she holds the crochet needle to make colourful doormats, and the eyes of Saraswathi, 92, from Alike in Vittal, may turn watery when she is tired, but nothing can stop her from making at least two vibrant doormats in a day. Making doormats and sofa covers have been her passion for the past several years, and it is only recently, after her video posted in her family group went viral, that she started receiving orders. She is surprised at the demand for her handmade mats. Saraswati, the wife of late Lakshminarayana, has six children, 12 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren and she lives with her daughter-in-law Sita and granddaughter Swapna. Her son Rajaram passed away, recently. Her hobby is to collect old clothes and prepare mats and distribute them to all her family members. She said, “I have prepared more than a thousand mats so far, and instead of wasting the entire day in front of television sets, it is nice to do something useful.” Explaining how the mats are created, her granddaughter Prasanna Bhat said, “Her work is very neat. She collects old clothes and cuts them into thin long chords, and arranges them colour-wise, and then she braids them using a crochet needle.” Prasanna said, “ My grandmother has been an inspiration for many in our family, including her great-grandchildren. Shriman Lakshmi Narayana embroidery work that took my grandmother almost two years to complete, inspired my mother Janaki, and she started Kasuthi and kutch work, making varieties of macrame thread bags and creating wealth out of waste.” Saraswathi collected threads used to tie rice bags, and has prepared a mat out of it. “She had three fractures on her hand, leg and hip. Her hip fracture was severe, but she bounced back in six months. She washes her clothes every day and is not dependent on anyone,” she said. Her granddaughter recollects how she had sent a gunny bag full of mats for her housewarming ceremony, to be distributed among relatives. Only recently, she started selling mats for Rs 50 to Rs 140, depending on the size. “The best part is my grandmother is surprised when we tell her that her mats have been sold for a particular amount. Not only the neatness, but the colour combinations also amazes me,” said Prasanna, who is an expert in crafts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/at-92-she-creates-doormats-from-old-clothes/articleshow/79227011.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||BTech students rake in moolah||AHMEDABAD: It may come as a surprise for many, but the highest and average package of BTech students at Dhirubhai Ambani Institute of Information and Communication Technology (DAIICT) for the past five years is found to have been more than the MTech students. In 2016-17, the highest package for a BTech student was Rs 40 lakh per annum compared to Rs 16 lakh offered to an M.Tech student. The gap has increased significantly in 2020-21 when the highest package for a BTech student so far has been Rs 51.75 lakh per annum compared to Rs 12 lakh offered to an MTech student. The difference doesn’t end here though — the average package offered to a BTech student in 2016-17 was Rs 9.4 lakh per annum compared to Rs 7.6 lakh offered to an MTech student. The figure rose significantly for the BTech students at Rs 19.9 lakh in 2020-21, whereas it has increased slightly at Rs 8.7 lakh for the MTech students. Prof Yash Agrawal, the placement convenor at the DAIICT, said that the B.Tech students enjoyed the privilege due to their higher adaptability to acquire knowledge and technical skills in ever-changing technical field. “It is comparatively easier to groom, mould and equip BTech students” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/btech-students-rake-in-moolah/articleshow/79227733.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Citizens defy restricted hours of bursting firecrackers||KOLHAPUR: The citizens defied the restricted hours of bursting firecrackers on the second day of Diwali as they were seen bursting crackers since Friday night.  The bursting of only eco-friendly firecrackers has been permitted for two hours from 7 pm to 9 pm. After Laxmi puja, the sounds of the firecrackers continued. Children were found bursting crackers on Saturday morning as well. The open spaces, where firecrackers were being sold, were crowded. Most of the stalls were selling non-green firecrackers, that would cause more noise and air pollution. The citizens were, however, complaining about the prices of the firecrackers as it has increased by 20% to 30% from last year. The citizen decorated their house with lights and flowers. Laxmi puja was carried out in households, shops and commercial establishments. People thronged the markets to buy marigold flowers and puja materials. Mahalaxmi temple to reopen from Monday The management of Mahalaxmi temple said the temple will reopen from Monday on the occasion of Diwali Padwa. The state government has allowed the reopening of temples from Monday.  The temple authorities will convene a meeting on Sunday to plan the opening of the temple. According to the primary discussion, ‘no mask, no entry’ will be implemented for the temple. A limited number of people will be allowed to enter at one time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/citizens-defy-restricted-hours-of-bursting-firecrackers/articleshow/79227402.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Extreme chill takes a break, hint of light rain next week||PUNE: The extreme chill would spare the city for about a week because of consecutive western disturbances affecting the west Himalayan region, but there is a possibility of a drizzle or two in the next weekend. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather, India Meteorological Department (IMD), Pune, told TOI, “Both, the medium and the extended range prediction models of the IMD have indicated that night temperature would be on the higher side in parts of central and southern Maharashtra till at least November 22 because of consecutive western disturbances affecting the west Himalayan region and the strong easterly wind flow, due to which the northeast monsoon is active.” The minimum temperature across the state has started increasing over the past couple of days after an unusual drop in mercury earlier this week. Kashyapi said a western disturbance affecting the western Himalayan region currently would cause an increase in minimum temperature during the November 14-16 period. “We expected a drop in minimums around November 16-17, but another western disturbance is expected to affect the western Himalayan region around November 17-18. It will keep the minimums on the higher side. Whenever a western disturbance passes, the night temperature rises. They drop once the western disturbance goes away.” Kashyapi said the current western disturbance was expected to cause clouding and isolated rain till as far as north Rajasthan, areas of Uttar Pradesh and northwest Madhya Pradesh. “We have simultaneous strong easterly wind influence over peninsular India, which is causing moisture incursion and clouding over areas in Maharashtra, even in Pune district and the city. Clouding in the night is known to cause higher minimum temperature as clouds prove to be a hindrance in the free passage of long wave radiation from the earth’s surface into the atmosphere,” he said. Around November 18-19, there might be an interaction between easterlies and westerlies over central and northern parts of Maharashtra, especially over Konkan, Madhya Maharashtra and Marathwada. As a result, the IMD has forecast clouding over Pune city and the district around November 18 to 20. It might lead to isolated very light rain in the district then. The IMD, in fact, on Saturday forecast very light November rain for a couple of days for the city from November 19 to 21. Kashyapi said the night temperature was expected to be in the range of 16-18°C in Pune till at least November 21-22, unlike the recent below-10°C temperature in some pockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/extreme-chill-takes-a-break-hint-of-light-rain-next-week/articleshow/79227401.cms||Neha Madaan
November 15, 2020||Pune||Pune businessman collects over 250 lamps in 25 years||PUNE: Years of innovation have made illuminating spaces easy, just flip a switch and everything is bright. But, before electricity, oil lamps, candles and lanterns held sway. Pune-based businessman Shyam Mote has spent 25 years collecting over 250 lamps — the oldest lamp he has is over 150 years old while the newest is about 50 years old. Mote said, “I had a passion for collecting things. I came across one or two old lamps by chance and that was the starting point. The lamps were made in England and were powered by kerosene. I dismantled them, cleaned them and studied the parts, which further fuelled my interest in lamps and lanterns.” Since those first two lamps, there has been no turning back for Mote, who has travelled all over the country for antique and unique lamps used in the olden days. Among his most prized possessions are a lamp mounted on the Victoria buggy, a lamp with an internal fan to keep the exterior cool, a cycle lamp powered by carbide, a railway signal lamp powered by candles, break-proof lamps used inside coal mines, hurricane lamps used in ships and over a century-old car lights. Mote spent innumerable hours restoring them and studying them. “The craft and technology the people employed then is difficult to find now. The glass used for these lamps was specially blown by glass blowers and designs were engraved by hand. Lamps were first made of metal, then they started using glass. With more innovation, coloured glass came into use. Most lamps were initially single flamed but over time, double flame lamps were introduced for more light,” he said. Most lamps in his possession have originated from England, Germany, Austria and France. “Some companies that made these lamps were Petromax, Ditmar, Hinks and others. They have already shut down and their spare parts are difficult to get. Whenever I find any parts like the burner or glass, I collect as many pieces as I can. All the lamps are functional. I clean them once every six months as most can corrode or rust very easily,” he said. He continues to add to his collection. “I hold exhibitions each year to showcase these lamps and I intend to continue,” he added. Watch Pune: This businessman spent 25 years in collecting 250 antique lamps||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bizman-collects-over-250-lamps-in-25-years/articleshow/79227413.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 15, 2020||Pune||Advertisements dot Pune skyline after long hiatus||PUNE: The city skyline, which has been mostly bare for the past few months, is showing signs of life with an increasing number of advertisement hoardings being put up. According to outdoor advertisers, the market for outdoor advertising is back at 60% of previous year’s levels, with the real estate industry leading the advertising blitz in large swathes. Advertising experts see outdoor advertising as a reflection of the economy’s vibrancy. “Outdoor hoardings are the pulse of a marketing economy, and it’s hobbling back on track,” said Harish Bijoor, owner of Harish Bijoor Consults Inc. Advertisers said there were over 2,000 billboards of all shapes and sizes in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, and bring in a revenue of over Rs100 crore per year. This revenue is then split between the agents, advertising companies, space owners and the civic bodies, which get a pre-fixed licensing fee. PMC and PCMC rake in about Rs30 crore per annum from licensing sky signs (hoarding spaces). “These are pre-agreed fees. The fee does not depend on the space being used or otherwise. So, PMC did not really lose any revenue due to hoarding spaces being empty during the initial months of this fiscal,” Sanjay Gawde, deputy commissioner in charge of PMC’s sky sign department said. The fee is calculated on a per-square foot basis, but is not dependent on how well the industry is doing. The advertising agencies lease these billboards for a year or more, and then the fee is fixed based on how much square footage each agency owns. Advertisements, particularly from the real estate sector, have once begun to tower over the roadsides, signalling a return of confidence in certain key sectors of the economy. “Although we have extended a 20% discount on the advertising rates this year, the market is back at 60% of last year’s levels. But we are hopeful of it growing over the next few months,” said Sadashiv Suryavanshi of Shubhangi Advertising. With more realtors launching new projects and looking to sell them in bulk through various offers, outdoor advertising remains the go-to place to drum up interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/advertisements-dot-city-skyline-after-long-hiatus/articleshow/79227409.cms||Satyanarayan Iyer
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Eight booked for selling crackers illegally in Ahmedabad, violating norms||AHMEDABAD: Eight people who were selling firecrackers without a licence or violating norms were booked on Friday. Sarkhej police booked Natwar Patni of Asarwa from Ambli-Bopal road for selling prohibited crackers.  Ishak Shaikh of Jamalpur, Latif Khiludia of Sarkhej village, and Sarfaraz Memon of Sarkhej were arrested from Sarkhej for selling prohibited crackers. Sabarmati police booked Narendrakumar Bhagwandas and his son Vipul, and Sita Patni and Prakash Patni for selling crackers without permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/8-booked-for-selling-crackers-illegally-violating-norms/articleshow/79227746.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Pune||Pune civic body to sell 1,200 civic flats to tenants||PUNE: Tenants of around 1,200 municipal flats will soon get their ownership, with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) deciding to sell these houses to their present occupiers. The civic body is expected to generate Rs200 crore in revenue from the move. According to PMC officials, these flats have been allotted to the citizens who lost their properties in projects like road expansions and construction of civic amenities. “An option is being explored to give the flats to these tenants. Most of the properties are small flats like 1RK or 1 BHK. Cost of flats will be decided based on the location and size of the units. Price may be charged as per ready reckoner rates,” Hemant Rasane, chairman of PMC’s standing committee, said. “Many tenants have not paid their rents for years altogether. But PMC is left with no option but to provide them services,” a senior PMC official said. The PMC gets flats in housing complexes of over 1,000sqm as a part of the reservation policy. Mostly, these flats are given to urban poor and project-affected people. They are offered on 30 years’ rent. PMC data shows around 4,200 flats are available with PMC via this policy, of which 1200 are occupied right now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-sell-1200-civic-flats-to-tenants/articleshow/79227411.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Residents in many housing societies in Nashik forego crackers||NASHIK: Residents of many housing societies across the city have decided to forego bursting firecrackers against the backdrop of the state government’s appeal to avoid fireworks that can lead to air pollution and cause respiratory problems among Covid-19 patients. “In our society — Saptshrungi Avenue on Nashik Road — we have decided not to burst firecrackers individually. This means that none of the residents would burst crackers. Instead, we will go for small tikkiyas, not only cutting down on sound but also smoke,” Santosh Patel, one of the residents, said. The decision was not binding, but people still have decided to abide by it, he added. “People have taken this decision despite the habit of bursting crackers every year,” Manisha Saindane, of Anant housing society, at Pathardi Phata, added. Meanwhile, the residence of Sankalp Society said the state’s appeal have moved them. Also, going by what is taught to schoolchildren about firecrackers, all the families have decided to celebrate a no-cracker Diwali from this year onwards. “All 12 families in the society would be collectively saving about Rs 60,000,” said Sanjana Kulkarni, a resident. Firecracker stall owners, however, are worried. Though the stall owners were expecting the sales to be good, at least on the first day of Diwali, the trade figures have not been encouraging. “The business improved on Friday, but it is nowhere near the volume of business last year,” said Kshitij Gholap, a resident of Nashik. Firecracker stall owners said last year, 80% of the stock were was sold out by Laxmi puja. This year, only 40% of the goods have been sold. “This is a worrisome figure. Many people had invested large amounts in the business and have not got the returns,” Rakesh Yeola, resident of Baglan, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/residents-in-many-housing-societies-forego-crackers/articleshow/79227410.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Fraudsters steal 70-year-old man’s car & cellphone||PUNE: The Dighi police on Friday registered a case of cheating and theft against three unknown persons, including a woman, who stole a car and a cellphone from a 70-year-old man at Charholi Phata on Pune-Alandi Road on Thursday afternoon. As per the police, the suspects first contacted the senior citizen with the bait of a gift voucher, lured him out to a spot on Pune-Alandi Road and fled with his hatchback car and a phone, totally worth Rs 2.5 lakh. According to Dighi police, the 70-year-old retiree first received a phone call from an unknown number. The caller, a woman who identified herself as an executive of a cellular service provider, told him that his number was eligible for a gift voucher. “The woman told the man that the voucher could either be delivered to him or he could collect it in person as per his convenience,” police further said. On Thursday afternoon, the elderly man got another call, this time from a man.  “The caller urged the elderly man to meet him at Charholi Phata to pick up the gift voucher,” the police officer said. The man went to the spot in his car and met two men there, police said. The two told the man they wanted to visit a nearby temple and urged him to accompany them. “The duo went into the temple first and upon returning, asked the elderly man to go inside the temple,” a police officer said. “He entered the temple and left the keys in the car. The duo sped away with the vehicle, which also contained his cellphone,” the police officer added. Police are on the hunt for three persons and in the process of retrieving the elderly man’s call records, as his cellphone too had been stolen. “Our probe is on,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fraudsters-steal-70-yr-old-mans-car-cellphone/articleshow/79227418.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Several companies skirt goodies this year||PUNE: Many companies skipped the annual tradition of giving gifts or sweet boxes to employees for Diwali this year because they are still reeling from the pandemic and the consequent lockdown. Many small firms and businessnesses have gone the extra mile to appreciate their staffers in the tough times, though. Budgets for gifting and parties have been slashed due to Covid-19 said Mangesh Abdule, an HR executive with a multinational company. But smaller companies are showing appreciation to their employees for adapting to the new operation model of working from home in a seamless way and increasing their productivity. Some companies have resorted to sharing subscriptions and gift vouchers this year. Sunaina Ghie, working with an ecommerce portal, said, “Our company has gifted employees a three-month subscription to an OTT platform,” she said. — Anjali Jhangiani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/several-companies-skirt-goodies-this-year/articleshow/79227416.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Pune||Ridership on private buses down by 40% in Maharashtra||PUNE: The festive cheer is missing among luxury bus owners this time around with a majority of them witnessing a drop of more than 40% passenger traffic as compared to last year’s Diwali week despite the state transport utility boasting of a bountiful ridership. With close to 750 private luxury buses operating from Pune, senior office holders of the Pune district luxury bus association told TOI that their hopes to see decent business during Diwali had been hit hard. “After a disappointing Dasara, we were hoping that business would pick up during Diwali week. Unfortunately, that has not been the case. Presently, around 40% of the private luxury buses is plying from Pune,” Balasaheb Khedekar, president of the association said. Meanwhile, state transport officials said 80% of their buses were running full capacity. “Apart from around 1,300 regular buses, we introduced 500 additional ones for around four days till November 13 for Diwali. Most of our buses are running at full capacity from Pune,” an official at the Pune MSRTC told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ridership-on-private-buses-down-by-40/articleshow/79227414.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Nashik cops issue advisory on security measures||NASHIK: The Nashik city police have cautioned citizens against negligence with respect to safeguarding their valuable articles during the Diwali period when incidents of thefts and robberies are more. With the Diwali festival getting under way, a large number of people are travelling to their native places, visiting markets for Diwali purchases, etc. Criminal elements generally use such opportunities to commit thefts and robberies, said police. On this backdrop, the police issued an advisory to citizens on social media platforms and appealed to them not to leave cash and jewellery behind at their residences. Senior officials said that people should carry cash and jewellery or other valuable articles with them or keep them in banks for security reasons. At the same time, people, who are going out of station, should ensure that they inform their neighbours or police about the same. In a bid to prevent incidents of chain robberies, women should ensure that they do not wear jewellery while travelling and if they are walking on streets, they should cover their jewellery properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-issue-advisory-on-security-measures/articleshow/79227415.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Do not fiddle with electricity infrastructure: MSEDCL||NASHIK: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has appealed to citizens to to celebrate Diwali in a safe manner by not fiddling with the electricity infrastructure that could prove dangerous as well as fatal. Pointing out that bursting fire crackers during Diwali can lead to fatal incidents which can have an adverse effect on life and property, the MSEDCL officials have asked people to be very responsible and take all precautionary measures to ensure everyone’s safety. Some of the basic incidents that MSEDCL officials pointed out during Diwali were related to fire caused due to bursting of crackers near electrical infrastructure that often blows out of proportion.The electricity company also pointed out towards the overloading of electrical equipments beyond their capacity leading to fire hazards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/do-not-fiddle-with-electricity-infra-msedcl/articleshow/79227417.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Nashik||FDA-Nashik launches drive, slaps 32 traders with fine of Rs 1.3 lakh||NASHIK: The Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), Nashik division, has launched a drive to check food stores and establishments to ensure the articles for sale are safe for consumption. Senior officials of the FDA said they slapped 32 traders with a fine of Rs 1.27 lakh for selling food articles that were not safe for consumption. Many traders were selling items which had crossed its expiry date. With the ongoing Diwali festival, various food articles like oil, ghee, sugar powder, and others are in huge demand to prepare sweets at home. Thus, the FDA has focused its attention on the establishments that are involved in selling such articles, to keep a check if the traders concerned are selling adulterated products. The FDA has also raided 143 other establishments and seized articles like edible oil, sweets and other food articles worth Rs 32.15 lakh for further lab investigation. If the food articles are found not safe for consumption, the traders concerned will be slapped with a fine, said FDA Nashik officials. Food safety officers of FDA said the action was taken under the guidance of C D Salunke, the joint commissioner of FDA Nashik and G S Paralikar, the assistant commissioner. The officers said this year people are more inclined towards preparing their sweets and snacks at home instead of buying due to the Covid scare. Hence, the FDA has focussed in checking food articles that are used for making Diwali snacks and sweets at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fda-launches-drive-slaps-32-traders-with-fine-of-rs-1-3l/articleshow/79227428.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||5 of interstate gang held, 750 kg cannabis seized||LUCKNOW: The Special Task Force of the Uttar Pradesh Police have arrested five members of an interstate gang involved in smuggling narcotics and recovered 750 kgs of cannabis worth Rs 1.50 crore from them, officials said on Saturday. In a statement issued here, the STF said the five were arrested from Netanagar railway crossing falling under the Suriyava police station of Bhadohi district. Apart from 750 kgs of ‘ganja’ worth Rs 1.50 crore, two four-wheelers, seven mobile phones, three Aadhaar cards, two driving licences, three ATM cards and three voter I-cards have been recovered from the accused, the statement said. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that they used to buy illegal ‘ganja’ from Andhra Pradesh and sell them at higher prices in different districts of UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/5-of-interstate-gang-held-750-kg-cannabis-seized/articleshow/79228075.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Safeguarding society against Covid-19 through design||When the Covid-19 pandemic struck Gujarat in March, the students at National Institute of Design (NID) were busy with their graduation projects. Soon, they found the application of their disciplines – ranging from textile to improving fabrics and designs of the masks – to communication designing to make new signs and symbols to communicate the viral infection. Praveen Nahar, director of NID, said several students were engaged in community activities during the pandemic and also found design-based interventions. "We held a hackathon during the pandemic themed on Covid-19," he said. The faculty members said design plays a major role in safeguarding the society. Simple Shielded RespiratorParitosh Chaudhary: MDes (SDM) The simple-to-make and locally sourced mask can perform functions of fitments, high-density filtration and direct splatter protection through four different layers. The base layer can be a soft cloth, surgical or other mask, the second layer is made of flexible PET bottle in shape of the face contours, the third layer is layer of filter inside the bottle cap made of 6GSM PP fibre and the fourth layer is plastic sheet mounted through double-sided tape onto a sports cap. "The design is made keeping in mind comfort, usability, cost, protection and reusability," said Chaudhary. Ear protector for mask wearersTejas Gopalan: BDes (product design)As masks are compulsory for anyone stepping out, one of the issues faced by many is ear pain if the mask is not well-fitted. The issue is especially faced by the doctors and health workers who must wear it for hours altogether. "I started working on the concept of clips behind the head and came up with universal design which can work for both masks and face shields," said Gopalan. The protector made with 3D printer using injection moulding process and high-density polyethylene (HDPE) as material can be used repeatedly. Making public transport saferHardik Taneja, Paran Phukan, Ananya Agarwal: MDes While public transport systems are often lifelines of major cities, the pandemic changed it all. The team identified three key areas - handling of currency, spitting from the public transport and maintaining social distancing. For the first issue, they designed currency disinfecting unit, whereas for the other two issues, the team suggested visual cues in form of paint/stickers inside the bus. The team also suggested ‘Covid-19 Safe’ tag on the buses if they are found satisfactory upon repeated inspections for hygiene and social distancing to encourage citizens again to hop onto the bus. Application for contactless shoppingNeha Bharati & Hannah Bathool: MDesCompared to metros, the tier-II cities found it difficult to shop in their local stores when the lockdown started in India. Dukaan, a platform designed by the students, gave an option to the customers to browse their kirana store and check availability. The platform gave information in local language and also fixed pickup/drop timings. The integrated digital wallet ensured that there’s contactless cash transaction. It can also maintain, update and share the household necessities to store owners nearby, said the developers. Low-cost DIY face shieldAshish Aher: MDes (universal design)In the early phase of the pandemic, access to the face shields and production rate were issues faced by the frontline workers including police, doctors and paramedical staff. "I worked on die casting and injection moulding techniques to make the shields especially for the rural areas. It doesn’t require any power tools or any kind of experience to make — I designed it as a DIY project," said Aher, adding that he collaborated with makers lab to make and donate more than 6,000 face shields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/safeguarding-society-against-covid-19-through-design/articleshow/79227747.cms||Parth Shastri
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Excess rain plays spoilsport during Diwali celebrations in rural areas||NASHIK: Heavy rainfall in rural areas of Nashik district, especially during the latter part of the monsoon coupled with Covid-19 infection, has dampened the spirits of citizens as far as Diwali celebration is concerned. The returning monsoon has brought heavy rain for the usually parched regions of the district such that they have damaged the standing Kharif crop in many areas. As a result, the farmers have suffered badly, causing Diwali celebration becoming a low-key affair for them. In talukas like Chandwad, Sinnar, Deola, Baglan and Malegaon which received rainfall more than 130% of their annual share, farmers have lost their Kharif crop and are now are banking on the Rabi season to make some earning. “Rain was good. But, in some parts, the downpour was so intense that we lost our crop. During festivities this year, our prime concern remains spending money wisely instead of wasting it,” said Pankaj Usheer of Yeola taluka which recieved 160% rainfall. On the other hand, some onion farmers in Baglan taluka, have generated good income as their crop fetched good price in the market. “Onion is the major driving factor of the region. Few benefited with the situation while few others lost their crop to the rain. But, this year, the sale of fire crackers dropped by almost 70% as the government appealed people to refarin from bursting crackers during Diwali,” said Rakesh Yeola who owns a fire crackers stall in Baglan. Meanwhile, Kishore Thakur of Chandwad said that the taluka witnessed heavy rainfall this year and that the farmers have stuck to only important aspects of Diwali celebrations. “Since Diwali is the king of festivals, every citizen gets something new for his home during the festival. People can be witnessed making beelines in markets, especially outside shops selling utensils and clothes while the footfall in shops selling white goods are witnessing downfall than expected,” Thakur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/excess-rain-plays-spoilsport-during-diwali-celebrations-in-rural-areas/articleshow/79227434.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Canteens and libraries at University of Mysore will be closed||MYSURU: After an unscheduled seven-and-a-half month hiatus, the University of Mysore (UoM) is all set to reopen on Tuesday, but just as the world is not the same in the aftermath of the pandemic, nor will life on the campus be: Libraries and canteens will remain closed as a precautionary measure to avoid crowding and thereby prevent transmission of the novel coronavirus. Principals of all colleges affiliated to UoM have been asked not to organise cultural fests or hold any activities associated with the National Service Scheme (NSS). The standard operating procedure mandates wearing of masks and face shields, while students unwilling to come to the colleges can opt for online classes, in the event of which, they will still be given attendance. UoM registrar R Shivappa pointed out that classes were resuming only for students in the final semesters of their respective programmes – sixth semester for undergraduate students and fourth semester in the case of postgraduate courses – from Tuesday. “Students have been asked to bring water and food from home,” Shivappa said. UoM authorities said that in order to ensure compliance to SoP, a task force comprising students would be constituted in all colleges, whereas all students and staff will have to present a medical certificate affirming that they are not infected with Covid-19. Although students are eager to return, there are apprehensions on undergoing an RTPCR test, and getting the results in time for the resumption of classes. “I am not too sure of getting the results of my report since most government institutions are not working on account of Deepavali. Attending online classes is not the same as being in the classroom,” said Sahana, a final year BA student in Mysuru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/canteens-and-libraries-at-uom-willbe-closed/articleshow/79227042.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Chartered accountant student’s body found in Karnataka's Tunga river||SHIVAMOGGA: The body of a 24-year-old chartered accountant student, who went missing from a Jan Shatabdi train on Thursday night, was found in the Tunga River on Saturday. The victim, Sahana, was travelling to Shivamogga from Bengaluru with her mother. She was reportedly standing near the door, and police suspect she may have fallen into the river on losing her balance. Sahana, a native of Gadikoppa in Shivamogga, was studying in Bengaluru. Passengers are often in the habit of coming to the door to enjoy the view when the train approaches the river, and Sahana may have ventured too near the door for the same reason, while her mother was in the lavatory, suspect police. A child seated close to the door, having witnessed the incident, relayed it to Sahana’s mother. Her cries for help were to no avail since the train had chugged into the station by then. Railway police were informed, who then intimated Shivamogga police, who rushed to the bridge. The search for Sahana went on till midnight on Thursday, and resumed on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/ca-students-body-found-in-tunga-river/articleshow/79227045.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru zilla panchayat to ask govt to reverse decision on opening schools||MYSURU: Mysuru zilla panchayat members have decided to appeal to the state government to reverse its decision on reopening of colleges and schools until a vaccine for Covid-19 had been found. At a special meeting of the ZP chaired by president Parimala Shyam here on Friday, Srikrishna, one of the members, pointed to the resolution adopted by their counterparts in Kodagu against reopening schools and colleges. “The members of the Kodagu ZP unanimously agreed on communicating this resolution to the state government,” Srikrishna said. Members, cutting across party lines, endorsed Srikrishna’s demand for the resolution to be adopted by the Mysuru ZP. ZP chief executive officer D Bharathi said she would write to the government informing it of such a resolution being adopted unanimously. The ZP members also greenlighted undertaking of various projects, the cumulative cost of which is Rs 55.7 crore. This comes close on the heels of the ZP approving utilisation of Rs 397.4 crore allocated by the government to the local body at the previous meeting. However, ZP member Venkataswamy sought details on the funds received from the government, along with those relating to their expenditure. “We have no idea as to the quantum of funds that each department has received. The officials do not share the information. But we have to answer the public, and we deserve to be informed of how the funds are being used for the development of our respective constituencies,” Venkataswamy said. Bharathi said that a report would be drafted detailing allocation and expenditure of funds by Tuesday, while work on all pending projects would commence in the coming week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/zp-to-ask-govt-to-reverse-decision-on-opening-schools/articleshow/79227069.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Power at Hoysaleswara temple disconnected over unpaid dues||HASSAN: Historic Hoysaleswara temple at Halebidu of Belur taluk, Hassan is in the dark since two weeks after the power supply was disconnected due to non-payment of power bills. However, the temple museum has power supply as it is under the care of a separate division of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The ASI, which maintains the historical temple, hasn’t paid power bills for over six months. According to sources, temple officials owe nearly Rs 45,000 to Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Company. As visiting hours for tourists to the temple are from sunrise to sunset, the temple authorities and devotees haven’t taken the matter seriously. “Three months back when the power supply was disconnected for similar reasons by CESC officers we requested and got back the supply,” said Udaykumar, a priest For about 6 months, the power bill of the temple and wash rooms to the tune of Rs 12,000 and Rs 35000 respectively, is unpaid. “Nearly a decade ago, an electrical construction project was executed to provide lighting to the garden by spending Rs 80 lakh. The lighting arrangements became defunct due to poor maintenance. Maintenance staff are using torches to enter into the garden after dusk,” Udaykumar added. Reportedly, the electricity bills of nearby Jain temples and Kedareshwara temple have also not been paid. It is said that power supply to these temples will also be cut soon. Confirming that the power has been disconnected to the temple for two weeks, ASI conservative assistant Kishore Kumar Reddy said, “It was due to technical reasons and delay in getting unique taxpayer reference number from head office in Bengaluru that payments were not done. We had paid Rs 28,000 five months ago. Dues to the tune of Rs 12,000 were paid on Wednesday. Hoysaleswara temple has been proposed to receive UNESCO World Heritage tag along with Jain temples and Kedareshwara temple and Chennakeshava temple in Belur in the district. Photo caption: Sanctorum of Hoysaleswara temple, Halebidu has been in the dark for two weeks after sCESC officials disconnected power over unpaid bills||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/power-at-hoysaleswara-temple-disconnected-over-unpaid-dues/articleshow/79227073.cms||Darshan B H
November 15, 2020||India||India summons Pak envoy over ceasefire violations in J&K||NEW DELHI: India on Saturday summoned Charge d’Affaires of Pakistan high commission and lodged a strong protest over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces on resulting in the death of four innocent civilians and said it is highly deplorable that Pakistan chose a festive occasion in India to disrupt peace and perpetrate violence in J&K through coordinated firing along the length of the LoC. In a statement, the external affairs ministry said India condemns, in the strongest terms, the deliberate targeting of innocent civilians by Pakistani forces. The statement said Charge d’Affaires of the high commission of Pakistan was summoned and a strong protest was lodged over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces, on multiple sectors along the LoC in J&K on November 13, resulting in the death of four innocent civilians and serious injuries to 19 others. India also strongly protested Pakistan’s continued support to cross border terrorist infiltration into India, including through supporting cover fire provided by Pakistan forces. Pakistan was once again reminded of its bilateral commitment to not allow any territory under its control to be used for terrorism against India in any manner, the statement said. Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation along LoC spread across multiple sectors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-summons-pak-envoy-over-ceasefire-violations-in-jk/articleshow/79228081.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||iCreate incubated Hubilo raises $4.5 million||AHMEDABAD: At a time when many companies across sectors are struggling in their business, startups seem to be scripting new growth stories! Incubated at International Centre for Entrepreneurship and Technology (iCreate), Hubilo has recently raised $4.5 million (approximately Rs 33 crore) in the seed funding round. The event management software startup has received the funding from Lightspeed Venture Partners, which is a venture capital firm based out of Menlo Park, California. Founded in 2015 in Ahmedabad, Hubilo is an event management software company that offers technology tools to help organize events with swiftness. “Till February 2020, our business was doing very well. However, when events started getting cancelled (due to the Covid-19 outbreak) globally, we started losing revenues as we tend to have contract-based arrangements with clients. That’s when we realized that we have barely three months of runway period, within which we have to revive the company,” said Vaibhav Jain, founder and CEO, Hubilo. “We immediately upgraded our platforms that help organize events and exhibitions virtually and perhaps, this was the need of the hour we addressed, and thus the business got back on its feet with a bang,"”said Jain, an engineering graduate from DA-IICT, Gandhinagar. “We were able to churn out newer features in the software platform much faster than our competitors and that is what helped us to become an established player in this space. Currently, we work with media houses and event management companies,” he added. With recent funding, the startup plans to expand its client base. “Our goal is to double the company workforce over the next six to twelve months,” said Jain. Hubilo now caters to clients from countries such as US, Canada, Europe, UK, Middle East, Singapore and Malaysia, among others, helping them host virtual events, summits and conferences. While the startup has recently shifted base to Bengaluru, it continues to operate its tech-office from Ahmedabad. In a short span of six months, the company grew from a team of 30 to 125 people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icreate-incubated-startup-hubilo-raises-4-5-million-seed-funding/articleshow/79227800.cms||Niyati Parikh
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Parents hold protest, say private schools’ fee structure unfair||BENGALURU: More than 200 parents of students across 40 private schools in Bengaluru held a protest near Freedom Park on Saturday, demanding action against erring private schools and urging the government to regulate annual fee hikes. Parents, under the banner ‘Karnataka Parent Community’, shouted slogans and held placards that read ‘Parents are not ATMs’ and ‘Right to Education Must be Affordable’ among others. Chidananda, a parent, said he used to pay a fee of Rs 20,000- 25,000 five years ago but is now paying almost Rs 1 lakh. “No professional gets such hike in salary. School fees have been hiked by 150% in the last few years, but where is all the money going? Teachers too are not being paid well,” he said. Parents say government guidelines on paying term fees in the Covid scenario are unclear. Chidananda said while several states have helped lessen the burden on parents by asking them to pay only 60% of the fees, Karnataka is not taking any steps in that direction. He said the private school where his children are enrolled runs illegally under two different names. “Numerous complaints have fallen on deaf ears. The education department has taken no action no matter what we do,” Chidananda said. Mohammed Shakeel, another parent and activist, said they are not averse to paying fees, but schools and government should be empathetic to the plight many parents face. “Covid has hit the entire planet and people have lost jobs, yet our schools want us to pay 100% fee. We don’t mind paying, but we want teachers to receive their salaries. We are against unlawful collection,” he said adding that the fee structure is not displayed on the education department’s website.  Shashi Kumar D, general secretary, Karnataka Associated Management of English Medium Schools (KAMS), said blaming all private educational institutions because of a few problematic institutions is unfair. “Erring educational institutions which overcharge or are demanding fees without providing any service are in the wrong and even we will take action against them,” Kumar said. “But targeting all schools and demanding a 50% reduction in fee is an example of double standards. Do teachers and private school staff need regular earning? Don’t they have families?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/parents-hold-protest-say-private-schools-fee-structure-unfair/articleshow/79226985.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: BC Patil has field day in KR Pete village||MANDYA: Agriculture minister BC Patil, who turned 65 on Saturday, chose to celebrate his birthday with farmers at Maduvinakodi village of KR Pete taluk on Saturday. Patil, who launched ‘Raitarondige Ondu Dina’ (spend a day with farmers) programme at the farm land of Lakshmidevamma, a progressive woman farmer, milked a cow, ploughed the land with a tractor, sowed ragi and did other farm chores while donning a green shawl, a symbol of farmers’ organizations. Patil inspected a paddy field, an organic milk farm and interacted with farmers in the village. He spent the entire day doing farm chores with farmers including women. Later, Patil said his field day with farmers has given him a feeling of content and happiness and that he will continue his programme in all districts. He claimed that the programme should help him understand agrarian problems from the perspective of farmers and the government would be in a better position to formulate schemes for the farming community. “Marathon meetings, crores rupees of grants will not be sufficient to alleviate the farmers’ plight. We have to reach out to farmers and see their problems at their farms. Only then, will we be able to understand their plights and help them,” he said. Patil said the agriculture and horticulture departments are working in unison to alleviate farmers’ the problems. “I and horticulture minister KC Narayanagowda, who is the district minister of Mandya, have been working shoulder to shoulder to solve farmers’ varied problems. We need comprehensive strategies for financially empowering farmers and our aim is to provide good marketing for their (farmers) produce and thereby doubling their income” he said. Narayanagowda said he was happy that drought seems to be a thing of past due to bountiful rain across the state. The farmers’ woes have come down drastically and rain god must be merciful in all the coming years, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/bc-patil-has-field-day-in-kr-pete-village/articleshow/79227082.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Footloose Gujaratis give a booster shot to tourism||VADODARA: When the Statue of Unity (SoU) — one of the most popular tourist sites in the country — reopened a month ago, the authorities as well as tour operators were apprehensive. There was worry that amid the Covid-19 scare few would turn up to watch the world’s tallest statue of India’s first home minister, Sardar Patel. But much to everyone’s surprise, tourists began flocking the SoU in Kevadia and the site that was closed for seven months is now teeming with visitors. While many industries are struggling to get back on their feet post lockdown in Gujarat, tourism is one sector that is seeing strong revival in the state. It is all thanks to the footloose Gujaratis who have begun chalking out their travel plans after spending several months at home in lockdown. "Despite the Covid-19 situation, a lot of people have started arriving at the SoU and many are even staying back and spending nights there. It has now become a family destination as we have everything to offer to all age groups. Tourism has definitely revived after the lockdown ended," said Rajiv Gupta, managing director, Sardar Sarovar Nigam Ltd (SSNL). Nearly 2,500 tourists are walking in daily at the SoU and officials said that the tickets to the statue’s viewing gallery are booked till November 23. Even the Jungle Safari is getting a lot of footfall despite the cap on daily number of visitors. "After PM Narendra Modi’s visit, inquiries and bookings for SoU and the other attractions have gone up sharply," said a SoU official. Tour operators said that the recent launch of the seaplane service connecting Sabarmati Riverfront in Ahmedabad to Statue of Unity in Kevadia, has also become a crowd-puller. "Our hotel is fully booked till the end of November, and inquiries have already started coming in for December. It is a sign of revival in the tourism industry and we are expecting to reach the pre-Covid level business soon," said Sargam Gupta, CMD of BRG Group that has a 130-room hotel near SoU. Another popular tourist destination, Gir sanctuary, which is the sole abode of Asiatic lions has also been seeing a steady rise in the number of tourists over last one month. Gupta, who is additional chief secretary (forests and environments) said that bookings for the lion safari have gone up in Gir sanctuary and tourism is reviving there as well. Visitors usually book the safari tickets online and stay overnight in Sasan Gir. "After the lockdown ended, the footfall was very negligible but over the last couple of weeks, the inquiries have increased. In fact, my resort is completely booked for next one week and we are expecting the tourist inflow, mostly from Gujarat, to go up in December. Other hotels in this region too are seeing a good footfall," said Vinod Patel who runs Savaj Resort in Gir. The Rannotsav, promoted by the Gujarat government for long, is also seeing a flurry of bookings. Nikhil Aggarwal, partner, Lallooji & Sons, which manages Tent City at Kutch, said, "We have received 200 package bookings in the past five days. People are tending to make plans in the last minute this year and thus more bookings are pouring in by the day." The tent city in Kutch has some 350 tents. "Those who travel to international destinations during Diwali won’t be able to make such plans this time. So, they are preferring local destinations within the state. Most have preferred daytime picnics and weekend getaways to upscale resorts. This will give a major boost to tourism in Gujarat," said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI) – Gujarat. "Most destinations are at a driveable distance and therefore, people are looking to travel within the state for short getaways and picnics. Tourists are also making last-minute plans to travel as the destinations are nearby," said Ankit Bajaj, a city-based travel company owner. Destinations like Somnath-Dwarka, Saputara, Polo Forest and Velavadar, too have seen good traction and inquiries from tourists say industry players.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/footloose-gujaratis-give-a-booster-shot-to-tourism/articleshow/79227805.cms||Tushar Tere
November 15, 2020||Hubballi||Spurt in business activity rings in Deepavali cheer in Dharwad||DHARWAD: People of Dharwad who had to do away with a series of festivals due to Covid-19 pandemic and heavy rain, are trying to leave behind the bitter memories and have geared up for the 'Festival of lights'. The four-day festival began on Friday evening with the worship of water containers followed by Naraka Chaturdashi on Saturday. Members of family were greeted with arati before sunrise and then offered a sumptuous breakfast followed by delicious lunch in the afternoon. According to some almanacs, ‘Amavasya’ begins on Saturday evening and they are performing Laxmi Pooja on Saturday itself. The Deepavali Padya falls on Sunday while the government and other offices have declared holiday on Monday as some almanacs state that Padya is on Monday. People thronged the markets to purchase new clothes, jewellery and home appliances among others. Houses and business establishments have been illuminated with colourful sky lamps and clay lamps. As part of the festival, the Dharwad market is wearing a new look. The buzz word for this Deepavali is “celebrate the festival by adopting eco-friendly measures”. The traditional earthen lamps which were side-lined with the introduction of plastic lamps, are finding more buyers now. Makers of clay lamps have painted lamps with attractive designs and colours. Subhas Road, which is a hub of commercial activities, is wearing a colourful look with sky lamps of various designs, shapes and sizes. The tradition of exchanging gifts and shopping is very popular during Deepavali. People are going out of their way to splurge themselves and their loved ones as it is associated with prosperity. Most manufacturers and suppliers have launched their products and are announcing attractive schemes to attract people. Companies selling home appliances are witnessing a boom. The sweet marts too are doing brisk business. The housewives who were preparing traditional north Karnataka delicacies like undi, chakkuli, avalakki, karchikai and chiwda for Deepavali are now finding it easy to buy them from shops. Home appliance showrooms are offering a wide variety of attractive discounts and gift hampers, and are witnessing increased footfall. There has been restriction on bursting crackers by the district administration and it has had its impact. While some people concerned about increasing air and noise pollution have decided not to burst crackers, they are unable to convince children about the ill-effects of crackers. Business activities which had suffered due to the pandemic and unprecedented lockdown are slowly bouncing back to brisk business as people are going out all out for frenzy shopping. Caption: People throng Subhas Road in Dharwad to buy sky lamps and other materials for Deepavali (TOI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/spurt-in-business-activity-rings-in-deepavali-cheer-in-dharwad/articleshow/79227167.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Woman headed for Kalighat crushed under dumper||KOLKATA: A 39-year-old woman heading to Kalighat temple was mowed down by a dumper on Saturday morning while crossing the road in Mominpore. The accident occurred around 9.30am when the dumper was turning onto Judges Court Road from Diamond Harbour Road. The woman, Maheshtala resident Sushmita Mullick, had got off a bus and was trying to board a Kalighat-bound bus. Alipore police arrested the driver. A cop from the fatal squad of traffic police said, “Mullick might have been in his blind spot. We are trying to find out if the truck was speeding or if there was any mechanical fault.” This was the ninth fatal accident since October 31. Eleven people have died so far. Cops have decided to slap stricter charges under the culpable homicide section against the truck driver who had run over three pedestrians in Maniktala. But primary enquiries have found fault with the traffic sense of pedestrians and bikers as well. It appears that neither knew about the blind spots of bigger vehicles. The blind spot is usually the front left edge of the vehicle that is not visible to the driver seated at a high position in the cabin. There are special mirrors and cameras to eliminate the blind spot in vehicles, but most trucks don’t have them. Cops said in a year that has set new records (the lockdown reduced the toll between April and May), the National Crime Records Bureau found Kolkata to be the safest in terms of accidents per lakh population for two consecutive years among all megacities in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-headed-for-kalighat-crushed-under-dumper/articleshow/79227090.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Ban ensures a pet-friendly Diwali||KOLKATA: For the first time, Kuttus — a 10 year-old Samoyed — could happily snuggle at his favourite corner of his room, occasionally hopping up and down the sofa and not hide underneath the almirah like previous Diwalis. Thanks to the ban on firecrackers and its implementation in the city, people could celebrate Diwali along with their pets. Kali Puja and Diwali are usually a time of torment other years due to the bursting of firecrackers. “Every Diwali we cancel all celebrations and stay at home comforting my two dogs Kuttus and Barfi to ensure they feel safe. We would feel terrible seeing them hiding under tables and almirahs every year. But this year, I was happy to see them behave normally,” Sutirtha Basu, a Jadavpur resident. Animal rights activist and pet care shop owner Swetanjali Mehrotra, who campaigns for a cracker-free Diwali every year, praised the judiciary and the government’s initiative this year. “Perhaps this is the only positive aspect that Diwali during the pandemic has thrown up. It has come as a big relief for all animals and activists like us,” said Mehrotra. Animals, such as dogs and cats, are sensitive to sharp and loud noises and experience fear and confusion over the loud blasts of firecrackers. As a result, while the festive season is a reason for all of us to cheer, it becomes a harrowing time for pets as well as stray animals. During Diwali, one can see how dogs change their body language. They tuck their tails between their legs and cower in fear, attempting to hide under beds and couches. Bhowanipore resident Mrinalini Mukherjee said she has seen her pets Dollar and Duster suffer for 12 years during Diwali and Kali Puja. “They aren't capable of expressing their difficulties but they face a tough time. A cracker-free Diwali this year has made them absolutely happy,” said Mukherjee. Hailing the high court order and demanding a similar ban for every year Torsha Banerjee, a doctor, said: “While most people look forward to Diwali, we pet owners fear for our babies. I have seen my Labrador, Simba, run under the bed or behind a cupboard hurriedly, ending up hurting himself on occasions. Needless to say, even I could not enjoy my Diwali. I am happy about the order for a noise-free Diwali with my furry friends.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ban-ensures-a-pet-friendly-diwali/articleshow/79227093.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Unidentified 70-year-old woman has been on ventilator for over 2 months in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A 70- year-old woman with severe head injuries, sustained in a road accident in Nagarbhavi, was wheeled into Nimhans on September 5 and has been on ventilator since. Police, who had admitted the woman, are yet to identify her and to add to the complications, the woman contracted Covid-19. “Police brought the woman to the hospital,” said Dr Shashidhara HN, resident medical officer, Nimhans. “She did not have an identity card on her. Covid may have worsened her condition. It is important to locate her family and we have been trying through various sources.” While the woman is still in ICU, it’s unclear if she is still infected. Most such patients do survive traumatic brain injury, but they experience memory loss, doctors say. The woman is among many unidentified patients in Nimhans. Like the woman, Nimhans gets more than 200 unidentified patients every year. They are generally treated for 2-3 months and if they recover memory, their identities are traced and they are sent back to their families. But in about 60-70 cases, identity remains a mystery and Nimhans then takes care of them. Some are sent to rehabilitation centres after treatment. Nimhans staffers say tracing the identity of patients in a Herculean task. Dr Shashidhara suggested police are partly to blame as they do not conduct due diligence before admitting such people. He recalled the case of a colleague who had met with a road accident after duty hours and was brought to Nimhans as an unidentified case. “There must have been some ID at the accident spot,” Dr Shashidhara said. “Police must conduct that basic check. We had a shock when our own colleague was brought here as an unknown case.” He says if no effort is made to trace the patient’s identity at the spot of the accident, then tracing becomes very difficult later. All such cases are referred to as “Unknown 1, “Unknown 2” etc in Nimhans’ registry. In some cases, patients regain memory or are united with their family through efforts from Nimhans and the police. “While family members, relatives or friends do turn up after our outreach exercise, in some cases they are unable to afford the extensive care which the patient may need. Because of this potential financial burden, they desert the patient. In some cases, patients are abandoned by family members for various reasons and they are left with no home,” says Kanmani TR, assistant professor, department of psychiatric social work, Nimhans. She recalled the case of a 33-year-old man who was injured in a road traffic accident and suffered head injuries. “The man’s family was traced. But we learnt that his wife, who he had not taken care of, had died of cancer. And his family members refused to take him back,” she said. In this way, Nimhans become the home of about 20-30 patients every year. While tracing the address of such patients through biometric identification available through Aadhaar system is possible, Nimhans alleges that the required support from Unique Identification Authority of India has not been extended so far. “We have reached out to UIDAI, but they haven’t been of much help,” says Dr Shashidhara. Once an unidentified patient undergoes required brain surgery and gets past the critical phase, s/he is shifted to a step‐down ward where they are put under observation and administered postoperative care. Since the patient cannot take care of his/herself at that point, hospital staff attend to basic needs such as changing diapers, monitoring medicine feeds, change of position, posture, cleaning and preparing and feeding meals at regular intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/unidentified-70-yr-old-woman-has-been-on-ventilator-for-over-2-months/articleshow/79226890.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Daily Covid case tally hovers around 225 in Ahmednagar||NASHIK: The daily number of new Covid-19 cases being reported in Ahmednagar district has stabilised somewhere around 225 over the past 25 days. The number of active cases too has dropped from about 2,500 o 1,300. District officials said the recovery rate has improved by 1%. Ahmednagar, which was the first of the five districts in Nashik division to report Covid-19 cases, had around 4,400 active cases during the peak of the infection in the middle of September with around 1,000 fresh cases being reported per day. The situation improved between September 23 and October 15 as the number of fresh cases dropped from about 1,000 to 315 per day and the recovery rate jumped from 87.3 % to 94%. After October 17, the number of fresh cases being reported on an average per day is around 225. The fresh cases tally had dropped to a low of 169 on November 9. The active cases, that were around 2,100 on October 17, have now dropped to 1,275. “We are taking measures as pr protocol. In fact, most of the current cases are very mild in nature and have been recommended home-quarantine,” said a health official. “Many people are gathering now as it is Diwali. We believe there could be more spike in cases but should not be crossing the 300-mark. It would be difficult to predict anything if people don’t follow safety protocols,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/daily-case-tally-hovers-around-225-in-ahmednagar/articleshow/79227830.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Only PCI has authority to finalise intake capacity: Bombay HC||AURANGABAD: The Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court has turned down the plea of five pharmacy colleges that had increased their admission intake capacity from 60 to 120, and even 180 in some cases, saying that the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI) is the only authority to finalize the intake capacity of the institutions. The colleges imparting diploma in pharmacy courses had moved the HC requesting to uphold the increase in intake capacity granted by All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). The HC bench comprising Justices SV Gangapurwala and Shrikant Kulkarni cited the Supreme Court judgment while giving out the ruling. It observed: “Since registration of petitioner institutions, the PCI had never granted approval beyond 60 students. The petitioners cannot claim vested right to such extension of approval beyond 60 students.” Sayali Charitable Trust’s College of Pharmacy, Nagaon Education Society’s Gangamai Institute of Pharmacy, Shiva Trust Pratibhatai Pawar College of Pharmacy, Shiva Trust’s Rajeshbhaiyya Tope College of Pharmacy and The Shirpur Education Society’s R. C. Patel Institute of Pharmacy, had earlier this year moved the HC against the PCI. The petitioner colleges submitted before the HC that after the initial intake capacity of 60 seats granted by PCI, the AICTE in the year 2013-14 and in the following years granted them increased intake capacity, ranging from 120 to 180 seats. These institutions cited the example of Kamala Nehru Polytechnic (Pharmacy), Aurangabad, which has an intake capacity of 120 students. Representing the PCI, special counsel Zoheb Hossain and the then assistant solicitor general Sanjeev Deshpande contested that the petitioner institutions were neither granted permission for intake of 120 students nor beyond 60 students. The duo even contested that Kamala Nehru Polytechnic college was granted intake of 120 students as per resolution passed in the 47th meeting held on April 7, 1988 and after this year the PCI has not granted permission to any institute with intake beyond 60 students. The PCI also submitted before the high court that its policy to restrict the intake capacity to 60 students has been reiterated time and again through its multiple circulars. The court, while disposing of the petitions, observed: “The current approved output per year is approximately 1.80 D Pharma and 2 lakh BPharmas from the already approved institutions. The generation of excessive workforce would lead to unemployment of qualified workforce. As such the decision has been consciously taken by the Central Council.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/only-pci-has-authority-to-finalise-intake-capacity-hc/articleshow/79227831.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 15, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Children miss their day this year||HUBBALLI: Many children of twin cities missed Children’s day this year after Covid pandemic. There was no celebration at most all schools as schools are shut since 7-8 months. As the day coincided with the Naraka Chaturdashi, celebration was completely sidelined by one and all. Goutami Bhadragond, a class-4 girl in V S Pillay English Medicum School, recalled that every year she used to get chocolate on account of children’s day in the school. “This year we missed many celebrations like I-day, Gandhi Jayanti, Karnataka Rajyotsav and children’s day. As all were busy with Naraka Chatudrashi at home, they did not wish me” she added. Mahendra Singhi, Founder, Sanskaar CBSE School, shared that the day used to be their kingdom with color dress. “Teachers also used to enjoy a lot by organising various entertainment programmes for kids. Children used to look very enthusiastic and energetic on occasions like Children’s day and other celebrations. This year we are all missing those moments” he regretted. Kumar Sankannavar, a teacher at Government High School, Vishweshwar Nagar, Hubballi, stated that the celebration was restricted to wish only in whatsapp groups. “Every year it was an occasion to mingle with children freely. They used to celebrate Teachers’ day and we used to reciprocate on children’s day” he mentioned. Vinayak, Gourish, Sneha, Chitra and others, who were buying Deepavali items at a shop at Unkal Cross, sadly said that their parents have also forgotten to wish them. “However, we exchanged our wishes on whatsapp groups created by school authorities themselves” they endorsed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/children-miss-their-day-this-year/articleshow/79227123.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Sharp spike in Covid cases in 24 hours||AHMEDABAD: It was a mad rush for the doctors and technicians at the Civil Hospital on Friday as total 154 Covid-19 positive patients got admitted in 24 hours – of them, about 64% or 98 patients required critical care right from admission. Dr Rakesh Joshi, additional medical superintendent, Civil Hospital, told reporters on Saturday that it was one of the highest single-day addition for the hospital in four months. “Several of the patients got referred from other medical centres, whereas a large number had also directly approached the hospital,” he said, adding that they have opened two additional wards to meet the sudden rise in demand. As on Saturday evening, Civil Hospital had over 520 patients against the capacity of 1,200, the highest since July-August, said experts. The condition in the private hospitals was not very different – according to the website of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), 87.6% of the beds were occupied. While high-dependency beds had 89% occupancy, ICUs were 84% full – there were only 27 non-requisited ventilator beds available in 70 member hospitals, stated the website. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of AHNA, said that majority of the hospitals have waiting lists drawn up. “It’s one of the biggest surges we have experienced in past three to four months. It’s unfortunate that it coincided right with the Diwali festivities. We urge the citizens to take utmost precautions, or the second wave of the pandemic would not be very far,” he said. Experts pointed at the imbalance of the incoming and outgoing patients in Ahmedabad city area responsible for the phenomenon. “In the past seven days, Ahmedabad city has added 147 active patients (difference between daily positive cases and daily discharges) at the average of 21 daily. To put the figure in perspective, Surat city in the same period has constantly negative numbers – collectively reaching to reduction of 80 patients in seven days at the average of about 11 daily,” said a city-based epidemiologist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/sharp-spike-in-covid-cases-in-24-hrs/articleshow/79227180.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: 42% of Ahmedabad’s people, 48% of active cases||AHMEDABAD: Though a large number of citizens came out on roads to celebrate the festivities of Diwali, Covid-19 cases continued to surge across parts of the city. Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) officials said that for the past one month, North-West zone is leading in the tally of active cases. While the western city parts account for 42% of the city’s population, it has 48% of the active Covid-19 cases in the city at 2,807, health officials said. The South-West zone and West zone have over 400 cases while the Central zone has 280 cases. The West zone, including areas of Ranip Vasna Naranpura, Navrangpura had 622 cases while North-West zone with areas of Ghatlodia, Thaltej, Bodakdev, Gota, Chandlodia and Chandkheda had 619 cases, the second-highest Covid cases in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/42-of-citys-people-48-of-active-cases/articleshow/79227200.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Widening of Pune highway stretch to wrap up in 2021||NASHIK: Senior officials of the state public works department’s highways division said the widening work on the stretch between Nashik Road to Sinnar Phata on the Nashik-Pune highway will be completed by March 2021. The work on this stretch of the Pune highway was taken up in 2015. Almost 20 km of the highway stretch was widened in 2017.  However, the 2.5 km stretch of the highway between Sinnar Phata and Darna river was undone mainly due to an activist moving Bombay high court against the felling of trees to widen the road. Eventually, the high court approved the felling of trees on certain conditions. Even after the HC’s approval, the residents of Nashik Road waited for two years to see the road widening. The Pune highway witnesses heavy traffic. However, the 2.5 km stretch is not more than 8m wide, following which the residents have a tough time to cross the road amid the heavy traffic. Meanwhile, over the past few months, the work of road widening has started on the stretch. Senior officials said the work of the road widening would be finished by March 2021 and the 8m wide highway would be converted into a four-lane along with service roads on both the sides of the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/widening-of-pune-highway-stretch-to-wrap-up-in-2021/articleshow/79227832.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 15, 2020||Aurangabad||Cheats duped people of small amounts||AURANGABAD: The kingpin of an interstate racket of duping people has revealed during the interrogation that the racketeers usually chose to cheat people of amounts less than Rs 10,000, as the victims as well as the police in different states avoided lodging complaints about such smalls amounts. The fraudsters, while claiming to be representatives of a state-owned petroleum company, cheated a city-based industrial supplier of over Rs 56 lakh on the pretext of allotting him an LPG dealership in the Waluj Pandharpura area of Aurangabad. Vinodkumar Singh (40), the kingpin of the racket and a resident of Bokaro in Jharkhand, and his accomplice Ranjan Kumar Prasad (33), of Chas in Bokaro, were arrested on November 7. On November 1, two of their gang members — Kalunesh Mohammed Shaikh (36) and Mohammed Avsaan Raza (28), both from Sahebganj of Jharkhand — were arrested. Cybercrime inspector Geeta Bagwade said: “The accused has confessed to targeting gullible people and cheat them of amounts less than Rs 10,000.” The officer said when the accused realized that the man they had targetted in Aurangabad can shell out lakhs, they set a trap by developing a website, creating fresh bank accounts and obtaining SIM cards using forged documents. As per the confessions, the racketeers knew that often the police and the victims take a strong follow-up in cybercrime cases involving large amounts only. “Many people who are cheated of small amounts, do not lodge complaints out of embarrassment or lack of procedural knowledge,” said an officer. Taking advantage of this psychology, the accused targetted their prey. The Aurangabad cyber police have started checking with the local police, so that the accused are handed over to them for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cheats-duped-people-of-small-amounts/articleshow/79227841.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||‘Road works in Kochi will be completed in a month’||KOCHI: District collector S Suhas, who has assumed charge as the administrator of Kochi corporation during the transition period of almost one month, in a one-to-one with M K Sunil Kumar talks about various projects and measures he would be focusing on during the short stint. Excerpts from the Q&A: Corporation’s administration had failed to implement many projects . What will you be be doing to solve this?At the onset, let me make one thing clear. I won’t be able to do anything new as the code of conduct as part of elections is in force. So, my focus will be to continue the ongoing projects. I will try to expedite the implementation of various projects. What will be your short-term goal?Treatment of septage waste seems to be an issue which requires immediate attention. In the absence of proper facilities, septage is being dumped on roadsides, into waterbodies and other public places. A lot of issues, including spreading of communicable diseases, stem out of this. So we have decided to prepare a septage master plan for the city within a fortnight. We had already taken measures to start a new septage treatment plant. We will soon start the work on the project as we have already secured necessary nods. What will you be doing with regard to implementation of e-governance project?I am studying the issues related to e-governance. We will be entrusting the Information Kerala Mission with the implementation of the e-governance project. All measures to complete the project on fast mode will be taken. The civic body is yet to complete road relaying and repair works. What will you be doing to complete the work?We already had meetings with the corporation officials. Measures will be taken to complete the repair and relaying of works of all the roads which are currently underway within a month. Steps will be taken to ensure the quality of road works as well. We have asked officials to prepare a list of roads being repaired or relayed now. Your plans to address waste treatment and disposal issues?We will soon start a survey to quantify the waste piled up on the solid waste treatment plant premises at Brahmapuram. Survey using drones will be conducted. Follow-up measures will be taken to clear the legacy waste based on the survey. What are you planning to do to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in the city limits?To prevent the spread of the pandemic, we will chalk out plans with the help of the health department. The state health department will be given more powers and responsibilities in the Covid-19 containment measures in the corporation limits. Lack of coordination among various departments is a hindrance for project execution. How will you tackle this?We will be convening meeting of officials with all the departments. We will give strict instructions to officials to ensure timely completion of all ongoing projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/road-works-in-city-will-be-completed-in-a-month/articleshow/79227217.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Fear viral, frequent tests swamp corona scanners||AHMEDABAD: Citizens and organizations needlessly taking Covid tests has forced the AMC to rethink its strategy of testing. On Thursday, the AMC issued an advisory asking people to go in for testing only if required. Data analysis of Covid testing at kiosks set up by the AMC showed people unnecessarily testing themselves and using up the precious resources. The civic body has now mandated that a citizen can avail of the free Covid testing facility only at his or her local urban health centre or kiosk. A senior officer said that data analysis revealed a person in Navrangpura had got himself tested 15 times in one month and by going to testing kiosks in differnent parts of the city. The officer said that on Monday the man got himself tested in Navrangpura and then on Wednesday he got himself tested at a kiosk in Ranip and on Friday he got himself tested in Prahladnagar. He gave different names at the kiosks. At one, he gave his father’s name, at another kiosk he gave his father’s initials and at a third place he only gave his name without his father’s name. However, he gave the same mobile number everywhere. The officer said not less than 100-odd people had got themselves tested for more than 10 times in last two months. The AMC has made it mandatory for shop owners to get their staff tested. So, instead of getting tests done in private laboratories, a jeweller in Ambawadi sent his staff in batches for testing every three days. Another jeweller near Shivranjani had his staff tested at the AMC kiosk every week. The officer said that the situation with regard to banks was similar. Not just the staff but even bank managers were getting tested multiple times. The officials said some of these persons tested every alternate day, and said they feared getting infected as they had to interact with many people daily in their jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fear-viral-frequent-tests-swamp-corona-scanners/articleshow/79227236.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Presence of dissidents a headache for major parties||KOCHI: Presence of dissidents has become a headache for major political parties in various local bodies in Kochi and its suburbs. Despite political parties holding reconciliation talks with rebels, they couldn’t tame many of the dissidents even after the electioneering started. In Tripunithura where BJP is the main opposition with 13 councillors is facing the challenge put up by dissidents in 15 seats. Two of the party’s sitting councillors are contesting after floating an independent group called ‘V for Tripunithura’ while another sitting councillor is the convener of the splinter group. “The party leadership in the area has been hand in glove with the real estate mafia. Though we pointed out the issue several times, the leadership was not ready to take the course of correction. That’s why we have decided to contest in 15 seats in Tripunithura municipality,” said V R Vijayakumar, former BJP councillor and one of the candidates of ‘V for Tripunithura’. Of the 49 seats in Tripunithura municipality, BJP candidates were the runners-up in eight divisions in the 2015 elections. “It is an old issue and it will not affect the prospects of BJP in the elections,” said BJP district president S Jayakrishnan. “We have taken all measures to ensure our victory in the elections to Tripunithura municipality. We will come to power with 32 seats,” Jayakrishnan said. In Kochi corporation, former mayor and LJD leader K J Soham is gearing up for taking on LDF candidate in Fort Kochi Veli. “In a couple of days, I will start active campaign,” Sohan said. It was after much pressure that the CPM allotted the seat to Benedict Fernandez, a party leader from Fort Kochi area. The candidature of Sohan, who was the former mayor and town planning standing committee chairman, will create problems for both the fronts. LJD was part of LDF and later joined UDF. Though the party re-joined LDF, the front didn’t give tickets to LJD in Kochi corporation. Gracy Joseph, former chairperson for development standing committee of Kochi corporation who was denied a seat by Congress, has started work in Kaloor South, the neighbouring division of Kathrikadavu from where she had contested last election. “Kaloor South is a familiar division. It is in Kaloor South division that I reside. I know the voters in the division personally,” Joseph said. Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader and former health standing committee chairman of Kochi corporation T K Ashraf will be contesting from Kalvathy division as rebel candidate. IUML is learnt to have decided to field a young leader from the area N N Faziludheen from the division. Though the outgoing mayor Soumini Jain was expected to be contesting from Ravipuram division, she didn’t figure in the party’s candidates’ list. “I myself had opted not to contest due to my personal reasons. I will be active in the campaign front soon,” Jain said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/presence-of-dissidents-a-headache-for-major-parties/articleshow/79227239.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Woman files complaint against husband, father-in-law||AHMEDABAD: A-25-year-old woman has lodged a complaint against her husband and father-in-law for torturing her physically and mentally. The woman told Mahdavpura police on Friday that her husband Vijay Chauhan constantly harassed her alleging that the child in her womb was not his. The complainant alleged that her husband and father-in-law drove her out of their house. “The woman tried to reach a compromise but when nothing worked out, she filed the complaint,” said a police official. The woman was married to Chauhan about a year ago. “Till six months of marriage, Chauhan was nice to her but after that he used to suspect her to be in an illicit relationship. He used to beat her up often,” said the official. According to FIR, her father-in-law Raju Chauhan also took sides with her husband. Since July she is living with her parents in Narol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-files-plaint-against-husband-father-in-law/articleshow/79227240.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||ICG intercepts suspicious Indian dhow off Okha||AHMEDABAD: The Indian Coast Guard (ICG) ship Samudra Pavak intercepted and boarded an Indian dhow, Gosh-E- Vashali, which has 13 crew members aboard, off the coast of Gujarat. The boat was intercepted on Saturday morning and is now on its way to Okha. ICG sources said the vessel was going from Somalia to Mundra and is allegedly involved in suspicious activities. “The vessel is being brought to Okha for a joint investigation by various security agencies and police. It is expected to arrive at Okha late on Saturday night,” said a ICG source. The SP of Devbhoomi Dwarka, Sunil Joshi, confirmed that they had received a note from the ICG regarding the intercepted vessel and police have been called for a joint interrogation on Sunday. Defence PRO Wing Commander Puneet Chadha confirmed that the boat was intercepted by the ICG. “Once the boat lands at Okha a full investigation will be done by all security agencies including central agencies,” said a ICG source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icg-intercepts-suspicious-indian-dhow-off-okha/articleshow/79227624.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ranchi||Nawadih BDO held for taking Rs 20,000 bribe||BOKARO: A team of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials from Dhanbad caught Nawadih block development officer (BDO) Prabhash Chandra Das "red-handed" while taking a bribe of Rs 20,000 from a public distribution system (PDS) shop owner to revoke her suspended shop licence. The team also arrested Das's associate Sachin Kumar Mahto for mediating the corrupt deal. An ACB official said the licence of complainant Khemiya Devi's PDS shop located at Surhi in Nawadih was cancelled for alleged irregularities in distribution of foodgrains earlier. She then submitted a clarification for revocation of her licence to the district authorities. Based on her clarification, Das, who is also the district supply officer, was asked to inquire into Devi's case and submit a report, the official said. During the process, the shop owner met Mahto, who urged her to meet Das to resolve her case. Das then told her that he would revoke the licence only if she paid Rs 50,000 bribe. Devi reported the matter to ACB, which then laid a trap and arrested both Das and Mahto when they came to collect the money, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nawadih-bdo-held-for-taking-r-20k-bribe/articleshow/79215555.cms||Divy Khare
November 15, 2020||India||Go ‘local for Diwali’, VP Naidu tells people||NEW DELHI: Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Saturday extended greetings on Diwali, appealing to the people to buy local products to encourage artisans. “May this festival of lights usher happiness, prosperity and peace. As we celebrate the festival, let us help spread some light in the homes of our local artisans, craftspersons and manufacturers by going #Local4Diwali,” the Vice President’s Secretariat tweeted quoting Naidu. As the fight against Covid-19 is still on, Naidu appealed to people to observe social distancing and other norms and celebrate the festival in a safe and eco-friendly way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/go-local-for-diwali-vp-naidu-tells-people/articleshow/79228108.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Hope Diwali ends gloom over Covid, economy: Sonia||NEW DELHI: Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday wished fellow citizens on the occasion of Diwali and hoped that the festival of lights would end the gloom of the pandemic, darkness of economic recession and distress. Sending greetings and warm wishes to all countrymen and women, she wished this joyous and pious occasion will put the nation back on to the path of progress, harmony and prosperity. She expressed hope and prayed that “a million lamps illuminating India and our hearts on this festival of lights would end the gloom of pandemic, darkness of economic recession and distress being caused to fellow citizens”. She appealed to people to adhere to all the pandemic-related guidelines and precautions as they celebrate. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi also wished fellow citizens on Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hope-diwali-ends-gloom-over-covid-economy-sonia/articleshow/79228116.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Rs 200 crore GST frauds busted in Bengaluru, 4 men held||BENGALURU: Four men who committed tax fraud in separate cases amounting to over Rs 200 crore have been arrested over the past few weeks. They allegedly raised fake invoices for multinational companies, including Chinese ones, for bogus services worth Rs 1,000 crore in a few years. This is one of the biggest goods and services tax (GST) frauds busted in the city in recent times by the Bengaluru zonal unit of the Directorate General of GST Intelligence. The sleuths raided many places, including Chinese firms based in Mumbai, and seized documents related to fake Input Tax Credit (ITC). The computation of total tax fraud is still under way. Sources with the intelligence wing said Delhi-based Kamlesh Mishra raised fake invoices worth Rs 500 crore in the name of bogus firms. GST fraud: Bengaluru man colluded with Chinese bizmen, created fake invoicesMishra floated 23 companies in the names of poor individuals across the country, including some in Bengaluru who had a PAN and Aadhaar card. He paid them handsomely to use their documents to start companies in their names and created fake invoices for GST worth Rs 80 crore,” said an officer. Mishra showed that he sold products for high profits in his fictional firms and projected a huge turnover helping them obtaining bill discounts and big loans from banks. “We raided and identified individuals who Mishra made as directors in bogus companies and after ascertaining the GST fraud, we arrested him,” the Bengaluru officer added. Bialadugu Krishnaiah, a Bengalurubased businessman, had colluded with some Chinese men and created a firm called Jump Monkey Promotions India Ltd. “Through the firm, Krishnaiah issued fake invoices for well-established Chinese firms across India falsely claiming he had sold goods or services and as a kickback, he received Rs 53 crore sent by China Construction Sausam India Pvt Ltd and Quingdao Constructions. He interacted with them frequently via WeChat messaging service and even made cryptocurrency purchases for large sums for Chinese persons,” the intelligence officer said. Sleuths recently raided a few Chinese firms in Mumbai and seized crucial documents. After his arrest, Krishnaiah was moved to Bengaluru prison. A probe is under way into his money transactions with foreign nationals which are believed to have generated large sums of unaccounted cash for them. Bengaluru-based firm Benstar Power Technologies India Pvt Ltd was busted for issuing fake invoices to favour various multinational firms in Karnataka. “The kingpin is Suresh Mehta, director of Benstar, and he was arrested in Bengaluru and Rs 12 crore was recovered from one multinational company,” the officer added. A Bengaluru scrap dealer identified as Haneef Mohammed of Khwaja Enterprises was arrested by sleuths availing fake Input Tax Credit worth crores of rupees. A repeat tax offender Mohammed’s non-existing supplier links for tax evasion was established, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rs-200-crore-gst-frauds-busted-in-bengaluru-4-men-held/articleshow/79228122.cms||Petlee Peter
November 15, 2020||India||India’s Covid caseload crosses 88 lakh, recoveries at 81 lakh||NEW DELHI: India’s Covid-19 caseload increased to over 88 lakh on Saturday with 36,881 testing positive for the viral infection. The toll climbed to 1,29,502 after 389 fatalities were recorded, recoveries reached 81,95,589, while caseload was at 88,06,414. Diwali is being celebrated with enthusiasm across the country amid the prevailing Covid pandemic. People were found bursting crackers in Ludhiana to celebrate Diwali. The Punjab government has allowed green crackers from 8pm to 10pm on the occasion, in the wake of a rise in air pollution. People were also seen celebrating Diwali in Patna with full vigour despite the coronavirus scare. There is need to guard against carelessness in the fight against Covid and people should be careful because pollution has also started rising, Dr Ravi Malik, a former secretary of Indian Medical Association, said. “Carelessness has slowly crept inside people’s minds regarding Covid-19. We have started seeing public gathering and large scale functions.... At this time, people should be careful because pollution has also started rising,” Dr Malik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-covid-caseload-crosses-88-lakh-recoveries-at-81-lakh/articleshow/79228120.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: Byadagi chilli traders collect Rs 6 lakh to fix road||HAVERI: After repeated pleas to district officials to repair a 1-km stretch from Muktidhama fell on deaf ears, chilli merchants in Byadagi pooled in Rs 6 lakh to fix it. Work on the road began last week. The merchants had approached the district administration and MLA Verupakshappa Ballari for funds. The MLA approved a grant of Rs 45 lakh for the road. But, authorities of the local body didn't release the sanctioned amount. Furious merchants contributed varying amounts depending on plot sizes, each contributing between Rs 25,000 and Rs 1 lakh. They said despite paying crores of rupees in taxes, local body authorities wouldn't fix the road where their chilli trucks pass. ‘We paid taxes, but local authority refused to help’We approached the TMC chief officer and MLA several times for help to construct the road because many vehicles carrying chilli use it. But officials turned down our appeals. We held a meeting of merchants and everyone agreed to share the cost of road repair,” said chilli merchant Suresh Melagiri. Anilkumar Boddapati, another merchant, said Muktidhama Road has gone from bad to worse over the past several years. The area was transferred to the Town Municipal Council (TMC) for civic maintenance. “We have paid taxes for the past 10 years. But, the local authority has refused to help us in fixing the road despite the huge turnover in the market,” he said. “The stretch needs a 3- metre drainage and a cement concrete surface and we need at least Rs 2 crore for the work. I approached the district in-charge minister and the chief minister assured he would give his approval for the grant,” said MLA Verupakshappa Ballari. When contacted, TMC chief officer Verupakshappa Pujar said Rs 45 lakh has been allotted under MLA special grants. “We’ll start work with Rs 30 lakh initially. Currently, underground drainage work is going on and after that, we’ll start road work. We’re not aware about merchants contributing money to construct this road,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/karnataka-byadagi-chilli-traders-collect-rs-6-lakh-to-fix-road/articleshow/79228131.cms||Basavaraj Maralihalli
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CAG targets KIIFB, T M Thomas Isaac says it’s at Centre’s behest||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOCHI: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac on Saturday accused Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of “being partisan and subservient to the BJP government at the Centre” even as top Congress leaders called the premature disclosure of the CAG’s draft report a 'constitutional collapse' and an attempt to hide corruption in Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The CAG in its draft report has reportedly questioned KIIFB’s constitutional validity. Responding to CAG’s draft report, Isaac said: “There is a famous phrase ‘the auditor is a watchdog and not a bloodhound’. However, the CAG has forgotten the basic tenets of auditing as it has embarked on a hunting mission on behalf of its political bosses… Those who have made CBI a caged parrot have now made CAG an unchained bloodhound”. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the FM made a premature disclosure to bail himself out because of the fear that the report would expose corruption in KIIFB. “Normally, the report would come into public domain only after it is tabled in the assembly. Till then it's a process which warrants complete secrecy. Since no such report was tabled in the assembly, how did the FM access the draft report," asked Chennithala, adding that the minister might have been referring to the audit paragraphs, sent to different departments for comments. ‘Don’t understand why Isaac is picking on CAG’MLA V D Satheesan, chairman of Public Accounts Committee that has the powers to vet the report, said Isaac’s statements were indicative of a ‘constitutional collapse’ as he was the person who had the responsibility to table the report on the floor of the House on behalf of the governor, to whom the CAG submits the report. Isaac said that the CAG in its draft report has observed that KIIFB violated Article 293(1) of the Constitution. “Such a finding is absurd and baseless. It’s the loans taken by the state government that comes under this particular section. State governments need the consent of the central government for availing loans. But, KIIFB is a corporate body. Hence, the said provisions are not applicable to it. I reject the CAG observation that KIIFB loans are off budget loans. Off budget loans are taken by governments directly to meet the expenses of the schemes announced in the budget. The schemes financed by KIIFB are not those included in the budget,” he said. Satheesan wondered at possible motives for Isaac’s outburst. “I don’t understand why Isaac is picking on CAG as the audit was done as per Section 14(1) of the CAG Act and not Section 20(2) which was a bone of contention,” said Satheesan. Auditing based on Section 14(1) places severe limitations on CAG as it can only examine government receipts from the consolidated fund. “The funds raised from the open market is out of their purview,” he added. Isaac also claimed that CAG raised 76 queries and KIIFB has answered them all. During the course of inspection, the CAG had never raised the question of constitutional validity. This has to be seen in the light of the petition filed by a Sangh Parivar leader in Kerala high court against KIIFB. The CAG’s latest observation was similar to the claims made in the petition, he said. “The opposition is hell bent on creating obstacles for KIIFB. The CAG and opposition are working together to thwart development projects in the state. The stand that a corporate body like KIIFB should not avail loans for developmental projects amounts to usurping the powers of the state. The opposition leader is also aiding such sinister moves,” he said. Denying allegations that he had friendly relations with the Auditor General, Chennithala said in the past four-and-ahalf years, he never had contact with the office of CAG. “They fear auditing only because corruption has been found. This is akin to defaming and threatening a constitutional institution,” Chennithala said. Chennithala alleged that the CEO of KIIFB has more salary than the chief secretary and people are hired bypassing institutions like PSC with daily wage payment of Rs 10,000. Backdoor appointments are also rampant, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-cag-targets-kiifb-t-m-thomas-isaac-says-its-at-centres-behest/articleshow/79228130.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: CAG targets KIIFB, T M Thomas Isaac says it’s at Centre’s behest||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOCHI: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac on Saturday accused Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of “being partisan and subservient to the BJP government at the Centre” even as top Congress leaders called the premature disclosure of the CAG’s draft report a 'constitutional collapse' and an attempt to hide corruption in Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The CAG in its draft report has reportedly questioned KIIFB’s constitutional validity. Responding to CAG’s draft report, Isaac said: “There is a famous phrase ‘the auditor is a watchdog and not a bloodhound’. However, the CAG has forgotten the basic tenets of auditing as it has embarked on a hunting mission on behalf of its political bosses… Those who have made CBI a caged parrot have now made CAG an unchained bloodhound”. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged that the FM made a premature disclosure to bail himself out because of the fear that the report would expose corruption in KIIFB. “Normally, the report would come into public domain only after it is tabled in the assembly. Till then it's a process which warrants complete secrecy. Since no such report was tabled in the assembly, how did the FM access the draft report," asked Chennithala, adding that the minister might have been referring to the audit paragraphs, sent to different departments for comments. ‘Don’t understand why Isaac is picking on CAG’MLA V D Satheesan, chairman of Public Accounts Committee that has the powers to vet the report, said Isaac’s statements were indicative of a ‘constitutional collapse’ as he was the person who had the responsibility to table the report on the floor of the House on behalf of the governor, to whom the CAG submits the report. Isaac said that the CAG in its draft report has observed that KIIFB violated Article 293(1) of the Constitution. “Such a finding is absurd and baseless. It’s the loans taken by the state government that comes under this particular section. State governments need the consent of the central government for availing loans. But, KIIFB is a corporate body. Hence, the said provisions are not applicable to it. I reject the CAG observation that KIIFB loans are off budget loans. Off budget loans are taken by governments directly to meet the expenses of the schemes announced in the budget. The schemes financed by KIIFB are not those included in the budget,” he said. Satheesan wondered at possible motives for Isaac’s outburst. “I don’t understand why Isaac is picking on CAG as the audit was done as per Section 14(1) of the CAG Act and not Section 20(2) which was a bone of contention,” said Satheesan. Auditing based on Section 14(1) places severe limitations on CAG as it can only examine government receipts from the consolidated fund. “The funds raised from the open market is out of their purview,” he added. Isaac also claimed that CAG raised 76 queries and KIIFB has answered them all. During the course of inspection, the CAG had never raised the question of constitutional validity. This has to be seen in the light of the petition filed by a Sangh Parivar leader in Kerala high court against KIIFB. The CAG’s latest observation was similar to the claims made in the petition, he said. “The opposition is hell bent on creating obstacles for KIIFB. The CAG and opposition are working together to thwart development projects in the state. The stand that a corporate body like KIIFB should not avail loans for developmental projects amounts to usurping the powers of the state. The opposition leader is also aiding such sinister moves,” he said. Denying allegations that he had friendly relations with the Auditor General, Chennithala said in the past four-and-ahalf years, he never had contact with the office of CAG. “They fear auditing only because corruption has been found. This is akin to defaming and threatening a constitutional institution,” Chennithala said. Chennithala alleged that the CEO of KIIFB has more salary than the chief secretary and people are hired bypassing institutions like PSC with daily wage payment of Rs 10,000. Backdoor appointments are also rampant, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-cag-targets-kiifb-t-m-thomas-isaac-says-its-at-centres-behest/articleshow/79228150.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Pinarayi Vijayan, ministers to skip LDF stir against central agencies||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan and other ministers won’t be attending the mass protest planned by LDF on Monday to raise the voice of Kerala against the unwanted interference by central agencies in flagship projects of the government. The LDF meeting, held on Tuesday, had decided to parade all ministers during the protests at 25,000 centres in state as the front concluded that ED probe in Life Mission and K-FON projects had a political agenda. According to sources, Vijayan raised the issue in the CPM state secretariat meet on Friday. Vijayan is learnt to have said that involvement of ministers, who hold constitutional responsibilities, in a protest against the central investigation agencies would send wrong signals. He said the party leaders should lead the protest while ministers wouldn’t be at the forefront. Though ministers won’t be attending the protest, MLAs and MPs will join the stir at different centres. LDF convener and CPM state secretary A Vijayaraghavan will inaugurate the protest at Kannettumukku in Thiruvananthapuram at 5pm on Monday. At the selected 25,000 centres, protest gatherings will be held from 5pm to 6pm. "Strong protest by people of Kerala will be seen at the gatherings. Though allegations levelled against the projects were proved wrong, UDF and BJP are spreading lies. Agencies like ED are supporting the opposition agenda for political reasons," Vijayaraghavan said in a statement issued here on Saturday. The target of LDF is to parade 25 lakh people, 100 people in each protest centre. The protest will be held in adherence with Covid protocol and there will be special care to avoid crowds. Prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 in all districts – as part of Covid control measures – will expire on Sunday midnight and hence there won’t be a hurdle for Monday’s protest. Renewing prohibitory orders is unlikely as local body campaign has started. Kanam Rajendran, Mathew T Thomas, TP Peethambaran, Jose K Mani, KB Ganesh Kumar and MV Shreyams Kumar will lead the protest at different centres. In Thiruvananthapuram, district secretary Anavoor Nagappan will inaugurate the protest at Peroorkada while MP Benoy Viswam will lead the protest at Nettayam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-pinarayi-vijayan-ministers-to-skip-ldf-stir-against-central-agencies/articleshow/79228179.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Activist writes from jail: Humanity bubbling here||MUMBAI: Jesuit priest and tribal rights activist Stan Swamy(83), arrested in the Elgar Parishad case, has penned a letter to his colleagues, describing his days in jail and said that “despite all odds, humanity is bubbling in Taloja prison”. Swamy suffers from Parkinson’s disease and the letter was written with the help of his coaccused and fellow inmate, Arun Ferreira. An excerpt from the letter was posted on the Facebook page of human rights activist John Dayal. “Arun assists me to have my breakfast and lunch. Vernon helps me with bath. My two inmates help out during supper, in washing my clothes and give massage to my knee joints. They are from very poor families. Please remember my inmates and my colleagues in your prayers,” the letter said. He wrote that he was lodged in a cell about 13 ft x 8ft, along with two more inmates. “It has a small bathroom and a toilet with Indian commode. Fortunately, I am given a western commode chair,” the letter said. Swamy said that co-accused, Varavara Rao (80), Vernon Gonsalves and Ferreira were in another cell. Stan: Grateful for support and solidarityDuring the day, when cells and barracks are opened, we meet with each other. From 5.30 pm to 06.00 am and 12 noon to 03.00 pm, I am locked up in my cell, with two inmates (sic),” Swamy wrote. Swamy also expressed his gratitude for the solidarity and support extended by those to whom he addressed the letter. On November 6, Swamy’s defence moved the special NIA court seeking his straw and sipper as his hands are unsteady due to Parkinson’s disease. The court directed the prosecution to submit a reply on November 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/activist-writes-from-jail-humanity-bubbling-here/articleshow/79228159.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Lensman jailed for molesting girl at ‘look test’||MUMBAI: Observing that it is necessary to curb exploitation of girls aspiring to be actors, a special court convicted and sentenced a photographer, Nageshwar Rao (43), to one year imprisonment for molesting a teenager during a look test in 2015, reports Rebecca Samervel. Finding the accused guilty, the court said, “After objection by the prosecutrix, the reply of the accused that it is common in the field of acting indicates that it was not an accidental touch...but it is a deliberate act...with sexual intent.” The accused was, however, acquitted of the stringent Pocso Act and found guilty under IPC instead, as the prosecution failed to prove the girl was a minor at the time. Teen’s testimony against photographer is reliable and trustworthy, says courtA special court has convicted and sentenced a 43-year-old businessman to one year imprisonment for molesting a teenager. The girl deposed during the hearing and identified the accused. The court said that it had found her evidence to be reliable, trustworthy and inspiring confidence. “After the incident, the prosecutrix came out of the room crying. She immediately brought the incident to the notice of her family members. They immediately reported the matter to the police. Therefore, there is no room for concoction or an afterthought act by prosecution witnesses,” the court observed. During cross-examination by the defence lawyer, the survivor denied the suggestion that since the accused did not find her audition to be up to the mark, her mother got annoyed and threatened to teach him a lesson by falsely implicating him. The survivor told the cops that on March 2, 2015, she had gone for an audition to the office of the accused, who is also a businessman, with her mother, brother and maternal uncle. It was submitted that the accused took 4-5 photos and called her for a look test the following day. The survivor’s further said that the following day, after shooting in Indian and western outfits, the accused gave her skimpy clothes and asked her to enact that she was going to watch a movie with her boyfriend. Her family members were asked to wait outside. The survivor said that on the pretext of fixing her clothes for the pictures, the accused then began to touch her inappropriately. When she objected, he replied this was common in look tests. At that time, the survivor said she refused to shoot further, came out of the room and narrated the incident to her family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-lensman-jailed-for-molesting-girl-at-look-test/articleshow/79228146.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||CM’s Diwali gift: Temples allowed to open across Maharashtra from Monday||MUMBAI: Nearly seven months after the lockdown was imposed, the Maharashtra government announced on Diwali that all religious places in the state can re-open from Monday, November 16. The state government has put together a detailed standard operating procedure (SOP), which must be followed by all religious institutions. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday warned of strict action against violators. In keeping with the “new normal”, touching of idols, holy books, physical offering of prasad and sprinkling of holy water will not be allowed. Devotees are expected to get their own prayer mats or pieces of cloth to pray on. Live choirs and singing groups will not be allowed; recorded devotional songs will be played. The government has also issued an advisory requesting people above the age of 65, those with comorbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 to not enter places of worship. Also, all Covid-19-related protocols of masking, a distance of six feet, and hand hygiene have to be followed. CM stood his ground on templesThackeray had been facing pressure from all quarters to reopen religious places. “We can’t forget that the demon in the form of coronavirus is still around. Even though it is slowly falling silent, we cannot let our guard down. We must continue to show self-restraint, just like we did while celebrating all the religious festivals this year,” said Thackeray. He said devotees must not treat guidelines laid down as government order but consider them as God’s wish. “If you follow discipline, only then will God shower his blessings on us and the state. Leave your footwear out of temples, but wearing of masks will be compulsory,” said Thackeray. He said though temples were closed, God took care of his devotees in the form of doctors, nurses and other health staff who have worked tirelessly. Along with political organisations, several religious groups, too, had been protesting in the state seeking reopening of religious places. As per state guidelines, staffers at religious places should undergo Covid tests before resuming work. Weekly tests of highly exposed groups are recommended. If a Covid-19 patient is detected on the premises, there should be a room to isolate him and the nearest health facility contacted. BJP leader Pravin Darekar said the government had delayed reopening of religious places. “At a time when malls and multiplexes were opened, what was stopping the government from reopening temples. There are lakhs of small shops that earn from selling offerings used inside temples,” said Darekar. The central government had permitted states to open places of worship in June itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cms-diwali-gift-temples-allowed-to-open-across-maharashtra-from-monday/articleshow/79228129.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Worker, 30, who suffered injuries in factory fire dies||BENGALURU: A 30-year-old man who was injured in the Guddadahalli chemical factory fire on Tuesday, died on Saturday. This is the first casualty in the incident that destroyed half-a-dozen buildings and vehicles in the residential locality off Mysuru Road. The victim, Bijay S, died at Victoria Hospital. Preliminary investigation revealed he was one of the four workers who were unloading barrels at Rekha Chemical Industry, when a massive fire broke out at 10:30am. The factory-cum-godown had been operating in the area without approvals. Seven vehicles were charred, while five neighbouring buildings, including four houses and a plastic factory, were gutted. Other than the four factory workers, seven personnel from the fire and emergency department sustained injuries during the fire-fighting exercise that lasted around 14 hours. Activities were taking place in the unlicensed chemical factory since 1992, locals told home minister Basavaraj Bommai, when he visited the spot the next evening. Bijay, a native of Odisha, was working in Rekha Chemical Industry since 2016, said police. Initially, he and three others were said to have sustained minor burns. "Unfortunately, Bijay had sustained more injuries on his back. In addition, the chemical that exploded had mixed with his blood. It appears the injuries coupled with chemical spreading in the blood led to severe infection, resulting in his death," police said, quoting doctors. IPC section 304A to be added Byatarayanapura police will book the owners - Sajjan Raj, 66, his wife Kamala Sajjan, 60, and son Anil Kumar Sajjan, 30, - under IPC 304A (causing death due to negligence).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-worker-30-who-suffered-injuries-in-factory-fire-dies/articleshow/79228199.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Harassed woman ends life after astrologer says she can’t conceive||BENGALURU: A 25-year-old woman ended her life following harassment allegedly by her husband and his family after an astrologer reportedly told him she won't be able to conceive. Ashwini, a resident of Agara, got married to Yuvaraj in February after a brief relationship. On Friday, they fought over a domestic issue and Ashwini left the room in a huff. She went to another room and killed herself, police said. Yuvaraj had reportedly consulted an astrologer because Ashwini was not conceiving. When the astrologer said she wouldn't be able to have a child, Yuvaraj and his family allegedly taunted her, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-harassed-woman-ends-life-after-astrologer-says-she-cant-conceive/articleshow/79228201.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Finder returns purse with Rs 50,000 earrings in Navi Mumbai||NAVI MUMBAI: In an unusual show of honesty, a homemaker from Vashigaon in Navi Mumbai returned a purse containing a pair of gold earrings worth Rs 50,000 and Rs 1,000 she had found on the roadside to its rightful owner. Jayshree Bhagat (38), who hails from a middle-class family, went out of her way to return the purse to Jaya Pawar. Bhagat said she was was returning home by auto after buying groceries around 1.30pm on Wednesday when she spotted a black purse lying on a cement seat at a corner as the rickshaw slowed down near Bharat Sevashram building. “I guessed that someone had forgotten it there. Since it could contain valuables and even important documents, I took custody of the purse,” said Bhagat. When she checked its contents on returning home, she found the earrings and cash. Besides, there was an Aadhaar card in the purse. Purse owner had shifted home, finder tracked herI went to the address that was mentioned on the Aadhaar card, but I was told that the woman had shifted from the house,” Bhagat said, adding that she sought help from her brother-in-law to track down the woman’s residence in Vashigaon the next day. “I met her at the place and returned her valuables,” Bhagat said. Pawar said that she had gone to the place where she left her purse to see her mother off around 1pm the same day. While they were waiting for an autorickshaw at the spot, they sat on the cement seat along the road. “When my mother hailed an autorickshaw, I left to go home, leaving the purse behind on the cement seat,” said Pawar. It’s only after she reached home that she realized her mistake. She did rush back to the spot, but the purse was missing. “I thought I would never get the purse and my valuables back,” said Pawar. “But honest people like Jayshree Bhagat do exist. I am glad I have been proven wrong.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/finder-returns-purse-with-rs-50000-earrings/articleshow/79228204.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Former vice-chancellor gets bail in murder case||BENGALURU: The high court has granted bail to Sudhir Angur, former vice-chancellor of Alliance University and prime accused in the Ayyappa Dore murder case. The relief is for three months to enable him undergo an angiogram procedure for his cardiac ailment. Justice PS Dinesh Kumar considered the November 2, 2020 letter by the chief medical officer, Central Prison, Parappana Agrahara, to the jail superintendent. The prosecution said bail could be granted for a limited period by imposing conditions. Angur has to execute a personal bond for Rs 2 lakh with two sureties of like sum, surrender his passport, gun licence and weapon before the station house officer at RT Nagar police station. Once he's declared fit by doctors, he should surrender before the trial court. Dore, 53, then VC of the university, was found murdered on October 15, 2019 at HMT ground. Angur, who was arrested on October 17 last year, had filed a bail petition before the 55th City Civil and Sessions Court, but it was dismissed in April. The high court rejected his regular bail plea on August 12, 2020. After his plea on medical grounds was rejected by the trial court on November 6, 2020, he pleaded the high court for six-month bail to undergo the procedure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-former-vice-chancellor-gets-bail-in-murder-case/articleshow/79228208.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Malviya named co-incharge for Bengal BJP||Kolkata: The BJP’s IT cell chief Amit Malviya has been made the party’s co-incharge in Bengal, along with Arvind Menon, while Kailash Vijayvargiya was appointed in-charge for the state. Malviya’s anointment indicates how the BJP plans to use the digital platform in the run-up to the 2021 assembly polls. Online campaigning has become quite significant amid the pandemic. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee has already assigned election strategist Prashant Kishor to run an online series ahead of the Bengal polls. BJP national president J P Nadda seems to have named Malviya to counter the Trinamool’s strategies. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/malviya-named-co-incharge-for-bengal-bjp/articleshow/79227748.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Quiet Kolkata sends a loud message with restrained celebrations||KOLKATA: The city witnessed a remarkably quiet Kali Puja and Diwali evening on Saturday with citizens displaying exceptional restraint and maturity in celebrating the twin festivals, earning effusive praise from Covid warriors, green activists and police. Only stray incidents of crackers being burst were reported from areas like Behala, Beliaghata, Garia and Lake Town and a few other city pockets, but the violations were negligible when compared to previous years. Till 8pm, the West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) and Sabuj Mancha, a state-wide network of green NGOs and individual activists,had not received even a single complaint on use of fireworks from the city. The ones that came had to do with blaring loudspeakers at pandals. After 8pm, reports of people bursting crackers slowly started trickling in. By 10pm, the WBPCB had received 10 complaints from the city and Sabuj Mancha 38, but mostly from the outskirts. Kolkata Police was prompt to crack down on violators and rounded up 290 people by 11pm. Across the river in Howrah, however, violation was rampant in areas like Shibpur and Bantra, prompting police to launch raids in different localities to enforce the fireworks ban. “We have launched raids to nab the culprits,” Howrah police commissioner Kunal Agarwal said. A WBPCB official acknowledged that complaints had poured in from Howrah and other districts. “We have forwarded these to respective police stations and asked our regional offices to follow them up,” said an official. WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra attributed the restraint in Kolkata to a combination of factors: a string of judicial orders, people’s heightened awareness about the pandemic situation and timely action by police in seizing crackers being illegally smuggled into the city. “It was people who desisted from lighting fireworks, it will be quite a remarkable Diwali,” he added. Over the past few days, around 3,000 kg of firecrackers were seized from different checkpoints at the entrance to the city as well as local neighbourhoods while cops were deployed at traditional trouble spots and around Covid hospitals. Even the usually strident environment crusader, Subhas Datta, admitted enforcing the cracker ban was no mean achievement. “I haven’t witnessed a Diwali like this. Firecrackers incidents are down by over 70%,” said Dutta, who lives in Howrah. Senior pulmonologist and frontline Covid warrior Dr Arup Haldar was relieved that people had heeded to their appeals and behaved responsibly. “I want to congratulate the citizens, judiciary and enforcement agencies for making this possible. Fireworks would have made it far more critical than Durga Puja revelry.” Kolkata Police officers candidly admitted that this would not have been possible but for the awareness and cooperation of people. “There is an understanding that crackers may cause harm to Covid patients. The court orders too have had an effect. We have to ensure that this restraint continues till Jagatdhatri Puja,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar. Cops from Bidhannagar Commissionerate also commended people for shunning crackers and embracing a pollution-free Diwali. “There were hardly any complaints. We continued with naka checks to prevent drink driving as well as to inspect if anyone was carrying firecrackers,” said an officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/quiet-city-sends-a-loud-message-with-restrained-celebrations/articleshow/79227743.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu hardens stand, announces Ramnagar rally||Ramnagar/Binpur: A defiant Suvendu Adhikari hasn’t shelved his independent “party-less” mass contact programmes even after Trinamool Congress served him a seven-day ultimatum to come clear on his stand. Instead, the rebel leader announced another “mega rally” after Nandigram, this time on MLA Akhil Giri’s home turf Ramnagar on November 19. Rally organizers have set aside Giri’s proposal to place Mamata Banerjee’s photo on the dais. “This can’t go on. No one is above party. TMC has given a seven-day ultimatum to Suvendu Adhikari to come clear on his stand, failing which the party will take a decision. I have come to know that Suvendu is holding a public meeting at Ramnagar. I proposed to the organizers as local MLA to put Mamata Banerjee’s photo on the dais. They turned it down,” Giri said. Suvendu announced the Ramnagar meeting while inaugurating the Kali Puja of Ramnagar Bandhumahal Cl-ub on Saturday. “I have got requests from many to say som-ething about Ramnagar. There is a mega show at Ramnagar R.S Maidan on November 19,” he said, raising expectations that he might make clear his future course that day. Suvendu has been moving around in Purba Midnapore, Pashchim Midnapore, Jhargram and Hooghly to reassure people that he has been and will be with them. “I seldom come at good times. You will get me by your side during bad times. There was a time during Left rule when I had to sneak into Ramnagar. The heroes of today were not seen then,” he said at Ramnagar. On Saturday afternoon, Suvendu was seen at the Kali Puja inauguration at Magura village in Jhargram’s Binpur. It was organized by the Naren Hansda Smriti Raksha Committee. Adivasi heroine Birbaha Hansda and a patron of the puja had invited the rebel leader. The committee welcomed Suvendu in traditional Adivasi style and gifted him a green turban and a scarf. Suvendu recollected that he would have died in Jangalmahal on the day of ‘bhai phonta’ in 2011. “I would have been killed in a mine blast in 2011 had not the inspector in charge alerted my security guard. They had recovered a mine planted at Jhitka forest. I had been and will be with the people of Jangalmahal for ensuring peace,” Suvendu said. “I won’t inaugurate the puja because of the high court order. I will play the dhamsa instead,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-hardens-stand-announces-ramnagar-rally/articleshow/79227775.cms||Suman Mandal
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Jawan from Nadia killed in Pak firing||Tehatta (Nadia): An Army jawan from Nadia’s Tehatta, who was looking forward to meeting his 3-month-old daughter for the first time, will now be returning home in a coffin. A jawan of the Army’s 59 regiment, Subodh Ghosh (24) was in position at the border in Jammu & Kashmir’s Baramulla sector on Friday when Pakistani forces across the LoC opened fire. Subodh was among those who sustained bullet wounds, and died at an Army hospital. The family was informed that Subodh’s body had been released by the Army base hospital on Saturday afternoon. The coffin is likely to be flown to Kolkata on board a military aircraft on Sunday. From the city, an Army convoy will take it by road to his home at Raghunathpur in Tehatta. Subodh’s family learnt of his death on Friday afternoon. Father Gowranga Ghosh said: “There was a missed call at 3.30pm. My daughter-in-law (Subodh’s wife) Anindita called back. The call was answered by Army personnel in J&K, who told her that my son had been killed in border firing by Pakistani soldiers. She fainted on hearing the news.” Mother Basanti said: “Subodh spoke to me and Anindita on Thursday. His daughter was born after he left for his base at the end of his last visit in June. He did not get to see her.” “His last advice to me was to look after our baby, Suravi. He had told me he was trying to get leave to visit home,” Anindita said. Subodh’s father-in-law Tapan Ghosh said: “He told me he was trying to be home for Suravi’s annaprashon.” Nadia district administration officials visited the family to officially convey news of the jawan’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jawan-from-nadia-killed-in-pak-firing/articleshow/79227874.cms||Ashis Poddar
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal: Dilip Ghosh takes Amphan swipe at TMC, calls for ‘paribartan’||MIDNAPORE: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh took potshots at the ruling Trinamool Congress over a host of issues, including Amphan relief, and called for “paribartan (change)” in the state during a ‘chai baithak’ at Kharagpur Jafla village here on Saturday. Emphasising that the Union government had recently released a fresh instalment of more than Rs 2,700 crore for victims of Cyclone Amphan, Ghosh said: “The Centre has once again come to the aid of Amphan victims. It has released more funds. But, I have my doubts on how much money will actually go to the victims. I don’t rely on this (TMC) government. We will make the victims aware of the Centre’s support.” While sending out the message for change, the state BJP president said: “Didimani must retire now. We are making all arrangements for that.” Ghosh also took a dig at TMC for “trying to revive” CPM in Bengal to cobble together opposition votes. “This is not going to work. People have already rejected them (CPM) once. People helped us win 18 Lok Sabha seats… Bengal is waiting for ‘paribartan’,” he said. Ghosh was more aggressive at Midnapore’s Narayangarh, where he blamed Trinamool for the killings of BJP workers and leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-takes-amphan-swipe-at-tmc-calls-for-paribartan/articleshow/79227742.cms||Sujay Khanra
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Woman files complaint against boyfriend for cheating her of Rs 11.5 lakh in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A nearly six-year-old love affair that started during college days ended with the woman filing a police complaint, in which she accused her estranged boyfriend of cheating her of Rs 11.5 lakh on the pretext of marriage. Rupali (name changed), 30, a native of West Bengal and resident of ITPB area, Whitefield division, filed the complaint against Indranil Dutta, 31, and his parents - Goutam Dutta and Neelam Dutta - both aged above 50, saying they knowingly duped her of her money. Based on Rupali's statement, cops booked the accused under IPC section 420 (cheating). Police said Indranil, the prime accused, has vacated his rented flat in Mahadevapura and moved to his hometown, Kishanganj in Bihar. In her statement, the woman, who works with a private firm, said Indranil and she were friends since their engineering days.  "After graduating, we joined different companies in Bengaluru. Indranil's parents knew about our relationshiop and had agreed to our marriage. Meanwhile, Indranil said we should have a joint bank account so that we could save money to buy a house in future. I trusted him and diverted part of my earnings to the joint account, which he looked after. Indranil had a credit card issued against the same account and used it for personal purposes. His parents had requested me to financially help him and that they would make sure we both got married. Indranil has taken Rs 11.5 lakh from me. Now he is avoiding me and I realised that he cheated me on the pretext of marriage," Rupali's statement read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/woman-files-complaint-against-boyfriend-for-cheating-her-of-rs-11-5-lakh-in-bengaluru/articleshow/79228213.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Gang hiding drugs in toys nabbed in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: An inter-state gang was caught stuffing banned narcotic substances into dolls and other materials and delivering to customers. The accused are Ayush Pandey, 22 and Rohith Ram, 22, from Jharkhand and Noor Ali, 30, from Assam. They were staying in Bengaluru for the last three months. Cops seized narcotics worth Rs 23 lakh from them. Ayush and Rohith would smuggle drugs into speaker boxes, teddy bears, medical kits and empty CPUs. They'd send orders through private couriers after sourcing the substances from Rajasthan, West Bengal, Darjeeling and Andhra Pradesh. Ayush would share the location with Noor Ali, who was a food-delivery boy earlier, and the latter would stuff the drugs into toys, dolls and other goods. "Ayush and Rohith has built their network of drug consumers on Telegram; Noor Ali would help them to deliver."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gang-hiding-drugs-in-toys-nabbed-in-bengaluru/articleshow/79228222.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Mohandas Pai, V Balakrishnan resign from Akshaya Patra Foundation||BENGALURU: Four independent trustees of Akshaya Patra Foundation (APF) have resigned. These include former Infosys CFOs Mohandas Pai and V Balakrishnan, Raj Kondur, who co-founded ChrysCapital, and Abhay Jain, adviser to Manipal Education & Medical Group (MEMG). All of them have been trustees for about 20 years, and have been doing pro bono work. Jain is said to have resigned in February. The others quit in quick succession last month. APF's flagship feeding programme in schools, or the Mid-Day Meal (MDM) scheme, serves 1.8 million children in 19,039 government and government-aided schools in 12 states and two Union territories. APF said it has reconstituted the board to include new non-executive trustees. These include two retired bureaucrats - K V Chowdary, who was chairman of Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and chairman of Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT), and Anil Swarup, who was secretary in the Union human resource ministry. It also includes former managing director of Thermax, MS Unnikrishnan. Madhu Pandit Dasa, chairman of APF, said: "The outgoing trustees - Mohandas Pai, Abhay Jain, V Balakrishnan and Raj Kondur - have rendered extraordinary service from the days of inception of Akshaya Patra in 2000. We are immensely grateful to them. We welcome the new trustees and members of the Audit Committee and look forward to working with them to enhance our service." The release from APF said that in early 2000, Pai and Jain met Iskcon's president, Madhu Pandit Dasa, and vice-president, Chanchalapathi Dasa, at the Iskcon temple in Bengaluru. "In that meeting, the idea of feeding children in government schools was born. It began in July 2000 and after feeding from the temple kitchen for over one year, APF was registered in October 2001,it said. APF said since the beginning the outgoing trustees had been instrumental in developing strategy, growth, governance, fund-raising and a host of other activities. "In the last 4.5 years, Suresh Senapaty (former Wipro CFO) has also rendered invaluable services to Akshaya Patra as an audit committee member in improving the internal controls, processes and policies," the release said. Senapaty has also stepped down. In their letters, Pai, Balakrishnan and Kondur said they had a great association with APF for 20 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/mohandas-pai-v-balakrishnan-resign-from-akshaya-patra-foundation/articleshow/79228224.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||Air quality dips to 'severe' in Delhi post Diwali||NEW DELHI: The air quality dipped to "severe" at several places across the national capital on Saturday night owing to a combination of stubble burning and firecrackers burst during the Diwali celebrations in violation of a ban on the same. Track the pollution level in your city The Air Quality Index (AQI) for PM 2.5 pollutant stood at 481 in Anand Vihar, 444 in IGI Airport area, 457 in ITO, and 414 in Lodhi Road area, all four in the 'severe' category, at 11 pm on Saturday, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) data. Delhi: Pollution level rises in the national capital; visuals from India Gate and near Akshardham Temple. https://t.co/ROyO650Dlv— ANI (@ANI) 1605380858000 A thick blanket of smog was seen at several places across the national capital as the Diwali celebrations came to an end late Saturday night. Meanwhile, the air quality was at 460 at Anand Vihar, 382 at IGI Airport area, 415 at ITO, and 322 at Lodhi Road for PM 10 pollutant.  This comes as many burst firecrackers in violation of the complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital by the Delhi government and the National Green Tribunal.  The sale and bursting of firecrackers were also completely or partially banned in several other States or Union Territories including West Bengal and Telangana to prevent worsening air quality and risking aggravating the Covid-19 pandemic. Watch Delhi: Air quality dips to 'severe' in post Diwali haze||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/air-quality-dips-to-severe-in-delhi-post-diwali/articleshow/79228225.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Noida||Five held for selling firecrackers in Noida, Greater Noida despite ban||NOIDA: Five people were arrested in Uttar Pradesh's Noida and Greater Noida on Saturday for allegedly selling firecrackers, police said here. Noida and Greater Noida are among the cities in the National Capital Region (NCR) where the National Green Tribunal has imposed a total ban on sale or use of firecrackers in view of the worsening air quality in the region. Thirty-nine cartons of firecrackers estimated to be worth around Rs 4 lakh were seized from the Knowledge Park area and two people arrested, the police said. "Those held have been identified as Vijay Saini and Qasif, both natives of adjoining Bulandshahr district," a police spokesperson said. One accused, identified as Satendra Chand, was held in the Surajpur police station area. Four cartons full of firecrackers estimated to be worth around Rs 55,000 were seized from him, the spokesperson said. In the Phase 2 police station area, Sajid Saifi was held and three cartons of firecrackers, pegged at nearly Rs 50,000, were seized from him, the official said. A firecracker seller identified as Akhilesh Pal was held from Sector 22 in Noida, the official added. Akhilesh was held by officials from Sector 24 police station who seized four cartons of firecrackers worth around Rs 25,000 from him, the spokesperson said. Separate FIRs have been lodged over these incidents under provisions of the Explosive Substances Act, the police said. Busting of firecrackers was reported from several places in Noida and Greater Noida on Saturday, even as the police said they had stepped up vigilance against it. On instructions of Police Commissioner Alok Singh, officials from various police stations patrolled their respective areas on Saturday night during which they also raised awareness regarding the NGT's order for total ban on sale and use of firecrackers in the NCR, according to a statement. Citizens were also informed of penalties and punishments the violation of the NGT order could attract, the late night statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/five-held-for-selling-firecrackers-in-noida-greater-noida-despite-ban/articleshow/79228230.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||North MCD sprinkles water in Sadar Bazaar area to control air pollution||NEW DELHI: The North Delhi Municipal Corporation sprinkled water in Sadar Bazaar area of Delhi on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday as a measure against the sudden rise in the air pollution owing to the bursting of firecrackers during Diwali celebrations. Track the pollution level in your cityNorth MCD Mayor Jai Prakash, who was also present at the site, said that the Delhi government was sleeping when the air pollution was rising in the city. "It is the responsibility of the Delhi government to control air pollution in the national capital. However, it is sleeping. We, on the other hand, are working and trying to control air pollution," North MCD Mayor Jai Prakash told ANI here. He also targeted the AAP government over what he called "unplanned" ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers. "First, they allowed selling firecrackers and then suddenly banned it. They were confused themselves as to what they wanted to do," Prakash said. This comes as the air quality dipped to "severe" at several places across the national capital on Saturday night owing to a combination of stubble burning and firecrackers burst during the Diwali celebrations in violation of a ban on the same. The Air Quality Index (AQI) for PM 2.5 pollutant stood at 481 in Anand Vihar, 444 in IGI Airport area, 457 in ITO, and 414 in Lodhi Road area, all four in the 'severe' category, at 11 pm on Saturday, according to the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) data. A thick blanket of smog was seen at several places across the national capital as the Diwali celebrations came to an end late Saturday night. Meanwhile, the air quality was at 460 at Anand Vihar, 382 at IGI Airport area, 415 at ITO, and 322 at Lodhi Road for PM 10 pollutant. This comes as many burst firecrackers in violation of the complete ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the national capital by the Delhi government and the National Green Tribunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/north-mcd-sprinkles-water-in-sadar-bazaar-area-to-control-air-pollution/articleshow/79228235.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Faridabad||With crackers, some send NGT ban up in smoke in NCR||NOIDA: Some people in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad burst firecrackers to mark Diwali on Saturday, defying the ban on their sale and use in the National Capital Region (NCR) imposed due to rising air pollution. Track the pollution level in your cityThe development came even as the average 24-hour air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad plunged to "severe" level, while it stayed "very poor" in Greater Noida, Gurugram and Faridabad -- the five satellite cities of Delhi in the NCR. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has recently imposed a "total ban" on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight amid worsening air quality. Ghaziabad resident Amita Sinha said there was non-stop sound of firecrackers throughout Saturday. A resident of Raj Nagar extension, Sinha said even her dog Monty, a dachshund, remained jittery due to the loud noise every now and then. "Seems like the onus of following the NGT rules and caring about the environment is only on law-abiding citizens because those who violate law anyway go scot-free," she told. Aniket mentioned an incessant bursting of firecrackers in his area of residence -- Indirapuram, while the situation has been similar in Vasundhara area as well. Akhilesh Upadhyay, a resident of Nehru Nagar, said, "Despite the NGT's ban, some people are hell-bent on firing crackers not realising the harm they are doing to the environment and in turn, to all of us." In Noida and Greater Noida, too, bursting of firecrackers continued unabated,, according to some residents that PTI spoke to. "No one seems bothered about pollution. I could hear crackers being burst all day from inside my home," Noida Sector 21 resident Savita Mehta said. Sector 19 resident Shivang Jain said, "The celebration in the form of firecrackers has been continuous since the evening in his area." Manish Kumar described a scene of cracker rockets going up in the sky of Greater Noida (West), also known as Noida Extension, and spreading light in various hues along with toxic fumes. Ram Singh, a resident Sector Omnicron 1 in Greater Noida, said, "By the sheer sound of it, it felt like people set more crackers afire this year than last year." The NGT's ban was also defied by some people in Noida's Sector 7X, a collective of sectors from 73 to 78, that houses several high-rises and thousands of people, according to locals. "Crackers are being fired in some societies as well as on main roads in 7X. Not in all societies but some definitely, and it has been continuous today," Sector 77 resident Amit Gupta said. Noida's Sector 92 resident Sushil Jain said some people burst crackers in his area on Friday also, but the intensity grew on Saturday. The situation was no different in Haryana's Faridabad and Gurugram, which had registered "very poor" air quality on Saturday. "There's no way one cannot hear the sound of fire crackers today, and all this despite the ban," Namrata Banik, who lives in Sector 42 of Faridabad, said. She said her friend's daughter, who joined them for Kali Puja, was thrilled at the sight of some people setting "anaar" alight although she detested the sound of other crackers. "Quite a sight that some people are firing crackers despite the ban and so much discussion about the harm they do to the environment," Gurugram Sector 58 resident Kashika Gulati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/with-crackers-some-send-ngt-ban-up-in-smoke-in-ncr/articleshow/79228248.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ghaziabad||With crackers, some send NGT ban up in smoke in NCR||NOIDA: Some people in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad burst firecrackers to mark Diwali on Saturday, defying the ban on their sale and use in the National Capital Region (NCR) imposed due to rising air pollution. Track the pollution level in your cityThe development came even as the average 24-hour air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad plunged to "severe" level, while it stayed "very poor" in Greater Noida, Gurugram and Faridabad -- the five satellite cities of Delhi in the NCR. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has recently imposed a "total ban" on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight amid worsening air quality. Ghaziabad resident Amita Sinha said there was non-stop sound of firecrackers throughout Saturday. A resident of Raj Nagar extension, Sinha said even her dog Monty, a dachshund, remained jittery due to the loud noise every now and then. "Seems like the onus of following the NGT rules and caring about the environment is only on law-abiding citizens because those who violate law anyway go scot-free," she told. Aniket mentioned an incessant bursting of firecrackers in his area of residence -- Indirapuram, while the situation has been similar in Vasundhara area as well. Akhilesh Upadhyay, a resident of Nehru Nagar, said, "Despite the NGT's ban, some people are hell-bent on firing crackers not realising the harm they are doing to the environment and in turn, to all of us." In Noida and Greater Noida, too, bursting of firecrackers continued unabated,, according to some residents that PTI spoke to. "No one seems bothered about pollution. I could hear crackers being burst all day from inside my home," Noida Sector 21 resident Savita Mehta said. Sector 19 resident Shivang Jain said, "The celebration in the form of firecrackers has been continuous since the evening in his area." Manish Kumar described a scene of cracker rockets going up in the sky of Greater Noida (West), also known as Noida Extension, and spreading light in various hues along with toxic fumes. Ram Singh, a resident Sector Omnicron 1 in Greater Noida, said, "By the sheer sound of it, it felt like people set more crackers afire this year than last year." The NGT's ban was also defied by some people in Noida's Sector 7X, a collective of sectors from 73 to 78, that houses several high-rises and thousands of people, according to locals. "Crackers are being fired in some societies as well as on main roads in 7X. Not in all societies but some definitely, and it has been continuous today," Sector 77 resident Amit Gupta said. Noida's Sector 92 resident Sushil Jain said some people burst crackers in his area on Friday also, but the intensity grew on Saturday. The situation was no different in Haryana's Faridabad and Gurugram, which had registered "very poor" air quality on Saturday. "There's no way one cannot hear the sound of fire crackers today, and all this despite the ban," Namrata Banik, who lives in Sector 42 of Faridabad, said. She said her friend's daughter, who joined them for Kali Puja, was thrilled at the sight of some people setting "anaar" alight although she detested the sound of other crackers. "Quite a sight that some people are firing crackers despite the ban and so much discussion about the harm they do to the environment," Gurugram Sector 58 resident Kashika Gulati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/with-crackers-some-send-ngt-ban-up-in-smoke-in-ncr/articleshow/79228247.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Gurgaon||With crackers, some send NGT ban up in smoke in NCR||NOIDA: Some people in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad burst firecrackers to mark Diwali on Saturday, defying the ban on their sale and use in the National Capital Region (NCR) imposed due to rising air pollution. Track the pollution level in your cityThe development came even as the average 24-hour air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad plunged to "severe" level, while it stayed "very poor" in Greater Noida, Gurugram and Faridabad -- the five satellite cities of Delhi in the NCR. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has recently imposed a "total ban" on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight amid worsening air quality. Ghaziabad resident Amita Sinha said there was non-stop sound of firecrackers throughout Saturday. A resident of Raj Nagar extension, Sinha said even her dog Monty, a dachshund, remained jittery due to the loud noise every now and then. "Seems like the onus of following the NGT rules and caring about the environment is only on law-abiding citizens because those who violate law anyway go scot-free," she told. Aniket mentioned an incessant bursting of firecrackers in his area of residence -- Indirapuram, while the situation has been similar in Vasundhara area as well. Akhilesh Upadhyay, a resident of Nehru Nagar, said, "Despite the NGT's ban, some people are hell-bent on firing crackers not realising the harm they are doing to the environment and in turn, to all of us." In Noida and Greater Noida, too, bursting of firecrackers continued unabated,, according to some residents that PTI spoke to. "No one seems bothered about pollution. I could hear crackers being burst all day from inside my home," Noida Sector 21 resident Savita Mehta said. Sector 19 resident Shivang Jain said, "The celebration in the form of firecrackers has been continuous since the evening in his area." Manish Kumar described a scene of cracker rockets going up in the sky of Greater Noida (West), also known as Noida Extension, and spreading light in various hues along with toxic fumes. Ram Singh, a resident Sector Omnicron 1 in Greater Noida, said, "By the sheer sound of it, it felt like people set more crackers afire this year than last year." The NGT's ban was also defied by some people in Noida's Sector 7X, a collective of sectors from 73 to 78, that houses several high-rises and thousands of people, according to locals. "Crackers are being fired in some societies as well as on main roads in 7X. Not in all societies but some definitely, and it has been continuous today," Sector 77 resident Amit Gupta said. Noida's Sector 92 resident Sushil Jain said some people burst crackers in his area on Friday also, but the intensity grew on Saturday. The situation was no different in Haryana's Faridabad and Gurugram, which had registered "very poor" air quality on Saturday. "There's no way one cannot hear the sound of fire crackers today, and all this despite the ban," Namrata Banik, who lives in Sector 42 of Faridabad, said. She said her friend's daughter, who joined them for Kali Puja, was thrilled at the sight of some people setting "anaar" alight although she detested the sound of other crackers. "Quite a sight that some people are firing crackers despite the ban and so much discussion about the harm they do to the environment," Gurugram Sector 58 resident Kashika Gulati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/with-crackers-some-send-ngt-ban-up-in-smoke-in-ncr/articleshow/79228246.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Noida||With crackers, some send NGT ban up in smoke in NCR||NOIDA: Some people in Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziabad, Gurugram and Faridabad burst firecrackers to mark Diwali on Saturday, defying the ban on their sale and use in the National Capital Region (NCR) imposed due to rising air pollution. Track the pollution level in your cityThe development came even as the average 24-hour air quality in Noida and Ghaziabad plunged to "severe" level, while it stayed "very poor" in Greater Noida, Gurugram and Faridabad -- the five satellite cities of Delhi in the NCR. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has recently imposed a "total ban" on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the NCR from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight amid worsening air quality. Ghaziabad resident Amita Sinha said there was non-stop sound of firecrackers throughout Saturday. A resident of Raj Nagar extension, Sinha said even her dog Monty, a dachshund, remained jittery due to the loud noise every now and then. "Seems like the onus of following the NGT rules and caring about the environment is only on law-abiding citizens because those who violate law anyway go scot-free," she told. Aniket mentioned an incessant bursting of firecrackers in his area of residence -- Indirapuram, while the situation has been similar in Vasundhara area as well. Akhilesh Upadhyay, a resident of Nehru Nagar, said, "Despite the NGT's ban, some people are hell-bent on firing crackers not realising the harm they are doing to the environment and in turn, to all of us." In Noida and Greater Noida, too, bursting of firecrackers continued unabated,, according to some residents that PTI spoke to. "No one seems bothered about pollution. I could hear crackers being burst all day from inside my home," Noida Sector 21 resident Savita Mehta said. Sector 19 resident Shivang Jain said, "The celebration in the form of firecrackers has been continuous since the evening in his area." Manish Kumar described a scene of cracker rockets going up in the sky of Greater Noida (West), also known as Noida Extension, and spreading light in various hues along with toxic fumes. Ram Singh, a resident Sector Omnicron 1 in Greater Noida, said, "By the sheer sound of it, it felt like people set more crackers afire this year than last year." The NGT's ban was also defied by some people in Noida's Sector 7X, a collective of sectors from 73 to 78, that houses several high-rises and thousands of people, according to locals. "Crackers are being fired in some societies as well as on main roads in 7X. Not in all societies but some definitely, and it has been continuous today," Sector 77 resident Amit Gupta said. Noida's Sector 92 resident Sushil Jain said some people burst crackers in his area on Friday also, but the intensity grew on Saturday. The situation was no different in Haryana's Faridabad and Gurugram, which had registered "very poor" air quality on Saturday. "There's no way one cannot hear the sound of fire crackers today, and all this despite the ban," Namrata Banik, who lives in Sector 42 of Faridabad, said. She said her friend's daughter, who joined them for Kali Puja, was thrilled at the sight of some people setting "anaar" alight although she detested the sound of other crackers. "Quite a sight that some people are firing crackers despite the ban and so much discussion about the harm they do to the environment," Gurugram Sector 58 resident Kashika Gulati said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/with-crackers-some-send-ngt-ban-up-in-smoke-in-ncr/articleshow/79228232.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Season to savour mix-and-match Deepavali sweets||BENGALURU: Deepavali this year may be a bit low-key but pandemic or not, people in the city are definitely in the mood for some sweet treats. And catering to their cravings are bakers, home chefs, restaurants and chocolatiers. Poornima Nair, who runs her bakery venture Purple Whizk, has been busy making her special Deepavali sweet treats. Orders on her Instagram account and WhatsApp haven't stopped ringing in, she says. A baker who mainly specialises in making custom cakes, Nair also does special gift baskets for Deepavali and Christmas. The baskets include a combination of sweets, which Nair says are her own experiments with mixing Indian with French or American desserts. This time around, for instance her creations include motichoor cupcakes, ras malai cupcakes, rose and pistachio cupcakes, baked Mysore pak brownies, mixed seed bars and coconut and raspberry barfis. A little bite of east and west"People usually gift dry fruits for Deepavali, but that is a done and dusted idea, so when I do my gift boxes, I try to incorporate traditional favourites with something new," says Nair. Chef and cookbook author Natasha Celmi specialises in modern Indian cuisines, which is a play on Indian and western flavours and cuisines. For Deepavali this year, Celmi says she is planning to make gulab jamun in saffron yoghurt mousse and a paan panna cotta as part of the family festival feast menu. As a culinary expert, Celmi also conducts cookery workshops. "I conducted a couple of workshops recently that were Deepavali-themed. One was a gelato workshop, where I taught the participants how to make masala chai gelato, cardamom cheesecake and berries gelato and a paan ice cream. In another workshop, I taught them how to make Indian desserts in glasses," says Celmi, who believes that today there is a need to tweak Indian mithais for an increasingly evolving palate. While Celmi suggests tweaking mithais, an international brand such as Magnolia Bakery has a special Deepavali menu that includes cupcakes, biscottis, cookies, and flavoured loaves, which also come in an eggless version. Co-founder Zonu Reddy says: "With Deepavali being a more intimate affair this year, we are seeing people opt for smaller numbers for gifting, limiting them to only their close ones. But interestingly, they are going for bigger hampers than small-sized ones. Due to the pandemic, we have also noticed customers wanting goodies that are freshly made and delivered on the same day." Orders are goodChef Prashant Dhanwariya of Raahi restaurant too has rustled up sweets especially for Deepavali. While there is an elaborate menu for their customers of classic north Indian chaats and savouries, the mithais are a crossover. The sweet eats include red velvet motichoor laddoo, kala jamun cheesecake with hazelnut praline and macaroons in gajar ka halwa and kaju katli flavours. Orders for Deepavali specials have been great, says Dhanwariya. "In addition to individual orders, we have got orders from MNCs like Google, Accenture and Flipkart," he reveals.  Nair says this time around, she has got quite a lot of orders from people living elsewhere, who haven't been able to come home for Deepavali, but want to make it special for their loved ones here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-season-to-savour-mix-and-match-deepavali-sweets/articleshow/79228251.cms||Mahalakshmi P
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: It's about lights, charity, action||BENGALURU: This Deepavali, many in the city are doing their bit to share a smile and gift some cheer. Smitha S, a techie, decided to purchase diyas and every other decorative accessories from a local artisan. "I am not even ordering anything online this year. I promised myself that I will pay Rs 20-50 extra instead of bargaining with sellers in the market. Covid has hit us hard, but it has hit some people harder. Deepavali is the right time to spread the joy," she says. Like Smitha, several Bengalureans are going out of their way to help local diya makers and even sweet shops this festive season. Joining them are organisations like Craftizen Foundation, which is based in Indiranagar and works on craft-based skill development and income enhancement to enable sustainable livelihoods for traditional artisans and marginalised communities. They are helping 200 people with intellectual disability and 50 women from low-income group with training and employment. These 250 artisans have made products like rangoli powder from temple flowers (collected over a year), diyas, chocolates, wall-hangings, fairy lights, coasters, etc. Shyamli Choudhary, marketing manager of Craftizen Foundation, said their products are all eco-friendly, produced from upcycled, biodegradable and discarded materials.  "We went from B2B to retail and there was a decline in bulk, corporate orders. But we are humbled by the response from people, who are reaching out to the local brands in these difficult times," said Mayura Balasubramanian, founder of Craftizen Foundation. Clothes-donation driveHarmony Cultural Welfare Association, an RWA, is supporting philanthropic activities kickstarted by Bharat Sevashram Sangha, Jakkur. As part of the initiative, they are launching a clothes-donation drive (vastradaan) for 2,000 underprivileged people. Mayukh Patra, secretary HCWA, said: "We are supporting Sevashrama's flagship event Shri Shri Maha Kali Puja on November 14, which takes place on Amavasya. Coincidentally, Diwali & Children's Day are also on the same day this year, making this event even more auspicious." Patra added that HCWA has joined hands with Bharat Sevashram Sangha as their social partner to serve the wider cause associated with this festival. "HCWA volunteers shall be helping Bharat Sevashram with logistical and technical support. Kali Puja will also be live-streamed for their devotees between 7pm and 10pm," said Patra. Helping four-legged friendsThe Den Bengaluru, in partnership with Cupa (Compassion Unlimited Plus Action), will be helping animals this festive season. "This year, the hotel has decided to pay back to society through CUPA. The amount collected from sale of festive goodies will be used towards uplifting the lives of animals by facilitating adoptions, providing medical care, rehabilitation, sterilisation, feeding programmes and more," said The Den Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-its-about-lights-charity-action/articleshow/79228255.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: In Krishna’s sanctum, brahmins beating their own drum?||THRISSUR: A fresh round of protest is being planned against the long-standing practice of Guruvayur Devaswom to not permit artists belonging to Dalit and other communities such as Ezhava and Nair to play instruments like Chenda, Thimila within the temple. The practice had come in for criticism in the past several times and noted spiritual leaders like Swami Bhoomananda Tirtha had raised protests against it in the mid-1980s. This time, the protest is being organised by an organisation, Anaadhija, which according to its office-bearers has been formed to fight against superstitions and wrong social customs and traditions that gripped “Indian philosophy when it was converted into an organised religion”. According to the organisation’s founding president V A Krishnan, noted artists like Thimila exponent Peringode Chandran are not being permitted to perform within the Chuttambalam area of the temple. He alleged that only artists from some upper caste communities like Marar, Warrier, Pattar and Namboodiri are being permitted to play instruments like Chenda, Thimila, Edakka, and Shankha (conch shell), while artists from other communities are not being allowed to play these instruments. Interestingly, people from communities such as Nair can play instruments like Maddalam, Elathalam, Kombu and Kozhul in this area. Krishnan said they have submitted RTI queries to get the details on what ground these discriminations are being practised by the Devaswom, and evolve appropriate strategies to end the practices, based on the replies. No complaints received: MohandasDevaswom chairman K B Mohandas said he had not received any complaints from anyone so far. “Those who have grievances should have first approached the Devaswom managing committee instead of going live on TV channels. We will definitely examine the issues if we receive a formal complaint and try to find a solution in consultation with the temple Thanthri. The Supreme Court and high court have made it clear on several occasions that Thanthri has the final say in the ritualistic aspect of the temple,’’ the chairman said. However, the temple sources said some of the rituals and customs at Guruvayur cannot be described in terms of the popular perception of the caste system. For example, being a member of a Namboothiri family alone will not entitle a person to apply for the post of the head-priest of Guruvayur temple. Only members of Namboothiri families which are associated with rituals like Agnihothri Yagam and from certain Gramams can apply for that post. Similarly, members of only some Namboothiri families are permitted to make even the Payasam here, let alone entering the sanctum sanctorum and perform pooja. There are ritualistic and decorative aspects associated with functions and systems in the temple. Norms are clearly laid for ritualistic aspects. Artists from different communities can perform in the immediate areas around the temple like Melpathur auditorium, they said. “Even I cannot apply for the post of head priest, even though I’m the holding the post of Ooralan (owner of the temple by virtue of being the descendants of the families of local chieftains) for the last 30 years or so,” said Mallissery Parameswaran Namboodirippad. “I’m not competent to talk about the caste system or its basis. But there are some systems, rituals and practices traditionally followed in Guruvayur temple for ages. Even the Thranthri cannot change them, he can only ensure that those traditions are adhered to,’’ he said. However, Krishnan said they are not questioning the rituals or traditions, “But, we want to know whether there is any written text forming the basis of those systems. Otherwise, they lead to diverse interpretations. “There were agonising incidents in the past at Guruvayur temple when renowned artists who are hardcore devotees were not allowed to perform under the Kodimaram (flag-mast). Continuance of the traditions which deny the devotees opportunities to perform even as a Vazhipad are disturbing,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-in-krishnas-sanctum-brahmins-beating-their-own-drum/articleshow/79228261.cms||T Ramavarman
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: IISc researchers discover 5 new species of vine snakes||BENGALURU: A team of researchers from the Centre for Ecological Sciences (CES) at Indian Institute of Science (IISc) found five new species of Asian vine snakes. According to IISc, vine snakes are among the most common snakes in peninsular India, found even in many peri-urban areas wherever there is some greenery. The new research shows this species actually comprises several different species and based on extensive sampling across peninsular India, the IISc team has now described several new varieties of vine snakes from the region. Led by former student Ashok Mallik as part of his doctoral research, the team carried out field visits across India to collect morphological data, tissue samples and specimens to understand the patterns of distribution and diversification of vine snakes. "Asian vine snakes, distributed throughout the continent, belong to the genus Ahaetulla and the recently described Proahaetulla. The team was surprised to discover that the common green vine snake (Ahaetulla nasuta) was a complex of several species. It found four distinct small-bodied and short-nosed species: Northern Western Ghats vine snake (Ahaetulla borealis), Farnsworth's vine snake (Ahaetulla farnsworthi), Malabar vine snake (Ahaetulla malabarica) and Wall's vine snake (Ahaetulla isabellina) in the Western Ghats rainforests alone," IISc said in a statement. These species were superficially similar in their morphology but separated by geographic (or ecological) barriers. Another morphologically distinct and much larger species, the long-nosed vine snake (Ahaetulla oxyrhyncha), was distributed in the lowlands and drier parts of peninsular India. The team also delineated the Travancore vine snake (Ahaetulla travancorica), separated by morphology and a geographic barrier from the Gunther's vine snake (Ahaetulla dispar). Finally, they recognised morphological distinctions between the brown vine snake in the Western Ghats and the one found in Sri Lanka, and gave the Western Ghats form a new name (Ahaetulla sahyadrensis). There are now six species of vine snakes endemic to the Western Ghats. Kartik Shanker, associate professor at CES, explained that the discovery not only helps document diversity of the species, but also sheds light on the evolutionary history of vine snakes in South Asia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-iisc-researchers-discover-5-new-species-of-vine-snakes/articleshow/79228263.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Student with rare disease to get 2 hours more for exam||BENGALURU: In a relief to a student suffering from osteogenesis imperfecta, a rare bone-related genetic disorder, the high court has directed Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) to give him an additional two hours of time during the final SSLC examination, 2021. The 16-year-old student of Bharat Vidyaniketan School, Bengaluru, had sought for dispensing with the final exam. He approached the HC after KSEEB rejected his request. The boy, who had already undergone six operations for brittle bone disease, cannot sit at a place for more than 20 minutes and permanently needs an attendee, including for writing an exam. "This court cannot turn a Nelson's Eye to the suffering of the student who is struck with this disease that lasts for life, medication for its mitigation arguably not yielding much relief," Justice Krishna S Dixit said and added that similarly circumstanced candidates should also be given the same benefit. However, the court dismissed the boy's plea for doing away with the final exam. It pointed out that provisions of the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board Act, 1966 do not authorise dispensing with the crucial exam like this, whatever be the circumstances. As it's a matter of policy, courts cannot interfere, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-student-with-rare-disease-to-get-2-hours-more-for-exam/articleshow/79228265.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Sabarimala temple opens today for Mandala season||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Sabarimala temple will be open for this year’s mandala pilgrimage season on Sunday. Melsanthi (chief priest) A K Sudheer Namboothiri will open the temple nada in the presence of tantri (head priest) Kandararu Rajeevaru at 5pm on Sunday. New chief priest for Sabarimala V K Jayaraj Potti and Malikappuram chief priest M N Rajikumar will reach the temple on Sunday evening. On Monday, the first day of Vrischikam, the new chief priests will lead the rituals at the temples. Devotees will be allowed to visit temple from Monday morning. As per Covid-19 protocol, only 1,000 devotees will be allowed a day. However, devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran said that more devotees will be allowed in Sabarimala in the later days in proportion to those who have not turned up in the first two days even after registering in the virtual queue. The decision was taken in the high-level committee meet convened by the minister on Friday. The entry of devotees to the temple for darshan will be completely based on virtual queue registration. The pilgrims will be allowed only by maintaining social distancing and for the purpose, there would be markings on the floor. For those in the age group between 60 and 65 years, medical certificate is mandatory. In order to ensure that Covid-19 patients are not among the devotees, all the pilgrims should compulsorily carry a Covid-19 negative certificate after testing within 24 hours prior to their trip. The health department will put up facilities for conducting antigen tests in Thiruvananthapuram, Thiruvalla, Chengannur and Kottayam railways stations. There would also be Covid-19 testing kiosks in Nilackal and Pamba. Anyone found to be infected with Covid-19 in the test, including those from other states, will be treated till they turn Covid-19 negative. They will be treated in public or private hospitals, according to their choice. Treatment facility, including ambulance, has been arranged in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam medical colleges and other private hospitals. Residence facility in Sabarimala will be provided in a limited manner for media and officials from various departments who will not be required to register in the virtual queue. But they will have to produce Covid-19 negative certificate. As per the high court directive, there will be facility for viri (short stay) for 750 devotees at Nilackal, but there will not be any facility for stay at Pamba and Sannidhanam. The devotees also need not wear masks while climbing the hill from Pamba, which has been relaxed as per the protocol while undertaking tasks demanding high physical labour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sabarimala-temple-opens-today-for-mandala-season/articleshow/79228274.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Chikungunya, dengue cases up, but fewer than last year in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Amidst the dropping number of Covid-19 cases in the city, doctors report an increase in the number of patients with viral fevers such as dengue and gastroenteritis. While BMC executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said the public health department had not noticed a drastic rise in non-Covid infections, private doctors said they had treated cases of viral chikungunya as well. These viral diseases increase in the winter months beginning November. “Until September, doctors were sure that patients with fever and/or cough and diarrhea were possibly suffering from Covid, but now the spectrum of suspected diseases is wider,” said infectious diseases specialist Dr Anita Mathew from Fortis Hospital, Mulund. She said patients with fever were testing negative for Covid and testing positive for dengue and even chikungunya. The cases of viral gastroenteritis shot up in the last month. However, doctors said the number of patients for other viral diseases has been lower this year compared to the same period last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chikungunya-dengue-cases-up-but-fewer-than-last-year/articleshow/79228257.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Deserted shrines welcome call to prayer, promise to follow all SOPs||MUMBAI: The state’s decision to reopen places of worship from Monday has been welcomed by all communities. Sunil Tambe of Shirdi Sai Baba temple was pleased that the deserted precinct would be populated once more. “We receive 40,000-50,000 visitors daily, up to one lakh on festival days such as Ram Navami and Dussehra.” The shrine’s annual turnover of Rs 400 crore has shrunk due to the lockdown this year. In Mumbai, meanwhile, Siddhivinayak temple chose to not comment on the development. Hemant Jadhav, manager of Mumbadevi temple, termed it a “great decision by the CM of Maharashtra that is a wonderful gift to followers of every religion. Hindu devotees will get darshan of their deities at the Hindu new year after almost nine months of temples’ closure. Now, the mandir management’s responsibility increases. We will follow all guidelines.” Jadhav said the temple will be closed every two hours for sanitisation. “We will neither accept nor distribute offerings. Only five to six devotees will be allowed into the main precinct at a time. Pujaris and security persons will get masks, shields and gloves.” Times ViewNow that shrines are going to reopen, it is up to their managements and devotees to follow all the Covid-19 protocols so that people’s religious and spiritual needs are fulfilled without the pandemic getting any encouragement. A number of senior citizens visit places of faith so it is important they are especially protected.Mosques received the news with relief. Maulana Mehmood Daryabadi, general secretary of the All India Ulema Council, said, “We have been awaiting the reopening since many weeks. One by one, markets, malls, trains and buses had resumed operations. We welcome the CM’s announcement but have yet to see the detailed guidelines. Some mosques that are able to fulfil the requirements may reopen immediately. The rest may do so slowly, in a day or two.” Suhail Khandwani who manages Mahim and Haji Ali dargahs, listed a series of SOPs already in place for the reopening. Haji Ali manager Mohammed Ahmed Taher said security personnel would ensure the use of masks and physical distancing. The Archdiocese of Bombay has always advocated a cautious end to the lockdown. Spokesman Fr Nigel Barrett said, “We welcome the state government’s decision to open places of worship. As an archdiocese, we will proceed with caution and ensure all SOPs are in place. We totally identify with our people who are eager and anxious to return to Church and normal worship, but we will proceed with caution for it is our responsibility to ensure those who come to our churches enter into a safe environment. The Cardinal is studying the matter and will issue appropriate directives.” Certain gurdwaras, especially those affiliated to the nodal Sri Guru Singh Sabha, reopened a few days ago, in the absence of permission. Ram Singh Rathor, president, United Singh Sabha Foundation, said, “Only a few gurdwaras were open but not for any ceremony. No langar is being distributed. Some were open in the morning and evening, but people are scared. Not many visited. We are making announcements urging people to pray at home.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-deserted-shrines-welcome-call-to-prayer-promise-to-follow-all-sops/articleshow/79228266.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: IPS officer’s Facebook account impersonated||BENGALURU: The social media account of another IPS officer was impersonated by miscreants. On Saturday, requests were sent to several people seeking monetary help from the fake Facebook account of SD Sharanappa, DCP (east). Sharanappa said the account was taken down after he reported it to Facebook. “I’m yet to register a case, but the location of the account has been traced to UP.” Recently, four persons from Rajasthan, who allegedly impersonated FB accounts of 10 cops, were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-ips-officers-facebook-account-impersonated/articleshow/79228281.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Days leading up to reopening of temples saw governor, netas lob volley of words||MUMBAI: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s decision to reopen all places of worship from Monday was preceded by a war of words between him and governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari. Significantly, home minister Amit Shah and NCP president Sharad Pawar had joined the row over the contents of Koshyari’s letter to Thackeray, saying his choice of words was wrong. In a strongly worded letter to the CM on October 12, Koshyari had said it is ironical that on one hand the state government has permitted the opening of bars, restaurants and beaches and, on the other, Gods and Goddesses have to remain under lockdown. “I wonder if you are receiving any divine premonition to keep postponing the reopening of places of worship time and again or have you suddenly turned secular yourselves, the term you hated. You have been a strong votary of Hindutva,” Koshyari wrote in his letter. Both Pawar and Thackeray reacted sharply to the contents of the letter. While Thackeray said he does not need a certificate of Hindutva from the governor, Pawar wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the language used by Koshyari was intemperate. “I have not discussed this matter either with the governor or the CM. However, I felt that I must share my pain with you and the public on the erosion of standards of conduct by the high constitutional office of the governor,” Pawar said in his letter to the PM. Shah took note of the governor’s letter, saying he had carefully read it and felt the choice of words was not good and Koshyari should have been more restrained. Pawar reacted to Shah’s comment, too, saying any person who has self-respect would have resigned after being rebuked by the home minister. “I have been in politics for more than five decades, I have not seen such a governor,” said Pawar. All along, the CM had taken the view he was not in a hurry to reopen temples. “We will take a decision at an appropriate time. We will ensure the health and safety of people,” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/days-leading-up-to-reopening-of-temples-saw-governor-netas-lob-volley-of-words/articleshow/79228256.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai’s 16 deaths an 11-day low, but Maharashtra’s active cases go up||MUMBAI: The state added 4,237 fresh Covid-19 cases and 105 fatalities on Saturday, taking its total cases to 17,44,698 and the toll to 45,914. For the third consecutive day, fewer than 1,000 Covid-19 cases (726) were reported in Mumbai. The daily number of deaths in the city too continued to drop, with 16 reported on Saturday, the lowest in 11 days; the city’s toll is now 10,558. The total tally of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has climbed to 2.69 lakh cases. The city saw 756 recoveries on Saturday, more than the number of fresh cases, and the recovery rate continued to be around 90%. In BMC’s Nair Hospital near Mumbai Central railway station that was designated as a Covid-19 hospital at the beginning of the pandemic, around 300 patients, including 110 in ICU, remain. “The numbers have dropped drastically in comparison to a month ago and even criticality among ICU patients is lower than before,” said Nair Hospital dean Dr Ramesh Bharmal. However, doctors warned that despite the seeming low numbers, a surge in cases is possible because of the crowding due to Diwali. “The next 15 days are crucial as we fear Covid cases could go up,” said a doctor from a public hospital. A senior BMC official, however, said Mumbai is prepared for the worst. “The number of Covid beds haven’t been reduced because of the likelihood of a post-Diwali surge, but we don’t expect the rise to be huge,” said the official. Breaking the trend for the last few weeks, the recoveries in the state on Saturday were lower than the daily detections, causing a slight increase in active cases. A total of 2,707 people recovered on Saturday, taking the total recoveries to 16.1 lakh. There were 85,503 active cases in the state, of which 13,816 were in Mumbai. Also, at the state level, the Mumbai region added 1,477 cases and 36 deaths, taking the total number of cases to over 6 lakh and the deaths to 18,304. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt on Saturday reported 147 fresh patients and one death, taking the tally of patients there to 51,698 and toll to 1,027. The recovery rate in KDMC reached 95.5%, with 94 patients cured on Saturday. Only 1,259 active patients remain under treatment there. In Navi Mumbai, 91 positive cases were reported on Saturday, taking the count there to 46,072 so far. The NMMC’s recovery rate stands at 95%. The NMMC reported two deaths, taking its toll to 938. The PCMC areas reported 65 fresh cases and one death, taking the total count to 24,400 and toll to 565. In Thane, 156 Covid-19 cases and two deaths were reported on Saturday. The total case tally there stands at 48,746, with 1,127 deaths. The recovery rate in Thane is 94.7%, with 1,450 Covid-19 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-16-deaths-an-11-day-low-but-maharashtras-active-cases-go-up/articleshow/79228234.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: Newly-wed couple killed as bike collides with truck||KOZHIKODE: In a tragic incident, a newly-wed couple was killed in an accident on the national highway near Kakkanchery on Malappuram-Kozhikode border on Saturday. K M Salahudeen, 25 and his wife Jumana, 19, died when the motor bike they were riding was run over by a truck at 10am. Salahudeen died on the spot and Jumana on the way to hospital. They got married 10 days ago. The accident occurred when they were going to the house of a relative at Feroke. Salahudeen lost control of the bike when he was trying to overtake a vehicle. He couldn’t see the tanker truck coming from the opposite direction. Though he tried to regain the control, the bike and the riders went under the tanker truck, which ran over them. Salahudeen, who was working in the Gulf, came to Kerala a month ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kozhikode-newly-wed-couple-killed-as-bike-collides-with-truck/articleshow/79228292.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Spot checks started to deter hospitals deploying Ayush docs||The National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) has initiated surprise assessment in hospitals following a TOI report about several, including those accredited by NABH, employing non-allopathic doctors for clinical duties. NABH has conducted 15 surprise on-site assessments of hospitals in Maharashtra, where this practice is particularly prevalent. “It has been decided to do a larger surprise surveillance exercise in all states over the next three months to find out of the severity of the problem,” Dr Atul Kochhar, the CEO of NABH told TOI. Last month, TOI had reported that many hospitals, including large corporate ones and mostly in big cities, are employing Ayush doctors as resident medical officers, emergency casualty officers and even to manage ICUs at night. Following the report, some hospitals have taken down the advertisements they had placed for Ayush doctors on various job sites with details about the kind of clinical duties they would be involved in. However, while hospitals have become more careful about placing ads directly, they are relying on ads through placement agencies. ‘Need MBBS docs for services, Ayush staff not counted’If any state government allowed Ayush doctors to be involved in any activity concerning allopathy, some hospitals could take advantage of this permission to utilise them in mandatory services assigned to MBBS resident medical officers,” said Dr Kochhar. If a state has not notified that an Ayush doctor can practice allopathy, allopathic hospitals hiring them for patient care would be illegal. Surprisingly, while NABH believed that 13 states allow Ayush doctors to practice allopathy, mostly after a bridge course, there are just three states where this is allowed — Maharashtra, Gujarat and Haryana. In Uttar Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir, Ayurvedic and Unani doctors are allowed to prescribe a restricted number of allopathic medicines and do certain procedures after a bridge course, but only in public health facilities. Many of the hospitals with Ayush doctors doing clinical duties are accredited by the NABH. The NABH claims “high quality of care and patient safety” as the objective of its certification and is relied upon by the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) and the Ex-Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme and (ECHS) meant for armed forces veterans and their dependents. NABH has also partnered with the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) to carry out entry level certification of hospitals, which has been made mandatory for providing cashless insurance facility. On this assumption of better quality and standards, NABH accredited hospitals are allowed to charge more for every procedure and fix higher bed charges too. Dr Kochhar told TOI that NABH standards require the hospitals to have adequate MBBS resident medical officers to manage round-theclock services. “NABH specifies the mandatory norms in terms of competence of staff and assesses it at the time of accreditation and surveillance,” said Dr Kochhar, adding that Ayush staff are “not counted towards the required complement during assessment”. “Ayush doctors, even if appointed in accredited hospitals, cannot be assigned and involved in direct clinical care. The practice of their being deployed for direct care, it appears, is during the time between accreditation assessment and surveillance assessment,” stated NABH in response to TOI’s queries. Assessments are done every two years. As per NABH standards, every staff should have documented job description and for Ayush doctors, it includes reception and instructions for patients, following up a consultant’s advice, helping with documentation and screening of general parameters. No invasive procedures are allowed. Most hospitals that hire Ayush doctors claim they only do what is in the job description. However, many patients and their families refute this claim. NABH pointed out that it was not a regulatory body and that since accreditation is voluntary, a majority of hospitals are not accredited. Though the practice of using Ayush practitioners for clinical duties is more widespread in Maharashtra and Gujarat, it is being done in many states where the government does not allow this as Ayush doctors can be hired for as little as Rs 20,000 per month, while MBBS doctors might have to be paid Rs 40,000. However, patients are never told that they are being attended by Ayush doctors nor are their bills any less because of lower salary costs. “Hospitals claim these Ayush doctors work as assistants to allopathic consultants, but that’s not true. It is just backdoor entry of people from entirely different systems of medicine into allopathy. It is being challenged by the Indian Medical Association,” said Dr Jayesh Lele, secretary of the Hospital Board of India, a wing of the IMA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/spot-checks-started-to-deter-hositals-deploying-ayush-docs/articleshow/79228289.cms||Rema Nagarajan
November 15, 2020||Navi-mumbai||5 killed, 8 hurt as mini-busfrom Navi Mumbai to Goa plunges into river||Five persons were killed, while eight were injured when a private mini-bus from Navi Mumbai to Goa plunged into a river at Umbraj village, near Karad city, in Satara district around 5am on Saturday. Three of those dead were from the same family, Umbraj police said, adding that the injured were admitted to Satara civil hospital. The bus (MH01 CR 9565), which left Navi Mumbai late on Friday night, plunged into Tarli river on National Highway 4, connecting Mumbai to Bengaluru, after hitting barricades on the bridge, police said. Many passengers were asleep at the time of the accident but one of them, who escaped unhurt, screamed for help, after which residents rushed to the spot and alerted police. The deceased were identified as Madhusudan Nair (45), Usha Nair (42) and Aditya Nair (23), all residents of Navi Mumbai, and Sajan S Nair (35) and Arav Sajan Nair (3), from Koparkhairane near Vashi. Police said the Nair family was going to Goa for Diwali vacations. The mini-bus driver, Rinku, is among those injured. Relatives of the deceased and injured were informed, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/5-killed-8-hurt-as-mini-busfrom-navi-mumbai-to-goa-plunges-into-river/articleshow/79228302.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: In corona slowdown, computer engineers make the dream run||AHMEDABAD: The year 2020 would arguably be one of the most challenging years for students. While the pandemic disrupted routine classes and coursework, passouts stared at uncertain career prospects as institutes struggled to get recruiters on board for placements. In such a scenario, computer/IT/ICT engineering courses in top institutes have bucked the trend with an enviable 80-85% placements. In fact, the IT firms have emerged as top paymasters -- an Information & Communication Technology (ICT) student broke a five-year record and won an annual pay package of Rs 51lakh recently. Prof Yash Agarwal, placement convenor at DAIICT, told TOI that while the placement process is ongoing, a girl has bagged the highest package of Rs 51 lakh per annum so far offered by Australia-based Atlassian LLP. “It's the highest package offered to a B.Tech (ICT) student in the past five years. The highest package in 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 were Rs 40 lakh, Rs 29.3 lakh, Rs 39 lakh and Rs 39 lakh respectively,” he said. Some of the top recruiters included Amazon (25 offers), Tekion Corp and Sprinklr (15 each) and Microsoft (11) - all associated with technology. The tech ‘Gold Rush’The offers were for the roles such as software/ app development, data analytics, artificial intelligence/ IoT apps, ASIC verification and full stack developer. Ever since the outbreak of Covid pandemic, technology is driving almost all aspects of life-- education, shopping, banking and even work. No wonder then, institutes across the state are witnessing the tech ‘Gold Rush.’ Dr Rajul Gajjar, principal of LD College of Engineering, said 15% more recruiters came to the campus for IT/Computer engineering students as compared to past years. At Institute of Technology, Nirma University, the highest package of Rs 30 lakh was offered by tech firm Media.Net. Dr Anup K Singh, director general of Nirma University, said that students had seven preplacement offers (PPOs) from Amazon alone with a pay package of Rs 30 lakh. Jaydeep Ruparelia, CEO of a city-based cyber security firm, said, “We recruited 22 students from various universities post April as we saw unprecedented demand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-in-corona-slowdown-computer-engineers-make-the-dream-run/articleshow/79228334.cms||Parth Shastri
November 15, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Patola past fashion finish line before China chic?||AHMEDABAD: Did Gujarat’s famed Patola saris, adorning the rich and the influential across many trading countries since the 12th century, make it to the global fashion catalogues before the Chinese Atlas? The Chinese garment was worn like a top by the notables of that age. The Patola was made by the Salvi community of Gujarat. The Atlas was exclusively popularized by the Uighur Muslims of China. Both these textiles involve the technique of ikat in which coloured patterns are formed by tying and dyeing threads before they are woven. A team of Indian scholars from NIFT (National Institute of Fashion Technology) Delhi, and Chinese scholars from China National Silk Museum, Hangzhou, and University of Shanghai have carried out research on the two textiles. The scholars say that the earliest reference to ikat in India was found in the Buddhist cave paintings of Ajanta in the 6th century AD. A design similar to ikat was also found on women’s dresses portrayed on the Ajanta murals. “The double ikat style is mentioned in the couplets of Rani Ranakdevi in the Gujarati literature of 11th century AD and recorded by European travellers in 16th century AD,” the research paper suggests. The paper also quotes textile scholar Kichiemon Okamura who has argued that ikat originated in India and spread all over Asia and Europe along the land and sea routes. However, some Chinese scholars have contended that the ikat of the Atlas, especially that which belongs to Xinjiang, is more closely related to the ikat of Central Asia than to the Indian variants. They cite scale and colours to elucidate their point. In China, the earliest tiedyed fabric was recorded during the Tang Dynasty (AD 618 to AD 907) in Qinghai. But the ikat of the Atlas was mentioned only by the end of the 12th century in written details, according to the scholars associated with the current study. The scholars are Sudha Dhingra of NIFT, Delhi; Weizhu An, of the School of Fashion and Art Design, Donghua University; and Feng Zhao of China National Silk Museum. Hot exports to Malay isles in the 13th centuryThe earliest reference to the Atlas in China is in the collection of the Palace Museum in Beijing, which is dated to the middle and late Qing Dynasty (about 1820). “These textiles and their production methods were introduced from Uzbekistan in Central Asia to the people in Hotan Area in the south of Xinjiang, which was favoured by the Turkic Uighur people,” the scholars say. The scholars state that the Indian ikat in Patola was exported to the Malay islands as religious cloth in the 13th century, and then to Japan. “An early Patola appeared on the frescoes of Mattancheri and Padmanabhapuram in Kerala, in the16th to17th century period,” the paper says. “In the 16th century, the word ‘Patola’ appeared in many European travel notes and records of the East India Company, and during the 16th and 17th centuries, Patolas were regarded as precious silks and important tradeitemsin SoutheastAsia and Europe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-patola-past-fashion-finish-line-before-china-chic/articleshow/79228340.cms||Paul John
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Woman rows 18km daily to attend to tribal babies, expecting moms||NASHIK: Taking on the mighty Narmada river is certainly not for the faint-hearted. But 27-year-old Relu Vasave, an anganwadi worker, has seen the river flow by her village all her life. So when the coronavirus fear kept a group of tribals from coming to her anganwadi by boat for their food and medical check-ups, she decided to go to them. With road access poor, the only way to reach the hamlets is by boat and a return trip is all of 18km. But that did not deter Relu. The dainty woman borrowed a small boat from a local fisherman to travel to the hamlets, Aligat and Dadar, so that the 25 newborn and malnourished children, and seven pregnant women did not lose out on proper nutrition. Since April, she has been going by boat five days a week to check on the tribals. The anganwadi where Relu works is located in the remote tribal village of Chimalkhadi in Nandurbar district of Maharashtra. Relu’s job is to keep an eye on the health and growth of newborns, children under six years of age and pregnant women. She checks their weight and hands them nutritional supplements provided by the government. After the nationwide lockdown was announced in March, the tribals from the two hamlets across the backwaters of the Narmada stopped coming to the anganwadi. Relu told TOI, “Usually, the children and pregnant women visit our centre by boat with their families to collect food. But they have stopped visiting ut of fear of the virus.” Unlike her husband Ramesh, Relu is adept at swimming and rowing since childhood. The mother of two young children, she has been visiting the hamlets regularly for six months, barring July when the Narmada was in spate. Relu’s work begins early. She reaches the anganwadi at 7.30am and works there till noon. An hour after lunch, she sets off in her boat to the hamlets and returns only late in the evening. Most times, she goes alone with food supplements and baby-weighing equipment. On occasions, her relative Sangita, who also works in an aganwadi, accompanies her. After the boat ride, Relu has to trek up the hilly terrain to reach the hamlets. “It is not easy to row every day. My hands ache by the time I’m back home in the evening. But that doesn’t worry me. It’s important that the babies and the expecting mothers eat nutritious food. I will visit these hamlets till things improve on the Covid front,” she said. The tribals are overwhelmed by Relu’s selflessness. Shivram Vasave, whose house in Aligat Relu visits to check on his three-year-old nephew Gomta, said, “She guides us on taking care of the child and questions us about his health every time she visits here. We are dependent on her for the well-being of the child.” Word about Relu’s extraordinary efforts recently reached chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s office. Soon, additional chief executive office of the Nandurbar zilla parishad, Shekhar Raundal, travelled to her village and conveyed the CM’s praise for her. Watch This Maharashtra woman rows 18km daily to ensure well-being of tribal babies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-rows-18km-daily-to-attend-to-tribal-babies-expecting-moms/articleshow/79228372.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Court cites liberty, rejects plea to cancel bail of ‘police-beater’||MUMBAI: In a detailed order rejecting the police plea to cancel bail granted to a woman and her friend accused of assaulting a traffic cop last month, the sessions court has held that a person’s liberty must not be dealt with lightly. “Denying bail or cancelling bail of accused would amount to pretrial conviction,” additional sessions judge B V Wagh said. The court further said that bail can be cancelled only if circumstances such as tampering of evidence, threatening of witnesses, likeliness to abscond, exist. “It cannot be said that the magistrate has exercised discretion, arbitrary or illegally,” the sessions court said. The woman, Sagarika Tiwari (29) and Mohsin Khan (32) were arrested on October 23 for assaulting a traffic cop in south Mumbai. They were granted bail by a magistrate’s court on October 26. The police moved sessions court, seeking cancellation of their bail. It was submitted that the accused had assaulted an on-duty public servant while he was performing his duty in a crowded place. The prosecution submitted that Tiwari’s conduct was detrimental to the functioning of traffic police and lowered their morale. The prosecution also said that Tiwari was in the habit of breaking traffic rules and there are 37 incidents in which she had been issued a challan, and fined. The defence opposed the plea, saying cops had collected sufficient evidence for the trial and there were no extraordinary circumstances to cancel the bail. The sessions court however held that the magistrate had considered the aspect of antecedents, question of recovery and that the offence is not punishable with death or life imprisonment. “Moreover, the accused number 1 (Tiwari) is a lady. The magistrate has also put stringent conditions on the accused to attend the police station every Monday till filing of chargesheet with an additional liberty to investigator to call the accused with written intimation,” the court said. According to the police, constable Eknath Porte, who is posted at Kalbadevi traffic police division, was on duty at Kalbadevi when he flagged down Shaikh who was riding the bike, with Tiwari riding pillion. Porte asked Shaikh to pay up a penalty for not wearing a helmet. This led to an argument between the constable and the biker. Later, a video of the woman beating up the cop went viral on social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-cites-liberty-rejects-plea-to-cancel-bail-of-police-beater/articleshow/79228373.cms||Rebecca Samervel
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘Temperature higher than expected, may help air pollution levels’||MUMBAI: With the temperatures in the city not dipping as expected, Mumbaikars can hope for a slightly less polluted Diwali, said System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). In its revised forecast issued on Saturday, SAFAR said that the city’s overall Air Quality Index (AQI) on Sunday with 50% cracker emissions could be 309, instead of the previously predicted 338. An AQI between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very poor’ and could pose a health risk to everyone. On Saturday evening, crackers were being burst across the city. Sumaira Abdulali, convener of the Awaaz Foundation, who was checking noise levels in the city said, “In the evening, we could hear a lot of crackers in housing societies.” Several citizens from Parel, Malad, Kandivali and other parts of the city reported crackers being used throughout the evening. With no firecrackers, the AQI would be 227—‘poor’. AQI for the corresponding day last year was 96 (satisfactory). The most polluted day after Diwali was in 2017, when the city reported an AQI of 319. “A positive development is that the prevailing temperature is not as cool as expected, and the increase in wind speed may bring relief for Mumbai... with a 50% firecrackers (half the average emissions from 2016-2018) scenario. In case of no cracker emissions, AQI is likely to remain steady and within poor range only,” said the forecast. In days of low temperatures, the pollutants get trapped closer to the earth’s surface resulting in poor air quality. On Saturday, the Santacruz observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 22°C, up from 19.6°C on Friday, and 1°C above normal. Colaba’s 24°C was also 1°C above normal. The maximum temperature at Santacruz and Colaba were 36°C and 35°C on Saturday. The maximum temperatures were the highest this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-temperature-higher-than-expected-may-help-air-pollution-levels/articleshow/79228396.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Soumitra Chatterjee still very critical, on multiple life-supports||KOLKATA: Actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s condition remained very critical on Saturday and the 85-year-old actor continued to be on multiple life-supports. On Friday, his neurological condition had worsened and doctors said he has turned almost ‘totally unresponsive’, even as his cardiac condition, too, deteriorated. It was unlikely that Chatterjee could now be revived, said doctors at Belle Vue Clinic where he has been admitted since October 6, soon after testing positive for Covid. “A favourable outcome now seems difficult since his cerebral functioning has dwindled drastically. Apart from his cardiac condition, that has also deteriorated, his kidneys, too, are malfunctioning. Since Friday, his oxygen requirement has gone up as well. He is on multiple life-support systems,” said Belle Vue Clinic critical care head Arindam Kar. The actor has been at the ICU since October 9 and on ventilation for three weeks. Chatterjee’s family members, Kar added, have been informed about the sharp deterioration. “Other than Covid encephalopathy, Chatterjee had suffered no major impact of the viral attack. His vital organs had remained stable for over a month. Only his consciousness kept dropping slowly due to encephalopathy which could not be contained despite our efforts. We carried out multiple therapies to revive his consciousness but unfortunately nothing has worked,” said Kar. On Wednesday, Chatterjee underwent a tracheostomy to help improve his respiratory condition. On ventilation for close to a month, the procedure was expected to help the 85-year-old breathe more freely which could help revive his dwindling consciousness, according to doctors at the hospital. On Thursday, a plasmapheresis was done to treat his autoimmune disorders. The octogenarian’s heart rate, too, has gone up and had to be contained. His blood pressure has been fluctuating and is being assisted for the first time during his stay at the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-soumitra-chatterjee-still-very-critical-on-multiple-life-supports/articleshow/79228399.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Parties prepare to battle it out in panchayat elections||BENGALURU: With the high court clearing the decks for the much-delayed gram panchayat polls, major political parties have started their groundwork. Their workers, who had taken a break after the bypolls and MLC elections, are back in action in villages. "We were hoping the elections would be postponed to next year. Now, we have no choice, but to act,'' said a senior Congress functionary. The high court on Friday directed the Karnataka State Election Commission (SEC) to announce dates within three weeks, while rejecting the state government's plea for deferment of polls. This means the elections are likely to be held by the year-end. "The Election Commission is ready to hold polls anytime. Pre-poll works like revision of voters' list and fixing of ward-wise reservation have already been done. Citizens can get their names registered in the list till nominations begin," said SEC commissioner Basavaraju. Even before the term of 5,800 out of 6,025 gram panchayats ended between June and August, SEC had postponed it, citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Subsequently, a PIL was filed before the HC challenging it. BJP to form committee at every boothThough the GP polls are held without any party symbol, most candidates will have affiliations with one or the other party as they provide an opportunity for them to build their grassroots cadre. MLAs, MPs and zilla panchayat members often field their supporters and also work for their victory as it is mutually beneficial.  BJP has already started the spadework with an aim to expand its footprint in rural areas, especially in Old Mysuru region where it is electorally on a weak wicket. It has announced two programmes - Pancha Ratna and Kutumba Milana (family union) - exclusively for this election. Under Pancha Ratna, the party will form a committee at every booth. Each committee will have a member from the general category, OBC, SC, ST and woman. "These committees will meet families in respective booths and explain to them the achievements of the state and the central governments, besides seeking their support," said BJP state general secretary N Ravikumar. "Within 15 to 20 days, we'll complete these programmes," he added. The JD(S) and Congress are also planning to organise booth-level meetings to garner support. They have asked district-level presidents to start identifying candidates. "We've directed our district and taluk units to do the groundwork. We'll highlight local issues as well as failures of the BJP governments at the Centre and in the state, including mishandling of the pandemic crisis," said KPCC working president Saleem Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-parties-prepare-to-battle-it-out-in-panchayat-elections/articleshow/79228413.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai scores a green victory with advanced sewage plant at Colaba||Under criticism for long for releasing untreated sewage into the sea, the BMC took a silent step a few months ago by commissioning at Colaba its most advanced treatment plant yet. Done in April without ceremony, because of the raging Covid pandemic, the move has only now come to light. The plant, situated on the coast, is the city’s smallest. It has a sewage treating capacity of 37 million litres a day (MLD), though as of now it gets 25 MLD, mostly from A ward. The BMC claims that the treated water, which is released deep into the sea through a 1.5km pipeline, is good for non-potable use. An official said the BMC is in the process of entering into contracts with nearby defence and government establishments to supply them with the treated wastewater through a network of pipelines. The water can be used for gardening, washing vehicles, flushing toilets, construction work and even for firefighting. But even now, the treated water is serving an ecological purpose by being released into the sea. “It is so clean that we can release it directly into the sea just outside the plant, instead of taking it deep inside through the 1.5km pipe, as required before the plant was upgraded,” said Mohan Bapat, the executive engineer of the sewage operation department at Colaba. Till the upgraded plant became operational, the BMC mostly provided preliminary treatment for sewage before releasing it into sea at its seven such plants in the city (see graphic). The BMC made plans for upgrading its sewage treatment network over a decade ago, but has been dogged by delays, with work on the remaining plants moving at a snail’s pace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-scores-a-green-victory-with-advanced-sewage-plant-at-colaba/articleshow/79228420.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: No Metro trains in some stations from November 17-19||BENGALURU: Namma Metro’s Green Line services between RV Road and Yelachenahalli stations will be suspended from November 17 to 19. This decision has been taken to facilitate precommissioning works of the line’s southern extension. However, train services will be operational between Nagasandra and RV Road stations from 7am to 9pm. College students can travel in buses with old passFrom November 17, BMTC will allow degree/postgraduate/diploma/technical/medical students to travel from their houses to colleges in its ordinary services even if they have passes issued in 2019-20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-no-metro-trains-in-some-stations-from-november-17-19/articleshow/79228429.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Mother pushes 3 kids into canal, kills herself||MADIKERI: The bodies of three children - two boys and a girl, aged less than 10 - were found floating in the left bank canal of Harangi in Aregallu village, Arkalgud taluk, on Kodagu-Hassan border on Saturday.  Kushalnagar Rural police said a woman was seen walking towards the canal in the wee hours of Saturday with three children. The eyewitnesses watched from a distance as the woman pushed the children and jumped into the canal later. Labourers on their way to work at Aregallu noticed the bodies in the morning. They pulled the bodies out of the canal and informed police. Probe revealed that Chennamma, 28, and her husband Devaraju, were natives of Iyyanahalli in Chitradurga district. They had migrated to Hebbale in Kodagu six months ago and joined a ginger-washing factory as labourers. On Friday night, neighbours heard the couple quarrelling but did not interfere. The bodies of Vijay, 6, Vinay, 4, and Deekha, 3, were recovered in the morning. Chennamma's body was found in the evening after a daylong search operation. Devaraju has been taken into custody..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/karnataka-mother-pushes-3-kids-into-canal-kills-herself/articleshow/79228449.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Car collides with two on bike, kills them on the spot||MUMBAI: An 18-year-old and his 20-year-old friend riding pillion were killed when their motorcycle collided with a car in Wada taluka, Palghar district on Friday. They did not have helmets on. The police said that Jitendra Babar (18) and Kailash Kanoja (20) had gone Diwali shopping. They were on their way back to Avchitpada village in the evening, when a car coming from the opposite direction collided with the motorbike on Shirishpada-Aghai Road in Wada. The two were thrown off the two-wheeler and died on the spot. The car driver was arrested and a case of causing death due to negligence was registered against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/car-collides-with-two-on-bike-kills-them-on-the-spot/articleshow/79228459.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Lucknow||Firecrackers illuminate Lucknow sky despite ban||LUCKNOW: Despite the ban on sale of firecrackers in the city, bursting of firecrackers was seen across Lucknow on Diwali. The burning of firecrackers started late in the evening and continued till late in the night where people from all walks of life were seen bursting firecrackers. A reality check by TOI found people bursting crackers on the roads, parks, outside residential colonies.  City sky was illuminated with flower pots and rockets, all of the localities were seen using firecrackers. The ban was implemented following depreciation in city air quality from very poor to severe. In the last few years, the city air remained bad for several days after Diwali, leading to innumerable problems for the people as well animals, flora and fauna. This comes at a time when the state government had on November 10, announced a ban on firecrackers. Following which Lucknow police commissionerate had also cancelled licenses of 34 dealers and had also given a 24 hours window to voluntarily wind up. When contacted, joint commissioner of police (crime) Lucknow, Nilabja Choudhary said that the no shop in the city was allowed to sell firecrackers. "People must have purchased crackers from adjoining districts," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/firecrackers-illuminate-lucknow-sky-despite-ban/articleshow/79228456.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Retired cop who arrested serial killer Raman Raghav dies||MUMBAI: Retired assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Alex Fialho, credited for the arrest of dreaded serial-killer Raman Raghav in Mumbai in September 1968, died at his residence here on Friday, a police official said. He was 92. Fialho is survived by wife, sons, daughter and grandchildren. His last rites were performed at St Andrew’s Church in Bandra, he said. Fialho had detected several cases but is best remembered for the arrest of Raghav, for which he was awarded the President’s Police Medal. Fialho, a sub-inspector posted at Dongri at that time, apprehended Raghav from Bhendi Bazaar. Raghav later confessed to committing at least 41 murders, and most victims were pavement dwellers. Raghav terrorised Mumbai between 1966-68, a period when he bludgeoned to death several poor men and women with a hard and blunt object like an iron rod while they were asleep, said the police. “Police had launched a nationwide hunt for Raghav. Fialho had studied the serial killing case and used to carry a photo of Raghav with him,” he said. Raghav died in 1995 due to kidney failure at Sassoon General Hospital in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-retired-cop-who-arrested-serial-killer-raman-raghav-dies/articleshow/79228472.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Asiatic Society cites ‘funds crunch’, staff claim management inefficiency||The employees of the historic 216-yearold Asiatic Society of Mumbai (ASM), housed at the famous heritage structure Town Hall near Horniman Circle in South Mumbai, are on a warpath over non-payment of full salaries for the last seven months. The Society’s library, one of the richest in the country having over 2.5 lakh books, rare manuscripts, maps and numismatics, that caters to scholars and students from India and abroad, awaits resuming of activities, first due to pandemic and now because of the strike-like situation at the Society. While the library has reopened, works like stocktaking, digitalization have stopped as the employees are demanding full salaries. They have been paid only 45% of their salaries since June. At present readers are not allowed to visit it due to fear of violations of the government guidelines. While the Society management cites “funds crunch” as the reason for non-payment of full salary of the employees, the latter blamed it on the inefficiency of the management in arranging funds. “Since June, they have paid only 45% of the salaries. The management gives lame excuse that the Centre reduced the Society’s grant but the management is apathetic and insensitive to the employees’ woes,” said ASM Employees’ Union President Prakash Reddy. Yogesh Kamdar, chairman (finance and projects committee), said this year the cultural ministry of the central government cut its annual aid-in-grant from Rs one crore to Rs 60 lakh. “Even this Rs 60 lakh comes in quarterly instalments. Around Rs 16 lakh per month goes into paying salaries. How will we pay the full salaries with this amount? We cannot spend from the donors’ money to pay salaries as that is earmarked for specific projects,” said Kamdar. However, Reddy said the management could solve this problem by passing a resolution that 30% of the donors’ money be spent in paying the salaries. Established in 1804 by British lawyer and jurist Sir James Mackintosh who had become recorder for the King’s judge of Bombay, the Asiatic Society library is a premier centre for research and reference. The current problem of fund shortage, the employees said, could have been solved by better lobbying. They said past presidents like retired civil servant B G Deshmukh could manage to get enough funds. “Why is there no attempt to get the Society the status of an institute of national importance like the Kolkata-based Asiatic Society of Bengal (ASB) has managed?” asked Reddy. The ASB’s annual budget is Rs 30 crore. The ASB comes under the central government while ASM is run by a charitable trust, said Kamdar. He said the management has written repeatedly to the Centre to raise the aid amount. The Maharashtra government too has not intervened to solve the scarcity of funds this prestigious institute faces. The employees also demand they be treated on par with government employees. In 1950 the state gave the Central Library housed at the same building to the Asiatic Society of Mumbai to run. But in 1994-1995, the Central Library and the Asiatic Society of Mumbai, were bifurcated. “They were bifurcated on the conditions that the employees of the Society will get all the perks and benefits on par with the employees of the Central Library which is run by the state government. The past managements honoured this condition but the present one is dishnouring it,” alleged Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-asiatic-society-cites-funds-crunch-staff-claim-management-inefficiency/articleshow/79228493.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Cash moved from van at another spot, say police||MUMBAI: A day after the cash van transporting around Rs 4.3 crore was found abandoned at Kalyan Naka in Bhiwandi, police suspect that the money was moved into another vehicle at a different spot. The police said that it was a planned robbery and that the driver, Rohit Aaru (26), who had fled with the van on Thursday evening, had done a recce of the routes he would take. Aaru is likely to have roped in two or three people, who loaded the trunk into their vehicle. The van was later abandoned at Kalyan Naka. The CCTV camera footage of Kalyan Naka is being examined. On Thursday evening, Aaru fled with the van when the two cash custodians and armed security guard went to an ATM at Bolinj in Virar (west) to load cash. The police managed to track down the van’s location to Bhiwandi, based on the GPS tracking system in the vehicle. Aaru is believed to have tampered with the GPS, which caused a delay in tracking the van’s exact location in Bhiwandi. The police seized the van on Friday. Police sources said that they had gathered specific details about Aaru’s whereabouts, but refused to divulge details. They are also keeping a watch on his residence in Chembur. 0The cash custodians and security guard are being questioned by the police. Police have not ruled the possibility that staff from the cash logisitics company were involved in the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cash-moved-from-van-at-another-spot-say-police/articleshow/79228508.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Quarantine centre for undertrials ‘in bad state’||NAVI MUMBAI: An accused remanded in judicial custody and lodged at the quarantine centre at Gokhale School in Kharghar has claimed that the centre is in a “terrible state” with stinky, overflowing toilets. The accused has claimed that each classroom has a capacity of 50 persons, but around 150 undertrials are accommodated. Hence, the undertrials are compelled to sleep straight and if they want to sit, they cannot fold their legs. The accused made these claims after being released on bail. According to him, toilets at the centre are overflowing and unfit for human use. With schools reopening, the Taloja jail superintendent will write to the Inspector General of Prisons, seeking shifting of undertrials from Gokhale School to some other spacious quarantine centre. Taloja jail superintendent Kaustubh Kurlekar said, “We had converted the school into a temporary jail. As it is a quarantine centre, we cannot deploy cleanliness staff from outside. Undertrials have to clean toilets themselves after use, like at their homes.” Kurlekar further said, “As the school will reopen on November 23, we will have to shift all undertrials to an alternative quarantine centre. Hence, I will be writing to the inspector general (prisons) seeking an order to shift the under trials to another quarantine centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/quarantine-centre-for-undertrials-in-bad-state/articleshow/79228524.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Temple towns hope for economic revival||NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: The state government’s decision to reopen temples after nine months of closure in view of the coronavirus pandemic has come as a huge relief for the administrations as well as traders in temple towns across Maharashtra. They are now looking forward to making up for the losses suffered, at least to some extent as the main festive and holiday season is at its fag end. The festive season and holidays bring lakhs of devotees and tourists to the temple towns, including Shirdi, Pandharpur and Kolhapur, thus boosting the economy as hotels, eateries and vendors earn enough to last for the year. Closure of the Trimbakeshwar temple – one of the 12 Jyotirlingas in the country — had brought all trade in this tribaldominated town, about 30km from Nashik, to a halt. “The entire income of Trimbakeshwar municipal council is based on eligious tourism. Our monthly vehicle tax is around Rs 6 lakh and the tax collected from the shops is Rs 3.5 lakh. There has been no income for the past nine months,” said Purushottam Lohagaonkar, president of the council. Temple towns hope for economic revivalAmarnath Chhallani, who owns a hotel in Trimbakeshwar, said, “There are around 25 hotels with over 20 rooms and hundreds of other stay facilities. None of them has been occupied this time as against 100% occupancy during Diwali every year”. For the first time, hotels in Kolhapur city are sporting a deserted look during Diwali. Sachin Shanbag, vice-president of Kolhapur Hoteliers Association, said, “This time, not even 10% of the hotel rooms are booked for the Diwali vacation. Till the time that Mahalaxmi temple and other places such as Rankala lake are closed for public, there is no point in opening hotels. The situation is going to be the same.” The Tuljabhavani temple in Osmanabad district gets lakhs of devotees. Traders here are worried about the mounting rent. “The business we usually do during Navaratra and Diwali is enough to pay the rent for the entire year. We have sought rent waiver this year as during Diwali, the temple is going to remain shut,” said a trader. Unlike previous years, the temple town of Shirdi will not have any visitors during Diwali. Authorities of Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, claimed that usually 65,000 people visit the temple daily during the vacations. Even donations from devotees have dropped by almost 50%. “It’s meaningless for the hotels in Shirdi to reopen without Sai temple opening for the devotees. Usually, during Diwali, all the hotels have near full occupancy. But this year, they are all closed,” said Abhay Shelke Patil, chief of Shirdi Hotel Association. Usually, the monthly turnover of these hotels is about Rs 5 crore. Gahininath Maharaj, chairman of Pandharpur's Vitthal-Rukhmini temple, said the religious towns prosper economically because of the temples. “This year, all the religious activities are low key due to the Covid-related restrictions. We had urged the government to open temples at least before Diwali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maharashtra-temple-towns-hope-for-economic-revival/articleshow/79228533.cms||Abhijeet Patil
November 15, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Temple towns hope for economic revival||NASHIK/KOLHAPUR: The state government’s decision to reopen temples after nine months of closure in view of the coronavirus pandemic has come as a huge relief for the administrations as well as traders in temple towns across Maharashtra. They are now looking forward to making up for the losses suffered, at least to some extent as the main festive and holiday season is at its fag end. The festive season and holidays bring lakhs of devotees and tourists to the temple towns, including Shirdi, Pandharpur and Kolhapur, thus boosting the economy as hotels, eateries and vendors earn enough to last for the year. Closure of the Trimbakeshwar temple – one of the 12 Jyotirlingas in the country — had brought all trade in this tribaldominated town, about 30km from Nashik, to a halt. “The entire income of Trimbakeshwar municipal council is based on eligious tourism. Our monthly vehicle tax is around Rs 6 lakh and the tax collected from the shops is Rs 3.5 lakh. There has been no income for the past nine months,” said Purushottam Lohagaonkar, president of the council. Temple towns hope for economic revivalAmarnath Chhallani, who owns a hotel in Trimbakeshwar, said, “There are around 25 hotels with over 20 rooms and hundreds of other stay facilities. None of them has been occupied this time as against 100% occupancy during Diwali every year”. For the first time, hotels in Kolhapur city are sporting a deserted look during Diwali. Sachin Shanbag, vice-president of Kolhapur Hoteliers Association, said, “This time, not even 10% of the hotel rooms are booked for the Diwali vacation. Till the time that Mahalaxmi temple and other places such as Rankala lake are closed for public, there is no point in opening hotels. The situation is going to be the same.” The Tuljabhavani temple in Osmanabad district gets lakhs of devotees. Traders here are worried about the mounting rent. “The business we usually do during Navaratra and Diwali is enough to pay the rent for the entire year. We have sought rent waiver this year as during Diwali, the temple is going to remain shut,” said a trader. Unlike previous years, the temple town of Shirdi will not have any visitors during Diwali. Authorities of Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust, Shirdi, claimed that usually 65,000 people visit the temple daily during the vacations. Even donations from devotees have dropped by almost 50%. “It’s meaningless for the hotels in Shirdi to reopen without Sai temple opening for the devotees. Usually, during Diwali, all the hotels have near full occupancy. But this year, they are all closed,” said Abhay Shelke Patil, chief of Shirdi Hotel Association. Usually, the monthly turnover of these hotels is about Rs 5 crore. Gahininath Maharaj, chairman of Pandharpur's Vitthal-Rukhmini temple, said the religious towns prosper economically because of the temples. “This year, all the religious activities are low key due to the Covid-related restrictions. We had urged the government to open temples at least before Diwali.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maharashtra-temple-towns-hope-for-economic-revival/articleshow/79228520.cms||Abhijeet Patil
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Fauna in red: 96% mammalian species show decline in Mumbai metropolitan region||MUMBAI: New research from the Bombay Natural History Society highlights the adverse impact of urbanisation on wildlife in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), while also suggesting that previous studies may have underestimated species numbers. Of 213 species studied in the region, researchers found that among animals, 96% of mammals, 85% of birds, 93.75% of amphibians, and 69.43% of reptiles showed a decline with urban and agricultural land cover, compared to scrub and forest habitats. Still, the region holds “astonishing” species diversity that needs to be preserved, the study said. Researchers used a model to estimate species richness and abundance and compared them to studies on the ground. The estimates were higher than the numbers from the ground sampling, especially for reptiles and birds. That is because sightings are often dependent on environmental conditions such as time of day and weather. Factoring in “detection probability”, as this study did, is thus important for species monitoring and conservation management, said researchers. “A lot of studies may be underestimating species,” said Sameer Bajaru, assistant curator at BNHS, who conducted the study with senior scientist Deepak Apte and others. The study focused on the impact of land use on mammals, birds, amphibians, and reptiles in three habitats in the region: urban and agriculture; scrub and degraded forest; and intact forest. Not surprisingly, they found species diversity was highest in forest tracts like Matheran and Karnala and lowest in urban settlements. Interestingly, species prevalence was also high in scrub and degraded forest areas that lie between city and forest (such as the hilly areas near Khargar or the fringes of the Karnala sanctuary). This is because some species are “generalists” that can eat a variety of food, and thus adapt to a more disturbed habitat, said researchers. They include mammals like the golden jackal, birds like the black drongo, and reptiles like Murray’s house gecko. “These species are tolerant to human disturbances,” said Bajaru. Another reason: scrub and degraded forest comprise a large part of MMR now. “High prevalence of species preferring degraded forest cover may indicate the degraded nature of this landscape,” the study said. Even the forests of Matheran, for instance, have deteriorated over the centuries. Timber extraction in the 17th and 18th centuries followed by development of the hill station transformed the area from a semi-evergreen and moist deciduous forest into a scrubby, dry deciduous and fire-prone forest landscape, researchers noted. “Priority should be given to the conservation of remaining primary habitats such as Prabalgad, Malanggad, Manikad, Karnala, and Matheran, as well as restoring degraded habitats with the help of local people,” said Bajaru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fauna-in-red-96-mammalian-species-show-decline-in-mumbai-metropolitan-region/articleshow/79228544.cms||Vaishnavi Chandrashekhar
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||SoBo society loses GST appeal, tax is payable on maintenance||MUMBAI: The efforts of a posh Nariman Point cooperative housing society (CHS) in filing an appeal against an earlier order of the GST Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) have proved futile. The appellate bench has upheld the previous ruling that goods and services tax (GST) is to be levied and collected on maintenance charges if these exceed threshold limits. Like any other CHS, this south Mumbai society collected maintenance charges from its members for its current and future upkeep and paying various bills such as property taxes, common electricity charges, water charges and so on. TOIhad analysed AAR’s ruling, in its July 14 edition. According to the circular issued by the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on July 22, 2018, a CHS has to levy and collect GST (current rate is 18%) on the entire sum of maintenance charges, if these exceed Rs 7,500 per month, per member. Smaller CHS with an annual turnover of Rs 20 lakh or less do not have to register under GST. Thus, they do not have any GST obligation, irrespective of the quantum of maintenance charges. The AAR had held the CHS’s activities towards its members have to be a ‘taxable supply’ under the GST laws. Referring to the circular, the AAR had held the government’s intention to tax the CHS under GST laws is clear. Aggrieved by this ruling, the south Mumbai CHS had filed an appeal with the GST Appellate Authority for Advance Rulings (AAAR), Maharashtra bench. In its appeal, it stated AAR had based its ruling on the circular and notifications issued by CBIC, which led it to conclude the government intends to tax all transactions between a CHS and its members. It further pointed out various judicial decisions had not been considered by AAR, including that of the Supreme Court passed in the 2009 case of Calcutta Club which dealt with the ‘principle of mutuality’. Based on this principle, the society and its members are not distinct entities and thus the activities of the CHS do not constitute a ‘supply’ and hence do not attract GST. It added the society’s charges cannot be treated as a ‘consideration’ under Section 2 (32) of the GST Act. The AAAR, in its order dated November 5, though, set aside these contentions. It agreed with the GST authorities that the Supreme Court’s order will not apply, for various reasons, including the fact that it pertained to a sales tax regime, where the concept of ‘supply’ that exists under GST laws was not prevalent. The appellate bench held that under the GST Act, the term ‘supply’ and ‘business’ have a wide meaning and cover the activities of a CHS carried out for the benefit of its members. A profit motive is also immaterial under the GST Act, it stated. Advance rulings are binding on the applicant (in this case, the Nariman Point-based CHS) but they have a persuasive value in other similar cases. A government official told TOI that the recent order by the AAAR will strengthen the stand of the GST authorities, who have always been following the CBIC circular.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sobo-society-loses-gst-appeal-tax-is-payable-on-maintenance/articleshow/79228564.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||BMC water dues recovery scheme fetches Rs 138 crore||MUMBAI: The BMC has recovered Rs 138 crore as outstanding dues for water supply till October 31 from over 56,000 consumers. The success of its amnesty scheme, Abhay Yojana, has prompted the corporation to extend it till December 31. The scheme was launched in February this year to encourage defaulters to pay their water charges which, in some cases, was due for several years. While BMC usually charges 2% as penalty per month for late payment, under the current scheme, this amount has been waived off. “While BMC had to waive Rs 31crore, it earned Rs 138 crore so it has been a win-win situation for all,” said a civic official. BMC supplies 3,800 million litres of water daily to its consumers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-water-dues-recovery-scheme-fetches-rs-138-crore/articleshow/79228577.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thane||Sub-standard oils seized from Thane godown||The Thane FDA raided a godown and seized sub-standard quality of refined and coconut oil, collectively worth Rs 27 lakh, in Pimpri, near Mumbra, on Saturday. The oils need to be tested before being sold. However, the godowns did not have any lab or a tecnical person who could test it. Even the packaging was not up to the Bureau of Indian Standards grade, an FDA official said. The godown owners have been fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/sub-standard-oils-seized-from-thane-godown/articleshow/79228607.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Your lockdown videos, handmade face masks to tell pandemic story||That face mask you made at home, your child’s homeschool routine, the poem you wrote in lockdown, video recordings of your remote work meetings and happy hours, and other such fleeting moments from your stay-at-home life in the coronavirus pandemic have historical value that could soon become an artefact. The National Council of Science Museums (NCSM) and its team of curators, archivists and museum employees across the country are in the process of collecting and preserving elements from the current crisis for a largely crowdsourced Covid-19 exhibition with a multi-year run that will tell the story of the country’s collective and individual experiences of the pandemic as it unfolds, and make it accessible for generations to come. “The coronavirus pandemic is a huge shock to the complex human system as well as governance. Hence, its documentation and representation for posterity have to be large, multifaceted and organically evolving. Naturally, we thought of a Covid web-based exhibition as a multi-module project that will be developed in the form of an interactive searchable audio-visual experience, integrated with a central portal that we can retain for the future,” said Nataraj Dasgupta, curator at Central Research and Training Laboratory, the research wing of NCSM, steering the Covid archival project. Science museums are racing to capture moments from pandemic for posterityThe exhibition has been designed in three parts—an interactive walkthrough gallery with virtual halls; a ‘Corona India Collection’ of virtual 3D artefacts spanning images of physical items, audio and videos; and a third section titled ‘Your Story’ where people browsing the exhibition will have the opportunity to make a digital submission of their personal mementos that capture the ways in which their lives were transformed by the virus. The interactive tour of the gallery designed to give one the feel of actually walking around a physical gallery is divided into four virtual ‘halls’. The first chamber will dwell on the genesis of Covid-19 starting from zoonosis and SARS-CoV-2 virus to how it appeared and spread while the second hall will delve into the science of Covid-19 spanning signs and symptoms to how it is being treated. “We’re sourcing information from WHO, CDC and ICMR while our proposed subject matter expert committee for the exhibition includes the president of Indian Academy of Sciences, former director of National Institute of Immunology and CEO of India Alliance that funds research in health and biomedical sciences in India,” said Dasgupta. The third hall will depict a graphic timeline starting with the declaration of a new virus at Wuhan to India-specific events with the country registering its first case and day-wise growth. The hall will also explore other themes such as “survival strategies” at governmental, local and individual level; mythbusters for false information propagated during this time; the climate conundrum; and aphoto album titled ‘The City Citadels’ featuring images of deserted streets and public places curated from photographers on duty and NSCM’s own staff photographer who has been maintaining a photo diary. The fourth hall will focus on the pandemic’s cultural influence in terms of the walking working class, accounts of their suffering, stories of stigma, corona warriors and how the digital domain has shaped people’s lives. “Apart from news reports, all our 25 science centres are collecting first-hand stories, visual material and oral histories from different communities,” said Dasgupta. A digital room brimming with objects that articulate inthe-moment experiences of Covid-19 will define the second part of the exhibit — the virtual 3D artefact collection. Be it video recordings from corona hospital wards or snapshots of unremarkable items charged with new purpose —forest dwellers in Orissa using leaf masks to motorbike designed in Agartala with safe distancing between co-riders—all searchable by country, city and district. The council will initially put out curated material before making a public call for people to upload their own written diaries, essays, poems and artworks for the crowdsourced section titled ‘Your Story’— the third part of the project. “While this exhibition is a scientific coverage of the event, it will also highlight the social impact of the pandemic in a large way and so anyone should be able to contribute,” said Dasgupta adding that the council also plans to bring out a repository of all the Indian research papers on coronavirus published in national and international journals. Initiated in May with a mandate both urgent and sweeping, the effort to collate material have fanned out to four cities-—Delhi, Mumbai, Kolkata and Kozhikode—with senior curators of these science centres gearing up to launch the exhibit in January 2021. Given the fluid nature of the exhibition—designed to evolve as events play out in real-time over the next few years—clinical instruments such as ventilators, PPE suits, contactless thermometers, and sanitizers are among the objects that curators will pursue down the line for a physical ‘Post-Covid Era’ collection. “At a certain point in time, the virtual portal should represent the physical objects. It is important to build a parallel physical repository as we don’t want the human impact of this to get lost years from now like what happened after the Spanish Flu,” said Dasgupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/your-lockdown-videos-handmade-face-masks-to-tell-pandemic-story/articleshow/79228638.cms||Mohua Das
November 15, 2020||Pune||Schools in Maharashtra worry about ways to maintain hygienic premises||PUNE: School managements are now engulfed in a host of problems after the state government announced the reopening of institutes from November 23 for students from standards IX to XII. The most pressing hurdle is that of hygiene and sanitization. The Maharashtra State Teachers’ Association has written to the government requesting aid to equip themselves with cleaning equipment for safety and hygiene that would be needed when students re-enter the campus, especially in local government schools. The association has said it will be hard to ensure a high level of sanitization required during the pandemic if they do not get the funds. “We do not oppose the schools’ reopening. But to ensure that they reopen with all necessary infrastructure during the pandemic, the government needs to pay the non-salary grant pending for many years, immediately,” they said. Schools with studentstrength up to 500, those with student strength between 500-1,000 and those above 1,000 must get Rs1 lakh, Rs2 lakh and Rs5 lakh, respectively before they reopen. One of the biggest demands of the teachers has been the appointment of class IV employees who take care of cleanliness in a school. “These high number of vacancies must be filled quickly,” Ravindra Fadnavis, coordinator of Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal, said. The Pune Municipal Corporation has about 40 secondary schools that will reopen with alternate day arrangement for students. “After talking to headmasters and headmistresses, we realized that different schools have different problems,” PMC education officer Shivaji Daundkar said. Unlike private schools which plan to call students only for practicals and assessment initially, the PMCrun schools have decided to start taking physical classes. “We will contact every parent, and get their consent. We have realized that many students may not have access to online education. For such students, as well as for subjects like maths, science and English, physical classes are required,” Daundkar added. Santosh K, cleaning staff at a local civic school, said the Pune Municipal Corporation must provide them with protective gear when they reopen schools. “It is going to be tough. There is always a fear of the virus spreading and infecting family members back home,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-in-maharashtra-worry-about-ways-to-maintain-hygienic-premises/articleshow/79228691.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 15, 2020||World||Spurred on by false claims of fraud, Trump supporters rally in Washington||WASHINGTON:Tens of thousands of President Donald Trump's supporters marched through downtown Washington on Saturday, echoing his unsubstantiated claims of election fraud and cheering as his motorcade drove past. A week after Democrat Joe Biden clinched the election, Trump, a Republican, has refused to accept the outcome and has launched a flurry of dubious legal challenges to overturn the results. Election officials around the country have said they saw no evidence of serious irregularities. Carrying flags and chanting "stop the steal," the protesters walked from Freedom Plaza near the White House to the U.S. Supreme Court building on Capitol Hill as part of the "Million MAGA March," referring to Trump's campaign mantra of "Make American Great Again." Trump's motorcade briefly drove through the crowds on the way to his golf course in Sterling, Virginia. Demonstrators cheered as the president, wearing a red baseball cap emblazoned with the slogan, waved from inside the presidential limousine. "They will not stand for a Rigged and Corrupt Election!" Trump wrote on Twitter, saying hundreds of thousands had taken to the streets. Police gave no official crowd size, but witnesses said it was far smaller than Trump's estimate. Donald Tarca Jr., who traveled to Washington from West Palm Beach, Florida, held a massive U.S. flag sporting a giant portrait of Trump. "I think it was rigged on multiple fronts," he said of the election. "Also, the media was so biased that they convinced millions of Americans to vote for Biden. They hate Trump." Scores of members of the far-right Proud Boys group, mostly clad in black with some wearing helmets and ballistic vests, were among the marchers. Some left-wing groups staged small counter-demonstrations, including members of the loose movement known as antifa. Near the Supreme Court, some counter-protesters carried black umbrellas and makeshift shields, while others formed a line of bicycles to prevent pro-Trump protesters from approaching their group from the rear. They called Trump supporters "Nazis;" the protesters shouted back a profanity about antifa. Reuters witnessed at least half a dozen scuffles and several tense standoffs, but the violence appeared isolated. One person was stabbed and rushed to a trauma center, a spokeswoman for the city fire and emergency medical services department said. The Washington Post reported that the stabbing occurred amid a melee between Trump supporters, some carrying batons, and counter-protesters that broke out around 8 p.m. The city's police department had made 10 arrests by mid-afternoon, a spokeswoman told Reuters, including four for firearms violations, two for assault and one for assaulting an officer. Biden spent the morning at his beach house in Delaware meeting with transition advisers, as he has done for much of the week, before returning to his home near Wilmington. The president-elect has largely ignored Trump's repeated claims of fraud, instead focusing on preparing to govern and fielding congratulatory calls from world leaders. During a bike ride on Saturday morning with his wife, Jill, he answered "yes" when a reporter asked whether he was making progress in selecting his Cabinet appointees. 'TIME WILL TELL'Despite his bluster on Twitter, Trump began to sound doubtful about his prospects for the first time on Friday, telling reporters "time will tell" who occupies the White House starting on Inauguration Day, Jan. 20. "This administration will not be going to a lockdown. Hopefully the, uh, whatever happens in the future - who knows which administration it will be? I guess time will tell," Trump said during remarks about the coronavirus pandemic at a White House event. Biden won 306 votes to Trump's 232 in the state-by-state Electoral College system that determines the winner, according to Edison Research, far more than the 270 required to win the election. He also leads in the national popular vote by more than 5.5 million votes, or 3.6%. With the election results becoming clearer, Trump has discussed with advisers possible media ventures and appearances that would keep him in the spotlight ahead of a possible 2024 White House bid, aides said. But his repeated allegations that the election was "rigged" have inflamed his supporters and stalled the transition to a new administration. The Trump campaign has filed lawsuits in multiple states with little success thus far. Legal experts have said the litigation is extremely unlikely to alter the election outcome. States face a Dec. 8 deadline to certify their elections and choose electors for the Electoral College, though many states have implemented earlier certification dates. The Electoral College meets to vote for the new president on Dec. 14. In light of Trump's refusal to concede, the federal agency that releases funding to an incoming president-elect, the General Services Administration, has yet to recognize Biden's victory, denying him access to federal office space and resources. Biden's pick for White House chief of staff, Ron Klain, said this week that a rapid transition is necessary to ensure the government is prepared to roll out a potential coronavirus vaccine early next year. The raging pandemic will likely be Biden's top priority. The United States set a new daily record of new cases on Friday for the fourth straight day; more than 244,000 people in the country have died of the coronavirus since the pandemic began.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/spurred-on-by-false-claims-of-fraud-trump-supporters-rally-in-washington/articleshow/79228675.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Pune||Few parents in Pune give consent for kids to attend offline classes||PUNE: A number of schools across the city have decided to start classes in different segments allowing a blended mode of education although very few parents have given their consent for offline classes. Many schools said that Std X and XII students, whose parents have consented to them returning to class, would be called in for offline classes initially. Other students would watch the live lecture online from home. There would be no lunch breaks and students would have to bring their own water bottles. Even transportation would not be allowed in the beginning, said the authorities. Some schools are taking their time with reopening since there has been a poor response from parents. “Regarding school reopening, the response from parents has not been very positive. At the moment, we are not thinking about reopening schools for classes. We will call only Std X and XII students for practicals and preliminary exams. Even so, students have the option of attempting the question paper at school or at home, as everything is based on parents’ consent,” said Jayshree Venkatraman, principal of SNBP International School. Arti Sharma, principal of Army Public School, Kirkee, said that they have completed the parental consent survey and only an average of 38% parents of students in Std IX to XII have agreed to send their children to school when it reopens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/few-parents-in-pune-give-consent-for-kids-to-attend-offline-classes/articleshow/79228704.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 15, 2020||Pune||Pune: Arrested duo remanded in cop custody till November 18||PUNE: The two persons arrested in the woman IT professional’s abduction and robbery case were on Saturday remanded in police custody till November 18. Senior inspector Sardar Patil, the Kondhwa police station in-charge, said, “A magisterial court remanded them in police custody for five days for recovering cash and ornaments, collectively worth Rs1.8 lakh, robbed from the woman. We shall check if the arrested duo — Rajesh Singh Mahi and Krishna Ram Bahadur Rana — were involved in any other crime. Mahi and Rana have their roots in Meerut and Delhi, respectively.” The woman (35), an employee of a Bengaluru-based firm, had come to Pune a few days back to spend Diwali with her parents, residents of Salunke Vihar. Mahi, an acquaintance of her family, was teaching her driving. Around 8.30am on Tuesday, Mahi came to the woman’s house with a friend. She was alone then because her parents had left for Hyderabad last week for some urgent work and her brother was at his workplace. The unsuspecting woman joined Singh and his friend for a driving session, following which the incident occurred. For more than an hour, the suspects kept moving around Salunke Vihar, Pisoli, Undri, NIBM Road and adjoining areas in her car with the woman gagged and her hands tied.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-arrested-duo-remanded-in-cop-custody-till-november-18/articleshow/79228713.cms||Asseem Shaikh
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More recoveries than new Covid-19 cases, test positivity rate in Kerala at 10.3%||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: At least 6,357 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state on Saturday. With 6,793 patients recovering on the same day, 76,927 active cases are remaining in the state. To date, 5,20,417 cases have been reported in the state, of which 4,41,523 have recovered. Of the most recent cases, 5,542 had contracted the virus through local contacts while the sources of infection were unknown in 645 others. Besides, 63 medical and paramedical personnel were among the infected on the day. With 61,553 samples tested over 24 hours, the test positivity rate was 10.3%. Meanwhile, 26 deaths were confirmed on Saturday as Covid-related, taking the toll in the state to 1,848. The districtwise numbers for the new positive cases are Ernakulam, 860, Thrissur, 759, Kozhikode, 710, Malappuram, 673, Alappuzha, 542, Kollam, 530, Thiruvananthapuram, 468, Palakkad, 467, Kottayam, 425, Kannur, 363, Wayanad, 171, Pathanamthitta, 143, Kasaragod, 139 and Idukki, 107. Of the fresh cases, 107 had arrived from outside. Thiruvananthapuram had the most number of infections (12) among healthcare workers, followed by Kannur, 10, Kozhikode, nine, Thrissur, eight, Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam and Wayanad, four each, Palakkad, three, Kollam, Idukki, Kottayam and Kasaragod, two each and Malappuram, one. There are 3,19,481 people under observation in the state, including 3,01,535 under home or institutional quarantine and 17,946 in hospitals. On Saturday, 2,180 persons were hospitalised. One place each in Pathanamthitta and Palakkad districts were declared as hotspots while five areas were exempted on Saturday. Presently, there are 609 hotspots in the state. Police, volunteers to get vaccine in second phaseA rapid action team chaired by district collector B Abdul Nazar that met in Kollam on Saturday decided to focus on police, social workers, and volunteers functioning as frontline warriors for the second phase of Covid vaccination when it becomes available. It was announced on Friday that health workers will be the first choice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-recoveries-than-new-covid-19-cases-test-positivity-rate-in-kerala-at-10-3/articleshow/79228709.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Pune||MoD nod to Phursungi water pipeline work||PUNE: The residents of Phursungi and Uruli Devachi can expect an improvement in the water supply in the coming months because the ministry of defence (MoD) has given its nod for laying a water pipeline over its land. The ambitious pipeline project planned by the Maharashtra Jeevan Pradhikaran (MJP) in 2014 had hit a stonewall last year, as the permission required to lay the pipeline on the 800-metre stretch in the defence area ahead of Hadapsar was awaited. The MJP officials stated that the defence nod would help the department to expedite the remaining work, including laying of the pipeline, and complete the project in the next six months. Around 80% of the overall project work has been completed so far. “The pipeline work in the defence land will be completed on priority. The water will be supplied from the Cantonment water works. The incomplete work on some stretches would be finished in next few months. Two overhead tanks of 38 lakh litre of storage capacity each will distribute the water in the area. A filtration plant is also almost ready. There is a plan to fix the water pumps,” an official of the MJP said. The corporators said the pipeline was the need of the hour for the residents of these areas. “Phursungi and the adjacent localities rely heavily on water tankers, with the areas receiving over 140 vehicles daily. We approached MP Supriya Sule regarding this, and she followed up the issue with the defence authorities,” elected representative Ganesh Dhore said. Dhore stated that the water distribution network was in place in some areas. “The network would be utilized to provide water at doorstep. The work of overhead tanks at Tukai hill is 70% completed. We will ask the MJP to expedite the remaining work,” Dhore added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mod-nod-to-phursungi-water-pipeline-work/articleshow/79228724.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Pune||Thieves tamper with ATM in Pune, decamp with Rs 2.43 lakh cash||PUNE: The Sinhagad Road police on Thursday are investigating a case in which unidentified men tampered with a bank’s automated teller machine (ATM) and made off with Rs2.43 lakh. The incident came to light after the bank’s zonal office in the city discovered six suspicious transactions made from six of its ATMs, including the one at Bhadale complex on Dhayari-Narhe Road, on October 30. Amit Kumbhar, an official from the contractual firm appointed by the bank to operate and maintain its ATMs, registered a first-information report under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. Inspector (crime) Prabhakar Waghmare from the Sinhagad Road police told TOI, “Unidentified men visited the ATM to withdraw money using a debit/credit card. When the machine dispensed cash, they either opened the box lock or switched off the system and turned it on instantly. The cash was dispensed, but the machine did not register the transaction.” The suspects handled the machine in such a way that, on being tampered with, it cancels the transaction even if it is in the process of dispensing cash. “Once the cash is withdrawn, the money is not debited from the account as the transaction is shown as cancelled. The account-holder will continue to have money in his or her account even if the suspects have removed the cash from the machine.” After these suspicious transactions came to light, the contractual firm decided to approach the police, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-tamper-with-atm-in-pune-decamp-with-rs-2-43-lakh-cash/articleshow/79228736.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Why poll watcher complaints don't amount to fraud||President Donald Trump's legal allies have launched a flurry of lawsuits arguing that widespread fraud could have been committed because its poll watchers didn't get proper access to the voting process. Most of those lawsuits have been dismissed over lack of evidence of election fraud. Trump has tried to argue that there is a link between some of the complaints of partisan poll watchers and the results of the election, which was won by Democrat Joe Biden. But there has been no credible information to validate his assertions. In fact, both state and federal officials have praised the 2020 election as safe and secure. WHAT IS A POLL WATCHER?A poll watcher is a partisan appointee who monitors voting or ballot counting to help ensure their party gets a fair shot. They are not supposed to interfere in the electoral process, except to report issues to party officials or polling place authorities, and are typically required to register in advance with the local election office. Tasked this year with monitoring a record number of mail ballots, poll watchers are designated by a political party or campaign to report any concerns they may have. With a few reports of overly aggressive poll watchers, election officials said they were carefully balancing access with the need to minimize disruptions and social distance concerns over the coronavirus pandemic. In many places, they were ordered to stand 6 feet away. Monitoring polling places and election offices is allowed in most states, but rules vary and there are certain limits to avoid any harassment or intimidation. WERE TRUMP'S POLL WATCHERS DENIED ACCESS?The Trump campaign said from the beginning that Republican poll watchers were being improperly denied access to observe the counting of ballots. Not so, countered election officials in key battleground states, who said rules were being followed and they were committed to transparency. In Pennsylvania, for example, state election officials said poll watchers were certified in every county. Republican lawyers acknowledged in court that they had observers watching polls and mail-in ballots being processed. In Michigan, a Trump campaign lawsuit included assertions from their observers that poll workers rolled their eyes when viewing votes for Trump, wore masks or clothing supporting the Black Lives Matter movement or appeared to double-count ballots. Other lawsuits claimed poll watchers were temporarily denied access in some locations, but there has been no evidence to back it up. Nor was there evidence of votes being miscounted out of political bias. And most of the litigation alleging this has been dismissed. WAS THERE ANY VOTER FRAUD IN THE 2020 ELECTION?No, not according to multiple election officials in key states. The federal Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency has called the voting and count ``the most secure in American history.'' Trump's legal allies have tried to argue that if poll workers weren't on hand, anything could have happened out of their view. But they have not provided any evidence of nefarious activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/why-poll-watcher-complaints-dont-amount-to-fraud/articleshow/79228752.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Dudhwa tigress struggles to save litter||BAREILLY: As the body lay cold, she could not pull away. The tigress, Beldanda, had given birth to five last year. All of them are lost or dead by now. This year, she gave birth to four. But on Thursday, one of them was killed by a male tiger. Moments later, she arrived where the cub lay, nuzzled the body and lingered, before hurrying off with the rest of her cubs in a desperate attempt to save them. While Dudhwa Tiger Reserve officials can’t intrude on what is a natural process, they are trying to do their bit, closing off the area to tourists so the tigress can move around with her cubs without at least the human intervention to deal with. Part of the Kishanpur Wildlife Sanctuary inside the reserve, where she lives, had also been closed off last year when she had given birth to five cubs, to keep them safe. “But they were all lost… This time, we were 50 metres away. It was heart-rending. She stood there, mourning her cub. We did not allow our staff to move the body and let her grieve,” said Dudhwa director Sanjay Pathak. “Moving the body might disturb her.” In a series of camera trap images, the six-year-old tigress can be seen standing by the body of her cub, and then carrying the rest of her cubs by the scruff one by one. “There are some 17 tigers in Kishanpur. For every male, cubs are a threat — once they grow up, they could challenge them for territory,” said Pathak. The male in the area had killed a tigress a year ago. Beldanda may’ve mated with him to save her cubs, in what is known as “false mating”, he said. Keeping the cubs safe is difficult for other reasons as well. “Right after giving birth, the tigress is weak but has to get food for them, protect them from other predators and even large herbivores … Sometimes, even wild boars attack cubs because they know they will grow up to become predators,” said Pathak. “There is a great risk even when she takes them to a watering hole.” The forest officials have dug up more watering holes for her. “She may attack humans, considering them a threat to her cubs,” said Pathak. Kishanpur has a long-standing encroachment problem. “There are 13 villages inside the core forest. It disturbs the wildlife. Because of the limited forest area, the fight over territory is greater among tigers,” said wildlife expert Siddharth Singh, who has been trailing Beldanda for years and was the first to photograph her with five cubs last year. Watch Watch: Tigress with four cubs seen at Dudhwa National Park||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-dudhwa-tigress-struggles-to-save-litter/articleshow/79228732.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 15, 2020||Mumbai||Lip service: Hobby whistlers pipe away their blues in the pandemic||MUMBAI: Recently, little Rihaan Langote watched his anesthesiologist mother lull their pet cat Mini into slow unconsciousness using a non-medical instrument. Instead of an injection or intravenous tubes, Mrunal Langote had merely used her lungs, it seems, to induce in unsuspecting Mini the same effect as general anesthesia. “Mom, your whistling made the cat fall asleep,” six-year-old Rihaan pointed out to his mother, who can warble entire songs deftly enough to warrant the reputation of someone who can whistle her way through most tasks. However, her journey from a shy woman too “embarrassed” to whistle in front of strangers to confident performer who has been puckering in front of mikes for five years now, had taken several deep breaths and an intervention from the Indian Whistlers' Association or IWA. “I was always afraid of what others would think of me, a woman, whistling,” recalls Langote, who, in 2015, stumbled upon IWA—a registered association of over 130 whistlers across India started by 35-yearold sound engineer Rigveda Deshpandey back in 2004. From men who were mistaken for eve-teasers to women from conservative homes in which only the cooker was allowed to whistle loudly, its fellowship emboldened Langote enough to send in her “audition” sample—a rendition of the sepia Hindi number ‘Dekha ek Khwab’. Soon, the anesthesiologist found herself in the company of discerning ears such as Carnatic-music-trained homemaker Lakshmy Iyer, 52 who would groom her for stage performances through her notes on WhatsApp. Today, Langote makes heads turn by performing at pujas and other events. If her son dazzled his school assembly by whistling a patriotic song on Independence Day last year, Langote joined 50 members of IWA from across the globe in a video whistling tribute to ‘Mile Sur Mera Tumhara’ on Republic Day earlier this year. This widely-viewed tribute united many male and female practitioners of the art form that is often perceived as the prerogative of roadside romeos or tamped down by old wives' tales that told girls they would grow a beard if they whistled. To rehabilitate whistling as a fine art, the members of IWA have been busy through the lockdown, not only performing shows for cancer awareness NGOs such as Manav Seva but also designing a serious syllabus of whistling which not only details blow-in and blow-out but also nuances of modulating a Lata Mangeshkar song. For most of the members, whistling is a way to walk deserted streets alone, drive away workplace blues and keep cool during traffic jams. By default, the members spanning seven to 75-year-olds are all nonsmokers so that their lungs can support their hobby. Sailor Chetan Bapat has been whistling since he was three years old. During his days as a college student, the canteen table supplied percussion and a crowd always formed around Bapat as he belted out chart toppers with his lips puckered. Then, there’s Aniket Gajbhiye, an assistant professor whom neighbours usually hear before they see. Recently, Gajbhiye won second place in an all India Whistling Karaoke challenge but counts the compliments of senior citizens at an orphanage where he recently performed, as the greater reward: “They said my renditions took them back in time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lip-service-hobby-whistlers-pipe-away-their-blues-in-the-pandemic/articleshow/79228731.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
November 15, 2020||World||Mexico surpasses 1 million Covid cases||MEXICO CITY: Mexico surpassed one million Covid-19 cases on Saturday, registering 5,860 new infections over the previous day in a country with one of the world's highest death tolls from the virus, the government said. A total of 1,003,253 people have now tested positive for the virus in Mexico, said health ministry official Ricardo Cortes. The death toll meanwhile reached 98,259, including 635 registered over the past day, he added. Mexico has the world's fourth-highest death toll from the virus behind the United States, Brazil and India, according to an AFP tally based on official figures. It also has the 11th highest number of infections. Cases have been spiking in a number of areas of the country. "We probably still need to see the worst," Alejandro Macias, former national commissioner against the AH1N1 influenza pandemic in Mexico City in 2009, told AFP. The government earlier declared a lockdown on March 23, although essential economic activities remained open, with no sanctions for non-compliance. The mayor of Mexico City, Claudia Sheinbaum, announced on Friday the closure of bars for 15 days and earlier closing times for restaurants, cinemas and gyms due to the spike in infections and hospitalizations over the last week. Sheinbaum also said that daily tests will be increased to 10,000. The capital has seen an increase in infections since mid-October and remains the epicenter of the pandemic in Mexico.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/mexico-surpasses-1-million-covid-cases/articleshow/79228784.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||As president-elect, Biden makes diplomacy dull again||WASHINGTON: After Donald Trump in his first week as president spoke to Australia's prime minister, leaks of the call left many dumbfounded, with the new US leader haranguing and hanging up on the close ally. When Joe Biden spoke by phone Thursday with Prime Minister Scott Morrison, the president-elect's office said Biden hoped to work with him on "many common challenges" and the Australian leader said he would forward a study on how his country fought Covid-19 through contact tracing. Following four years of presidential pique and chronic chaos in dealing with foreign leaders, Biden has already signaled a reversal -- he is making US diplomacy predictable, even dull, again. His transition office -- which is not receiving customary assistance from the State Department as Trump refuses to concede the election -- is putting out the sort of soporific readouts that until the 2016 election were the primary means of US presidential communication. With Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, whom Trump derided over Twitter following a summit as "very dishonest & weak," a Biden statement after a congratulatory phone call said the pair "reaffirmed the close bonds between the United States and Canada" and pledged cooperation against Covid-19 and future biological threats. After his conversation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel, whom Trump had openly criticized for her welcome to migrants, Biden "noted his interest in working closely" to address the pandemic, climate change and other issues and "praised her leadership." The lack of drama in Biden's approach is, well, no surprise. Biden, with nearly 50 years of experience in Washington, ran on promises to return to normalcy, bringing back the time-honored decision-making process involving expert consultations rather than impulsive tweets. In a campaign speech on foreign policy, Biden pointed to the sharp decline in global respect of the United States under Trump and promised to turn the page on "the chest-thumping, the self-inflicted setbacks and the manufactured crises of this administration." Biden's return to a more traditional diplomacy is about more than a less brash personal style. He is also signaling that he places a greater value on working with the world, said Monica Duffy Toft, a professor of international politics at The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University. "Trump likes to do things bilaterally and unilaterally. The big difference is that Biden respects and understands that you need to work multilaterally sometimes," she said. "I think it's going to be less personalistic, less chaotic and much more by protocol, and obviously not by tweet." She expected Biden to revive the role of the State Department -- derided by the ever-suspicious Trump as the "Deep State Department" -- and move away from personal and family connections. Autocratic leaders have assiduously sought unfiltered channels to Trump, who dispensed with the usual note-takers when meeting Russian President Vladimir Putin and who was said to take telephone calls placed directly by his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan without any preparation by aides. Trump's son-in-law, Jared Kushner, was put in charge of the Middle East and would chat over WhatsApp with Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, who can expect significantly more pressure from Biden over human rights. "If you were one of those strongmen countries, it was easier. They knew that they could somehow get Trump's ear and get what they wanted," Duffy Toft said. "It might be good for that world leader, but it's very unsettling to other world leaders." Biden is not always the polar opposite of Trump. Like the tycoon, Biden is fond of speaking of how he has cultivated relations with foreign leaders and speaks more the language of pragmatism than grand geopolitical strategy. But it is hard to imagine allies limiting access to conversations with Biden out of concern for embarrassing leaks, as Germany reportedly did with calls from Trump. As former president Barack Obama said on the campaign trail of a Biden administration, "It just won't be so exhausting."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/as-president-elect-biden-makes-diplomacy-dull-again/articleshow/79228823.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Sigh of relief as international organisations await Biden||GENEVA: After years of US disengagement and confrontation, international organisations in Geneva appeared to breathe a collective sigh of relief at Joe Biden's presidential election win -- but the anticipated honeymoon could be short. "I think everyone is basically waiting with open arms for the US government to come back," said Manfred Elsig, an international relations professor at the World Trade Institute of Bern University. Republican President Donald Trump's administration has been a traumatic experience for international organisations that in many cases were created by the United States and accustomed to strong US support and leadership. In Geneva alone, the United States has, under Trump, cut its ties to the UN's top rights body, hamstrung the World Trade Organization and begun withdrawing from the World Health Organization even as the body strives to coordinate the global response to Covid-19. After the election was called for Democratic Party candidate Biden last weekend, "there was a huge sigh of relief" within the international organisations, a Geneva trade official told AFP, asking not to be named. Observers expect Washington under Biden to re-engage with the international community and its institutions, and to resume discussions on a number of issues blocked by his predecessor. "I think there will be a bit of a honeymoon," Elsig said, warning though that the blissful period could be "short". The narrative pushed hard for four years that international organisations are taking advantage of the US remains deeply engrained, especially among Republicans, he said. "Every step that the Biden administration will take towards engaging with the world and international organisations will be critically monitored in the United States." While plenty of stumbling blocks remain, there is optimism in Geneva that discussions within international forums will become more constructive. The WHO has particular reason to celebrate, after suffering relentless US attacks in recent months. Accusing the United Nations health agency of mishandling the Covid-19 response and of kowtowing to China, Trump has begun withdrawing the United States -- traditionally the WHO's top donor -- from the organisation. But Biden said in a tweet: "On my first day as president, I will rejoin the WHO and restore our leadership on the world stage." The WHO did not wish to comment on its expectations for a Biden presidency, but the agency's chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus struck an upbeat tone in his congratulatory tweet to the president-elect. "I look forward to working with you and your teams. Crises like the Covid-19 pandemic show the importance of global solidarity in protecting lives and livelihoods," he said. The World Trade Organization will certainly also welcome a changing of the guard in Washington. The global trade body is facing multiple crises, with the United States stubbornly blocking its budget, crippling its dispute settlement system and now impeding the selection of its new leader, having been without a captain since August. A second Geneva trade official said Biden could conceivably reverse course and give approval to Nigeria's Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala becoming the first woman and first African to lead the WTO. But a number of other issues -- including Washington's dislike for its appeals body, which it accuses of overreach -- pre-date Trump. Nevertheless, even if some fundamental positions may remain unchanged, there will not be the same "gratuitous aggressiveness", the official said. While international organisations can now perhaps look forward to more constructive engagement with Washington, Elsig stressed that not all of Trump's attacks had been bluster. "Maybe 10 percent of the criticism is to be taken seriously," he said, pointing to growing agreement that reforms at the WHO and other organisations were needed. In the short term, he said, Biden should enjoy goodwill among international partners and will be "in a strong position" to push legitimate demands for change. But Elsig said he remained "really worried about the discourse in the US". "If the Trump approach continues in the Republican Party... then we don't have long-term support in the United States for international organisations. "That is a huge problem."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/sigh-of-relief-as-international-organisations-await-biden/articleshow/79228814.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Harris leads record wave of elected women changing face of US politics||WASHINGTON: With Kamala Harris poised to become the first female vice president of the United States, and with a record number of women elected to Congress -- including more Republicans than ever -- considerable history will be made when they all take office in January. The 56-year-old Harris, a senator, former prosecutor and the running mate of President-elect Joe Biden, will notch a slew of firsts when she is sworn in on January 20: as the first US female vice president and the first Black in that position, as well as the first person of South Asian descent. "Together, we showed little girls across the country what's possible," she said Friday on Twitter. It was the latest echo of a speech Hillary Clinton delivered in 2016 in recognizing her defeat by Donald Trump. "I know we have still not shattered that highest and hardest glass ceiling" -- that of the White House -- "but someday someone will, and hopefully sooner than we might think," the defeated Democratic candidate said. Clinton then directed these words of encouragement to the country's "little girls": "Never doubt that you are valuable and powerful and deserving of every chance and opportunity in the world to pursue and achieve your own dreams." Since Clinton pronounced those words four years ago, women have transformed the face of American politics -- both in Congress and, soon, in the White House. "With Kamala Harris, a lot of glass ceilings were shattered in one day," said Amy Dacey, a former chief executive of the Democratic National Committee now at American University. Ron Klain, whom Biden has named as his chief of staff, has said Harris will play a "significant" role, Dacey noted. "And I think (Biden will) bring in a lot of women at all levels of the administration." Analysts expect Biden to appoint either progressive senator Elizabeth Warren or Federal Reserve official Lael Brainard, a former Treasury undersecretary, to head the Treasury -- a position never filled by a woman. The United States might also see its first woman secretary of defense. Michele Flournoy, a former Pentagon number three, has been frequently mentioned. There are only two women in the Trump cabinet: transportation secretary Elaine Chao and education secretary Betsy DeVos. Several women have served Trump as senior advisors or as White House spokesperson. But the Republican billionaire has also frequently sparked controversy with insulting or sexist comments about women. In October, he referred to Harris as a "monster." Americans in 2018 had already elected a record number of women. On November 3, they broke that record. "This election shows continued progress for women in America," said Kelly Dittmar, director of Rutgers University's Center for American Women and Politics (CAWP). "It importantly will have a substantive impact on American politics," she told AFP, "because in addition to literally bringing themselves to government, they bring their lived experiences and distinct perspectives that are still under-represented." While some results of the November 3 election are not yet final, at least 140 women will take seats in Congress when it returns on January 3, according to CAWP. There are currently 127 women in Congress, or 23.7 percent of the 435 seats in the House of Representatives and the 100 in the Senate. While that percentage will rise to 26 percent in January, women still have far to go -- they represent half the US population. Democratic women will claim 105 seats in Congress (89 in the House and 16 in the Senate). Republican women, for their part, will occupy 35 seats (27 in the House and eight in the Senate) -- considerably fewer than their Democratic counterparts but still a big increase from the current 22. Women Republican candidates "performed better than expected," Dittmar said. "They would still be significantly under-represented, but this should send a message about both their electability, and hopefully increase their influence within the party to ensure that more women get elected in the future." Asked on Friday about the record number of Republican women elected, House speaker Nancy Pelosi -- the first woman to occupy that position -- said she would "congratulate and welcome each and every one of them." But then the Democratic speaker, rounding the House total upward, quickly emphasized that her party was still doing better by women, casually adding: "Of course, we have 90."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/harris-leads-record-wave-of-elected-women-changing-face-of-us-politics/articleshow/79228850.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||As rich nations hoard vaccines, Covid fight could stretch to 2024||Good results of the Pfizer vaccine have spread cheer across the world. Some other vaccines also look promising, and large-scale vaccination of at least health staff and other at-risk people could begin soon. Yet, experts say it could take four years to immunise the world against the coronavirus. That’s because rich countries have already reserved billions of doses – equal to more than a year’s supply – of vaccines for their citizens, leaving little for the world’s poor.  The US alone has bought nearly a sixth of the world’s supply and Canada has secured enough doses to inoculate each citizen nine times. With 1.6 billion doses, India is the number 1 advance buyer, but it averages out to just over 1 dose per person. The rush to hoard vaccines has left many low- and middle-income countries unable to immunise their entire populations until 2024.  6.4 billion doses booked Countries are hedging their bets by purchasing billions of doses of the vaccines undergoing advanced trials. Of the 9.6 billion doses that have been reserved, 6.4 billion are confirmed purchases and 3.2 billion are under negotiation or parts of an option to expand an existing deal.  But with the limits of manufacturing capacity, some countries — mainly lower- and middle-income ones — may not have enough doses to immunise their entire populations by 2024. High-income countries have 3.4 billion doses in confirmed deals but no low-income country has signed direct deals to secure vaccines, according to a Duke University database.  To help low- and middle-income countries immunise at least 20% of their population, a coalition of international agencies and nonprofits, called Covid-19 Vaccines Global Access Facility (Covax), is raising funds to secure 2 billion doses by the end of 2021. Many governments will be entirely dependent on Covax to immunise their people. More than 150 countries have agreed to contribute to it.  Nine doses for every Canadian Many countries will struggle to vaccinate anyone beyond frontline healthcare workers and some of their most vulnerable citizens for years. But some wealthy countries have advance-purchased enough doses to immunise their citizens several times over.  For instance, Canada has bought 358 millions doses for its 38 million citizens. That’s nine doses per person. It could still buy another 56 million doses to take it over 10 doses per person. But much of the world’s population will likely struggle to get even a single dose for months, if not years, after the first vaccines are approved and commercially available.   !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}();  Some middle-income countries like India and Brazil are developing their own vaccines, although they are still in the early phases of trials. Should India’s vaccines, for instance, prove successful, global supply will get a boost and prices will remain relatively low. Source: Duke Global Health Innovation Center, Economist, mediaWatch Why Covid vaccine fight could stretch to 2024||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/as-rich-nations-hoard-vaccines-covid-fight-could-stretch-to-2024/articleshow/79228706.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Egypt unveils 100 ancient wooden coffins||CAIRO: Egypt's Tourism and Antiquities Ministry has unveiled 100 newly-discovered ancient coffins in the Saqqara necropolis of Giza near the capital Cairo. "We announced today the discovery of 100 coloured sealed coffins from the Ptolemaic era... The coffins were discovered in the Saqqara necropolis of Giza," Tourism and Antiquities Minister Khaled al-Anany told Xinhua news agency on the site of the discovery. The rule of the Ptolemaic dynasty in Egypt lasted 275 years, from 305 BC to 30 BC. The Minister added that many artefacts, funerary masks and statues were also found at the burial sites of the coffins, noting that all the 100 coffins are in very good condition of preservation. "The works have not stopped yet at this site... Our missions will continue excavations, we might announce more discoveries from this site before the end of the year," Anany revealed. He stressed that Saqqara is an antiquity-rich area, adding that he is very proud that the discovery was made by an Egyptian archaeological mission. The Minister said such discoveries help people know more about funeral practices in Saqqara necropolis during that period. "This helps us know more about the mummification practices and technique in the area." The Minister explained that the coffins will be displayed at the Grand Egyptian Museum, the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization, the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, as well as the Museum of the New Administrative Capital. On October 3, the Ministry announced the discovery of 59 well-preserved coffins also at Saqqara. The new 100 coffins, as well as 40 statutes of ancient god Ptah, were found in three 12-metre deep shafts. In addition, 20 wooden boxes of god Horus, two wooden statues of a person called "Phnomus", a number of 'ushabti' statues, amulets and four gilded funeral masks were also found at the burial place. During Saturday's announcement, which was attended by large number of Egyptian officials, foreign ambassadors and public figures, Ministry experts opened a coffin with a mummy inside and conducted an X-Ray examination. The X-Ray examination revealed that the mummy belonged to a male, giving an age range of 40-45 years. The check also showed that the man was 165-175 cm tall. "This discovery is very important because of the number of the unveiled coffins," Secretary General of Egypt's Supreme Council of Antiquities Mostafa Waziri, who headed the Egyptian mission that made the discovery, told Xinhua. He revealed that the coffins belong to high-ranking official and rich people. "The coffins can tell that the mummies inside belonged to rich people," Waziri explained. "The materials, decorations and the mummification techniques revealed the prestigious status of the owners of the coffins."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/egypt-unveils-100-ancient-wooden-coffins/articleshow/79228876.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah lights up on Diwali||NEW DELHI: Decorative lights and 'diyas' (earthen lamps) adorned the Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia Dargah in the national capital on the occasion of Diwali on Saturday evening.  "People from all communities are followers of Hazrat Mahbub-e-Ilahi and visit the dargah during their festivals. They also light 'diyas' here. Dargahs are a platform for everyone," Peerzada Altamash Nizami of the dargah committee said. Delhi: Decorative lights & 'diyas' adorn Hazrat Nizamuddin Aulia Dargah on #Diwali. Peerzada Altamash Nizami of dar… https://t.co/ir2wmJOfr3— ANI (@ANI) 1605368084000 Many devotees were spotted visiting the dargah, lighting 'diyas' to mark Diwali and offered their prayers.  "The Dargah looks beautiful adorned with the 'diyas' and we feel wonderful to be a part of the festival. People come and offer their prayers here every year. It's good to see the vibrant atmosphere at the dargah today," Peerzada Altamash Nizami added. Watch On Diwali, lights and diyas adorn Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-hazrat-nizamuddin-dargah-lights-up-on-diwali/articleshow/79228903.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||Man killed in fire in west Delhi godown||NEW DELHI: A fire broke out at a wood godown in west Delhi's Mundka area, killing a man, a Delhi Fire Service official said on Sunday. The incident occurred on Saturday night, he added. A call about the blaze at the godown was received at around 11.05pm and 12 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Service said. The charred body of a man was found inside the godown, he added. The fire was brought under control eventually, Garg said, adding that what led to the blaze was not known yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-killed-in-fire-in-west-delhi-godown/articleshow/79228982.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar has no option but to comply with BJP: Manoj Jha ahead of NDA meet||PATNA: Ahead of the NDA's legislature party meeting in Bihar, senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha said the fate of the leadership in the state will be decided by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and JDU chief Nitish Kumar has no other option but to comply. "They don't have any alternative but to comply. With around 40 seats, he (Nitish Kumar) is dreaming of becoming the Chief Minister of Bihar. BJP has the 'script' to that dream. Just wait and watch what all will unfold in Bihar," Jha told ANI. These remarks come as a joint meeting of the NDA legislature party is scheduled to be held in Patna today, where Nitish Kumar is expected to be elected as the leader. In the recently concluded Assembly polls, the BJP had won 74 seats, JD-U 43, while eight seats were won by two other NDA constituents. On the issue of governance in the state, the RJD leader further said that the people of Bihar have woken up and they are bound to ask questions on issues of governance and hold the government accountable. "Now the people of Bihar have woken up. People will hold the government accountable for governance and ask questions. Previously, they used to have a huge majority, and now they have a wafer-thin majority. And managed the majority government with this many numbers don't last long," he said. On Nitish Kumar's remark that LJP's future in the NDA alliance will be decided by BJP, he said that "This is no rocket science. Of course, BJP will take this call."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-kumar-has-no-option-but-to-comply-with-bjp-manoj-jha-ahead-of-nda-meet/articleshow/79229034.cms||---
November 15, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar has no option but to comply with BJP: Manoj Jha ahead of NDA meet||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the NDA's legislature party meeting in Bihar, senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Manoj Jha said the fate of the leadership in the state will be decided by Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and JDU chief Nitish Kumar has no other option but to comply. "They don't have any alternative but to comply. With around 40 seats, he (Nitish Kumar) is dreaming of becoming the chief minister of Bihar. BJP has the 'script' to that dream. Just wait and watch what all will unfold in Bihar," Jha told ANI. These remarks come as a joint meeting of the NDA legislature party is scheduled to be held in Patna today, where Nitish Kumar is expected to be elected as the leader. In the recently concluded Assembly polls, the BJP had won 74 seats, JD-U 43, while eight seats were won by two other NDA constituents. On the issue of governance in the state, the RJD leader further said that the people of Bihar have woken up and they are bound to ask questions on issues of governance and hold the government accountable. "Now the people of Bihar have woken up. People will hold the government accountable for governance and ask questions. Previously, they used to have a huge majority, and now they have a wafer-thin majority. And managed the majority government with this many numbers don't last long," he said. On Nitish Kumar's remark that LJP's future in the NDA alliance will be decided by BJP, he said that "This is no rocket science. Of course, BJP will take this call."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-kumar-has-no-option-but-to-comply-with-bjp-manoj-jha-ahead-of-nda-meet/articleshow/79229069.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Guwahati||Baijayant Panda appointed new Assam BJP in-charge||GUWAHATI: BJP national vice-president Baijayant Panda has been appointed as Assam’s new in-charge — a post that was vacant for over a year after senior party leader from Uttar Pradesh, Mahendra Singh, was inducted in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet. Besides Panda, senior BJP leader Pawan Sharma has been appointed as seh-prabhari (co-incharge) for Assam BJP. Panda has also been named as the prabhari for Delhi BJP. The saffron camp saw a host of changes in its leadership roles with BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra being made the state in-charge of Manipur. In Tripura, Vinod Sonkar has been appointed as the chief, while M Chuba Ao has been given the charge of Meghalaya. Senior party leader Nalin Kohli will be taking care of Nagaland and Mmhonlumo Kikon of Mizoram. Party national general secretary Dilip Saikia, who is from Assam, is the new prabhari of Arunachal Pradesh and Jharkhand. Expectations are high from Panda, who will have to play a key role in finalizing the party’s strategy and alliances. “Alliances are expected to be sealed around the new year. The poll strategy, however, will be chalked out in and around December. The appointment of the new in-charge has infused enthusiasm among party workers,” a senior office-bearer of Assam BJP told TOI on Saturday. Welcoming Panda and Sharma to Assam, party state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said, “Only 143 days are left for the upcoming assembly polls. We, together, will ensure the party’s victory.” North East Democratic Alliance convener Himanta Biswa Sarma, too, said party workers were looking forward to working closely with Panda. “Congratulations to Shri @PandaJay ji and Shri Pawan Sharma ji on being given the role of @BJP4India Prabhari & Seh-Prabhari for Assam. Your appointments will greatly enthuse the karyakartas in the state,” chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted. Panda, a four-time MP, is also the spokesperson of BJP. He was elected to his second term (2014-2019) in the Lok Sabha from Kendrapada constituency in Odisha. He has graduated from the Michigan Technological University and worked in the corporate sector and has a background in engineering and management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/baijayant-panda-appointed-new-assam-bjp-in-charge/articleshow/79228987.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Guwahati||‘At Aasu convention, dist committees will oppose Samujjal’s decision to quit’||GUWAHATI: All Assam Students’ Union (Aasu) is ready for a change in guard ahead of the 2021 assembly polls, with outgoing president Dipanka Kumar Nath and general secretary Lurinjyoti Gogoi about to quit the organisation to lead political campaigns against BJP. Even as Aasu claims to be an “apolitical” organization, the Duliajan convention of the leading student body, scheduled to be held between November 18 and 21, will be of unprecedented importance. Though there is curiosity about the new people who will be elevated to the posts of central committee president and general secretary, all eyes are on Nath and Gogoi who are set to join anti-BJP fronts and are likely to contest the upcoming assembly polls. According to Aasu insiders, Lurinjyoti Gogoi, a face of the anti-CAA movement, is ready to start a political journey with the newly floated regional party Assam Jatiya Parishad (AJP) that was formed at the initiative of Aasu and Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad (AJYCP) a few months ago. However, there is much suspense on whether outgoing president Dipanka Nath will join AJP. “Even if he (Nath) does not join AJP, some other anti-BJP parties or organizations may manage to get his support. But he won’t join BJP for sure,” an Aasu insider said. The Duliajan convention is also going to be important as Aasu’s chief adviser and one of its most prominent faces, Samujjal Bhattacharyya, has recently said that he will quit the organisation. Bhattacharyya has expressed willingness to bid adieu to Aasu at a time when differences surrounding formation of AJP have had an impact on the unity of the Aasu leadership. Aasu central executive member Simanta Thakuria has resigned, accusing president Nath and general secretary Gogoi of dictating terms to AJP, violating the “apolitical” character of Aasu. But sources say that almost all district committees of Aasu will oppose Bhattacharyya’s decision to quit Aasu. Among the frontrunners for the post of president are Pragyan Bhuyan from Biswanath district in northern Assam and Utpal Sarma from central Assam’s Morigaon district. For the post of general secretary, Uddip Jyoti Gogoi from Sivasagar and Sankar Jyoti Barua from Dibrugarh — both belong to the upper Assam belt — are the top contenders. Altogether 5,000 Aasu delegates, representatives from the ethnic organizations and North East Student Organization (NESO) have been invited to the convention. Speaking to TOI, outgoing Aasu general secretary Gogoi on Saturday said, “This time, the Aasu convention is going to be vital not only because of change in guard but the outgoing leaders are going to usher in a ray of hope for a political change. People of Assam are hopeful that the leaders, who are going to leave Aasu, will play an active role in politics immediately to thwart CAA and other anti-people policies of the ruling BJP.” He, however, added that Aasu is committed to keeping intact its “apolitical” character and continue to lend its voice on the burning issues, without inclining towards any political party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/at-aasu-convention-dist-committees-will-oppose-samujjals-decision-to-quit/articleshow/79229113.cms||Kangkan Kalita
November 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Bus owners’ association president’s FB post on pedestrian underpass goes viral||MANGALURU: A Facebook post by Dilraj Alva, president of the Dakshina Kannada District Bus Owners’ Association, questioning the need for spending Rs 7 crore on the construction of a pedestrian underpass near Town Hall in Mangaluru has gone viral on social media. Pointing to a recent decision taken by the government to shift both the deputy commissioner’s office and the bus stand from the locality, Dilraj questioned the rationale behind spending such an enormous sum of money on the initiative. Placing the blame for the ill-advised project at the feet of the Mangaluru Smart City Ltd (MSCL), Alva said that the project, and the leisurely pace of its execution had greatly caused inconvenience to the public. MSCL managing director Akshay Sridhar, on the other hand, said that officials had been directed to expedite work on the project and complete it in a week. In his Facebook post, Dilraj underscored the futility of building pedestrian underpasses. “Is there one example of a pedestrian underpass that is useful? The answer is no, because 99% of them are useless. One such underpass that under construction near Town Hall in Mangaluru is an example of taxpayers’ money being wasted,” he wrote. Dilraj said most pedestrian underpasses often turned into dens for immoral activities. “There are plans to build an underpass at the Mangaluru Central Railway Station so as to help passengers cross the busy thoroughfare. I am sure that, after the inaugural ceremony, the structure will become a safe haven for immoral activities, not to mention a breeding ground for mosquitoes,” Dilraj told STOI. On the one hand, the new building to house the DC’s office is being constructed in Padil, with a large number of trees having been felled for the structure, while the main bus stand is also being shifted from the city. “Traffic movement is expected to reduce as a result, making one wonder why crores are being spent on the underpass?” Dilraj asked. Reacting to the post, Kevin RS wrote, “Everyone will learn of the reality of the underpass during the monsoon next year. The state of the Padil-Bajal underpass gives one an idea.” The reference being to the flooding of the Padil-Bajal underpass, an annual occurrence that is a consequence of unscientific construction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mangaluru-bus-owners-association-presidents-fb-post-on-pedestrian-underpass-goes-viral/articleshow/79229108.cms||Vinobha K T
November 15, 2020||Shillong||Border safe, BSF reassures on Diwali||SHILLONG: The BSF, which is entrusted with guarding the 443-km India-Bangladesh border that Meghalaya shares with the neighbouring country has reassured the residents of the state that the international border is safe in their hands. “BSF also wants to assure the residents of Meghalaya that the borders are safe in BSF’s hands of their BSF brothers who are on the duty in the national interest and guarding the Indo-Bangladesh Border round the clock,” a statement by the BSF Meghalaya Frontier said today. “BSF troops are celebrating Diwali on the campus as well as at International Border of Meghalaya as maximum of them could not go to their home owing to the pandemic to celebrate the festival with their family,” the statement said. Meanwhile, the festival was celebrated across the state following Covid protocols, while the night curfew was withdrawn on Saturday. The curfew will be reimposed on Sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shillong/border-safe-bsf-reassures-on-diwali/articleshow/79229132.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Guwahati||Cop crackdown on gamblers ahead of festival, 30 arrested||GUWAHATI: Thirty gamblers were arrested in an anti-gambling drive ahead of Diwali in Nagaon, Dhubri and Kamrup districts in the last 24 hours. Police on Saturday arrested six gamblers with huge gambling instruments in Kamrup’s Chaygaon area. Gambling here is an age-old practice during Diwali. Three were arrested earlier while two were arrested from Palashbari. Guwahati commissioner of police, Munna Prasad Gupta, told TOI, “Special drives are going on to check gambling activities in the city. Several gamblers have been arrested. All officers have been instructed to keep strict vigilance at all vulnerable points and hotels where gambling is usually conducted.” Deputy inspector general of police (DIG), Western Range, Bongaigaon Devojyoti Mukherjee, said, “There has been a special direction from the government to check gambling. For the last 10 days, police have conducted search operations in various locations of Bongaigaon, Dhubri, Barpeta, Goalpara and arrested over 15 gamblers.” The DIG added that at least 22 gambling spots in these districts have been identified and evicted. Gambling has become rampant across the state on Diwali nights. In many places, social distancing norms also went for a toss as gamblers usually huddle up inside small rooms. A police officer and various locals stated that gambling arrangements cannot be held without the support of the local police. A source who knows the development said it is also organized in a professional way at many hotels. The general secretary of city-based NGO Save Guwahati Build Guwahati (SGBG), Kailash Sarma, said there is need of public awareness and the district administration needs to keep strict vigil so that poor people do not face a crisis as they are already hammered by financial woes due to the coronavirus-induced lockdowns. “People should avoid coming out of their homes this Diwali as it may lead to a rise in Covid-19 cases as it happened in Delhi. Gambling is a social menace and people should avoid it amidst the pandemic,” Sarma added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/cop-crackdown-on-gamblers-ahead-of-festival-30-arrested/articleshow/79229163.cms||Rokibuz Zaman
November 15, 2020||Guwahati||Jawan’s family remembers last call, hours before death||GUWAHATI: Army jawan Hardhan Chandra Roy’s mother could not believe her only son had been taken away at the border. “We spoke the previous night,” Anima Roy, barely able to control her tears, told TOI over phone from her home in Assam’s Dhubri district. Roy, a 39-year-old havildar, was killed on Friday in the Uri sector in Jammu and Kashmir along the India-Pakistan border in heavy firing in a violation of ceasefire. His family members told TOI that they never thought that the call on Thursday night would be his last. “We received a call from an Army major on Friday evening who informed us that my only son is no more. I can’t believe it,” she said, her voice choking. She further said she called the office to confirm the news after the Army major’s call. “Wo aab iss duniya mein nehi raha (He is no more),” Anima said, quoting the Army official on the call. Roy joined the Army in 2001 and is survived by his wife, who he married in 2018, a two-year-old son, two sisters and his parents. His mortal remains are expected to reach the state on Sunday evening, Army sources said. Pokul Roy, the 30-year-old wife of the soldier said, they had a video chat on Thursday night where they spoke for the last time. “Who will look after my son now? His two unmarried sisters and the 72-year-old father and mother?,” the wife wondered. The wife sought proper rehabilitation of their son and a job for the family to survive as there is no other earning member in the family. She said he was home during the lockdown and he went to Kashmir on June 15. During his 19 years of service, Roy was posted in Punjab, Jammu and Kashmir and the Northeast. A relative of Roy said an Army official visited the house on Saturday. An official statement from the Army is awaited. Roy belonged to the 59 Artillery Regiment and hailed from Phutukibari-Medhipara village under Sapatgram police station. A pall of gloom descended in the district following the sudden death of Roy, son of Tankeshwar Roy. Roy last visited home two months ago, locals recalled, adding that the martyred jawan inspired many youngsters in the village and other areas in the mandal to join the defence services. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal condoled the death of the jawan. In a statement, Sonowal, termed the incident as dastardly and said the martyred jawan from Dhubri made the supreme sacrifice in the service of the nation and left behind a glowing example of patriotism and valour. “Though Hardhan Chandra Roy laid down his life in the line of duty, he would remain immortal and would keep inspiring the young generation through his bravery and sacrifice,” Sonowal said, extending his condolences to the bereaved family members and prayed for the eternal peace of the departed soul. Senior district officials and Bilasipara legislator Ashok Kr Singhi visited Roy’s house and expressed their grave condolences. Assam governor Jagdish Mukhi also condoled Roy’s death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/jawans-family-remembers-last-call-hours-before-death/articleshow/79229212.cms||Rokibuz Zaman
November 15, 2020||World||China finds coronavirus on frozen beef, tripe from various countries||BEIJING: The eastern Chinese city of Jinan said it has found the new coronavirus on beef and tripe, and on packaging for these products, from Brazil, New Zealand and Bolivia as China ramps up testing on frozen foods. The importers were a unit of Guotai International Group and Shanghai Zhongli Development Trade, the Jinan Municipal Health Commission said in a statement on its website late on Saturday. The entry ports were Shanghai's Yangshan port customs and outer port customs, it said. The statement from the city in Shandong province did not name the companies that shipped the products. More than 7,500 people who may have had contact with the contaminated products and other related personnel have tested negative for the virus that causes Covid-19, it said. Chinese authorities last week found the coronavirus on the packaging of Saudi shrimp in Lanzhou city, Brazilian beef in Wuhan city and Argentinian beef in Shandong and Jiangsu provinces. China is the world's top beef buyer and Brazil and Argentina its largest suppliers. Zhengzhou, the capital of Henan province in central China, detected coronavirus on the outer packaging of frozen pork from Argentina on Friday, local authorities said in a statement late on Saturday on the social media platform WeChat. The samples that tested positive came from a 24-tonne batch of frozen pork that was sent from a cold storage facility in Qingdao port to a warehouse for a market in Zhengzhou city. The batch was found to be contaminated during a screening before the goods could enter the warehouse, the government said. The World Health Organization says the risk of catching Covid-19 from frozen food is low, but China has repeatedly sounded alarms after detecting the virus on imported food products, triggering disruptive import bans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/china/china-finds-coronavirus-on-frozen-beef-tripe-from-various-countries/articleshow/79229140.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Agartala||Muted Kali Puja in Agartala due to Covid-19||AGARTALA: Scores of devotees thronged Uma Maheshwari temple and Anandamayi Maa Ashram among other temples in Agartala on the occasion of Kali Puja on Saturday night, even as the gathering this time was less as compared to previous years due to the ongoing pandemic. Though less in number, people came out of their homes for pandal hopping, despite the threat of the Covid-19 pandemic and toned-down celebrations this year. People in masks could be seen queuing up at puja pandals and temples, keeping the Covid protocols in mind. "Diwali is celebrated throughout the world. People here in Tripura also celebrate Kali Puja, along with the festival of light with the same enthusiasm, lighting earthen lamps, and candles," said Santosh Saha, a local resident. "Usually, we celebrate Diwali with much pomp. However, this year the celebrations were muted due to the Covid-19 pandemic. People, however, have come out to pray to Maa Kali in keeping with the tradition," Saha told ANI. Like every year, temples and houses were well-illuminated too on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/muted-kali-puja-in-agartala-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/79229206.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Post-Brexit borders to divide EU, UK citizens||BRUSSELS: From January 1 British and EU citizens will be confronted with the reality of Brexit as the transition period ends and borders done away with decades ago return. From that date, Britons will be treated by the EU as "third country" nationals, no longer enjoying freedom of movement to work, study or retire across the European Union and associated states. Britain in turn will process EU nationals at its borders as it does other non-UK passport holders. EU citizens proving residence in Britain, or Britons already living in a European Union country, before the end of this year will theoretically retain their rights under a Withdrawal Agreement struck in late 2019. Tourists will see some immediate changes -- apart from the evolving coronavirus restrictions already crimping travel -- but both sides have agreed that travel will be visa-free, as long as the other side keeps it that way. But the EU will stop British passports being used in its automated e-gates, potentially meaning longer queues at manned passport booths. Britons must hold passports still valid for at least six months and will be limited to EU stays of 90 days in a rolling 180-day period. They will also need to show travel insurance coverage, sufficient funds and a return ticket on request. Europeans entering Britain can use a national ID card until October, after which only passports will be accepted, for stays of up to six months. EU passport holders will be able to continue using British e-gates under current guidance. Those with criminal records may be banned and non-European family members of a European may need a visa, depending on nationality. The UK treats Irish citizens separately from other EU nationals under a bilateral arrangement dating back nearly a century that allows continued freedom of movement between Britain and Ireland. Europeans will be able to keep using EU pet passports as long as rabies vaccines are up to date. Border control for business travellers is one of myriad issues yet to be worked out between the EU and the UK. In the EU, Britons attending conferences or meetings likely will be exempt from visas where they do not receive payment or provide services. However for other UK business travellers, including posted workers and the self-employed, a visa and/or a work permit may be imposed in line with each individual EU country's laws. There will also be tax and social security considerations. Certain services or company ownership in those countries may be off-limits to non-EU citizens or residents or those lacking national licences, and customs declarations may be needed for goods carried in. Without an EU-UK deal, Britain will likely apply its current rules for those coming from favoured nations, meaning a visa needed for work but not for short stays to attend a conference or training. Those same rules would require EU citizens with a job offer to prove English-language skills and a minimum salary dependent on whether the position is skilled (26,500 pounds, equivalent to 29,600 euros or $35,000) or a shortage occupation (20,480 pounds, 22,800 euros). From January, EU students going to Britain will need a visa for courses longer than six months, and will have to pay steeper tuition fees -- four times as much for degrees such as medicine or MBAs in prestigious universities. UK universities fear that that hefty burden will force many European students to choose EU institutions -- some of which are free -- instead, blowing a big hole in their finances. They also say they are already being shunned for research projects led by EU universities. According to UK parliament research, there were 143,000 EU students in British universities in the 2018 to 2019 school year. International students have made Britain the second-most popular education destination after the US, and they injected 25.8 billion pounds (29 billion euros, or $34 billion) into the UK economy in 2015. Without an EU-UK deal, British students will be excluded from the Erasmus+ programme offering subsidised exchanges to EU countries. British students wanting to go to EU universities will encounter higher fees in some countries as well as visa requirements that in many cases will curb their right to work. For the estimated 1.3 million Britons living in the EU and the 3.6 million EU citizens living in the UK before the end of the transition period, their rights to stay are protected under the 2019 Withdrawal Agreement. Those wanting to emigrate elsewhere in the EU after January 1 will find a very different situation. Britons, for example, have long favoured Spain, France, Germany and Italy to set down new roots as workers or retirees. But the end of freedom of movement will see them having to jump through the same hoops as other "third country" nationals, which often include health insurance, income and language requirements. Even Britons settled under the Withdrawal Agreement will no longer have automatic rights to a different EU country, and will face national immigration laws if they want to do so. Britain, for its part, is bringing in a points-based system from 2021 that will make it significantly harder for Europeans to move there. Age, English language ability, funds, the requirement to pay a health surcharge will all be evaluated, with caps on some of the immigration channels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/post-brexit-borders-to-divide-eu-uk-citizens/articleshow/79229230.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Patna||NDA to hold meeting in Patna over Bihar election results||PATNA: The National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is scheduled to hold a joint legislature party meeting here in Patna on Sunday over Bihar election results.  Janata Dal (United) chief Nitish Kumar is expected to be elected as the leader at today's meeting.  On Friday, the Bihar chief minister had tendered his resignation to state governor Phagu Chauhan.  This comes as the constituents of the NDA, which secured a majority in the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections.  The BJP had won 74 seats, JD-U 43, while eight seats were won by other NDA constituents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-to-hold-meeting-in-patna-over-bihar-election-results/articleshow/79229228.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Guwahati||2 ‘prime accused’ held in scholarship scam case||GUWAHATI: Police arrested the owners of Customer Service Point (CSP) who are the prime accused in the minority scholarship “scam”. CID sleuths also conducted a search operation in the school inspector’s office in lower Assam’s Barpeta district. The two arrested have been identified as Sukumuddin (29) owner of Bank of Baroda’s CSP at Champupara Bazaar in Kamrup district and Yusuf Ali (29) who owns a State Bank of India’s CSP at Nepalikhuti in Goalpara district. Both were absconding since the scam came to light. They were arrested on Friday. CSP works as a representative or agent of the bank and is appointed to provide banking services to citizens. Altogether, 24 persons, including four headmasters, a teacher and CSP owners, have been arrested from four Assam districts for allegedly misappropriating pre-matric scholarship funds for poor minority students’ worth about Rs 10 crore for the past two fiscal years. A four-member CID team on Monday conducted a search at the office of the school inspector in lower Assam’s Barpeta district, one of the minority-dominated students’ district in the state. The sleuths seized the laptop in which Barpeta’s data was stored.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/2-prime-accused-held-in-scholarship-scam-case/articleshow/79229259.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Guwahati||Assam’s Covid count drops to 4.39k, recovery rate 97%||GUWAHTI: Assam’s active Covid-19 caseload continued to shrink and is close to coming below the 4,000-mark from a peak of over 36,000 two months ago. The recovery rate in the state has also reached 97%. In last 24 hours, the state’s active caseload reduced to 4,389, which is the lowest since April 7. The number was over 6,000 a week back. State health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday, 233 new cases were detected while 642 patients were discharged from hospitals. The positivity rate on Friday was 0.88%. Till Friday, the cumulative number of confirmed cases in the state was 2,10,068 since March 31, of which 2,04,718 have been cured so far. With two more fatalities, the death toll reached 958 on Friday. At the national stage, the ministry of family welfare and health stated that registering a four-day streak of less than five lakh active cases, India’s active caseload had shrunk to 4,80,719 and the share of active cases in the total positive cases has further decreased to 5.48%. “The trend of new recoveries exceeding new cases every day continues continuously as 44,684 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours against 47,992 recoveries,” the ministry said. “New cases continue their downward slope, indicating adoption of Covid Appropriate Behaviour among the population, and effective containment measures by the state/UT governments following guidelines of the Union government. The daily new cases on an average have shown a declining trend over the last five weeks,” the ministry added. This trend has also upended the recovery rate in the country to cross 93% on Friday, as the total recovered cases stood at 81,63,572. The gap between the recovered cases and active cases that is steadily increasing, presently standing at 76,82,853. The ministry stated that 75.38% of the new recovered cases are contributed by ten states and union territories. “With 6,498 persons recovering from COVID, Delhi saw the most recoveries in the past 24 hours. Kerala saw 6,201 daily recoveries while Maharashtra saw 4,543 new recoveries,” the ministry said.. On the other hand, 10 states and Union Territories have contributed 76.38% of the new cases with Delhi reporting 7,802 cases in the last 24 hours and topping the tally of new additions. Kerala recorded 5,804 new cases while Maharashtra stood at the third position with 4,132 new cases on Friday. A total of 520 fatalities that have been reported in the past 24 hours. 79.23% of these are from 10 states and Union Territories. The ministry stated that 24.4% of new fatalities reported are from Maharashtra which reported 127 deaths. Delhi and West Bengal follow with 91 and 51 new deaths, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assams-covid-count-drops-to-4-39k-recovery-rate-97/articleshow/79229282.cms||Prabin Kalita
November 15, 2020||Business||Asia to form world's biggest trade bloc, a China-backed group excluding US||HANOI: Fifteen Asia-Pacific economies were set to form the world's largest free trade bloc on Sunday, a China-backed deal that excludes the United States, which had left a rival Asia-Pacific grouping under President Donald Trump. The signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) at a regional summit in Hanoi, will be a further blow to the group pushed by former U.S. president Barack Obama, which his successor Trump exited in 2017. Amid questions over Washington's engagement in Asia, RCEP may cement China's position more firmly as an economic partner with Southeast Asia, Japan and Korea, putting the world's second-biggest economy in a better position to shape the region's trade rules. The United States is absent from both RCEP and the successor to the Obama-led Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), leaving the world's biggest economy out of two trade groups that span the fastest-growing region on earth. By contrast, RCEP could help Beijing cut its dependence on overseas markets and technology, a shift accelerated by a deepening rift with Washington, said Iris Pang, ING chief economist for Greater China. RCEP groups the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand. It aims in coming years to progressively lower tariffs across many areas. The deal is to be signed on the sidelines of an online ASEAN summit held as Asian leaders address tensions in the South China Sea and tackle plans for a post-pandemic economic recovery in a region where U.S.-China rivalry has been rising. RCEP will account for 30% of the global economy, 30% of the global population and reach 2.2 billion consumers, host Vietnam said on Sunday. Despite being outside RCEP and having been in the administration that propelled the TPP, President-elect Joe Biden - Obama's vice president - is unlikely to rejoin the TPP anytime soon, analysts said, as his government will have to prioritise handling the COVID-19 outbreak at home. "I'm not sure that there will be much focus on trade generally, including efforts to rejoin" the TPP successor grouping, "for the first year or so because there will be such a focus on COVID relief," Charles Freeman, senior vice president for Asia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said this month. RCEP "will help reduce or remove tariffs on industrial and agricultural products and set out rules for data transmission," said Luong Hoang Thai, head of the Multilateral Trade Policy Department at Vietnam's Ministry of Industry and Trade. The pact will take effect once enough participating countries ratify the agreement domestically within the next two years, Indonesia's trade minister said last week. For China, the new group, including many U.S. allies, is a windfall largely resulting from Trump's retreat from the TPP, said ING's Pang. India pulled out of RCEP talks in November last year, but ASEAN leaders said the door remained open for it to join.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/asia-to-form-worlds-biggest-trade-bloc-a-china-backed-group-excluding-us/articleshow/79229304.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Imphal||Sero-surveillance in four Manipur districts from November 30||IMPHAL: Taking into account the sharp rise in the number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities in Manipur, the state government has decided to launch a sero-surveillance programme in four selected districts from November 30. The sero-surveillance will be conducted in Imphal West and Kakching districts in the valley, and Churachachandpur and Ukhrul in the hills, said Manipur principal secretary (health) V Vumlunmang at a media conference on Friday evening. Some other states have already begun the same programme at selected areas to identify how Covid is being transmitted, he added. A district surveillance officer said that 1380 samples each would be collected from Imphal West and Kakching and 920 each from Churachandpur and Ukhrul. Vumlunmang informed that the Union health and family welfare ministry has also given its consent to carry out targeted testing in the assembly seats of the state which went to the bye polls recently. Lilong and Wangjing Tentha seats in Thoubal district, Wangoi in Imphal West and Saitu in Kangpokpi went to the bypolls on November 7. Though Singhat constituency in Churachandpur district too went to the bypolls, there was no full-scale canvassing as the BJP candidate there won unopposed. Manipur health services deputy director Meena Seram said that ‘sentinel survey’ and ‘selective active surveillance’ would be conducted in such assembly constituencies. She added that they have been working to test at least 10 percent of the local population where over 200 people gathered during poll meetings and where such meetings were held twice. Meena continued that the state government has been working to test polling agents and ASHA workers who had carried out duties to take up Covid care measures at polling stations. Manipur health services director K Rajo said that they have been working to ensure the health workers in the state are covered in the first phase of the centre’s Covid-19 vaccination programme. All necessary preparations for the vaccination programme are almost complete and 126 cold chain points have been arranged for storing the vaccines, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/imphal/sero-surveillance-in-four-manipur-districts-from-november-30/articleshow/79229305.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Itanagar||57 more test positive in Arunachal Pradesh||ITANAGAR: A total of 57 more people, including two Armymen, tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, following which the state’s tally rose to 15,758, a health department official said on Saturday. Of the new cases, 18 were reported from the Capital Complex region, 12 from West Kameng, nine from East Siang and six from Lepa Rada district, the official said. Three fresh cases were also registered in Tawang, two each in Tirap, Anjaw and Lower Dibang Valley, and one each in Upper Siang, Kamle and Namsai, state surveillance officer Dr Lobsang Jampa said. “Three new infections were detected through the TrueNat method, one through RT-PCR and 53 through rapid antigen tests,” he said, adding that the positivity rate in the state at present is 9.14%. Of the news cases detected, 15 patients have symptoms, he said. Altogether 105 people were discharged from hospitals on Friday, taking the total number of recoveries to 14,319, Dr Jampa said. The recovery rate is currently at 90.86 percent, while the fatality ratio is 0.29 percent. There are 1,392 active cases and 47 people have died of Covid-19 in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/itanagar/57-more-test-positive-in-arunachal-pradesh/articleshow/79229338.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Shillong||2 more deaths take Covid-19 fatalities in Meghalaya to 100||SHILLONG: Two more Covid-19-related deaths took Meghalaya’s fatality count to 100, while 51 fresh cases pushed up the number of active cases to 1,014 on Saturday. Sixty-three people recovered from the infection, taking the number of recoveries to 9,518 according to the latest health bulletin issued on Saturday. “The fresh Covid-19 cases detected on Saturday included 24 in East Khasi Hills, 11 in Ri-Bhoi, seven in West Garo Hills, three in South Garo Hills, two each in East Jaintia Hills and West Jaintia Hills and one each in South West Garo Hills and East Garo Hills,” a senior official in the health department said on Saturday evening. With 315 active cases, Ri-Bhoi is the most-affected district in the state, followed by East Khasi Hills district, including Shillong, with 291 active cases. “Of the new recoveries today (Saturday), 20 each have been reported from West Garo Hills and Ri-Bhoi, nine from East Jaintia Hills, seven from East Garo Hills, three each from East Khasi Hills and South West Garo Hills and one from West Jaintia Hills,” the health official said. Meanwhile, of the 2,19,427 people testing positive for Covid-19 in the state to date, 2,08,795 have tested negative, while 173 people are in institutional quarantine and 565 in home isolation, even as 58,591 people have returned from outside, the health bulletin informed, adding that there were 36 containment zones as on Saturday. Meghalaya has so far registered 10,632 Covid-19 cases, including 1,014 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shillong/2-more-deaths-take-covid-19-fatalities-in-meghalaya-to-100/articleshow/79229362.cms||Manosh Das
November 15, 2020||India||PM Modi congratulates people of Jharkhand on state's foundation day||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi wished the people of Jharkhand on the foundation day of the state on Sunday. In a tweet in Hindi, the Prime Minister congratulated the people of Jharkhand and wished them prosperity and good health. "My heartiest greetings to all the residents of the state on the foundation day of Jharkhand. On this occasion, I wish all the people happiness, prosperity and good health," PM Modi wrote. झारखंड के स्थापना दिवस पर राज्य के सभी निवासियों को मेरी हार्दिक शुभकामनाएं। इस अवसर पर मैं यहां के सभी लोगों के सु… https://t.co/k7SVn2aa5d— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605411171000Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in the year 2000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-congratulates-people-of-jharkhand-on-states-foundation-day/articleshow/79229276.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kohima||People to be fined 100 fine for not wearing masks in Nagaland||KOHIMA: The Nagaland government has decided to impose a fine of Rs 100 on people who don’t wear face masks in public places and Rs 500 on institutions without handwashing facilities, with immediate effect, an official said on Saturday. The Nagaland Disaster Management Authority observed that wearing masks, especially in public places, making the provision of handwashing facility by various establishments, maintaining physical distance in high-risk settings, are often not being followed, which poses a serious risk of infection not only to the defaulters but also to other people around them, said chief secretary J Alam in an order issued on Friday. Therefore, in an exercise of the powers conferred under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and in view of the guidelines issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the government has decided to make it compulsory for everyone to wear face masks and also provide hand sanitisers or handwash facility in all establishments, including offices, educational institutions, religious places and shops, with immediate effect. Alam said violation of SOPs and guidelines would lead to penalisation of defaulters. People not wearing a mask in public places, including offices, banks, markets, business establishments, restaurants, hotels, public transport, social and religious gatherings or meetings, educational institutions, would be liable to pay a fine of Rs 100 for every offence. Not providing handwashing facility or hand sanitizers in shops and business establishments, restaurants and hotels draw a fine of Rs 500 fine with a warning for first offence while after one week of first offence would lead to sealing of the establishment with or without suspension of registration/licence, wherever applicable till facilities are provided. He said police and transport officers and the concerned urban local body would be responsible to enforce the said order. The chief secretary also informed that not adhering to the limit on the number of passengers in bus, taxi and auto rickshaw as per guidelines would also be penalised. The order comes into force immediately and would remain valid till further orders, said the chief secretary. Nagaland till Friday reported 9,638 Covid-19 cases, of which 725 are active.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kohima/people-to-be-fined-100-fine-for-not-wearing-masks-in-nagaland/articleshow/79229389.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Lucknow||No 'Bhai Dooj' for UP prisoners this year||LUCKNOW: Inmates in Uttar Pradesh jails will not be able to meet their siblings and celebrate the festival of 'Bhai Dooj' on Monday this year. The state government has issued directives in this regard in view of the pandemic. The ban imposed in the wake of Covid-19 will be applicable in all the 71 prisons of the state. Relatives of inmates can send 'tika' and gifts in sealed envelopes which will be delivered to the inmates. The directives issued by director-general (Prisons) Anand Kumar said that the gift items received from the relative of the prisoners should be kept in an envelope. The name of the prisoner, father's name and relative's detail should be mentioned. Helpdesks have also been set up outside the jails. All the items should be properly checked and sanitized before being handed over to the prisoners on Monday. The official has also directed for the arrangement of special food for the prisoners on the occasion. So far, over 1,500 prisoners have tested Covid-19 positive in overcrowded prisons of the state. However, the majority of them have recovered from the infection. Besides providing special food to the prisoners, we will be organising kirtan in the jail premises. Their favourite songs will also be played on jail radio. Every year, on 'Bhai Dooj' and 'Raksha Bandhan', siblings of jail inmates come in large numbers to greet their brothers or sisters on the festival. Earlier, during Raksha Bandhan too, the state government had not allowed interaction and the 'Rakhis' left at help desk were delivered to the prisoners by officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-bhai-dooj-for-up-prisoners-this-year/articleshow/79229401.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Guwahati||‘NFR has not recorded any accident in two years’||GUWAHATI: In view of importance given to safety of train movement, there has been no consequential train accident during the year 2020-21, NF railway authorities said. “It can be mentioned that last year was also an accident-free year for NFR. This has been possible due to overall emphasis given to maintenance and health of all train operations related infrastructure,” chief PRO Subhanan Chanda said. He added, “Track is the most important aspect for safe movement of trains. As a result movement, wear and tear of tracks is bound to occur and renewal and replacement of components are indispensable.” The CPRO informed that during the current year (till October 2020), 73.68 CTR units of track renewal, which includes changing of rails and sleepers, have been done against 64.85 CTR units done up to October, 2019 — an increase of 13.62%. To detect un-seen fracture of railway tracks which might lead to accidents, ultrasound testing is done by machine (also known as USFD testing). “USFD testing of 1,762.31 km has been done during October 2020 as against 1,368.54 km done in the corresponding time last year. That is an increase of about 28.77%. Deep screening , which is cleaning of ballast that lies beneath the railway track was done for 46 turnouts during the month of October 2020 against 12 turnouts done during October 2019,” he said. He added that 10 bridges have been rehabilitated during the month of October making a cumulative progress of 48 during the current year. “NF Railway has also completed 2,746 numbers of flash butt welding of rail joints during October,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/nfr-has-not-recorded-any-accident-in-two-years/articleshow/79229417.cms||Prabin Kalita
November 15, 2020||Business||Govt pushes for dispute resolution panel to resolve oil, gas wrangles||NEW DELHI: With an overhang of disputes choking investments in the oil and gas sector, the government is pushing for contractual wrangles being sent to an expert committee for time-bound resolution but the move has found few takers due to inherent conflict of interest in such a process, sources said. The government had in December last year constituted a 'Committee of External Eminent Persons/Experts' comprising former oil secretary G C Chaturvedi, former Oil India Ltd head Bikash C Bora and Hindalco Industries Ltd Managing Director Satish Pai, for dispute resolution without having to resort to the tardy judicial process. But no major dispute has been referred to the panel so far, two sources with direct knowledge of the development said. The panel has not inspired much confidence in oil and gas companies as most of their disputes are with the government over contractual interpretations and procedural issues. And the very same government is not just deciding on how the dispute is to be resolved but also appointing members of the dispute resolution panel as well as setting its terms of reference, they said. There is an inherent conflict of interest that has kept most disputes away from the committee, they said. India's oil and gas sector has been plagued by disputes from cost recovery to production targets, and companies as well as the government have resorted to lengthy and costly arbitration followed by judicial review -- a process that takes years to resolve differences. As per the official notification, the committee is to arbitrate on a dispute between partners in a contract or with the government over commercial or production issues for oil and gas. "Any dispute or difference arising out of a contract relating to exploration blocks/ fields of India can be referred to the committee, if both parties to the contract agree in writing for conciliation or mediation and further agree to not invoke arbitration proceedings thereafter," the December 2019 notification said. Once a resolution has been referred to the panel, the parties cannot resort to arbitration or court case to resolve it. Oil ministry's upstream technical arm, the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons (DGH) is to provide secretarial assistance to the Committee. Sources said most of the disputes over terms and regulations around oil and gas fields are between companies and the DGH. The panel, they said, was appointed without consultations with the industry. Also, the "government reserves the right to change the terms and conditions as and when required without assigning any reasons thereof", the notification said. The panel has a tenure of three years and the resolution is to be attempted to be arrived within three months. The members and the parties may, however, extend the time for arriving at a settlement agreement by mutual agreement. "The members of the committee shall at all times remain impartial to the parties during the course of the conciliation or mediation proceedings," the notification had said. The committee acting as conciliator or mediator will be allowed to take services of a third-party or expert agency to aid and assist it in discharge of its functions as and when required. Upon receipt of a request referring dispute for resolution, the committee shall conduct the conciliation or mediation proceedings. "The proceedings shall be based on the principles of fairness, justice and good conscience," it had said. For the procedural aspect, the committee will be guided by the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996, and the venue of the conciliation or mediation proceedings shall be New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-pushes-for-dispute-resolution-panel-to-resolve-oil-gas-wrangles/articleshow/79229525.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||Covid-19: As lab execs sell shares worth millions, questions arise||NEW YORK: Pfizer, Moderna, Novavax: executives at several American laboratories developing Covid-19 vaccines have recently pocketed millions of dollars by selling shares in their companies -- raising questions about the propriety of such a move in the midst of a national health crisis. On the very day that pharmaceutical giant Pfizer announced preliminary data showing its vaccine was 90 percent effective against the coronavirus, its chief executive Albert Bourla sold shares worth $5.6 million. There was nothing illegal about this, Pfizer said: the sale took place according to rules allowing company heads to sell shares under predetermined criteria, at a date or for a price set in advance, to avoid any suspicion of insider training. Under the same rules, several Moderna officials have sold shares worth more than $100 million in recent months. That company has not placed a single product on the market since its creation in 2010, but the federal government has committed to paying it up to $2.5 billion if its vaccine proves effective. Moderna shares have soared from $19 at the beginning of the year to a current level of $90. The boss of Novavax, for his part, sold $4.2 million in shares on August 18, just over a month after the announcement it would receive public financing of $1.6 billion. Accountable US, a nonpartisan taxpayers' advocacy group, has calculated that from the start of the federally coordinated effort to develop vaccines on May 15 until August 31, officials at five pharmaceutical companies made more than $145 million by selling shares. Executives at Pfizer and Moderna were operating under a rule put in place by the Securities and Exchange Commission in 2000 to allow company employees to sell shares without facing insider-trading charges. It allows them to set up a plan determining the trades of their shares at a price, amount or dates specified in advance, but only when they are not in possession of privileged information that could affect share prices. Once such a sale is planned, it cannot be modified at the last minute, even if its timing might ultimately raise questions. Still, this use of the rule by Pfizer and Moderna appears "legally questionable," according to Daniel Taylor, an associate professor at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton business school, who has been studying the big pharma firms since the beginning of the pandemic. "The question is, what did the executives know at the time that they pre-scheduled the trade?" he asked. Bourla, according to Pfizer, had merely re-authorized on August 19 a plan for a share sale originally authorized in February, "with the same price and volume terms." But a day after that, the company issued a statement describing the preliminary results of its clinical trials as "positive." It is of course not just normal but desirable that laboratory heads should be encouraged to develop a safe and reliable vaccine as quickly as possible, Taylor said. But "when they are going to sell their shares, they have to make sure that they are operating by the same level playing field, that they're not taking advantage of other investors by having more information," he said. Taylor added a word of caution: "I don't think that companies have internalized the reputational risk to these trades" by selling shares even as Covid-19 cases have been spiraling upward around the world. When a top executive needs to sell shares to pay for a yacht, a new house or his children's education, the public rarely is aware of it. But with the pandemic raging, the laboratories are under intense scrutiny. For Sanjai Bhagat, a professor at the University of Colorado-Boulder who specializes in corporate governance, top executives should simply not be allowed to sell company shares until a year or two after they leave the company. "If they have a lot of vested stock and stock options, then they have an incentive to get the share price as high as they can, even by not being totally honest with the investing public," he said. Bhagat believes corporate boards should eliminate any chance of temptation. "Not having done anything illegal is not the standard by which they should be judged," he said. "Especially in these times, people are expecting them to act responsibly." Contacted by AFP, the SEC would not say whether it was investigating any of the lab executives. But in an interview in May on the CNBC network, SEC chairman Jay Clayton exhorted executives to respect best practices. "Why would you want to even raise the question that you were doing something that was inappropriate?" he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/covid-19-as-lab-execs-sell-shares-worth-millions-questions-arise/articleshow/79229524.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||15 Asian nations sign huge China-backed RCEP trade pact||HANOI: Fifteen countries on Sunday signed a sprawling Asian trade deal seen as a huge coup for China in extending its influence. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) -- which includes 10 Southeast Asian economies along with China, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and Australia -- is the world's largest trade pact in terms of GDP, analysts say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/15-asian-nations-sign-huge-china-backed-rcep-trade-pact/articleshow/79229554.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: 35 huts razed in Kali Puja night blaze||KOLKATA: A fire broke out at a slum at Gouranganagar in New Town on Kali Puja night on Saturday, razing over 35 huts. No one was injured or trapped. Police said locals had floated diyas in a nearby water body and some wooden and plastic objects attached to a few huts on the bank reportedly caught fire. In no time, the entire area went up in flames, said police, adding the long column of smoke could be seen from high-rises in New Town . Locals said some gas cylinders had also leaked, adding fuel. “Since the shanties were close to each other the flames spread fast,” said an officer of the New Town police station. A probe will be held on Sunday morning to find the exact reason.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-35-huts-razed-in-kali-puja-night-blaze/articleshow/79229551.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Birsa Munda's contribution to freedom movement, enhancing social harmony inspire us: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi paid tributes to tribal leader Birsa Munda on his birth anniversary on Sunday and said his contribution to the freedom movement and social harmony will always inspire the countrymen. "I pay tributes to Bhagwan Birsa Munda on his birth anniversary. He was a true saviour of the poor and worked for the welfare of deprived and exploited section of the society. His contribution to freedom movement and efforts for social harmony will always inspire us," PM Modi tweeted (roughly translated from Hindi). भगवान बिरसा मुंडा जी को उनकी जयंती पर शत-शत नमन। वे गरीबों के सच्चे मसीहा थे, जिन्होंने शोषित और वंचित वर्ग के क… https://t.co/qbNifpHY0j— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605411271000Birsa Munda, who belonged to the Munda tribe, was born on November 15 in 1875. During the British rule in the late 19th century, he spearheaded an Indian tribal religious Millenarian movement across the tribal belt of modern-day Bihar and Jharkhand. His birth anniversary is celebrated as Birsa Munda Jayanti in the country and coincides with the Jharkhand Foundation Day. Earlier, PM Modi wished the people of Jharkhand on the foundation day of the state on Sunday.In a tweet in Hindi, the Prime Minister congratulated the people of Jharkhand and wished them prosperity and good health. Jharkhand was carved out of Bihar in the year 2000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/birsa-mundas-contribution-to-freedom-movement-enhancing-social-harmony-inspire-us-pm-modi/articleshow/79229602.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Hubballi||Man rapes & kills mother in Karnataka||HAVERI: A 21-year-old was arrested by Shiggavi police in Haveri district on Saturday on charges of raping and murdering his mother. Police arrested Shivappa, a resident of Vanahalli. The crime was reported from Gangibavi. Shivappa reportedly confessed to the crime on interrogation. Police said that Shivappa’s mother had lost her husband a year ago, following which she allegedly entered into a sexual relationship with Shivappa, and other men. However, Shivappa was not pleased with this, and asked his mother not to be involved with anyone but himself. He allegedly found that his mother was continuing her affairs with other men, and proceeded to murder her, police said in the FIR. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Karnataka: Man allegedly rapes and kills mother for having an affair||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-rapes-kills-mother-in-karnataka/articleshow/79229573.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah: IIEST re-opens campus for test||HOWRAH: The Indian Institute of Engineering, Science and Technology (IIEST), Shibpur, was perhaps among the first in the country to reopen its campus and hold an exam there. But classes will continue online and nothing has yet been decided on re-opening the campus for it. Following precautionary measures, the test was held as an experiment to see whether on-campus exams was possible at all or not in the changed circumstances. Fifty-nine students sat for the supplementary papers held on Wednesday and Thursday; only one student was absent. Those from far-off places had requested for hostel accommodation and checked out on Friday. The exams were held for for UG final-year and PG first-year students and the institute will now consider conducting other pending exams. The exam halls were sanitised and masked candidates were first checked for their temperature and then, made to sit at a distance from each other. The answer scripts were also sanitised . “Some students needed hostel. We made arrangements after sanitising the hostels thoroughly,” said spokesperson Nirmalya Kumar Bhattacharyya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/howrah-iiest-re-opens-campus-for-test/articleshow/79229644.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Fire breaks out in shanties in West Bengal's Asansol, no casualties reported||ASANSOL: A fire broke out in shanties near Tapsi Baba mod in Asansol on Saturday night. Fire tenders reached the spot and it was later doused.  No casualties have been reported in the incident.  "We don't exactly know how this incident occurred but the cause of the fire might be a short-circuit. Locals have been safely rescued," said Raja Gupta, TMC leader.  "Three-four shops and some houses have also been damaged in this fire," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fire-breaks-out-in-shanties-in-west-bengals-asansol-no-casualties-reported/articleshow/79229674.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||Asia form world's biggest trade bloc, a China-backed group excluding US||HANOI: Fifteen Asia-Pacific economies formed the world's largest free trade bloc on Sunday, a China-backed deal that excludes the United States, which had left a rival Asia-Pacific grouping under President Donald Trump. The signing of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) at a regional summit in Hanoi, is a further blow to the group pushed by former U.S. president Barack Obama, which his successor Trump exited in 2017. Amid questions over Washington's engagement in Asia, RCEP may cement China's position more firmly as an economic partner with Southeast Asia, Japan and Korea, putting the world's second-biggest economy in a better position to shape the region's trade rules. The United States is absent from both RCEP and the successor to the Obama-led Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP), leaving the world's biggest economy out of two trade groups that span the fastest-growing region on earth. By contrast, RCEP could help Beijing cut its dependence on overseas markets and technology, a shift accelerated by a deepening rift with Washington, said Iris Pang, ING chief economist for Greater China. RCEP groups the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), China, Japan, South Korea, Australia and New Zealand. It aims in coming years to progressively lower tariffs across many areas. The deal was signed on the sidelines of an online ASEAN summit held as Asian leaders address tensions in the South China Sea and tackle plans for a post-pandemic economic recovery in a region where U.S.-China rivalry has been rising. RCEP will account for 30% of the global economy, 30% of the global population and reach 2.2 billion consumers, host Vietnam said on Sunday. Despite being outside RCEP and having been in the administration that propelled the TPP, President-elect Joe Biden - Obama's vice president - is unlikely to rejoin the TPP anytime soon, analysts said, as his government will have to prioritise handling the COVID-19 outbreak at home. "I'm not sure that there will be much focus on trade generally, including efforts to rejoin" the TPP successor grouping, "for the first year or so because there will be such a focus on COVID relief," Charles Freeman, senior vice president for Asia at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce said this month. RCEP "will help reduce or remove tariffs on industrial and agricultural products and set out rules for data transmission," said Luong Hoang Thai, head of the Multilateral Trade Policy Department at Vietnam's Ministry of Industry and Trade. The pact will take effect once enough participating countries ratify the agreement domestically within the next two years, Indonesia's trade minister said last week. For China, the new group, including many U.S. allies, is a windfall largely resulting from Trump's retreat from the TPP, said ING's Pang. India pulled out of RCEP talks in November last year, but ASEAN leaders said the door remained open for it to join.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/asia-form-worlds-biggest-trade-bloc-a-china-backed-group-excluding-us/articleshow/79229684.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||Indian drug firms recall various products in US market||NEW DELHI: Indian drug firms like Marksans Pharma, Aurobindo Pharma, ZydusÂ and Jubilant are recalling products in the US market, as per the latest enforcement report by the US Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). While Marksans Pharma is recalling diabetes drug, Zydus Pharmaceuticals (USA) is recalling drug which is used to reduce stomach acid. Similarly, Aurobindo Pharma (USA) is recalling pain relieving drug, while Jubilant Cadista is recalling a medication used to treat schizophrenia. As per the USFDA, Marksans Pharma is recalling close to six lakh bottles of diabetes drug Metformin Hydrochloride extended-release tablets in strengths of 500 mg and 750 mg in the US market. The medication lot has been manufactured at the company's Goa-based manufacturing facility. As per the USFDA, the company is recalling the product due to deviation from the current good manufacturing practices (CGMP). "FDA analysis detected N-Nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA) impurity above the acceptable intake level," it noted. NDMA has been defined as a probable human carcinogen. Metformin Hydrochloride extended-release tablet is a prescription oral medication indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve blood glucose control in adults with type-2 diabetes mellitus. Various companies across the globe have announced similar recalls for the product after the USFDA pointed out presence of NDMA above permissible limits. FDA's testing has shown elevated levels of NDMA in some extended release (ER) metformin formulation, but not in the immediate release (IR) formulation or in the active pharmaceutical ingredient. NDMA is classified as a probable human carcinogen based on results from laboratory tests. It is a known environmental contaminant and found in water and food, including meats, dairy products and vegetables. Further, the USFDA said Zydus Pharmaceuticals (USA) is recalling 14,748 cartons of Lansoprazole delayed-release orally disintegrating tablets due to failed dissolution specification. The product has been manufactured by Ahmedabad-based Cadila Healthcare. The USFDA has classified the initiatives taken by Marksans and Zydus as class II recalls. As per the USFDA, a class II recall is initiated in a situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product may cause temporary or medically reversible adverse health consequences or where the probability of serious adverse health consequences is remote. Further, the US health regulator said Aurobindo Pharma USA is recalling 7,440 bottles of Ibuprofen oral suspension drug for labelling error. Besides, Jubilant Cadista Pharmaceuticals, Inc is recalling 23,616 blister packs of Olanzapine orally disintegrating tablets for being "subpotent", the USFDA noted. The recalled lot has been produced by Roorkee-based (Uttarakhand) Jubilant Generics. The US health regulator classified both the recalls as class III. As per the USFDA, a class III recall is initiated in a "situation in which use of, or exposure to, a violative product is not likely to cause adverse health consequences".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/indian-drug-firms-recall-various-products-in-us-market/articleshow/79229707.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana adds 661 new Covid-19 cases, lowest this month||HYDERABAD: Fresh Covid-19 cases in Telangana touched its lowest in recent times with 661 infections taking the tally to 2.57 lakh, the state government said on Sunday. Three deaths during the last 24 hours ending at 8pm on Saturday pushed the toll to 1,404 and the case fatality rate stood at 0.54 per cent against 1.5 per cent at the national level, a bulletin said. There were 15,425 active cases in the state. For the first time this month, the fresh cases fell below the 700 mark with the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounting for the maximum of 167, followed by Rangareddy 57 and Medchal Malkajgiri 45. As many as 21,264 samples were tested during the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative figure of specimens examined to 48.74 lakh, the bulletin said. The samples tested per million population was about 1.31 lakh. The recovery rate in Telangana was 93.46 per cent, while it was 93.1 per cent in the country, it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-adds-661-new-covid-19-cases-lowest-this-month/articleshow/79229806.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: A billionaire out to resurrect BJP||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though the BJP does not expect the RSS strongman C P Radhakrishnan to resolve the factionalism in the party with a magic wand, the man who has been appointed as the ‘prabhari’ (in charge) of the party in Kerala is believed to have enough tricks up his sleeves to quell the disquiet in the ranks to some extent. Radhakrishnan, who hails from Tirupur in Tamil Nadu, knows Malayalam and is more informed than his predecessors about the position, opportunities and challenges BJP faces in Kerala. A multi-billionaire as per the income and assets details he has declared before the election commission, he was a key person behind BJP forging alliance with AIDMK in 2004, immediately after the DMK snapped ties with the saffron party in Tamil Nadu. The two-time MP from Coimbatore is also closer to both BJP and RSS leadership in the Centre. “I assure to give my everything to work hard and make sure to bring our beloved party to the top in Kerala and repay the faith shown on me by my beloved leaders and party (sic),” Radhakrishnan tweeted on Saturday morning upon his appointment as the party in-charge in Kerala. “Radhakrishnan’s appointment as Kerala prabhari should be seen as a first step the central leadership has made to bring discipline in the party in Kerala. He belongs to the breed of sophisticated RSS men, a tribe which is fast diminishing. He is adept in ice-breaking and problem solving. Even if he fails to settle the infight in the state BJP, he would certainly keep the central leadership posted about the ground realities and suggest remedies,” sources close to him said. Meanwhile, BJP national vice-president A P Abdullakutty, who has been named as prabhari in Lakshadweep, expressed confidence in winning the support of the islanders. “People in Lakshadweep have an anti- Congress mindset. They are tired of the grand old party. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah have taken concrete steps to address some of the burning issues that people in the dweep face over a long time. I am confident about consolidating and strengthening the party base in Lakshadweep,” Abdullakutty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-a-billionaire-out-to-resurrect-bjp/articleshow/79229821.cms||B S Anilkumar
November 15, 2020||Itanagar||Arunachal Pradesh reports more Covid-19 recoveries than fresh cases||ITANAGAR: Arunachal Pradesh reported more Covid-19 recoveries than fresh cases in a single-day as 102 people were cured of the disease while 34 new infections pushed the tally to 15,792, a health department official said on Sunday. Altogether 102 people were discharged from hospitals on Saturday, taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 14,421, state surveillance officer (SSO), Dr Lobsong Jampa said. The recovery rate among coronavirus patients in the state currently stands at 91.31 per cent while the death ratio stands at 0.30 per cent. Arunachal Pradesh currently has 1,323 active cases The Covid-19 death toll in the state rose to 48 after a 75-year-old man from Daporijo, the headquarters of Upper Subansiri district succumbed to the infection, the official said. "The Covid positive patient died at his residence on Friday due to cardio-respiratory failure. He was also suffering from diabetes mellitus, Dr Jampa said. Of the 34 new Covid-19 cases, 13 were reported from the Capital Complex region, West Kameng (9), East Siang (6), Lepa Rada (3)and one each from Changlang, West Siang and Lower Subansiri, the official said. Four undertrial prisoners from East Siang district were also among the fresh infection, the SSO said. "All the new infections were detected through rapid antigen tests," Dr Jampa said, adding that the positivity rate in the state currently stands at 8.69 per cent. Barring 11, all new patients are asymptomatic and have been shifted to Covid Care Centres, he said. The Capital Complex region, comprising Itanagar, Naharlagun, Nirjuli and Banderdewa areas, has the highest number of active cases at 801, followed by West Kameng (96), East Siang (63), Shi-Yomi (58) and Lower Dibang Valley (52), Dr Jampa said. The state has so far tested 3,41,928 samples for Covid -19, including 829 on Saturday, the SSO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/itanagar/arunachal-pradesh-reports-more-covid-19-recoveries-than-fresh-cases/articleshow/79229831.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Amaravati||Kadapa bags national water award for lifting groundwater level||AMARAVATI: In what could be a major boon to the efforts of the YSR Kadapa district administration in taking up the water conservation projects, the district bagged the prestigious award from union Jala Shakti ministry. YSR Kadapa district is the only district that has been picked up for the national water award from the entire southern region.  Taking the chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy’s instructions with a serious note, district administration swung into action with a comprehensive action plan. The Centre, last year, had picked up 255 districts across the country to take up the water conservation projects as they were identified as severely drought hit areas with low ground water level and excessive usage. The Centre had also promised to award the best districts which implemented the programmes as per the mandate and showed results. Kadapa is one of the districts picked up by the Centre to take up water conservation projects.  The district collector Chevuri Harikiran and District Water Management Authority (DWMA) project director Yadubhushan Reddy readied a blue-print to see that the Centre’s schemes are meticulously implemented and gained with groundwater recharge. The district administration rolled out different works in the 13-mandals-with poor groundwater reserves. “Usage of technology to oversee the implementation has given us best results,” a jubilant district collector Harikiran told ‘TOI.’ He said that they have geo-tagged the works that have been taken up for water conservation for better monitoring.  He explained that they have taken up renovation of traditional water bodies, rain water harvesting, reuse and recharge works and intensive afforestation. He said that they have launched a massive campaign to create awareness on minimizing the ground water usage as saving every drop of water is important in water conservation.  The district administration noticed the over-exploitation of ground water in 13 mandals due to the severe drought conditions for seven successive years in the past. Poor rainfall for nearly a decade had forced the farmers to dig more borewells and go for exploitation of water to save their crops. It was also observed that about 5000-8000 new borewells were being dug every year resulting in further dipping of ground water levels. Ground water level was dipped to 19.33 metres by 2018 from 9 meters in 2001. “We have taken the advice of geological experts before readying the action plan,” said Yadubhushan Reddy. He said that they have taken up 218 check-dams, 912 water conservation bodies, 17583 farm ponds to boost the ground water recharge. He said that they have also removed about 108 lakh cubic meters of silt from the village tanks during 2018-19 and intensified similar works during 2019-20. The sustained efforts of the officials had helped recharge nearly 18.38tmc of water and brought over 65000 borewells back into life to provide irrigation water to the farmers of over 2 lakh acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/kadapa-bags-national-water-award-for-lifting-groundwater-level/articleshow/79229825.cms||Samdani MN
November 15, 2020||Business||Reliance buys Urban Ladder||NEW DELHI: Reliance Retail Ventures Limited (RRVL), a subsidiary of Reliance Industries Limited (RIL) has acquired equity shares of Urban Ladder Home Décor Solutions for a cash consideration of Rs 182.12 crore. The said investment represents 96% holding in the equity share capital of Urban Ladder. RRVL has a further option of acquiring the balance stake, taking its shareholding to 100% of the equity share capital of Urban Ladder. RRVL proposes to make a further investment of up to Rs 75 crore. The further investment is expected to be completed by December 2023. UrbanLadder was incorporated in India on February 17, 2012. Urban Ladder is in the business of operating a digital platform for home furniture and décor products. It also has a chain of retail stores in several cities across India. Watch Reliance acquires online furniture startup Urban Ladder||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/reliance-buys-urban-ladder/articleshow/79229862.cms||John Sarkar
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Teacher falls off terrace as clothes catch fire||KOLKATA: A 27-year-old schoolteacher from Sinthee suffered serious injuries on Friday evening after her clothes caught fire while lighting candles and she fell off the terrace of her two-storied home. The woman, Moumita Dhar Chowdhury, was rushed to a private hospital on EM Bypass where she was admitted with trauma and 30% burns. The incident occurred around 9.30pm when Dhar Chowdhury, who teaches at a government school, was lighting candles on the terrace of her home. According to the family, she was wearing a palazzo and a kurta that caught fire from a candle. “It looks like she was lighting a diya after sticking a candle on the parapet when her palazzo caught fire. She has told us that she tried to douse the flames with water from a tap on the terrace, but she panicked and tripped over the parapet and fell nearly 30 feet on the road outside. We heard a thud and screams from some neighbours. We rushed outside and saw her lying on the road, still burning and bleeding,” said Mita Dutta, her mother-in-law. The incident highlighted the need to take precautions while lighting candles and diyas during the festive season. “Even though the firecrackers are banned, revelers need to be cautious while lighting candles and diyas,” said an officer from Kolkata Police. Baranagar police said they had received no official complaint regarding the incident so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-teacher-falls-off-terrace-as-clothes-catch-fire/articleshow/79229870.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata’s disability-rights face faces mall barrier||KOLKATA: For disability rights activist Jeeja Ghosh, some attitudes don’t change. Four years after she won a landmark verdict in the Supreme Court after she took an airline to the dock for refusing to let her travel alone because she has cerebral palsy, security guards at a city mall stopped her from entering the facility on Friday afternoon because she was unaccompanied. South City Mall authorities have offered an unconditional apology to Ghosh and promised to sensitize the frontal staff so that such incidents aren’t repeated. According to Jeeja, she was stopped by the security guard at the mall entrance around 2.30pm and rudely told that she could not go in without being accompanied by someone. “I was shocked on hearing it as I had been to the mall several times earlier, mostly alone, and never faced such behaviour,” she recounted. Angered by the behaviour, she tried to argue her cause. But with the mask on, she realised it was difficult to get her words across as her speech was getting increasingly slurred. At this point, mall authorities intervened, apologised to her and tried to ease the situation by offering her wheelchair assistance, but she refused. A fiercely independent woman, Ghosh has travelled all over the world on her own. “I categorically tried telling them that it’s not the wheelchair I need, I just wanted to go to the food court. By then I was exasperated and called my friends who were waiting for me upstairs. They came and after making it quite clear that we did not need their help we went to the food court,” said Ghosh. South City Mall vice-president Manmohan Bagree admitted there had been a problem with the guard’s understanding of the situation on Friday afternoon and said he was sorry for the inconvenience that Ghosh had faced. “We have the utmost respect towards Ghosh for championing the cause of people with disabilities and stand with her in furthering their rights and making our facility more inclusive. We will sensitise our staff in a manner that they understand where they are required to step in for assistance and where they are not. Perhaps, the situation got complicated due to a communication gap. But we will try to ensure that it doesn’t happen again,” he said. Ghosh had in 2012 taken SpiceJet to court for refusing her to board the flight unaccompanied while travelling to an international conference on disability rights. Four years later, the matter reached Supreme Court and led to far-reaching changes in carriage norms for people with disabilities and compliance by all airlines and major airports in providing facilities to such persons. But as Ghosh discovered last year while travelling through Kolkata airport, and again on Friday at the mall, there’s still a long way to go for society to change its mindset.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkatas-disability-rights-face-faces-mall-barrier/articleshow/79229908.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 15, 2020||Kanpur||Fire breaks out at cloth shop in UP's Kanpur||KANPUR: A fire broke out at a cloth shop located in Kanpur's Collector Ganj Area in early hours of Sunday.  Reportedly, a few shops have been damaged in the fire and three fire tenders have reached the spot. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, the fire department officials said.  "It is a cloth shop which has suffered heavy damage," said Rajesh Kumar, a resident.  Further details are awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/fire-breaks-out-at-cloth-shop-in-ups-kanpur/articleshow/79229972.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thane||Thane: FDA seizes edible oils worth Rs 26.85 lakh||THANE: The FDA Thane seized two different types of refined oils and coconut oil from a godown in Pimpri near Mumbra, worth Rs 26.85 lakh as they were suspected to be of sub-standard and also food safety standards were not followed. The authorities had visited the godown of N. M. Oil Enterprises and seized refined soybean oil (29,996 kg) worth Rs 21.41 lakh, refined palmolein oil (1,498 kg) worth Rs 1.43 lakh and coconut oil (1,998 kg) worth Rs 3.99 lakh. It is learnt that edible oils need to be tested before being sold, they did not have any equipped laboratory for the same nor a technical person to supervise the production, and hence there were no records, which are needed. Even the tins in which the edible oils were being packed were not of Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS) grade. “We have drawn four samples of the oils and the reports of the same will take around 15 days. If the reports show that the oils were adulterated the same will be used for non-edible purposes e.g. to make soap etc. and money will be given to the government. Also, the owners will be fined according to the level of adulteration against the quantity seized,” said Rajendra Runwal, assistant commissioner, FDA Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/thane-fda-seized-edible-oils-worth-rs-26-85-lakh/articleshow/79229990.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
November 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire at hardware shop in Hyderabad, no casualties reported||HYDERABAD: A fire broke out at a hardware shop in the KPHB area of Hyderabad on Sunday, the police said.  "A fire accident took place at Ramdev Hardware shop in KPHB Area around 4:30 am today, the reason for the fire accident maybe short circuit or a Diwali lamp. Fire tenders rushed to the spot. No casualties have been reported. Operation underway to doze off the fire," Laxmi Narayana, inspector of police, KPHB Police Station, said ANI.  More details are awaited. Watch Hyderabad: Fire breaks out at a hardware shop in Kukatpally||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-at-hardware-shop-in-hyderabad-no-casualties-reported/articleshow/79230019.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Biker hurt at James Long Sarani naka, kin blame cops||KOLKATA: Almost three days after a young biker was injured in Behala, his family has alleged that he was assaulted by a civic volunteer for allegedly being found without a helmet during routine naka check. The biker — Pallab Sarkar — claimed that he was hit on the head by a civic volunteer on James Long Sarani in the Borobagan area of Thakurpukur Silpara, after which his nose started bleeding. He reportedly had to undergo six stitches. The Thakurpukur traffic guard, though, claimed that Sarkar was trying to flee the naka when he saw cops and hit a parked two-wheeler, leading to the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/biker-hurt-at-james-long-sarani-naka-kin-blame-cops/articleshow/79230022.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Escape hatches where people took refuse to beat pandemic blues||It all began with a few people – mostly owners of food stalls in wet markets in Wuhan City in China. It did not merit mention in the news. It is believed that the virus itself arose in October or November of last year. But in November 2020, it seems safe to say that everybody in the world has been impacted by the virus. There are, of course, many years that would qualify for the title of the worst year ever. There’s 430 BC, the year of the earliest recorded pandemic – believed now to be typhus fever. It cut a bloody swathe through North Africa, and across the Mediterranean into Greece, killing nearly two thirds of the population of Athens. There is 541 AD, when the so-called ‘plague of Justinian’ wiped out more than 50 million people in Europe and Asia, a plague which originated from the Tian Shan region in – where else – China. The Black Death in 1367. The great plague in 1667 – leading on to the great London fire. Cholera in 1817. Spanish flu, almost exactly a century later, which killed 50 million people – a death toll that was more than double the number of casualties in World War I. And so on. But while it may not be 50 million, covid’s death toll – 1.29 million and counting – has taken a heavy toll on the psyche of the world. It has changed the nature of employment – and probably destroyed the concept of the ‘office’, for good – or ill. Schools closed – and everyone, parents and children had to work from home. Families that had no idea of how to pull together under a single roof for 24 hours a day, every day, over and over, found themselves under incredible stress. And thus, the need for escape, for private spaces, for other worlds. Back to the booksIf you go to Wikipedia and look for escapism, you’ll find this definition: “mental diversion from unpleasant or boring aspects of daily life, typically through activities involving imagination or entertainment”. While bookshops, like other retail establishments, suffered a crippling decline in footfalls, books sales rose. The first six months of the year saw book sales of 322 million – roughly a 3% increase over the number of books sold in the corresponding period last year, after several years of flat sales growth, according to BookScan, a publishing industry source. General fiction and comics sales rose by 10.3%, but even that rise was dwarfed by the sales of howto and do-it-yourself books, where sales soared by 31% in the US alone. Not surprisingly, sales of non-fiction and travel books declined. Reality was hard enough. For many people, old favourites provided much needed comfort. Sales of romance authors have increased during the pandemic. Perennial favourite PG Wodehouse has appeared on so many people’s pandemic reading that there has been a significant resurgence in his book sales. And as people seek novelty in familiarity, fan fiction has boomed as well. Fan fiction site Archive of Our Own reported that it had to take steps to handle a 14% increase in views in just two weeks in May – from 262 to 298 million views per week. Virtual worldsThe biggest gainer from the demand for escapism during the pandemic was gaming. The sales of Animal Crossing, a gentle world simulator made the pages of almost every newspaper in the world. The game single-handedly made the Nintendo Switch the biggest selling console of the year.US video game spending hit a 10-year high in June. Game sales – especially in the sixmonth period from March to August of 2020 – were incredible, with gaming accessories not far behind. Microsoft saw a 50% increase in the number of subscribers for its popular Game Pass program, a service that allows members to access hundreds of free games every month. In 2016, the consensus projection of the video game market size in 2020 was US$ 90 billion. The estimated market size in 2020 is around $ 159 billion – a whopping 77% deviation from the original predication. Streaming the elephantThe elephant, of course, being the one in the room. During the great depression, the movie industry in Hollywood boomed. People flocked to theatres to take their mind off economic woes. But in 2020, the need for social distancing may have changed the fate of motion pictures forever. Streaming has taken over. The first quarter of the year saw Netflix gain 15.8 million new subscriptions. A survey found that the number of people streaming video content in India at a rate of more than 16 hours per week saw a 500% increase during the lockdown and after. The global Over the Top market is expected to grow from $104.11 billion in 2019 to $161.37 billion in 2020 at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 55%. The first quarter of 2020 saw global online music streaming subscriptions increase by 35% YoY in Q1 2020 to hit 394 million subscriptions. On a not entirely unrelated note – sales of guitars have shot up. Fender, the legendary American guitar maker, sold more guitars in 2020 than in any other year of their existence. In 2020, reality bites. And while escapism has been necessary for most people to stay sane, it’s also been the year where a significant number of people lost the ability to distinguish between fantasy and reality. It may well be the year that conspiracy theories went mainstream, all round the world as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/escape-hatches/articleshow/79230078.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Market hub heaves sigh of relief as residents choose lights over crackers||KOLKATA: Lights triumphed over the decibel demon in Burrabazar on Diwali this year. Residents in the market hub heaved a sigh of relief when there were no sounds of fire crackers till late on Saturday evening. The façade of buildings in Burrabazar, Posta, Canning Street and Brabourne Road were lit up with colourful lights as the pujas got underway in many shops and markets in the central business district. “It is such a relief that this year people are showing some sense of responsibility by not bursting crackers this year. By the time it’s 10pm it becomes impossible to breathe. The situation is worse for children and the elderly. Hope it remains like this throughout the night,” said Reshmi Pachisia, a resident of Sir Hari Ram Goenka Street in Burrabazar. Residents of the area stepped out to purchase sweets and visit the local temples. Some of the famous sweet shops in the area had huge queues of customers. Temporary stalls selling lights, diyas and candles came up on either side of the streets. Movement of buses and auto rickshaws were stopped in Burrabazar to prevent congestions. Several families were spotted strutting down the streets in their festive fineries to greet friends and families. “It is a tradition in Burrabazar that the entire family comes down to the shop to take part in the puja in the evening. My daughter has decorated the entire showroom since morning. She will be lighting the diyas in the evening and distributing gifts among some under privileged children of the area,” said Vikas Dhanuka, who has a sari showroom on Kalakar Street. Health experts had cautioned that air-pollution caused by fireworks might push up the cases of Covid-19 and pose serious health hazards for the elderly. Patrolling vans of Kolkata Police were stationed at various points in central Kolkata on Saturday evening. The cops were also requesting citizens to stay away from fire crackers over a public-address system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/market-hub-heaves-sigh-of-relief-as-residents-choose-lights-over-crackers/articleshow/79230088.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||US, Israel worked together to track and kill al-Qaida No. 2||WASHINGTON: The United States and Israel worked together to track and kill a senior al-Qaida operative in Iran earlier this year, a bold intelligence operation by the two allied nations that came as the Trump administration was ramping up pressure on Tehran. Four current and former US officials said Abu Mohammed al-Masri, al-Qaida's No. 2, was killed by assassins in the Iranian capital in August. The US provided intelligence to the Israelis on where they could find al-Masri and the alias he was using at the time, while Israeli agents carried out the killing, according to two of the officials. The two other officials confirmed al-Masri's killing but could not provide specific details. Al-Masri was gunned down in a Tehran alley on Aug. 7, the anniversary of the 1998 bombings of the U.S. embassies in Nairobi, Kenya, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Al-Masri was widely believed to have participated in the planning of those attacks and was wanted on terrorism charges by the FBI. Al-Masri's death is a blow to al-Qaida, the terror network that orchestrated the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in the US, and comes amid rumors in the Middle East about the fate of the group's leader, Ayman al-Zawahiri. The officials could not confirm those reports but said the U.S. intelligence community was trying to determine their credibility. Two of the officials - one within the intelligence community and with direct knowledge of the operation and another former CIA officer briefed on the matter - said al-Masri was killed by Kidon, a unit within the secretive Israeli spy organization Mossad allegedly responsible for the assassination of high-value targets. In Hebrew, Kidon means bayonet or "tip of the spear.'' The official in the intelligence community said al-Masri's daughter, Maryam, was also a target of the operation. The U.S. believed she was being groomed for a leadership role in al-Qaida and intelligence suggested she was involved in operational planning, according to the official, who like the others, spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss sensitive intelligence. Al-Masri's daughter was the widow of Hamza bin Laden, the son of al-Qaida mastermind Osama bin Laden. He was killed last year in a U.S. counterterrorism operation in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region. The news of al-Masri's death was first reported by The New York Times. Both the CIA and Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's office, which oversees the Mossad intelligence agency, declined to comment. Israel and Iran are bitter enemies, with the Iranian nuclear program Israel's top security concern. Israel has welcomed the Trump administration's withdrawal from the 2015 Iranian nuclear accord and the U.S. pressure campaign on Tehran. At the time of the killings, the Trump administration was in the advanced stages of trying to push through the U.N. Security Council the reinstatement of all international sanctions on Iran that were lifted under the nuclear agreement. None of the other Security Council members went along with the U.S., which has vowed to punish countries that do not enforce the sanctions as part of its ``maximum pressure'' campaign on Iran. Israeli officials are concerned the incoming administration of President-elect Joe Biden could return to the nuclear accord. It is likely that if Biden does engage with the Iranians, Israel will press for the accord to be modified to address Iran's long-range missile program and its military activity across the region, specifically in Syria and its support for groups like Hezbollah, Hamas, and Islamic Jihad. The revelations that Iran was harboring an al-Qaida leader could help Israel bolster its case with the new U.S. administration. Al-Masri had been on a kill or capture list for years. but his presence in Iran, which has a long history of hostility toward al-Qaida, presented significant obstacles to either apprehending or killing him. Iran denied the reports, saying the government is not harboring any al-Qaida leaders and blaming the U.S. and Israel for trying to foment anti-Iranian sentiment. U.S. officials have long believed a number of al-Qaida leaders have been living quietly in Iran for years and publicly released intelligence assessments have made that case. Al-Masri's death, albeit under an assumed name, was reported in Iranian media on Aug. 8. Reports identified him as a Lebanese history professor potentially affiliated with Lebanon's Iranian-linked Hezbollah movement and said he had been killed by motorcycle gunmen along with his daughter. Lebanese media, citing Iranian reports, said that those killed were Lebanese citizen Habib Daoud and his daughter Maraym. The deaths of al-Masri and his daughter occurred three days after the catastrophic Aug. 4 explosion at the port of Beirut and did not get much attention. Hezbollah never commented on reports and Lebanese security officials did not report that any citizens were killed in Tehran. A Hezbollah official on Saturday would not comment on al-Masri's death, saying Iran's foreign ministry had already denied it. The alleged killings seem to fit a pattern of behavior attributed to Israel in the past. In 1995, the founder of the Palestinian militant group Islamic Jihad was killed by a gunman on a motorcycle in Malta, in an assassination widely attributed to the Mossad. The Mossad also reportedly carried out a string of similar killings of Iranian nuclear scientists in Iran early last decade. Iran has accused Israel of being behind those killings. Yoel Guzansky, a senior fellow at the Institute for National Security Studies and former analyst on Iranian affairs in the prime minister's office, said it has been known for some time that Iran is hiding top al-Qaeda figures. While he had no direct knowledge of al-Masri's death, he said a joint operation between the U.S. and Israel would reflect the two nations' close intelligence cooperation, with the US typically stronger in the technical aspects of intelligence gathering and Israel adept at operating agents behind enemy lines. Watch Al-Qaida leader Ayman al-Zawahri's deputy killed in Iran in top secret operation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-israel-worked-together-to-track-and-kill-al-qaida-no-2/articleshow/79230054.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, 'jail-made' footwear to hit market soon in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: 'Jail-made' hawai chappal will soon be available in your next-door shop or market in Kerala as a central prison here has started manufacturing the rubber slippers now. After dishing out a variety of products, including delicious but cost-effective food items, and successfully venturing into organic farming and beauty parlour business to running a petrol pump, the inmates of the Poojappura central prison here are now making footwear. As part of a series of welfare measures for the prisoners to bring them to the forefront of society, the Kerala prisons and correctional services department recently established a manual footwear manufacturing unit at the jail premises. The jail authorities released photos of inmates, in their conventional attire, engaged in chappal making and the colourful footwear they made. "Each pair of slipper will be sold at Rs 80 and it will be marketed under the brand name-Freedom Walk," superintendent of the prison and correction home Nirmalanandan Nair said. Director general of prisons and correctional services Rishi Raj Singh, DGP, on Saturday launched the sale of the slippers at a function in the jail premises adhering to Covid protocols. Meanwhile, a prison statement here said the Poojappura central jail has now become a complete Covid-free zone. With the coordinated efforts of health and jail departments, the central prison has become free of the viral infection in one month. "All the 42 inmates, who had remained Covid positive, have now turned negative for the disease. At present, there is no Covid positive patient at this jail," the superintendent said. In the wake of the pandemic, various services provided by the jail had been stopped temporarily. Now, welfare various services, including food unit, cafeteria, gents' beauty parlour and the sale of organic vegetables, have been resumed now, he added. Seeking to tap the hugely popular online food market, the state Prison Department had recently begun offering biriyani prepared by the inmates. For this, they have tied up with Swiggy, the online food delivery player. The Freedom Food Factory, an enterprise selling food, mainly chappathi and chicken curry combo, prepared by the inmates at prisons in the state, has been engaged in the business since 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-jail-made-footwear-to-hit-market-soon-in-kerala/articleshow/79230167.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Kids come forward to take the lead on Children’s Day||KOLKATA: With ban on use of fireworks, Children’s Day celebrations set the mood at housing complexes on Saturday. A range of events and activities had been planned to keep them busy and involved with each other, though by maintaining social distancing. In most cases, the events were live streamed for all residents. Kids were kept busy since Friday — they made decorations for pandal at home at South City Residency. While some painted hand fans and made paper pulp models, other wove baskets. These were then collected by the organising committee and put up all over the pandals. “Kids worked in tandem with each other over phones and virtual modes and produced decorations that were in sync with each other,” said Prasanta Banerjee, spokesperson of the organising committee. Eleven-year-old Snithik De, a student of South City International, was among some of the kids at Upohar Housing Society who participated in a story writing competition. Kids were encouraged to write and upload their stories on the link provided. Many recited poems and sang. “I am so happy that so many elders liked my rangoli. I spent hours doing it…” said Tithi Das, another 11-year-old child of the complex, who studies in Indus Valley School. Kids at Lakeview Housing Co-opertive in Howrah were given chocolates and surprise gifts as part of the Children’s Day celebrations, not too far from the spot that is cleared every year for kids to burst fireworks. “Though we made kids understand the harmful effects of fireworks and the Covid situation, we could understand that they were a little sad. So, we decided to lift their spirits by distributing some surprise gifts and chocolates,” said Asim Dutta, secretary of the society. At Silver Spring, a twoday long rangoli competition was in progress till late evening that would be judged over the weekend. “We are seeking more participation from children and teenagers so that they can celebrate Diwali without crackers and ring in an all new flavour this time,” said Indranil Chowdhury, the secretary of the residents’ association. At Lake District Complex in Ultadanga, the resident welfare association had roped in teenagers and children in multiple awareness campaigns to educate the residents about the ban on firecrackers this year. “The children are much more socially aware than many adults. Hence, we roped them in to educate the complex residents and it has done wonders. To keep the residents engaged we are also having a number of competitions like rangoli and quiz competitions,” said Santanu Ghosh, one of the senior residents of the complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-kids-come-forward-to-take-the-lead-on-childrens-day/articleshow/79230147.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 15, 2020||Business||Indian economy may be recovering faster than anticipated: Oxford Economics||NEW DELHI: The Indian economy is seen recovering faster than expected and the Reserve Bank is likely to have come to an end of the rate easing cycle, according to global forecasting firm Oxford Economics. It further said that inflation is expected to average significantly above 6 per cent in the fourth quarter of the current fiscal and the RBI may hold policy rates in December monetary policy review meeting. "Consumer inflation rose back to pre-virus highs in October, with almost every broad category other than fuel experiencing a rise in prices. While Q4 is likely to mark the peak for inflation, we have turned more cautious on the trajectory over 2021," it said. Costlier vegetables and eggs pushed up retail inflation to a nearly six-and-a-half year high of 7.61 per cent in October, keeping it significantly above the comfort zone of the Reserve Bank. Retail inflation stood at 7.27 per cent in September 2020. "At the same time, robust bottom-up activity data suggest that the economy may be recovering faster than we anticipated. As such, we see an increasing possibility that the RBI's easing cycle has ended," Oxford Economics said. Moody's Investors Service has also revised upwards its GDP forecast for India to (-) 8.9 per cent contraction in the 2020 calendar year, as the economy reflates after a long and strict nationwide lockdown but added the recovery is patchy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/indian-economy-may-be-recovering-faster-than-anticipated-oxford-economics/articleshow/79230258.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Puducherry||New Covid-19 cases dip to 25 in Puducherry; No fresh deaths||PUDUCHERRY: The number of fresh coronavirus cases dropped to 25 for the first time in recent months in the Union Territory of Puducherry, taking the total infection count to 36,324, the health department said on Sunday. In a further positive sign, there was no Covid-19 death recorded from any of the four regions of Puducherry, Karaikal, Mahe and Yanam of the UT during the last 24 hours ending at 10 am on Sunday, a release said here. A total of 475 samples were tested of which 13 returned positive in Puducherry, one in Karaikal and 11 in Mahe, director of health and family welfare S Mohan Kumar said in the release. Of the total 36,324 cases, as many as 984 were active, and fatalities remained 608. A total of 95 patients were discharged from hospitals, taking the cumulative recoveries to 34,732. The fatality and recovery rates were 1.67 per cent and 95.62 per cent respectively. Of the total 3.61 lakh samples tested so far 3.19 lakh were found to be negative and result for the remaining samples awaited, the director said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/new-covid-19-cases-dip-to-25-in-puducherry-no-fresh-deaths/articleshow/79230264.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||Firecrackers, farm fires make Delhi's air quality 'severe'; relief likely||NEW DELHI: Delhi-NCR woke up to the pungent smell of smoke from firecrackers on a hazy Sunday morning as pollution levels in the region crossed the emergency threshold. The air quality had turned "severe" on Saturday evening with stubble burning accounting for 32 per cent of Delhi's PM2.5 pollution, but firecracker emissions and calm winds made the situation even worse. Track the pollution level in your cityThe levels of PM2.5“ which is about three per cent the diameter of a human hair and can lead to premature deaths from heart and lung diseases “ were 396 microgram per cubic metre/m3 in Delhi-NCR at 6am, above the emergency threshold of 300/m3. The safe limit is 60/m3. PM10 level stood at 543 /m3 at 6am, above the emergency threshold of 500/m3, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. PM10 levels below 100/m3 are considered safe in India. According to the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP), the air quality is considered in the severe plus or emergency category if PM2.5 and PM10 levels persist above 300/m3 and 500/m3 for more than 48 hours. A large number of people burst crackers across the national capital and its suburbs on Saturday night, flouting the ban imposed by the National Green Tribunal. Delhi Police arrested 10 people and seized 638 kg of firecrackers on Saturday. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had on Monday imposed a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the National Capital Region (NCR) from November 9 midnight to November 30 midnight, saying "celebration by crackers is for happiness and not to celebrate deaths and diseases". According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, the PM2.5 concentration in Delhi on Diwali could have been the lowest in the last four years if there were no fireworks. The city recorded an overall AQI of 414 at 4pm on Saturday. It soared to 454 by 10pm. On Sunday, it stood at 465 at 9 am. The neighbouring cities of Faridabad (438), Ghaziabad (483), Greater Noida (439), Gurugram (424) and Noida (466) also recorded their AQI in the severe category. Delhi recorded a 24-hour average AQI of 337 on Diwali last year (October 27), and 368 and 400 in the next two days. Thereafter, pollution levels remained in the severe category for three days on the trot. In 2018, the 24-hour average AQI (281) on Diwali was recorded in the poor category. It deteriorated to 390 the next day and remained in the severe category on three consecutive days thereafter. In 2017, Delhi's 24-hour average AQI on Diwali (October 19) stood at 319. It, however, slipped into the severe zone the next day. This time, the India Meteorological Department has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali (Sunday and Monday). Light rain is likely on Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. The air quality is likely to improve due to an expected increase in the wind speed, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. V K Soni, the head of the IMD's environment research centre, said high-velocity east-southeasterly winds (gusting up to 40 kilometre per hour) are expected to disperse the pollutants. There will be a significant improvement in air quality by Monday, Soni said. The Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi also said the situation is likely to improve significantly on Sunday. Under the influence of a Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall over plains of northwest India and adjoining central India is likely on Sunday. Generally cloudy sky, light rain, thundershowers accompanied with gusty winds (speed 30-40 kmph) is likely towards afternoon-evening on Sunday, the central agency said. Watch Chances of drizzle, rain in Delhi-NCR today: IMD||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/firecrackers-farm-fires-make-delhis-air-quality-severe-relief-likely/articleshow/79230280.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Trump calls on Congress to pass Covid-19 relief bill||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump has called for Congress to pass a "big and focused" Covid-19 relief bill as the number of confirmed cases continued to surge across the country. "Congress must now do a Covid Relief Bill. Needs Democrats support. Make it big and focused. Get it done," Xinhua news agency quoted Trump as saying in a tweet on Saturday. Trump's comments came after the US reported an all-time high of nearly 200,000 new cases November 12, setting a new record for the fifth time in a week. US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on on November 13 also called the resurgence a "red alert" that requires "all hands on deck" in Congress. "Our focus in the Congress, now in this lame duck, continues to be on COVID-19 relief. This is a red alert," Pelosi said at a press briefing. "We must save lives and livelihoods, and yet Republicans in Congress continue their tactics of delay, distort, and deny, which has led to deaths." Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin have been negotiating a new Covid-19 relief package for months, but have failed to reach an agreement. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has also renewed his push for a focused, targeted Covid-19 relief, and denounced Democrats' proposal as "absurd" and "socialist." The Democrat-controlled House of Representatives in early October passed a $2.2 trillion relief bill. Some Senate Republicans, however, insisted on a relief package below $1 trillion, and failed to advance a $500 billion bill in late October. Economists, as well as Federal Reserve officials, have repeatedly argued that more fiscal relief is needed to sustain the US economic recovery, warning of dire consequences if further fiscal support is not provided in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-calls-on-congress-to-pass-covid-19-relief-bill/articleshow/79230192.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Human rights issue should be raised against Pak for ceasefire violations: BSF||SRINAGAR: Rajesh Mishra, BSF Inspector General (IG), Kashmir on Sunday said that a lot of harm was inflicted on civilians, including damage to their properties, because of the recent ceasefire violations by Pakistan. While condemning the actions by Islamabad, Mishra said, the issue of human rights violations should be raised against the country. "Lot of harm was inflicted on civilians including damage to their properties. Issue of human rights violation should be raised," said the BSF IG, on being asked if he has any message for the international community over multiple ceasefire violations by Pakistan on November 13. Earlier today, Kashmir Frontier, Border Security Force (BSF) paid last respects to sub-inspector Rakesh Dobhal who was killed in a ceasefire violation by Pakistan in Baramulla district on Friday.The wreath-laying ceremony for Dobhal was held at Srinagar on Sunday. "On November 13, Pakistan started unprovoked ceasefire violation on Line of Control (LoC), using artillery, mortars and other weapons targeting even the civilian areas deliberately. Sub-Inspector Rakesh Dobhal immediately reacted to the call of duty for retaliation and brought effective fire on enemy thus causing great damage to the enemy in Naugam Sector. While fighting bravely, he was hit by enemy fire. He was immediately evacuated but unfortunately succumbed to his injuries en route hospital," said BSF in a press release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/human-rights-issue-should-be-raised-against-pak-for-ceasefire-violations-bsf/articleshow/79230193.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||Huge Asian trade pact signed in coup for China||HANOI: Fifteen countries on Sunday signed a sprawling Asian trade deal seen as a huge coup for China in extending its influence. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) -- which includes 10 Southeast Asian economies along with China, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and Australia -- is the world's largest trade pact in terms of GDP, analysts say. First proposed in 2012, the deal was finally sealed at the end of a Southeast Asian summit as leaders push to get their pandemic-hit economies back on track. "I am happy that after eight years of complex discussions, today we officially end RCEP negotiations," Vietnamese Prime Minister Nguyen Xuan Phuc said ahead of the virtual signing. The agreement to lower tariffs and open up the services trade within the bloc does not include the United States and is viewed as a Chinese-led alternative to a now-defunct Washington trade initiative. The RCEP "solidifies China's broader regional geopolitical ambitions around the Belt and Road initiative", said Alexander Capri, a trade expert at the National University of Singapore Business School, referring to Beijing's signature investment project that envisions Chinese infrastructure and influence spanning the globe. "It's sort of a complementary element." But many of the signatories are battling severe coronavirus outbreaks and they are also hoping the RCEP will help mitigate the crippling economic cost of the illness. Indonesia recently tumbled into its first recession for two decades while the Philippine economy shrunk by 11.5 percent on-year in the latest quarter. "Covid has reminded the region of why trade matters and governments are more eager than ever to have positive economic growth," said Deborah Elms, executive director of the Asian Trade Centre, a Singapore-based consultancy. "RCEP can help deliver it." India pulled out of the agreement last year over concerns about cheap Chinese goods entering the country and will be a notable absentee during Sunday's virtual signing. It can join at a later date if it chooses. Even without India, the deal covers 2.1 billion people, with RCEP's members accounting for around 30 percent of global GDP. Crucially, it should help shrink costs and make life easier for companies by letting them export products anywhere within the bloc without meeting separate requirements for each country. The agreement touches on intellectual property, but environmental protections and labour rights are not part of the pact. The deal is also seen as a way for China to draft the rules of trade in the region, after years of US retreat under President Donald Trump which have seen Washington pull out of a trade pact of its own, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). Though US multinationals will be able to benefit from RCEP through subsidiaries within member countries, analysts said the deal may cause President-elect Joe Biden to rethink Washington's engagement in the region. This could see the US eye the potential benefits of joining the TPP's successor deal, the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), said Rajiv Biswas, APAC chief economist at IHS Markit. "However, this is not expected to be an immediate priority issue... given the considerable negative response to the TPP negotiations from many segments of the US electorate due to concerns about US job losses to Asian countries," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/huge-asian-trade-pact-signed-in-coup-for-china/articleshow/79230373.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Kozhikode: LDF hounding opposition with fake cases, alleges IUML||KOZHIKODE: IUML leaders alleged that LDF government is fabricating cases against opposition leaders to deflect public attention from the serious charges it is facing now. After the high-power committee meeting at Panakkad in Malappuram on Saturday, IUML leaders PK Kunhalikutty and ET Muhammad Basheer said the cases against MLAs KM Shaji and MC Kamaruddin were politically motivated. They said the LDF convener had declared that UDF leaders will go to jail one by one and investigating agencies under the government are implementing that directive. “The government has a tenure of only six more months and it is trying to implicate UDF leaders. LDF is preparing the list of persons to be arrested by the police. Such a development was not seen before,” Kunhalikutty alleged. “Don’t intimidate us with cases; we faced many similar challenges in the past. Cases against Kamaruddin are part of a political vendetta. LDF needs no reason to frame political opponents,” Kunhalikutty said, reiterating that there was no need for Kamaruddin to resign. KM Shaji, who was interrogated by enforcement directorate for two days, was summoned for the meeting. Shaji apprised the leaders about the incidents that transpired till date. Kunhalikutty said IUML leadership is satisfied with his explanation. The meeting also discussed preparations for the ensuing elections to local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kozhikode-ldf-hounding-opposition-with-fake-cases-alleges-iuml/articleshow/79230378.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Varanasi||UP cities violate cracker ban, resulting in high pollution level, low morning visibility||LUCKNOW: Despite a government ban on crackers in some Uttar Pradesh cities, especially those near Delhi, residents couldn't resist bursting firecrackers during Diwali on Saturday, resulting in poor Air Quality Index (AQI) level and low visibility the next morning. Moreover, the debris of firecrackers and other festival paraphernalia were seen littered across the cities like Lucknow, Varanasi, Moradabad, and Kanpur on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityIn wake of the increasing pollution levels, the Uttar Pradesh government has banned the sale or use of firecrackers in Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Varanasi, Meerut, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Moradabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Baghpat, and Bulandshahr till November end. Fire crackers waste seen on the streets of Varanasi post #Diwali celebrations. State govt has imposed a ban on sa… https://t.co/PjkIbY1OKN— ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) 1605414877000Despite this, unabated fireworks took place on Diwali night. The Air Quality Index in the Lalbagh area of Lucknow was recorded at 396 (very poor), as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Kanpur: Fire cracker waste being cleared at Collectorganj post #Diwali celebrations. Air Quality Index (AQI) is a… https://t.co/BlTqJzCPYq— ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) 1605411921000Kanpur's Nehru Nagar recorded an AQI of 328 (very poor), as per CPCB. Meanwhile, the residents questioned the cracker ban. "What good did the government ban on firecrackers bring? It was of no use. Lots of firecrackers were burst, emitting a lot of pollutants. During the morning walk today, I faced some difficulties. Then what is the point of this ban," asked a resident of Kanpur. Another local resident said despite the ban, people managed to buy firecrackers. "Had the government ensured proper implementation of the ban, the situation would have been different. My question is how come the crackers were burst despite the ban?" Akash from Moradabad echoed: "Lots of firecrackers were burst on the night of Diwali. I came out for a morning walk today, and I am having trouble breathing because of the pollution and smog."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/up-cities-violate-cracker-ban-resulting-in-high-pollution-level-low-morning-visibility/articleshow/79230406.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Lucknow||UP cities violate cracker ban, resulting in high pollution level, low morning visibility||LUCKNOW: Despite a government ban on crackers in some Uttar Pradesh cities, especially those near Delhi, residents couldn't resist bursting firecrackers during Diwali on Saturday, resulting in poor Air Quality Index (AQI) level and low visibility the next morning. Moreover, the debris of firecrackers and other festival paraphernalia were seen littered across the cities like Lucknow, Varanasi, Moradabad, and Kanpur on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityIn wake of the increasing pollution levels, the Uttar Pradesh government has banned the sale or use of firecrackers in Muzaffarnagar, Agra, Varanasi, Meerut, Hapur, Ghaziabad, Kanpur, Lucknow, Moradabad, Noida, Greater Noida, Baghpat, and Bulandshahr till November end. Fire crackers waste seen on the streets of Varanasi post #Diwali celebrations. State govt has imposed a ban on sa… https://t.co/PjkIbY1OKN— ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) 1605414877000Despite this, unabated fireworks took place on Diwali night. The Air Quality Index in the Lalbagh area of Lucknow was recorded at 396 (very poor), as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Kanpur: Fire cracker waste being cleared at Collectorganj post #Diwali celebrations. Air Quality Index (AQI) is a… https://t.co/BlTqJzCPYq— ANI UP (@ANINewsUP) 1605411921000Kanpur's Nehru Nagar recorded an AQI of 328 (very poor), as per CPCB. Meanwhile, the residents questioned the cracker ban. "What good did the government ban on firecrackers bring? It was of no use. Lots of firecrackers were burst, emitting a lot of pollutants. During the morning walk today, I faced some difficulties. Then what is the point of this ban," asked a resident of Kanpur. Another local resident said despite the ban, people managed to buy firecrackers. "Had the government ensured proper implementation of the ban, the situation would have been different. My question is how come the crackers were burst despite the ban?" Akash from Moradabad echoed: "Lots of firecrackers were burst on the night of Diwali. I came out for a morning walk today, and I am having trouble breathing because of the pollution and smog."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-cities-violate-cracker-ban-resulting-in-high-pollution-level-low-morning-visibility/articleshow/79230389.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Varanasi||12-year-old girl killed as hut catches fire in UP's Ballia||BALLIA: A 12-year-old girl was killed as her hut caught fire in this Uttar Pradesh district, police said on Sunday. According to Narhi station house officer (SHO) Gyaneshwar Mishra, the incident took place in Kulharhia village on Saturday night. Mishra said on Saturday night, when people were celebrating Diwali, the hut of Avadh Bihari Ram suddenly caught fire at around 10 pm and it assumed a huge proportion. A girl, identified as Sonam (12), died due to burns in the incident, the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/12-year-old-girl-killed-as-hut-catches-fire-in-ups-ballia/articleshow/79230436.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||Amit Shah to review Covid-19 situation in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Union home minister Amit Shah on Sunday will review the situation arising in Delhi in the wake of a spike in the number of coronavirus cases, officials said. Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendra Jain are expected to attend a meeting with Shah in the evening. The home minister will take stock of the situation arising due to the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi and how to deal with it, a home ministry official said. Watch Covid-19: Amit Shah calls urgent meeting to review cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amit-shah-to-review-covid-19-situation-in-delhi/articleshow/79230435.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Tourism on the anvil for historic Vendallur||KOZHIKODE: State tourism department has expressed its willingness to set up tourism project at the history rich hillock of Vendallur at Valanchery in Malappuram where researchers from Calicut University had found evidence of continuous human settlement from megalithic post-hole burial cists and petroglyphs—dating back to Iron Age—to hundreds of clay dolls from the late medieval period. Tourism deputy director in Malappuram has, in a letter to the department, said that the evidence of pre-historic human habitations that were discovered near the premises of Parambathu Kavu Bhagavathi Temple by researchers of Calicut University, requires immediate steps for preservation. The department has recommended that if the archaeology department takes steps to preserve the site, then tourism department can set up facilities under the pilgrim tourism project. "Invaluable historical evidence which were discovered from the premises of the temple could be destroyed due to interferences by anti-social groups, encroachers and laterite quarry groups," the deputy director said in the letter to the tourism director. Tourism authorities in Malappuram have recommended that once the archaeology department takes over historical evidence discovered from the site and puts in place steps for their preservation, then the department can set up basic infrastructure to enable visitors see and understand the remnants under the pilgrim tourism project. Prof P Sivadasan from Calicut University history department, who had led the studies at the site, said that even three years after the discoveries were made at the site – which could have hosted continuous human settlement from Iron Age to the present day – no steps were initiated to preserve the historical evidence. "There is no compound wall for the temple ground. It would be a welcome development if tourism department and other government agencies take steps to preserve and help showcase the rich history of Vendallur," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tourism-on-the-anvil-for-historic-vendallur/articleshow/79230433.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kozhikode||Now, jewellery scam uncovered in Kannur||KOZHIKODE: Close on the heels of the Fashion Gold International episode, another case of investment fraud has surfaced in Payyannur in Kannur district. People have started lodging complaints against Aman Jewellery alleging that they were duped by the owners of the firm. Three persons have lodged complaints with the police that they lost money. The jewellery has a shop at Perumba in Payyannur. “Till now we have registered 15 cases including on the nine petitions we received on Saturday. Right now, Moidu Haji, the managing director, is the accused in the case,” said P Pramod, inspector of police, Payyanur. He added the police are planning to write to the department of company affairs to get the details of the board of directors of Aman gold. “Moidu Haji is absconding, and we will make the other directors accused as and when we get their details. The investors know only Haji,” the inspector said. The modus operandi in this case also is in the model of the Fashion Gold. Investments to the tune of lakhs of rupees were accepted from the people offering attractive returns. Police expect that more people will come up with complaints in the coming days. Meanwhile, Payyannur police registered three more cases against M C Kamarudeen, MLA, in the Fashion Gold cheating case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/now-jewellery-scam-uncovered-in-kannur/articleshow/79230453.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||Proposed mining reforms in a month; at least 500 blocks to be auctioned in 2-3 yrs: Pralhad Joshi||NEW DELHI: The Centre is planning to come out with the proposed mining reforms in a month or so and the auction of mineral blocks will kickstart two to three months after the amendments take place, Coal and Mines Minister Pralhad Joshi has said. The mines ministry had earlier sought suggestions from the general public, mining industry and other stakeholders on the proposed reforms in the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. "We want to bring these reforms very shortly...In another month or so reforms (proposed mining reforms) should come out," Joshi said in an interview to PTI. The government, he said, is looking into the feedback it has received on the proposed reforms and stressed that the Centre wishes to auction at least 500 mineral blocks in the coming two to three years. The slew of reform proposals include amending the contentious provisions of 10A(2)(b) and 10A (2)(C) of the MMDR Act, a move that would pave the way for auctioning of around 500 potential leases stuck in legacy issues now. Section 10A(2)(b) deals with leases where reconnaissance permit or prospecting licence were granted while 10A(2)(c) relates to grant of mining leases. Joshi said there is mixed opinion on 10A(2)(b) and 10A (2)(C) of the Act and stressed that it does not want to go into the details on the same. The mines minister was of the view that the Centre would have to convince state governments before the auction of mineral blocks as the mines ministry was just the policy maker and "rest (with regard to auction) is with the state government." Under the Aatmanirbhar Bharat scheme, the Centre had in May announced enhancing private investments in the mineral sector and bringing in other reforms. In order to implement the announcements, the mines ministry has proposed legislative amendments to the MMDR Act, 1957 for undertaking structural reforms in mineral sector with the objective of accelerating growth and employment generation. The proposals include increasing mineral production and employment generation by redefining the norms of exploration for auction of mineral blocks and ensuring seamless transition from exploration to production. They also include resolving legacy issues to move towards an auction only regime for allocation of mineral resources, removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines, developing a transparent National Mineral Index and clarifying the definition of illegal mining, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/proposed-mining-reforms-in-a-month-at-least-500-blocks-to-be-auctioned-in-2-3-yrs-pralhad-joshi/articleshow/79230524.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ICFOSS in Equals awards for gender interventions||KOCHI: International Centre for Free and Open Source Software (ICFOSS), an autonomous institution under the state government, has become one of top five finalists of the 2020 Equals in Tech Awards for initiating programmes in the intersection of gender and technology. There were 340 applicants globally. The Equals, launched by the International Telecommunication Union has four founding partners — GSMA, a global association of mobile network operators, the International Trade Centre, the United Nations University and UN Women. The awards are given every year to organizations and individuals working to help girls and women gain equal internet access, digital skills and opportunities in the tech industry. “It’s a prestigious award and entering the final round is in itself an achievement,” said Sabarish K, director, ICFOSS. The award was won by the ministry of communication and IT, Saudi Arabia, on Friday. ICFOSS had rolled out gender and technology programme (GTP) to address the gender divide and encourage women to take up IT as a career. The program involved a mix of activities, which included intensive workshops, residential camps, winter/summer schools and back-to-work. One of the major activities was the women’s hackathon. ICFOSS organized 28 hackathons as part of gender-based technical empowerment programmes in which 735 women participated. They also ran GNU/Linux installation camps aimed at upskilling women participants. ICFOSS also conducts faculty development programme in various FOSS domains and technologies to provide special training to women faculties. Under the back-to-work training initiative, intensive training are provided to women, who were forced to take a break in their career due to relocation after marriage or expansion of family, and intend to restart their career in various free software domains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-icfoss-in-equals-awards-for-gender-interventions/articleshow/79230608.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||ONGC books Rs 1,238 cr impairment loss, Q2 net profit down 55%||NEW DELHI: India's top oil and gas producer ONGC booked a Rs 1,238-crore impairment loss, which together with a fall in prices led to a 55 per cent drop in the company's September quarter net profit. Standalone net profit at Rs 2,878 crore in July-September quarter was 54.6 per cent lower than Rs 6,336 crore net profit a year ago, the company said in a statement. Revenue dropped 31 per cent to Rs 16,917 crore. The company got $41.38 for every barrel of crude oil it produced and sold in the second quarter of the current fiscal. This was 31.4 per cent lower than $60.33 per barrel price it had got in July-September 2019. Gas price was also down by more than one-third to $2.39 per million British thermal unit. "The revenue and profit-after-tax (PAT) for Q2 and H1 of FY'21 have declined as compared to corresponding period of FY'20 mainly due to lower crude oil price realisation. Lower gas prices also contributed to lower topline and bottomline," it said. Oil and Natural Gas Corp (ONGC) recognized "an exceptional item towards impairment loss of Rs 1,238 crore in Q2 FY'21 to factor into estimated future crude oil and natural gas prices," the statement said. An impairment loss is a recognised reduction in the carrying amount of an asset that is triggered by a decline in its fair value. The company said it considered possible effects of low crude oil and natural gas prices on the recoverability of its cash generating units in accordance with Indian Accounting Standards (Ind AS). It also considered the business conditions to make an assessment of the implication of pandemic, estimate of future crude oil and natural gas prices, production, and reserves volumes. In January-March quarter, ONGC had booked an impairment loss of Rs 4,899 crore, which led to the firm reporting its first-ever quarterly loss of Rs 3,098 crore. "This impairment loss (of Q2 FY'21) may be reversed in future as and when there is an increase in crude oil and gas price," ONGC said. However, net profit for July-September was 480 per cent higher than Rs 496 crore net profit in Q1 FY'21 due to recovery in crude oil prices. Crude oil production was marginally higher at 4.81 million tonnes in July-September as compared to 4.78 million tonnes in the corresponding period of previous fiscal. Natural gas output fell to 5.7 billion cubic metres (bcm) from 5.9 bcm in July-September 2019 after demand fell due to the Covid-19-induced lockdown. During April-September (H1), net profit fell 72.6 per cent to Rs 3,374 crore. Revenue slumped 41.4 per cent to Rs 29,927 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ongc-books-rs-1238-cr-impairment-loss-q2-net-profit-down-55/articleshow/79230600.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||Why India opted out of world's biggest trade deal signed today||NEW DELHI: Fifteen Asia-Pacific countries — with a combined gross domestic product (GDP) of over $26 trillion and comprising nearly one-third of the world's population — signed the world's biggest trade deal at the 37th Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) Summit on November 15. The Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) aims to achieve a modern, comprehensive, high-quality and mutually beneficial economic partnership agreement among the Asean member states and its FTA (free trade agreement) partners. However, as negotiations to finalise the long-overdue agreement entered its final stages, in November 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi surprised fellow member nations by choosing to opt out of it. Read Also15 Asian nations sign huge China-backed RCEP trade pactThe Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) -- which includes 10 Southeast Asian economies along with China, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and Australia -- is the world's largest trade pact in terms of GDP, analysts say.Following India's withdrawal, the remaining 15 nations signed the RCEP on Sunday on the sidelines of the annual summit of the 10-nation Association of Southeast Asian Nations, which Vietnam was hosting virtually. However, many participating nations are also becoming too economically dependent on China with the pact seen as a coup for it in extending its influence across the region.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); What is RCEPThe RCEP negotiations were launched by leaders from 10 Asean member states (Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Loas, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam) and six Asean FTA partners (Australia, China, India, Japan, Korea and New Zealand) during the 21st Asean summit in Phnom Penh in Cambodia in November 2012. The agreement allows for common one set of rules of origin to qualify for tariffs reduction with other RCEP members. This means less procedures and easier movement of goods. That should encourage multinational firms to invest more in the region, including building supply chains and distribution hubs. Since China is the key source of imports and is also the main export destination for most member nations, the deal is likely to it in a better position to shape the region's trade rules. The new tariff regime will kick in from 2022 and will see duties go back to 2014 levels. India's exit from RCEPIndia pulled out of the China-backed trade agreement as negotiations failed to address its core concerns. These were threat of circumvention of rules of origin due to tariff differential, inclusion of fair agreement to address the issues of trade deficits and opening of services. The deal would have brought down import duties on 80% to 90% of the goods, along with easier service and investment rules. Some in Indian industry feared that reduced customs duty would result in a flood of imports, especially from China with which it has a massive trade deficit. India’s trade deficit with other RCEP countries were also rising.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); In its negotiations, the government had also raised the issue of unavailability of MFN (Most Favoured Nation) obligations, where it would be forced to give similar benefits to RCEP countries that it gave to others. It had raised a red flag over the move to use 2014 as the base year for tariff reduction.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Prime Minister Narendra Modi said India's decision was guided by the impact it would have on the lives and livelihoods of all Indians, especially vulnerable sections of society. Despite its withdrawal, officials have said India could rejoin talks if it chooses to do so at a later date. What it means for IndiaIndia would have the third biggest economy in the RCEP. Analysts believe that India might lose investments while its consumers may end up paying more than they should, especially when global trade, investment and supply chains face unprecedented challenges due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Countries in the RCEP agreement would also lose out on an opportunity to access the Indian market that is notoriously hard to get into especially during the current global economic situation. For India, it will be an opportunity to strengthen its domestic industries and move towards its dream of becoming self-reliant. A large number of sectors including dairy, agriculture, steel, plastics, copper, aluminium, machine tools, paper, automobiles, chemicals and others had expressed serious apprehensions on RCEP citing dominance of cheap foreign goods would dampen its businesses. India-Asean relations and impact on RCEPIndia's relationship with Asean is a key pillar of its foreign policy and the foundation of the Act East Policy. Its focus on a strengthened and multi-faceted relationship with Asean is an outcome of the significant changes in the world’s political and economic scenario since the early 1990s and India’s own march towards economic liberalisation. In 2012, Asean and India had commemorated 20 years of dialogue partnership and 10 years of Summit level partnership with a Commemorative Summit held in New Delhi under the theme 'ASEAN-India Partnership for Peace and Shared Prosperity' on 20-21 December 2012. India-Asean trade and investment relations have been growing steadily, with Asean being India's fourth largest trading partner. Its trade with Asean stands at $81.33 billion, which is approximately 10.6 per cent of India's overall trade. While, India's exports to Asean stand at 11.28 per cent of our total exports.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Investment flows are also substantial both ways, with Asean accounting for approximately 18.28 per cent of investment flows into India since 2000. FDI inflows into India from Asean between April 2000 to March 2018 was about $68.91 billion, while FDI outflows from India to Asean countries, from April 2007 to March 2015, as per data maintained by department of economic affairs (DEA), was about $38.672 billion.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Under the UPA government, India had opened 74 per cent of its market to Asean countries but richer countries like Indonesia opened only 50 per cent of their markets for India. It also agreed to explore an India-China FTA in 2007 and join RCEP negotiations with China in 2011-12. However, the impact of these decisions resulted in increased trade deficit with RCEP nations - from $7 billion in 2004 to $78 billion in 2014. Watch RCEP: Why India opted out of world's biggest trade deal signed today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/why-india-opted-out-of-worlds-biggest-trade-deal-signed-today/articleshow/79230628.cms||Payal Bhattacharya
November 15, 2020||World||Trump supporters morning protests turn into violent clashes||WASHINGTON: Several thousand supporters of President Donald Trump in Washington protested election results and then hailed Trump's passing motorcade before nighttime clashes with counterdemonstrators sparked fistfights, at least one stabbing and at least 20 arrests. Several other cities on Saturday also saw gatherings of Trump supporters unwilling to accept Democrat Joe Biden's Electoral College and popular vote victory as legitimate. Cries of ``Stop the Steal'' and ``Count Every Vote'' continued in spite of a lack of evidence of voter fraud or other problems that could reverse the result. After night fell, the relatively peaceful demonstrations in Washington turned from tense to violent. Videos posted on social media showed fistfights, projectiles and clubs as Trump supporters clashed with those demanding they take their MAGA hats and banners and leave. The tensions extended to Sunday morning. A variety of charges, including assault and weapons possession, were filed against those arrested, officials said. Two police officers were injured and several firearms were recovered by police. Supporters of President Donald Trump rally at Freedom Plaza on Saturday in Washington. (AP Photo)Trump himself had given an approving nod to the gathering Saturday morning by dispatching his motorcade through streets lined with supporters before rolling on to his Virginia golf club. People chanted ``USA, USA'' and ``four more years,'' and many carried American flags and signs to show their displeasure with the vote tally and insistence that, as Trump has baselessly asserted, fraud was the reason. "I just want to keep up his spirits and let him know we support him,'' said one loyalist, Anthony Whittaker of Winchester, Virginia. He was outside the Supreme Court, where a few thousand assembled after a march along Pennsylvania Avenue from Freedom Plaza, near the White House. A broad coalition of top government and industry officials has declared that the Nov. 3 voting and the following count unfolded smoothly with no more than the usual minor hiccups - "the most secure in American history,'' they said, repudiating Trump's efforts to undermine the integrity of the contest. In Delray Beach, Florida, several hundred people marched, some carrying signs reading "Count every vote" and "We cannot live under a Marxist government.'' In Lansing, Michigan, protesters gathered at the Capitol to hear speakers cast doubt on results that showed Biden winning the state by more than 140,000 votes. Phoenix police estimated 1,500 people gathered outside the Arizona Capitol to protest Biden's narrow victory in the state. Protesters in Salem, Oregon, gathered at the Capitol. Among the speakers in Washington was a Georgia Republican newly elected to the U.S. House. Marjorie Taylor Greene, who has expressed racist views and support for QAnon conspiracy theories, urged people to march peacefully toward the Supreme Court. The marchers included members of the Proud Boys, a neo-fascist group known for street brawling with ideological opponents at political rallies. Multiple confrontations appeared later in the day as small groups of Trump supporters attempted to enter the area around Black Lives Matter Plaza, about a block from the White House, where several hundred anti-Trump demonstrators had gathered. In a pattern that kept repeating itself, those Trump supporters who approached the area were harassed, doused with water and saw their MAGA hats and pro-Trump flags snatched and burned, amid cheers. As night fell, multiple police lines kept the two sides apart. Videos posted on social media showed some demonstrators and counterdemonstrators trading shoves, punches and slaps. A man with a bullhorn yelling "Get out of here!'' was shoved and pushed to the street by a man who was then surrounded by several people and shoved and punched until he fell face first into the street. Bloody and dazed, he was picked up and walked to a police officer. The "Million MAGA March'' was heavily promoted on social media, raising concerns that it could spark conflict with anti-Trump demonstrators, who have gathered near the White House in Black Lives Matter Plaza for weeks. In preparation, police closed off wide swaths of downtown, where many stores and offices have been boarded up since Election Day. Chris Rodriguez, director of the city's Homeland Security and Emergency Management Agency, said the police were experienced at keeping the peace. The issues that Trump's campaign and its allies have pointed to are typical in every election: problems with signatures, secrecy envelopes and postal marks on mail-in ballots, as well as the potential for a small number of ballots miscast or lost. With Biden leading Trump by wide margins in key battleground states, none of those issues would have any impact on the outcome of the election. A former administration official, Sebastian Gorka, whipped up the crowd by the Supreme Court by saying, ``We can win because he did win.'' But, he added, "It's going to be tough.''||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-supporters-morning-protests-turn-into-violent-clashes/articleshow/79230755.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||New US citizenship test is tougher, with political tilt, say immigration experts||MUMBAI: The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), has revised its civics test, a mandatory requirement for those who want to become American citizens. According to the USCIS, applicants who apply for citizenship on or after December 1, 2020, will take the updated oral version of the test. The immigration agency states that the revised test includes more questions that test the applicant’s understanding of US history and civics, in line with the statutory requirements, and covers a variety of topics that provide the applicant with more opportunities to learn about the US as part of the test preparation process. Several immigration experts are of the view that the test is tougher and has political hues. Indian-born individuals are typically the second largest group to be granted US citizenship. During the twelve-month period ended September 30, 2019, 61,843 Indians were granted US citizenship, which constituted 7.5% of the total number of new citizens during the period. In the previous year, 52,194 Indians (which was 6.85% of the total new citizens) had acquired American citizenship. The revised test will not change the passing score, which will remain at 60%. Candidates must answer 12 questions correctly, out of 20 in order to pass. In this context, Doug Rand, co-founder, Boundless Immigration, a technology company in the immigration space, has tweeted, “Superficially, the 60% threshold for correct answers is the same. But studying the new 128 (more complicated) questions will be harder than studying the old 100 (more straightforward) questions. And scoring 12 out of 20 will be harder than scoring 6 out of 10.” He is of the view that the new civics test is unnecessary, unjustified, overly complex and shamelessly ideological. “This is an obvious attempt to throw one more obstacle in front of immigrants legally eligible for US citizenship. The Biden administration can and should immediately restore the current test,” adds Rand. Applicants who fail the civics test are afforded another opportunity to take it again during a second appointment. Aaron Reichlin-Melnick, policy counsel at American Immigration Council, a not-for-profit organisation, agrees that the overall tilt of the new questions are subtly more political than before. In a series of tweets, he gives various illustrations. “Not all the changes are benign. The answer to ‘Who does a US senator/congressperson represent?’ has been changed from ‘all people of the state’ to ‘citizens of their state.’ That's a bad change. It's completely untrue and Trumpian.” The backdrop relating to this question is that President Trump, had sought to exclude undocumented immigrants from the 2020 census count. The current guidelines continue for applicants who are 65 years old or older and have at least 20 years of lawful permanent resident status. These applicants will be asked 10 questions and must answer a minimum of six questions correctly in order to pass, explains USCIS. “USCIS has diligently worked on revising the naturalization (ie: citizenship) test since 2018, relying on input from experts in the field of adult education to ensure that this process is fair and transparent,” said USCIS Deputy Director for Policy Joseph Edlow. “Naturalization allows immigrants to become fully vested members of American society, with the same rights and responsibilities as citizens by birth, and offering a fair test, which prepares naturalization applicants for these responsibilities, is of utmost importance to our agency.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/new-us-citizenship-test-is-tougher-with-political-tilt-say-immigration-experts/articleshow/79230762.cms||Lubna Kably
November 15, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: CPM; Kodiyeri Balakrishnan stepped down solely on medical grounds||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Saturday said state secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan stepped aside from his role solely because of his ill health. Speaking to reporters in New Delhi, Yechury said Kodiyeri had reported about his health issues and the secretariat took a decision based on his request. “He needs medical attention. He offered to step down because he is unable to devote as much energy for the party as he would normally do and therefore an interim arrangement has been made,” Yechury said. To further queries, Yechury said whatever had to be said has already been stated in the news release issued by the CPM state secretariat on Friday. The CPM state secretariat had announced that A Vijayaraghavan will hold the charge of state secretary as Kodiyeri was granted leave for treatment. Finance minister Thomas Isaac didn’t reply to queries on Kodiyeri’s stepping down during the news conference convened to criticize the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report against Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). However, opposition UDF continued its tirade against Kodiyeri and CPM. While speaking at the Nehru birth anniversary celebration at KPCC headquarters, UDF convener M M Hassan said Kodiyeri had to quit because of the wrongdoings of his sons and not because of his ill health. He said the resignation of Kodiyeri alone wouldn’t do any good for CPM as CM Pinarayi Vijayan was continuing in the post. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran alleged that the CPM had to make such a decision as the party was afraid of impending defeat in the local body poll. He said with Kodiyeri resigning and Pinarayi continuing, the double standards of CPM have been exposed once again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-cpm-kodiyeri-balakrishnan-stepped-down-solely-on-medical-grounds/articleshow/79230912.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Mangaluru||Karnataka: Ayurveda centre gets 7 US patents, more in the pipeline||MANGALURU: Six herbomineral products developed by Dr M Vijaybhanu Shetty, chairman, Muniyal Ayurveda, Manipal, have got US patents from the Director of United States Patent and Trademark Office. A unique accomplishment in the history of Ayurveda, these patents are for a period of 20 years. Toxicity study, animal experimentation, clinical data and structured data of all the drugs have been conducted at reputed institutions. Several peer reviews have been published in prestigious magazines on the research products, Dr Shetty told TOI. Herbomineral products, namely Muneks for cancer (2 patents), Insol-N for diabetes, Heartogen for cardiac ailments, Herbotrim for metabolic disorders, Munibeyotic Plus for bacterial &; viral infections, and a line of treatment for cancer, namely Mahoshadha Kalpa have obtained US patents. Mahoshadha Kalpa is inspired by the teachings of Bhagwan Buddha. Dr Shetty said, eight more products are expected to get US patents soon. The Muniyal Ayurveda group runs under-graduate, post-graduate and PhD courses in Ayurveda, Naturopathy and Yoga degree courses from this year and has developed herbal gardens to protect endangered species of medicinal plants. They also conduct R&D and have clinics and production unit. Sacitra Caraka Samhita, a translation of Caraka Samhita from Sanskrit to English, a Muniyal Ayurveda publication, which is a useful book of reference in Ayurveda, was appreciated and released by the former President of India Dr APJ Abdul Kalam. Dr Shetty said, “The biggest challenge in Ayurveda though we have remedies for most of the diseases is that it has not been presented scientifically and we are attempting to do that,” he said. Even Prime Minister Narendra Modi has pointed out the increase in demand of Ayurvedic products during the pandemic and called upon the education ministry and UGC to explore new possibilities with subjects such as Ayurveda Physics and Ayurveda Chemistry, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-ayurveda-centre-gets-7-us-patents-more-in-the-pipeline/articleshow/79230972.cms||Deepthi Shridhar
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Child rights week to focus on better parenting||KOCHI: With the child rights week being observed from Nov 14-20, child welfare groups are focusing on the need to equip parents to deal with emotionally charged or disturbed children. “The number of calls is increasing, and these are children who are upset with their parents,” said a child welfare activist in Ernakulam. “We find that most calls are genuine and need some sort of intervention. Initially, the number of calls was so less that we did not know what was happening. But now children seem to be wanting to call. Since the emotionally disturbed child will not really be in a mood to listen to reason, we are focusing on parents. Counselling them has become important because they don’t know how to handle these kids.” Banging on doors, locking themselves in their rooms, refusing to eat and addiction to gadgets are some of the common issues raised by parents. “There’s a lot of pressure on parents too. It was clear from the beginning itself that we were going the wrong way,” said Seema Lal, psychologist, and co-founder TogetherWe-Can. “We had written to the state government long ago to equip the parents before exposing the children to smart devices. Nowadays, most of the schools that call psychiatrists and psychologists to have interactive sessions with students are asking because parents are also calling teachers with problems. Parents have handed devices to children who now refuse to hand them back. They take it away and lock themselves in the rooms. There is physical violence too with parents on the receiving side.” The Kerala state child rights commission which has been receiving complaints from various child protection officials and agencies says that parenting has become more difficult in the wake of Covid restrictions because it has also hit people economically. “We have passed orders asking schools to reduce the online time and focus more on offline classes. Also, the Commission has been stressing the reduction of school fees. We had written to schools.. some are stubborn and unwilling to cooperate. They have even aggravated issues by removing children from the WhatsApp and email groups because they hadn’t paid fees,” said K Naseer, member of the commission. Meanwhile, following the state crime records bureau reporting of 158 child suicides till July this year, the women and child department launched a campaign on ‘Positive and Responsible parenting’. The department also ran a survey involving 70,000 parents. Officials said that they are using the feedback as a base to reach out to parents who have to handle the situation without any support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-child-rights-week-to-focus-on-better-parenting/articleshow/79230988.cms||Sudha Nambudiri
November 15, 2020||World||Philippines' typhoon deaths rise as worst floods in 45 years hit north||MANILA: The death toll from the deadliest cyclone to hit the Philippines this year has climbed to 67, while many areas remained submerged in a northern region hit by the worst flooding in more than four decades, officials said on Sunday. President Rodrigo Duterte flew to Tuguegarao province to assess the situation in Cagayan Valley region, which was heavily flooded after Typhoon Vamco dumped rain over swathes of the main Luzon island, including the capital, metropolitan Manila. Twenty-two fatalities were recorded in Cagayan, 17 in southern Luzon, eight in Metro Manila, and 20 in two other regions, said Mark Timbal, the disaster management agency spokesman. Twelve people were still missing and nearly 26,000 houses were damaged by Vamco, he said. "This is the worst flooding that we had in the last 45 years," Cagayan Governor Manuel Mamba said during a briefing with Duterte. "We see that it is worsening every year." The accumulated effects of weather disturbances and huge volumes of water from a dam affected thousands of families in Cagayan, some of whom had fled to rooftops to escape two-storey high floods. Six cyclones hit the Philippines in a span of just four weeks, including Vamco and Super Typhoon Goni, the world's most powerful this year. But Mamba also lamented about denuded forests in Cagayan, prompting Duterte to order him to curb logging operations in the province. "We always talk about illegal logging and mining but nothing has been done about it," Duterte said. Relief and rescue operations continued in Cagayan even as the nearby Magat Dam was still releasing water, two days after releasing a volume equivalent to two Olympic-size pools per second, based on government data. Vamco, the 21st cyclone to hit the Philippines this year, also caused the worst flooding in years in parts of the capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/philippines-typhoon-deaths-rise-as-worst-floods-in-45-years-hit-north/articleshow/79231047.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: VHSE-NSS offers online course||KOCHI: Furthering its activities for promoting entrepreneurship skills among students during the pandemic, the National Service Scheme (NSS) of Vocational Higher Secondary Education (VHSE) is set to launch a four-day online course in ornamental fish farming. The programme, to be held in association with Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies (KUFOS), aims to give a short online training course to be an entrepreneur in ornamental fish farming and participants will get a certificate from KUFOS on completion. It will be available to all the members of VHSE-NSS in Kerala free of cost. The four-day course named ‘Alankara Matsyam Valarthal-Anandathinum Arogyathinum Adayathinum’ will begin on Wednesday and there will a 1.5-hour long session every day. The sessions will be taken by experts from Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies. The sessions include ornamental fish breeding and farming-live bearers and bubble nest builders, cichlids and gold fish, etc. Students will be given training in glass tank fabrication and setting up aquarium. There will be session on diseases and health management of ornamental fishes. “The primary aim of the programme is to keep the students engaged during the pandemic but it serves a larger purpose of nurturing entrepreneurship skills in them,” said P Ranjith, state programme coordinator, NSS-VHSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-vhse-nss-offers-online-course/articleshow/79231065.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 15, 2020||World||Pakistan to seek $2.7 bn loan from China for CPEC project||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan has decided to seek USD 2.7 billion loan from China for the construction of package-I of the Mainline-1 project of China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC). Citing government officials, The Express Tribune has reported that the sixth meeting of the financing committee on ML-1 project, which includes dualisation and upgrading of the 1,872 km railway track from Peshawar to Karachi, decided that Pakistan would initially request China to sanction only USD 2.73 billion in loan out of the total estimated Chinese financing of about USD 6.1 billion. This development comes even as Pakistan's economy has been teetering on the verge of bankruptcy for some time and the COVID-19 pandemic has made the situation even worse. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has been directed to formally send the Letter of Intent to China next week as Beijing is expected to finalise its next year's financing plans by the end of the current month, The Express Tribune reported. "In April this year, Pakistan had shared a term sheet for Chinese loan, seeking 1 per cent interest rate. But China has not yet formally responded to the request. They said that informally Chinese authorities conveyed that the interest rate could be higher than the one mentioned in the term sheet," the sources told the Pakistan daily. In May Pakistan's former ambassador to the United States Husain Haqqani wrote in an article in The Diplomat that Pakistan's desire to maintain strategic relations with China has resulted in the construction of USD 62 billion worth of CPEC, which includes a set of infrastructure projects, being mired in insufficient transparency. "China's consistent strategic support, including help with Pakistan's nuclear program, is often held out by Pakistan's military establishment favorably in contrast with the more conditional Pakistani alliance with the United States. But it seems now that China is not in Pakistan to help its people but rather as a predatory economic actor", he said. The 278-page report by the "Committee for Power Sector Audit, Circular Debt Reservation, and Future RoadMap" listed malpractices to the tune of 100 billion Pakistani rupees (USD625 million) in the independent power generating sector, with at least a third of it relating to Chinese projects. According to the committee's report, "excess set-up costs of (Pakistani Rupee) Rs 32.46 billion (approximately USD204 million) was allowed to the two coal-based [Chinese] plants due to misrepresentation by sponsors regarding [deductions for] the 'Interest During Construction' (IDC) as well as non-consideration of earlier completion of plants." The interest deduction was apparently allowed for 48 months whereas the plants were actually completed within 27-29 months leading to the entitlement of an excess Return on Equity (RoE) of USD27.4 million annually over the entire project life of 30 years in the case of the Sahiwal plant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-to-seek-2-7-bn-loan-from-china-for-cpec-project/articleshow/79231085.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||A green belt of mangroves to come up at Chellanam||KOCHI: During the last sea surge, Saneesh – a fisherman – saw rough waves take away a shed that stood on the western side of his house at Chellanam. “Next time it might be my home,” he said. For decades, Chellanam had witnessed numerous costly experiments – from sea walls and groynes to geobags and geotubes – and many days of agitations. Nothing helped them. When the season changes and the sea turns rough, fear stalks residents. Sea brings food to their plate, but is also a never-ending nightmare. For the past few weeks his daughter had been watering scores of seedlings of pranthan kandal (rhizophora mucronata) on his courtyard. On Sunday, Saneesh and his friends with help of Mangrove Tree Trust (MTT), run by children of Kallen Pokkudan, are planning to plant mangrove seedlings along a 500-m stretch at Kampanippady in Chellanam. This is not the first time someone has tried planting mangroves at Chellanam to build a first-line defence. “I have heard that Ittoop, a friend of my father Pokkudan, had tried to plant mangroves many years ago. A few months ago, workers under the national rural employment guarantee scheme (NREGS) had planted a few seedlings on a ridge of sand,” says MTT secretary Sreejith Paithalen. There wasn’t much thought behind it as most of the seedlings planted by NREGS workers before the sea surge were washed away. The eastern side of Chellanam has patches of mangroves and the soil is suited for growth. What makes their initiative different is the scientific process of planting the Trust has adopted. Seeds would be planted in bamboo culms, which would be driven into the soil. Bamboo would act as a natural shield to the seedlings as they grow protecting it from waves. “Rhizophora was a species preferred by my father and has high resilience. He had planted them successfully at Choottadi beach in Puthiyangadi before the tsunami stuck,” says Sreejith. The Trust is growing saplings in a nursery and is hoping to take up a project to build a green belt of mangroves across the state’s coastal panchayats, a dream of Pokkudan. But saplings would need care until two years. “It needs to be pruned regularly to ensure that the wind does not affect it. In a year, it would be a healthy plant. In two to three years the roots would be strong,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-green-belt-of-mangroves-to-come-up-at-chellanam/articleshow/79231117.cms||Binu Karunakaran
November 15, 2020||Bhopal||BJP leader Kailash Sarang's body taken to Bhopal, cremation at 4pm||BHOPAL: The mortal remains of senior Madhya Pradesh BJP leader Kailash Sarang were flown to state capital Bhopal from Mumbai on Sunday.  The 86-year-old leader, who breathed his last in a Mumbai hospital on Saturday, would be cremated at 4pm at Subhash Nagar Vishram Ghat here with full State honours.  Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan went to the airport to receive the body and paid his tribute to the deceased party leader.  The body was taken to Sarang's residence at 74 Bangla, from where it will be taken to the state BJP office at 2.30pm to enable various leaders and party workers to pay tributes.  On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had tweeted his condolence: "Shri Kailash Sarang Ji made stupendous efforts to strengthen the BJP across Madhya Pradesh. He will be remembered as a compassionate and hardworking leader, committed to MP's progress. Anguished by his demise. Condolences to his family and well-wishers. Om Shanti."  Sarang was associated with the saffron party since the Jan Sangh days. He had worked alongside Atal Bihari Vajpayee. Sarang was keeping ill for several days. His health deteriorated in September. After initial treatment in Bhopal, he was shifted to Mumbai.  Kailash Sarang's son Vishwas Sarang is a minister in Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-leader-kailash-sarangs-body-taken-to-bhopal-cremation-at-4pm/articleshow/79231130.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Pandemic effect: More people take up cycling in Kochi||KOCHI: Cycles continue to be in high demand in the city. Despite the shortage in availability of cycles, more people are keen to take up cycling to stay fit. Though fitness centres have opened as the government began the unlocking process, the need to maintain social distancing and the urge to avoid common spaces encourage health conscious citizens to take up cycling. Bicycle traders say that people who have to travel short distances for work have started using cycle to reach their workspaces. “Mostly cycles falling in the range of Rs 5,000-Rs 10,000 are in high demand. Endurance cycles are also preferred. However, there is a shortage in supply of components. Some of the policies of the government are also adversely affecting the sales of cycles,” said Deepak D Shah of Kavitha Cycles. He said that since the outbreak of the pandemic, people are keen about doing outdoor exercise. “They form groups and go for rides. People who are afraid to go by buses and Metro are using cycles to travel 3 to 5kms,” he added. Avid bikers also point out shortage in availability of good bicycles. According to Ullas Uthaman of Paravur Bikers’ Club, there is demand for bikes in the range of Rs 15,000-Rs 20,000, which is a favourite of long-distance riders. “But there is not enough supply of these bikes. It is mainly because of the shortage in production,” he said. He added that there has been a spurt in the number of cycling clubs being formed in the city. Those who go on regular rides cycle 40-80km a day, and on weekends people go for long rides, which are more than 100km. For the first time since lifting off the lockdown, the Paravur Club took out their longdistance ride to Calvery Mount in Idukki on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pandemic-effect-more-people-take-up-cycling-in-kochi/articleshow/79231150.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
November 15, 2020||World||Gilgit-Baltistan assembly election gets under way amid tight security||ISLAMABAD: Wearing face masks and observing social distancing to stop the spread of COVID-19, the people of Gilgit-Baltistan in northern Pakistan were voting on Sunday in the third legislative assembly election amidst tight security. The voting started at 8.00 am (local time) and would continue without any break until 5.00 pm. The voters present inside the polling stations would be allowed to cast ballots even after the end of polling time, polling officials said. There were 24 seats for the contest but polling on one seat was postponed, leaving 23 seats up for grabs. As many as 330 candidates, including four women, are in the contest, they said. India has slammed Pakistan for its decision to hold election in Gilgit-Baltistan and said any action to alter the status of the militarily-occupied region has no legal basis. "Any action by Pakistan to alter the status of the militarily-occupied so-called 'Gilgit-Baltistan' has no legal basis whatsoever and is totally void ab-initio," Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) Anurag Srivastava said at a virtual media briefing in September. "Our position has always been clear and consistent. The entire territories of the UTs of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh have been and are an integral part of India and would remain so," Srivastava had said. It is the third election for the current legislative assembly after political reform introduced in 2010. Out of 1,141 polling stations, 577 have been declared sensitive and 297 highly sensitive. Over 15,000 security personnel from Gilgit-Baltistan, Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Sindh and Balochistan have been deployed at polling stations. However, army personnel have not deployed. A fierce triangular contest involving Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N), Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and Pakistan Tehreel-i-Insaf (PTI) has been predicted by experts. Traditionally, the party ruling in Islamabad has won the Gilgit-Baltistan polls. The first election was won by the PPP when it got 15 seats, followed by PML-N, the then ruling party in 2015 when it won 16 seats. The PPP has fielded 23 candidates, while the PML-N has 21 aspirants. Both parties are contesting solo while the PTI has made a seat adjustment on two constituencies with Majlis-i-Wahdatul Muslimeen, a Shiite party. Shiite Muslims have a big presence in the region. Lately Tehreek-i-Nifaz-i-Fiqh-i-Jafria, another Shiite party, announced its support for the PPP in the elections but there were no seat arrangements. It has boosted the PPP's prospects. The ruling PTI of Prime Minister Imran Khan was initially considered as a favourite, but PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari and PML-N leader Maryam Nawaz actively campaigned in the region with several well-attended rallies. Their extensive campaign has left the outcome as open-ended. However, a recent survey by the Gallup Pakistan group showed that the PTI was in a strong position to win the polls, followed by the PPP. The central issue is granting the status of a province to the region. Prime Minister Khan, during the height of the campaign, personally visited and announced interim provincial status. PPP chief Bilawal Zardari announced to give the full status of the province if his party won, with seats for Gilgit-Baltistan in Parliament of Pakistan. Maryam also promised to grant the status of a province by saying that it was her party that set up a special committee in 2015 led by then advisor on foreign affairs Sartaj Aziz to propose reform for the region, including elevating its status to a province. Regardless of who wins the polls, it is expected that some changes in the status of the region would be announced after the new government was formed in the region. In a ruling earlier this year, the Pakistan Supreme Court allowed Islamabad to amend a 2018 administrative order to conduct general elections in the region. The Gilgit-Baltistan Order of 2018 provided for administrative changes, including authorising the prime minister of Pakistan to legislate on an array of subjects. Following the verdict, India issued a demarche to a senior Pakistani diplomat here and lodged a strong protest over the apex court ruling. India also clearly conveyed to Pakistan that the entire Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh, including the areas of Gilgit and Baltistan, are an integral part of the country. The polls in Gilgit-Baltistan were to be held on August 18, but Pakistan's election commission on July 11 postponed them due to the coronavirus pandemic. The five-year term of the previous assembly had ended on June 24, bringing an end to the five-year rule of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/gilgit-baltistan-assembly-election-gets-under-way-amid-tight-security/articleshow/79231185.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Reshma Mariam Roy youngest in fray for LSG polls||KOTTAYAM: Reshma Mariam Roy from Pathanamthitta is literally counting days to celebrate her birthday and reach a cherished milestone in her life. Reshma is all set to become the youngest candidate in the upcoming local body polls in the state when she turns 21—the minimum required age for a candidate—on November 18, a day before the last day for filing nominations. The LDF candidate will then file her nomination the very next day. Reshma will be contesting from ward 11 in Aruvappulam grama panchayat in Pathanamthitta. CPM is betting on Reshma to wrest the panchayat ward from the Congress. However, partymen were keeping their fingers crossed as her age was a ‘borderline case’ some months ago. “When elections were announced, those who knew about my candidature were anxious to know the  notification date. I could contest this time only because elections were postponed a couple of times. I am happy that I got lucky,” she said. Unlike her parents and family members who are Congress supporters, Reshma took a ‘Left turn’ during her college days. She was an active SFI member while doing BBA at VNS College in Konni. At present, she is the district secretariat member of SFI and district committee member of DYFI. “My party asked me to contest and I did not think twice. I was planning to pursue law from a reputed institute when I was asked to become a candidate,” she said about her career. Confident of winning, Reshma says that she will now take a correspondence course in law as she needs to spend more time in her village now. Reshma has taken a unique campaign approach. In the first two phases of campaign, she will be visiting houses accompanied only by her brother Robin. She is carrying a diary with her in which she will note down the problems and issues of residents. “Roads and problems faced by farmers are the main issues. Anganwadi needs a building. Youngsters are seeking self-employment opportunities and something needs to be done for them, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-reshma-mariam-roy-youngest-in-fray-for-lsg-polls/articleshow/79231210.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
November 15, 2020||India||First batch of Sputnik V vaccine to arrive in Kanpur medical college for Phase 2, 3 trials||KANPUR: The first batch of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine for Covid-19 is likely to reach Kanpur's Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Medical College by next week wherein the vaccine's Phase 2 and Phase 3 human clinical trials will be conducted. The decision to conduct the human clinical trials of the vaccine was taken after Dr Reddy's Laboratories got approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) in this regard, an official said. Speaking to PTI, college principal R B Kamal said the human clinical trials of the vaccine will start from next week. "As many as 180 volunteers have registered for the trials. Head of the research Saurabh Agarwal will determine the dosage of the vaccine to be administered. One dose will be administered and the condition of volunteers will be monitored to determine whether they need further doses or not," he said. Kamal said the volunteers' vitals and condition will be checked periodically and the data will be analysed to determine whether the vaccine is a success or not. He said the effect of the vaccine on the volunteers will be studied for seven months after the same is administered once, twice or thrice within an interval of 21 days. After observing the effects of the vaccine for a month, authorities will be apprised of the results of the trial and they will then make a decision accordingly. The Ethics Committee of the college has also given permission for the trails, he said. The vaccine has to be kept at a temperature of -20 to -70 degrees Celsius. In September, Dr Reddy's and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia's sovereign wealth fund, entered into a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine and its distribution in India. As part of the partnership, RDIF shall supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr Reddy's upon regulatory approval in India. On August 11, the Sputnik V vaccine was registered by the Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world's first registered vaccine against Covid-19 based on the human adenoviral vector platform. Watch Covid-19: First batch of Sputnik V vaccine to arrive in Kanpur medical college for further trials||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-batch-of-sputnik-v-vaccine-to-arrive-in-kanpur-medical-college-for-phase-2-3-trials/articleshow/79231224.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||How effective was the firecracker ban in fighting Delhi’s pollution?||NEW DELHI: Air pollution has many forms and is caused by several factors. That’s what confounds the battle to contain it. For at least a decade now India’s capital witnesses a frenzy of promises and pronouncements—interspersed with several rushed and half-baked measures—during the winter months to control pollution. Yet Delhi’s, and most of north India’s, air remains as foul as ever. Read AlsoWhy your app may show ‘clean’ air when you can’t even breatheThe number of monitoring stations in the capital are not enough to give real-time hyperlocal dataOne of the steps on which there is near consensus is the ban on the use of firecrackers on Diwali day. Hazards of exposing crores of people to direct and intense pollution are justified to impose an almost last minute ban on the sale of firecrackers jeopardizing the livelihoods of lakhs of workers and traders dependent on the industry. As the graph below shows, quick research by  Jasjeev Gandhiok of TOI finds that such bans had little to no effect in controlling pollution.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); However, it could be argued that in the absence of a ban on firecrackers the pollution would have been worse. What is beyond argument is that just imposing such bans is nowhere near adequate and governments of all north Indian states need to go beyond the annual pretense of taking short-term measures that have an unproven impact on pollution. One positive development was that nearly 20 states imposed some kind of ban on the sale and use of firecrackers on Diwali day this year. Hopefully more coordinated efforts to abate poison in the air will follow suit.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); In the meanwhile, people in Delhi have no option but to resort to desperate measures or internalize the governments’ inefficiency as a daily joke. Watch Was the firecracker ban effective in fighting Delhi’s pollution?||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/how-effective-was-the-firecracker-ban-in-fighting-delhis-pollution/articleshow/79231170.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Six drown in two incidents in Telangana on Diwali day||HYDERABAD: A Diwali day outing ended on a tragic note for two groups of youngsters as six of them drowned in separate incidents in Telangana, police said on Sunday. Four men, in the age group of 19-20, drowned in Godavari River in Venkatapuram mandal in Mulugu district while two teenagers met a with watery grave in Nizamsagar Dam in Kamareddy district on Saturday, they said. In the first mishap, a total of 16 people had gone to the Godavari river bank and four of them had entered the waters for swimming and drowned. Two bodies were fished out on Saturday while that of two others on Sunday, police said. In the other incident, five people visited the Nizamsagar dam and two of them went near a flood gate to bathe. The two, both aged 19, slipped and fell into deep waters, a police official said. One body was retrieved on Saturday while another on Sunday morning, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/six-drown-in-two-incidents-in-telangana-on-deepavali-day/articleshow/79231269.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: People happy with controlled air pollution after firecracker-less Diwali||CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh's Sector 22 woke up with fresh air and clean roads even after Diwali. Due to the blanket ban on bursting firecrackers, the city observed less pollution, residents said. "This year we have witnesses better Diwali in terms of pollution. Due to a ban on bursting firecrackers in Chandigarh, the city has observed cleaner roads in compare to last few years," said a local. "Chandigarh is already known as a clean city and we obeyed the government's guidelines. With this, we are waking up in a clean city even after Diwali the air also seems fresh. Incidents of fire have been also recorded less, it was a happy Diwali for all," said another local. To keep a check on the second wave of Covid-19 pandemic due to possible health complications arising from pollution, the administration last week imposed a blanket ban on the sale and bursting of firecrackers in the city with strict punishment. On November 6, the administration banned the sale and use of firecrackers of all types with immediate effect and said that any violation will result in legal action. "In exercise of the powers conferred on the undersigned as chairperson of the disaster executive committee of state disaster management authority. I hereby order, a complete ban on sale or use of crackers of any kind, throughout the union territory of Chandigarh," the order by the UT administration reads. These directions are issued as a containment measure to prevent the risk of spread of Covid-19, due to the polluted atmosphere created by bursting of crackers. The order said the ban will come into force with immediate effect and will remain in force until further orders. "Any violation of the orders will invite penal action under Section 51 to 60 of Disaster Management Act, 2005 besides legal action under Section 188 of the 1PC and other provisions as applicable," the order stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chandigarh-people-happy-with-controlled-air-pollution-after-firecracker-less-diwali/articleshow/79231276.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||Delhi fire service responds to 205 distress calls on Diwali||NEW DELHI: The Delhi fire service received 205 calls related to fire incidents on Diwali, slightly less than the last year, officials said on Sunday. The incidents include a fire at a godown in west Delhi's Mundka in which a 28-year-old man was killed while another was injured, they said. "We received 205 fire-related calls till Diwali midnight and only two calls were specifically related to firecracker bursting while most of the calls were about the blaze in open areas or dump yards," Delhi fire service director Atul Garg said. Of the total calls received, 129 were handled by the fire service department's control room during the peak hours (from 6 pm to 11:58 pm), the time when people usually lit diyas after puja and bursting firecrackers. Despite a complete ban on the usage of all kinds of firecrackers, Garg said "we responded to 205 calls this year on Diwali which is slightly less as compared to the last year." "It could be due to imposition of a complete ban but people were still found bursting firecrackers and most of the garbage dumps that caught fire are also due to fireworks," he said. Last year, the fire department had received 245 calls related to fire incidents on Diwali, the officer said. The National Green Tribunal on Monday imposed a total ban on the sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers in the national capital region from midnight of November 9 to the midnight of November 30. Ahead of Diwali, the Delhi government too had imposed a total ban on firecrackers, including the environmentally safer green crackers, from November 7-30 to combat rising air pollution amid an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city. Out of the 205 calls received on this Diwali, 175 were related to fire while the remaining were related to other requirements, including assistance for rescuing birds and animals, the senior fire official said. Only two of the 175 calls were related to fire due to bursting of firecrackers, while 71 calls were related to fire at dump yards or open areas, including the fire at a cooler-cum-wood godown in Mundka area on Saturday night, he said. The injured and the deceased were identified as Aditya, 20, and Sunil Kumar, 28, respectively. Both were residents of Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh, the police official said. The official suspects that Kumar was sleeping inside the godown when the fire broke out. "A call about the fire was received at around 11.05 pm and 12 fire tenders were rushed to the spot," Garg said. The charred body was recovered from inside the godown, he said. The fire was eventually brought under control but what led to the blaze is not known yet, he added. The Delhi fire service had deployed 2,500 personnel to deal with any emergency on the occasion. Also, fire tenders were deployed at 24 locations across the city from 5 pm to midnight on both the days, the official said. The vehicles were deployed at Azad Market Chowk, Jaipur Golden Hospital, New Ashok Nagar, Yamuna Vihar, Radha Soami Satsang - Bhati Mines, Bara Tooti Chowk, Tilak Nagar, Lajpat Nagar (Central Market), Lal Kuan Chowk, Lahori Gate, Nangloi, South Extension, Sonia Vihar, Mehrauli, Ghitorni metro station, Alipur police station, Rani Bagh Market, DTC Deport Katran Market, Gandhi Nagar Market, Mahipalpur Chowk, Sangam Vihar, Mundka metro station, Chhatarpur Near Tivoli Garden. Besides, motorcycles with fire fighting equipment and high-pressure pumps were also deployed to douse the fire on the streets and narrow lanes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-fire-service-responds-to-205-distress-calls-on-diwali/articleshow/79231334.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Pak used heavy artillery during Friday's shelling in J&K: BSF officer||SRINAGAR: Pakistani troops used heavy artillery during Friday's unprovoked ceasefire violations along the Line of Control (LoC) in several sectors of Jammu and Kashmir, causing loss of lives and a huge damage to property on the Indian side, a top BSF officer said here on Sunday. Five security forces personnel were among the 11 persons killed in multiple instances of ceasefire violation by Pakistan along the LoC between the Gurez and Uri sectors of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, even as the Indian Army caused extensive damage to Pakistan Army's infrastructure in retaliation. Those killed in the Pakistani aggression include four armymen, a Border Security Force (BSF) jawan and six civilians. "Pakistan fired heavy artillery without any provocation, but the Army and the BSF fought with bravery, gave a befitting response to them and many defences (installations) of Pakistan were destroyed," Inspector General of BSF, Kashmir Rajesh Mishra said. He was speaking to reporters on the sidelines of the wreath-laying ceremony of BSF Sub-Inspector Rakesh Doval, who was killed in the Pakistani firing. Mishra said the Pakistani firing caused loss of lives and a huge destruction of civilian property on the Indian side of the fence. He said the slain BSF man deserves the highest tributes as he fought despite getting injured in the shelling. Mishra said about 250-300 militants were ready at launchpads across the LoC to sneak into the Indian side. "Security forces, including the BSF, have been successful in foiling their designs and will continue to do that," he said. The BSF officer also said human rights organisations should take note of the killings of civilians and the damage caused to civilian properties in the intense shelling by Pakistan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-used-heavy-artillery-during-fridays-shelling-in-jk-bsf-officer/articleshow/79231374.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal nominates 11 MLAs as chairpersons of district development committees||NEW DELHI: Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has nominated 10 AAP MLAs and a BJP MLA as chairpersons of district development committees, officials said. An order for nominations of committee chairpersons in 11 districts in Delhi was issued by Principal Secretary (Revenue) Sanjeev Khirwar earlier this week, they said. The list of new chairpersons also includes the name of BJP MLA Jitender Mahajan for Shahdara district development committee. The remaining nominated AAP MLAs include S K Bagga (East), Pramila Tokas (New Delhi), Ajesh Yadav (North), Surendra Kumar (North East), Mukesh Ahlawat (North West) and Naresh Yadav (South). Sangam Vihar MLA Dinesh Mohaniya has been nominated as chairperson of South East district development committee. Besides Naresh Balyan (South West), Jarnail Singh (West) and Som Dutt (Central) have also been nominated, the order said. The power of nomination of chairpersons of district development committees is vested in the chief minister as per an order of the General Administration Department of Delhi Government, issued in 1999. The district development committees serve many purposes, including decentralisation of decision-making by involving elected representatives in the matters of development, officials said. They also play a role in planning and execution of programmes and schemes at district level with special focus on development of basic amenities and serve as public grievance redressal mechanism through involvement of the elected representatives, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/arvind-kejriwal-nominates-11-mlas-as-chairpersons-of-district-development-committees/articleshow/79231448.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||A hub of terrorists and anti-nationals, situation in Bengal worse than Kashmir: Dilip Ghosh||NORTH 24 PARGANAS: Alleging that the state has become a hub of "terrorists and anti-nationals", West Bengal BJP President Dilip Ghosh on Sunday said that the situation here is worse than Kashmir. "The other day six Al-Qaeda terrorists were arrested from Aipurduar (in North Bengal). A network has been formed in several places of the state. Even Bangladesh leader Khaleda Zia has said the terrorists are being trained in India and sent to Bangladesh to create disturbance. This state has become a centre of terrorists, and anti-nationals. They are coming here from other places and taking shelter. The situation of Bengal is now worse than Kashmir," Ghosh alleged while talking to reporters after a BJP event at Baranagar in North 24 Parganas district on Sunday. He added the people of Bengal are living in a state of fear. "Even my name was included in the hit list of the anti-nationals. I have been attacked in Jaygaon in Alipurduar district where Rohingya Muslims were placed. If you watch the video of the incident carefully, you can identify them through their appearances that they are not from Bengal," said Ghosh, adding West Bengal has abundant Rohingyas, and other infiltrators who caste their vote to Chief Minsiter Mamata Banerjee's Trinamool Congress (TMC). "It is very alarming that a few political parties are giving shelter to the terrorists and anti-social elements." The BJP leader, however, expressed confidence in the people of the state who know "which party to vote for" even if all other parties collectively contest against the BJP. On AIMIM's President Asaduddin Owaisi's announcement to contest the next election in West Bengal, Ghosh said, "Many things can happen. Several political parties cane come here and contest. That doesn't matter to the BJP. Our party has created a good atmosphere to conduct polls. Around 45 per cent people of Bengal cast their votes for the BJP. They have full faith in us. The TMC, CPI(M), Congress, AIMIM, all the parties can merge together. The party, which wants development, will be on one side and which want to create unrest will be on another." Before meeting the media persons, he attended the "Cha Chakra" -- an event on lines of tea adda -- on Tobin Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-hub-of-terrorists-and-anti-nationals-situation-in-bengal-worse-than-kashmir-dilip-ghosh/articleshow/79231335.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Pandemic holds few lessons for European chefs, mostly misery||ANTWERP: Necessity is supposed to be the mother of invention. If that were the case for the high-end restaurant industry, the coronavirus pandemic should have offered ample opportunities for creativity and renewal. Instead, it is turning into a bitter struggle for survival. Many a three-star Michelin meal has been put into a takeout box and sent out on Deliveroo scooters, as renowned chefs in Belgium and elsewhere try to scrape through a second pandemic lockdown that is likely to threaten even the lucrative Christmas season. Sergio Herman, who has run three-star, two-star and many other establishments that have wowed the Michelin powers and the most refined palates around the world, doesn't really see any positives to come out of working against and around the pandemic. "Sometimes you feel that whatever you built up over the years is slipping like sand through your fingers. It gives you this kind of fear," he told The Associated Press. Across much of Europe, still the apex of the finest dining in the world, exclusive restaurants have lost the precious appeal of the luxury dining experience — from the moment of taking your coat at the door, to eating several inventive courses with the finest silverware, to basking in sommelier tastings, to savoring the after-dinner sweet and having that little extra chat with the chef. “All that cannot just be replaced by a box and a plastic tray. That is just impossible," Herman said amid the whirl of his new restaurant, Le Pristine, in the Belgian port of Antwerp, where he mixes the terroir of his native Dutch Zeeland with an Italian approach. Throughout much of history, religious strictures forced cooks to think outside the box and still produce sterling cuisine despite the limits. Poverty also imposed challenges, and in Italy the creativity to do so much with so little even created its own style — Cucina Povera. But this pandemic so far mainly has chefs just thinking of how to get through each day. On a recent day, a man in a face mask was folding pizza boxes and tables were precariously stacked with other takeout material and rolls of labels. On the wall, a list was pasted with addresses and dates of delivery. A box from Le Pristine, without drinks but with a few supplements, can easily push past 100 euros (around $115) a head. A frenetic energy emerged from its kitchen as his team was trying get around 600 dinner boxes ready by the next day. They held anything from turbot to sea buckthorn, from artichokes to Zeeland mussels. If there is one thing that defines restaurant owners and staff around the world, it's their drive, energy and a zest for survival. They more than need that now. In the Michelin three-star restaurant De Librije, to the north in the Netherlands, chef Jonnie Boer has been offering online classes so people at home can get as close as possible to one of his three-course dinners. A “Librije's Atelier in your Kitchen” online session goes for 140 euros ($165). “This way, you can dine in De Librije, cozily in your own living room," a restaurant statement said, though some might take exception to such a claim for at-home cooks. Clare Smyth of the two-star establishment Core by Clare Smyth in London said, with the lockdown takeouts and other initiatives, “people really wanted a bit of our restaurants in their own home." In the end though, “it will never replace coming to a restaurant" for the overall experience of near-perfect cooking and hospitality, she said in a discussion organized by The World's 50 Best Restaurants. One thing unites every side of the debate though — the daily quest to amass even some of the income they lost when their sellout dining rooms had to be suddenly closed or forced into reduced service. Even if detailed statistics aren't yet available, the 27-nation European Union saw a precipitous drop of 79.3% in hotel and restaurant activity between February and April in the spring COVID-19 lockdowns. Even though business bounced back over summer, the resurgence of the virus with new lockdowns across Europe this fall amounts to a double blow. The grapevine has told Herman about a world of pain still to come. “There will be a lot of hits coming. It will leave its mark," he said. "A serious amount of companies have already closed and many more will follow." He said the industry's top echelon was especially vulnerable because of its high overhead. He welcomed government measures in much of Europe that were shielding restaurants up to a point and gave staff temporary unemployment pay. But that can only do so much. “Bills continue to come in," Herman said, adding that “costs are much higher than at other restaurants, so it can go real fast — that bank account." Herman is now involved in eight restaurants, including two two-stars and another one-star eatery. Le Pristine is his latest project. “Our companies are all healthy, but, hey, you can see that you can get a hit," he said. Little wonder he will never look kindly on a virus and certainly not as any lesson to be learned. “The takeout, the boxes. It didn't really make me any wiser," Herman said. “I hope we can get back to normal as soon as possible.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/pandemic-holds-few-lessons-for-european-chefs-mostly-misery/articleshow/79231697.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Hurricane Iota heads for battered Honduras, Nicaragua||ST. PETERSBURG: Iota became the thirteenth hurricane of the Atlantic season early Sunday, threatening to bring another dangerous system to Nicaragua and Honduras countries recently clobbered by a Category 4 Hurricane Eta. Iota was already a record-breaking system, being the 30th named storm of this year's extraordinarily busy Atlantic hurricane season. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms. The US National Hurricane Center said Sunday morning that Iota had maximum sustained winds of 80 mph (130 kph), making it a Category 1 hurricane. But, forecasters said Iota would rapidly strengthen and was expected to be a major hurricane by the time it reaches Central America. Iota was centered about 275 miles (445 kilometers) east of Isla de Providencia, Colombia, and was moving west at 6 mph (9 kph) Sunday morning. Forecasters said Iota was expected to pass or cross over Providencia sometime Monday and then approach the coasts of Nicaragua and Honduras on Monday evening. The system was forecast to bring up to 30 inches (750 millimeters) of rain from northeast Nicaragua into northern Honduras. Costa Rica, Panama and El Salvador could also experience heavy rain and possible flooding, the hurricane center said. Forecasters said the island of Providencia and parts of Nicaragua and Honduras were under hurricane warnings. Storm surge could increase water levels by up to 13 feet (4 meters) in Nicaragua and Honduras. Iota threatened to wreak more havoc in a region where people are still grappling with the aftermath of Eta. That system hit Nicaragua just over a week ago as a Category 4 hurricane, killing at least 120 people as torrential rains brought flash floods and landslides to parts of Central America and Mexico. Then it meandered across Cuba, the Florida Keys and around the Gulf of Mexico before slogging ashore again near Cedar Key, Florida, and dashing across Florida and the Carolinas. Eta was the 28th named storm of this year's hurricane season, tying the 2005 record for named storms. Theta, the 29th, was weakening over the far eastern Atlantic Ocean. It was expected to become a remnant low sometime Sunday, forecasters said. The official end of hurricane season is Nov. 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/hurricane-iota-heads-for-battered-honduras-nicaragua/articleshow/79231749.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Israel moves ahead on sensitive east Jerusalem housing plans||JERUSALEM: Israel is moving forward on the construction of hundreds of new settler homes in a sensitive east Jerusalem neighborhood, the country's Housing Ministry and a settlement watchdog group said Sunday. The Housing Ministry on Sunday opened up tenders for more than 1,200 new homes in the Givat Hamatos area of Jerusalem. The settlement watchdog group Peace Now and other critics say construction there would seal off the Palestinian city of Bethlehem from east Jerusalem, further cutting off access for the Palestinians to the eastern sector of the city, which they claim as capital of a future state. The move may test the ties with the incoming administration of President-elect Joe Biden, who is expected to take a firmer tack against Israeli settlement expansion after four years of a more lenient policy under President Donald Trump. Brian Reeves, a spokesman for Peace Now, said the move allows contractors to begin bidding on the tenders, a process that will conclude just days before Biden's inauguration. Construction in the area could then begin within months. "This is a lethal blow to the prospects for peace and the possibility of a two-state solution," between Israel and the Palestinians, Peace Now said in a statement, adding that Israel was "taking advantage of the final weeks of the Trump administration in order to set facts on the ground that will be exceedingly hard to undo in order to achieve peace.'' The Palestinians seek the West Bank, along with the Gaza Strip and east Jerusalem - areas Israel captured in the 1967 Mideast war -for their future state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/israel-moves-ahead-on-sensitive-east-jerusalem-housing-plans/articleshow/79231734.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Ludhiana||22-year-old murdered in Patiala, neighbour booked||PATIALA: Patiala police have booked a man under sections of IPC including murder for allegedly killing a 22-year-old neighbour. The police said that the accused was having suspicion about his sister having a relationship with a neighbour. The police said that the accused murdered the deceased identified as Ajay Kumar, 23 of Nabha, by using a sharp-edged weapon – an awl. The police claimed that Ajay was stabbed several times by the accused identified as Gurtej Singh. Both Ajay and Gurtej lives in the same colony. The case has been registered with the Sadar Nabha police station in the district on a complaint of Ajay’s father Omkar who claimed that the accused Gurtej Singh had killed his son brutally on Friday evening. The police revealed that earlier too, the accused Gurtej had landed in a fray with Ajay over the same issue and objected over his alleged relationship with his sister. “The accused is still at large however we are carrying out the raids to nab him. The accused allegedly killed him with an awl. Ajay was stabbed several times at different body parts by the accused and the injury marks on Ajay’s dead body are clear that he was attacked with an awl. The complainant claimed that Ajay had gone out of his house on a bike to purchase some items for decoration on Friday evening but the accused on the way pounced on him and attacked him. Ajay was rushed to government hospital in Nabha from where the doctors referred him for higher institute following severe injuries. The family rushed Ajay to government Rajindra hospital in Patiala but he was declared dead by the doctors. We are also probing if the accused is having criminal past”, said station house officer Sadar Nabha police station. The family of the deceased claimed that the attack seems to have been done by two or more accused but the police have registered a case only against Gurtej Singh. The family members claimed that Ajay was cremated but the accused were still at large.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/22-year-old-murdered-in-patiala-neighbour-booked/articleshow/79231929.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 15, 2020||India||Baijayant Panda appointed Assam BJP in-charge||GUWAHATI: BJP national vice president Baijayant Panda has been appointed as Assam’s new in-charge — a post that had been for over a year when senior party leader from Uttar Pradesh, Mahendra Singh, was inducted in the Yogi Adityanath cabinet. Besides Panda, senior BJP leader Pawan Sharma has been appointed as seh-prabhari (co-incharge) for Assam BJP. Panda has also been named as the prabhari for Delhi BJP. The saffron camp saw a host of changes in leadership roles with BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra being made the state in-charge of Manipur. In Tripura, Vinod Sonkar has been appointed as the chief, while M Chuba Ao has been given the charge of Meghalaya. Senior party leader Nalin Kohli will be taking care of Nagaland and Mmhonlumo Kikon of Mizoram. Party national general secretary Dilip Saikia, who is from Assam, is the new prabhari of Arunachal Pradesh and Jharkhand. Expectations are high from Panda, who will have to play a key role in finalizing the saffron party’s strategy and alliances. “Alliances are expected to be sealed around the new year. The poll strategy, however, will be chalked out in and around December. Appointment of the new in-charge has infused enthusiasm among party workers,” a senior office-bearer of Assam BJP told TOI. Welcoming Panda and Sharma to Assam, party state president Ranjeet Kumar Dass said, “Only 143 days are left for the upcoming assembly polls. We, together, will ensure the party’s victory.” North East Democratic Alliance convenor Himanta Biswa Sarma, too, said that party workers are looking forward to working closely with Panda. “Congratulations to Shri @PandaJay ji and Shri Pawan Sharma jion being given the role of @BJP4India Prabhari & Seh-Prabhari for Assam. Your appointments will greatly enthuse the karyakartas in the state,” chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal tweeted. Panda is also the spokesperson of the BJP and has been a four-time MP. He was elected to his second term (2014 – 2019) in the Lok Sabha from Kendrapara constituency in Odisha. He has graduated from the Michigan Technological University and worked in the corporate sector and has a background in engineering and management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/baijayant-panda-appointed-assam-bjp-in-charge/articleshow/79232048.cms||Kangkan Kalita
November 15, 2020||India||Stubble burning: Maximum cases in Punjab; anger over farm bills among major reasons||NEW DELHI: Punjab has recorded around 74,000 incidents of stubble burning this season, the maximum in four years, with experts saying anger over farm bills and the government not paying the Supreme Court-ordered financial incentive to farmers could be among the reasons for the spike in farm fires. According to data released by the Punjab Remote Sensing Centre, the state recorded 73,883 incidents of stubble burning between September 21 and November 14, which is the highest since 2016. Punjab had reported 51,048 cases of stubble burning in the corresponding period last year and 46,559 such incidents in 2018. The number of farm fires was 43,149 in the state during the same period in 2017. An official from the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) said the incidents of stubble burning hit the peak between November 4 and November 7. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences' air quality monitor, SAFAR, the share of stubble burning in Delhi-NCR's pollution peaked to 42 per cent on November 5, when 4,135 farm fires were recorded in the region. "It was a bumper harvest this year, so the amount of crop residue was also large. Also, it was a cloud-free season as compared to last year. The biomass was drier and prone to burning. "It also appears that the farmers are not willing to cooperate. There could be anger over farm bills," he said. According to a Punjab government official, "farmers are not happy" as the ruling dispensation has not disbursed the financial incentive to them as directed by the Supreme Court to prevent stubble burning. Following the apex court's guidelines to incentivise farmers to stop stubble burning, the governments of Punjab and Haryana announced a bonus of Rs 2,500 per acre for small and marginal farmers last year. Farmers say the incentive can help them cover the cost of fuel used in operating machinery for in-situ management of stubble. Harinder Singh Lakhowal, the general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Punjab, also said the number of farm fires is "very high this year and anger over farm bills is one of the major reasons". "Unavailability of labourers -- many returned to their native states due to the COVID-19 pandemic -- is also a reason why farmers are burning stubble to clear the fields quickly," he added. The IARI official said the increase in the number of incidents of stubble burning does not mean that the policy of providing farm equipment for in-situ management of crop residue has failed. "The numbers of stubble burning incidents in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh tell a different story altogether. The figures have come down significantly," he said. According to IARI's data, Haryana recorded 4,699 farm fires between October 1 and November 12 while Uttar Pradesh reported 2,288 such incidents during the period, which is the lowest in both the states in the last five years. Haryana recorded 5,807 incidents of stubble burning and Uttar Pradesh 2,653 cases during the corresponding period last year. "In Punjab also, the number of cases was reducing every year till 2019. Only 2020 has been the 'odd' year out," the IARI official said. According to a study conducted by IARI scientists in Tarn Taran and Amritsar districts of Punjab, stubble burning incidents between October 1 and October 10 in Amritsar increased from 180 in 2019 to 515 in 2020 -- a rise of about 2.9 times. In Tarn Taran, the number of stubble burning incidents increased from 92 in 2019 to 341 in 2020 -- a rise of about 3.7 times. "It is estimated that the harvested area increased by 35,500 hectares in Amritsar and by 39,300 hectares in Tarn Taran by October 10 this year as compared to last year. "It indicates a significant early harvesting of paddy in these two districts this year, which may be on account of early planting of paddy by about 7-10 days, an increase in the proportion of area under short-duration varieties, and a clear weather during 2020 as compared to a cloudy weather in 2019 during the same period," the study said. "By October 10, the proportion of burnt area to harvested area in Amritsar increased from 38 per cent in 2019 to 74.6 per cent in 2020. In Tarn Taran, it increased from 30.9 per cent in 2019 to 60.9 per cent in 2020," it added. Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh attract attention during the paddy harvesting season between October 15 and November 15. Farmers set their fields on fire to quickly clear off the crop residue left behind after harvesting paddy and before cultivating wheat and potato. It is one of the main reasons for the alarming spike in pollution in Delhi-NCR. Last year, Punjab produced around two crore tonnes of paddy residue, of which 98 lakh tonnes were burnt by farmers. Farmers in Haryana burnt 12.3 lakh tonnes of the 70 lakh tonnes of paddy residue produced. Despite a ban on stubble burning in Punjab and Haryana, farmers continue to defy it as there is a short window between the harvesting of paddy and the sowing of wheat. The high cost of manual or mechanical management of straw is a major reason why farmers choose to burn it. State governments are providing a 50 to 80-per cent subsidy to farmers and cooperative societies to buy modern farm equipment for in-situ management of paddy straw, installing paddy straw-based power plants and running a massive awareness campaign against stubble burning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/stubble-burning-maximum-cases-in-punjab-anger-over-farm-bills-among-major-reasons/articleshow/79232110.cms||---
November 15, 2020||World||Pakistan to set up special courts for speedy trial of rape cases||ISLAMABAD: Pakistan government is all set to promulgate next week an ordinance seeking establishment of special courts for speedy trial of rape cases, according to a media report. Under the proposed law, rape cases would not be investigated by ordinary police officials and only a gazetted officer up to the level of DIG (deputy inspector general) or SSP (senior superintendent of police) would monitor these cases, Adviser to the Prime Minister on Parliamentary Affairs Babar Awan told Dawn News. Awan said the proposed law also suggested steps for speedy disposal of cases. He said this after Prime Minister Imran Khan through a tweet announced that the government had planned to bring a “stringent and holistic anti-rape ordinance closing all loopholes”. Awan, who is also a member of the Cabinet Committee on Legislative Cases, said the prime minister was very much concerned over the recent incidents of rape in different parts of the country. He said the ordinance had been drafted in line with the prime minister's directives to his legal team for preparing the law covering “four sides”, including protection of the victim so that her personal trauma could not become public and protection of witnesses. Giving details, he said the properties of the convicts in such cases would be forfeited for paying compensation to the victims. In order to create deterrence in the society, he said, “ultimate and stringent punishments” would be awarded to the culprits. He did not elaborate the measures which the law suggests for this purpose, but ruled out the option of public hanging as demanded by several political leaders, including some ministers. Awan said special courts would be set up in all the divisions to prevent delay in completion of the trials. He said in the last few years, over 21,000 rape cases were registered in the country and “only few hundreds of them could go for trial”. To cover the loopholes and ensure timely justice, a new and separate prosecution network was being created, the adviser told the daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-to-set-up-special-courts-for-speedy-trial-of-rape-cases/articleshow/79232167.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel in ICU weeks after contracting Covid-19||NEW DELHI: Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, who tested positive for Covid-19 a few weeks ago, has now been admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon for further treatment, his family said on Sunday. Patel, 71, had announced on Twitter on October 1 that he had contracted coronavirus. In a tweet on Sunday, Ahmed Patel's son Faisal said, "On behalf of his family, we would like to share that Shri Ahmed Patel had tested positive for Covid19 a few weeks ago. He has now been admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon for further treatment." "His condition is stable and he continues to be under medical observation...We request you to pray for his speedy recovery," he said. Several Congress leaders wished a speedy recovery to Patel. "Deeply concerned and praying for the good health of my friend and comrade Ahmed Patel. Please join us in praying for his early recovery," senior Congress leader Anand Sharma tweeted. Many Congress leaders, including Abhishek Singhvi and Tarun Gogoi, had also tested positive for Covid-19 earlier. Besides Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, several Union ministers had also been infected with the novel coronavirus earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/senior-congress-leader-ahmed-patel-in-icu-weeks-after-contracting-covid-19/articleshow/79232205.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Delhi||95 more die of Covid-19 in Delhi; positivity rate over 15 per cent||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 3,235 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the infection tally in the national capital to over 4.85 lakh on Sunday, while the positivity rate climbed to 15.33 percent. Ninety-five more fatalities pushed the death toll to 7,614, authorities said.  These fresh coronavirus cases were detected from 21,098 tests conducted the previous day, the lowest since August 14, when 14,389 tests were done.  Of the total tests conducted, 11,877 were rapid-antigen tests, and 9,221 were RT-PCR tests, the bulletin said.  Delhi recorded a positivity rate of 15.33 per cent amid the festive season and rising pollution in the city, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department.  At 3,235, it was also the lowest number of cases since October 26, when 2,832 cases were reported.  The national capital had recorded its highest single-day spike of 8,593 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday.  On Thursday, 104 fatalities, the highest in a day in over five months, were recorded. The city had registered 93 deaths on June 16.  On Sunday, authorities reported 95 more fatalities.  The 10-day average death rate stands at 1.23 per cent, the bulletin said.  The total number of cases reported so far has climbed to 4,85,405.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/95-more-die-of-covid-19-in-delhi-positivity-rate-over-15-per-cent/articleshow/79232259.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Chennai||LPG cylinder explodes, three killed; four injured in Tamil Nadu||TIRUVANNAMALAI: Three people, including an eight-year-old boy and his mother, were killed and four injured when a wall collapsed after a domestic LPG cylinder exploded near here on Sunday, police said. The injured had been hospitalised and investigations were on with a case registered over the incident, suspected to have been triggered by a gas leak at a house in nearby Arani, a police official said. When the cylinder exploded, a wall that divided portions of the house between the landlord and a tenant besides that of a neighbour collapsed. J Kamatchi, the tenant, and her son J Hemanath, and neighbour S Chandra, died in the wall collapse. Kamatchi's husband M Janakiraman and another son J Suresh (15) were injured, the official said. "Under the impact of the explosion, 55-year old D Mukthabai who owned the house on Pudhukamur Road and her 15- year old daughter D Meena sustained 90 and 50 per cent burns respectively," the official told . After initial treatment at a state-run hospital in Arani, all the injured have been admitted to a government facility at neighbouring Vellore, he said. Condoling the deaths, Chief Minister K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs two lakh each to the families of Kamatchi and Chandra and Rs one lakh each to severely injured and Rs 50,000 to those who sustained injuries. After he got to know about the mishap, Palaniswami said he directed Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Department Minister Sevur Ramachandran, who hails from the district, and the collector to immediately reach the spot and take up relief work and ensure top class treatment to those injured. Palaniswami also appealed to the people to take care and exercise caution while using Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders in their households. PMK founder leader S Ramadoss urged the government to come forward to provide an assistance of Rs 25 lakh to the victims of the mishap and Rs 10 lakh for those injured and rebuild the houses damaged in the impact. Negligence in using LPG cylinders could be life threatening, Ramadoss said and requested the people to assimilate information provided by oil companies in their awareness programmes and act with caution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lpg-cylinder-explodes-three-killed-four-injured-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79232262.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Rashtrapati Bhavan, Qutub Minar and other monuments to #GoBlue on the World Children's Day||NEW DELHI: The Rashtrapati Bhavan, Qutub Minar and other monuments across India will #GoBlue on the World Children's Day on November 20 in solidarity with child rights and the impact of Covid-19 on children's lives, the UNICEF said. Iconic monuments will light up in blue under the #GoBlue campaign, it said. On the occasion of World Children's Day, UNICEF said, this year's activities will occur in the virtual and the digital spaces. "Along with grownups, children will also wear masks and maintain physical distance. That, however, does not mean that children's voices will be any quieter – children will be Masked but not Muted! this World Children's Day," the UN body said in a statement. UNICEF in partnership with Parliamentarian's Group for Children (PGC) is organizing a Climate Parliament with Children on November 20, under the leadership of Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, and 30 members of Parliament. "Children will discuss the impact of climate change with the parliamentarians and present a Charter of Demands on climate action. The participant parliamentarians are expected to sign a letter of commitment to support integrating children's rights and voices to climate action and adaptation plans," it said. "Monuments across the country – the Rashtrapati Bhavan (Presidential Palace), Prime Minister's Office (North and South Block), the Parliament House and Qutub Minar in New Delhi, and other historical buildings, landmarks and key government buildings across India – will #GoBlue on November 20, standing in solidarity for child rights and the impact of Covid-19 and climate change on their lives," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rashtrapati-bhavan-qutub-minar-and-other-monuments-to-goblue-on-the-world-childrens-day/articleshow/79232223.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Imphal||Manipur CM N Biren Singh tests positive for Covid-19||IMPHAL: Manipur chief minister N Biren Singh on Sunday said that he has tested positive for Covid-19. The chief minister requested all who came in close contact with him in the last few days to get themselves tested. Taking to Facebook, the chief minister said, "Friends, I have tested Covid positive today after having some symptoms. ...I am fine at the moment." The chief minister is undergoing home isolation, a health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/imphal/manipur-cm-n-biren-singh-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79232335.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kolkata||7-yr-old dies of burn injuries in West Bengal's Malda during Kali puja celebrations||MALDA: A seven-year-old girl died of burn injuries that she sustained while bursting crackers at her home in West Bengal's Malda district, police sources said on Sunday. The deceased, identified as Jayanti Rabidas, was a resident of Kadamtoli in Kaliachak police station area of the district, the sources said. She was bursting crackers along with other members of her family on Saturday, on the occasion of Kali puja, when her dress caught fire. Her relatives immediately put out the fire and took her to Malda Medical College and Hospital, where the girl died while undergoing treatment, the sources said. Notably, the Calcutta High Court had on November 5 ordered a ban on bursting and sale of crackers in Bengal for Kali Puja, Diwali and Chhat puja to curb air pollution amid the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/7-yr-old-dies-of-burn-injuries-during-kali-puja-celebrations/articleshow/79232375.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Hyderabad||Panchatatva garden opens in Hyderabad's Indira Park||HYDERABAD: A panchatatva park based on therapeutic concept was opened on Sunday at Indira Park in Hyderabad while 17 such parks are being developed in other part of the city. Developed in an area of one acre, the panchatatva garden has features like panchatatva acupressure concept walk, infinity walk which controls diabetes, criss-cross walking, navagraha vanam, raasi vanam, herbal garden and water cascades. Municipal administration minister K. T. Rama Rao, who inaugurated panchatatva park developed at a cost of Rs 16 lakh, said 17 such parks are being developed in all zones of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). Panchatatva garden with walkway is developed on five elements of the nature (Panchabhutas) -- earth, water, fire, air and ether. The Panchatatva walk is a circular track developed using eight components to walk over this track. The components include 20mm stone, 10mm stone, 6mm chips, river stone, rough sand, tree bark, black soil (Tank silt) and water. The walking is done from very hard paining surface to smooth and relaxing component by which the blood circulation in the body improves curing several ailments of the body. This also helps the senior citizens and the persons who have knee joint pains and cannot walk for longer distances, officials said. Walking barefoot activates acupressure points. According to experts, panchatatva walk can control insomnia, improve eyesight, nervous system, immunity, help in menstrual and hormonal issues, reduce inflammation, enhance cardiovascular activity, maintains blood Pressure, clears mind and improves mood. Infinity walk helps improve concentration as one focuses on the number 8 shape and turns. It improves hand eye coordination, body balance, help people with a knee problem, arthritis, provide relief from a headache, digestive problem, thyroid, obesity and constipation. It also regulates blood flow and helps with diabetes control. Located over 67 acres in the heart of the city, Indira Park is being renovated and developed under theme park to international standards. An amount of Rs.4 crore has already been sanctioned for the purpose. GHMC is constructing three major urban parks around Hyderabad city in forest blocks at Suraram, adannaguda and Nadergul which are nearing completion. It has so far developed 19 major parks each having more than five acres in extent. About 17 theme parks have various themes like palmetum, ficus, bougainvilleas, herbal and bamboo. GHMC has also taken up dense tree plantation on 406 open spaces under Haritha Haram programme, the state government's plantation drive. These open spaces are being developed as tree parks by providing walking track and seating areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/panchatatva-garden-opens-in-hyderabads-indira-park/articleshow/79232430.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||India reports under 50,000 new daily Covid-19 cases since 8 days; active caseload contracts further||NEW DELHI: India has reported less than 50,000 new daily cases of Covid-19 for the eighth continuous day, a trend which assumes wider significance as many countries in Europe and America continue to see a surge in their daily numbers, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. A total of 41,100 persons were found to be infected with Covid-19 in India in a span of 24 hours, while 42,156 people recuperated during the same period, leading to a further contraction of the active caseload. There are 4,79,216 active cases of coronavirus as on date which comprise merely 5.44 per cent of the total cases. Last time the daily new cases crossed the 50K threshold was on November 7. "Apart from the successful dissemination of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour among the varied population groups, this trend assumes wider significance as many countries in Europe and America continue to see a surge in their daily numbers," the ministry said in a statement. Fifteen states and UTs have Covid-19 cases per million lower than India (6,387). New recoveries outnumbering new cases every 24-hour cycle has also improved the recovery rate to 93.09 per cent. The total recovered cases stand at 82,05,728 which exceed active cases by 77,26,512. The ministry said that 79.91 per cent of the new recovered cases are contributed by ten states and UTs. With 7,117 people recovering from Covid-19, Delhi saw the most number of recoveries. Kerala registered 6,793 daily recoveries, while West Bengal reported 4,479 new recoveries. Ten states and UTs have contributed 82.87 per cent of the new cases of coronavirus infection. Delhi reported 7,340 cases in the last 24 hours. Kerala recorded 6,357 new cases, while Maharashtra reported 4,237 new infections in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said. Of the 447 fatalities that have been reported in a day, 85.01 per cent are from 10 states and UTs, with 23.5 per cent of new fatalities reported from Maharashtra which reported 105 deaths. Delhi and West Bengal follow with 96 and 53 new deaths, respectively. Twenty-one states and UTs have deaths per million lower than the national average of 94, the ministry said. India's Covid-19 caseload mounted to 88,14,579 with 41,100 infections being reported in a day, while the death toll climbed to 1,29,635 with 447 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-reports-under-50000-new-daily-covid-19-cases-since-8-days-active-caseload-contracts-further/articleshow/79232442.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||UAE widens 10-year residency 'golden' visa eligibility||DUBAI: The United Arab Emirates will extend its "golden" visa system - which grants 10-year residency in the Gulf state - to certain professionals, specialised degree-holders and others, the UAE's vice president said on Sunday. Foreigners in the UAE usually have renewable visas valid for only a few years tied to employment. The government in the past couple of years has made its visa policy more flexible, offering longer residencies for certain types of investors, students and professionals. All holders of doctorate degrees, medical doctors and also computer, electronics, programming, electrical and biotechnology engineers are eligible, UAE Vice President and the ruler of Dubai Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum said in a statement. Also eligible are those with specialised degrees in artificial intelligence, big data and epidemiology, as well as high school students living in the UAE who rank top in the country and students from certain universities with a GPA of 3.8 or higher. After first announcing a long-term visa plan in 2018, the UAE in 2019 started granting 5- and 10-year renewable visas to certain foreign investors, entrepreneurs, chief executives, scientists and outstanding students. The emirate of Dubai, a Middle East trade and tourism hub, in September said it would grant visas renewable every five years to wealthy foreign retirees. An oil and gas producer, the UAE's economy has been hit by the coronavirus pandemic and low oil prices, prompting many expatriates to leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/uae-widens-golden-visa-to-allow-10-year-residency-to-some/articleshow/79232346.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Bengaluru||During festive season, Bengaluru traders, shopkeepers face downturn amid Covid-19||BENGALURU: The ongoing festive season has been unable to bring a cheer back to markets reeling under the brunt of Covid-19. Local vendors and traders in Bengaluru said that they have witnessed fewer sales due to the pandemic this Diwali. Most of the vendors claimed that footfall to the markets has reduced due to the pandemic. "People are not visiting markets as much as they used during the last years. There was a time when we didn't even use to get time to have food till evening. And now we are sitting idle here during the peak festive season of Diwali," said a vendor. Another shop owner stated that people were reluctant to come out to the markets due to the ongoing Covid-19 situation. "We are facing huge losses due to the reduced number of buyers to our shop," said a local shopkeeper. Many had felt that the festive season would bring in more business. "We had hoped that during Diwali season we will get an opportunity to earn some profit. However, the business has refused to pick up," said another local shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/during-festive-season-bengaluru-traders-shopkeepers-face-downturn-amid-covid-19/articleshow/79232456.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Kochi||Election songs try new tracks to woo voters||Election season antics ranging from ‘kavala prasangam’ to ‘kotti kalaasam’ are a thing of nostalgia in the pandemic year’s polls. At a time in which campaigning is mostly online, the election music scenario too is changing. Poll special parodies, covers and more are definitely in the pipeline but here’s how they differ this time, as compared to the past: Videos become a priorityOnline content has a short lifespan, and thus, parties are all about creating more songs this year as compared to the past, say singers and lyricists. Lyricist Abdul Khader from Kochi, who has been into election songwriting for many years, says, “This time, I have already got double the work than I generally get. At the same time, many people are making songs for parties at hyper-local levels too, highlighting the candidates, controversies and region specifications.” Malappuram-based musician and studio owner Subair Pandallur is making videos as well for the songs he records, as per demand. “Parties want music content that can be shared via social media, with videos. So, we make song videos, teasers and short songs too this time,” he explains. Singers are also happy that it means more work. Kochi-based singer Liji Francis says, “I was away from the field for a while but thanks to videos of my election songs, people now know that I’m back and consequently I am getting more work.” According to singer Suresh Babu, the season has just started. “Since October, I have sung about 40 songs! As days go by, there are more bookings for music videos to put up as stories on social media.” Singer Fahad C H from Kochi too says that he’s doing a lot of short songs as demanded by parties to share as their social media statuses. Social media friendliness over crowd friendlinessIn the past, recording a song meant going to a professional studio set-up but for a while now, singers have been depending a lot on studios in their own homes, with just the basic equipment. In the election year, that has made a difference. Subair says, “It is definitely a competition for professional studios like mine. Home studios just need a laptop, sound card and mike. People prefer home studios more, especially as nobody is looking for a crowd-friendly booming quality for songs and just want content that’s good enough for social media. At the same time, there are also those who come to us saying that the home studio records backfired at outdoor meetings and they want professional recordings.” Lack of songs is a major hurdleKozhikode-based lyricist Bappu Vellipparambil says that as there weren’t many film releases this year, there is a shortage of good tracks to make parodies. “Some people even take used parodies, change words in a few places and bring them out as their own. It’s hardly surprising as election song making has become a cottage industry of sorts now with too many people doing it in small set-ups. We are depending more on Kalabhavan Mani’s songs and mappilapattu as well, due to lack of songs,” he concludes. Watch Kerala is on election music recording mode again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/election-songs-try-new-tracks-to-woo-voters/articleshow/79232467.cms||Deepa Soman
November 15, 2020||Delhi||Rain lashes parts of Delhi||NEW DELHI: A day after festival of Diwali, the national capital witnessed light to moderate rain in some parts of the city. On the day of Diwali, the air quality of the city had turned "severe" because of stubble burning and also the bursting of the firecrackers. WATCH| Parts of #Delhi receive #rainfall. Visuals from #Dwarka (ANI) https://t.co/W5RP06WYYc— TOI Delhi (@TOIDelhi) 1605437645000Earlier, the MET department had predicted light rain for Sunday under the influence of a western disturbance. It is still to be seen if it is enough to wash away pollutants, Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD's regional forecasting centre, said. This time, the India Meteorological Department has said that a fresh western disturbance is likely to increase the wind speed and improve the air quality in Delhi-NCR post Diwali. (With PTI inputs)Watch Day after Diwali, rain lashes parts of Delhi, NCR||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-lashes-parts-of-delhi/articleshow/79232647.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||Reopening places of worship not anyone's win or defeat: Raut||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday said the Maharashtra government's decision to reopen places of religious worship in the state was neither a victory nor defeat of anybody. Talking to reporters here, Raut said there was no question of taking credit for reopening the places of worship. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday announced that places of religious worship in Maharashtra, which have been shut since the Covid-19 lockdown in March, will reopen from Monday. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) released by the state government, religious places located out of Covid-19 containment zones will be allowed to remain open as per the timings decided by authorities, and devotees will be allowed inside in a staggered manner. "The SOPs drafted by the government need to be followed strictly. There is no need to take credit. It was God's will that people stay at home, and now it is God's will that places of worship reopen with precautions," Raut said. To a question on the BJP saying that reopening of temples was a victory of Hindutva, he said not just temples, all places of worship will open. "This is not a victory or defeat of anybody," Raut said. They were closed on Prime Minister Narendra Modi's instructions, the Shiv Sena's chief spokesperson said. Asked about his 60th birthday on Sunday, the Rajya Sabha member said, "I have spent half of my life in 'Saamana' (Sena's mouthpiece), the strength of the Shiv Sena, and will continue to do so." Raut is currently the executive editor of 'Saamana'. Earlier, on Saturday, when asked about Barack Obama's comments on Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in the former US president's new book, Raut told reporters that "foreign leaderscannot comment on politicians of our country".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reopening-places-of-worship-not-anyones-win-or-defeat-raut/articleshow/79232668.cms||---
November 15, 2020||Business||In Covid-19 vaccine race, Hungarian village firm takes global role||SZIRAK: In an unassuming house in rolling hills east of the Hungarian capital, a small family firm is helping oil the wheels of the world's big pharmaceutical companies on the path to a coronavirus vaccine. Biologist Noemi Lukacs, 71, retired to Szirak, her birth village, to establish English & Scientific Consulting (SciCons) and manufacture a genetic sensor so sensitive that a few grams can supply the entire global industry for a year. "We produce monoclonal antibodies," Lukacs told Reuters in the single-storey house where she was born, now partly converted into a world-class laboratory. The white powder ships worldwide from here, micrograms at a time. "These antibodies recognise double-stranded RNA (dsRNA)," she explained. DsRNA is a byproduct of viruses replicating, so its presence signals the presence of a live virus, long useful in virus-related research. More importantly, dsRNA is also a byproduct of the process used by US giant Pfizer and Germany's BioNTech to create their experimental Covid-19 vaccine which is more than 90% effective according to initial trial results last week. And because dsRNA can be harmful to human cells, it has to be filtered out from any vaccine to be used in humans. Several filtering methods exist, but the most widely used way to do quality control is to expose the vaccine to Lukacs' antibodies. Not only will the antibodies show if there is any dsRNA in the vaccine, they will also tell researchers how much of it is present. Only once completely freed from dsRNA can the vaccine be administered. The result: a line of big pharma representatives outside her door. The small company is growing rapidly, yet its revenue was only 124 million forints (just over $400,000) last year, with profits at 52 million forints. That feeds five employees and even leaves some for local charity projects in Szirak. To Lukacs, that is just fine. The success of the RNA field, long frowned upon, is vindication enough. The former university professor followed the race to the vaccine closely and rooted especially for the contestants who look set to come first: those using modified RNA to train cells of the human body to recognise and kill the coronavirus. The RNA was her dog in the race. The modified RNA, or mRNA, methodology is a whole new group of drugs, with the Covid vaccine the first product likely to get regulatory approval and go into mass production. But more applications are expected, which has Lukacs overjoyed. "Once you get into the RNA field, it is an extremely exciting area," she said, recalling decades of struggles when the rest of the scientific community did not share her excitement. Or most of the rest, that is. Another Hungarian woman, Katalin Kariko, working across the Atlantic, patented the method that enables the use of RNA and promises to free the world not only of the coronavirus but scores of other diseases. In the process, Kariko - now the Vice President of Germany's BioNTech, which was first alongside US giant Pfizer to break through with a vaccine earlier this month - became an early SciCons customer. The Covid breakthrough and other RNA uses may necessitate more use of Lukacs's antibodies as well, but they do not anticipate much of a boon. "We would be happy to sell more of it," said Johanna Symmons, her daughter and the small company's chief executive. "We probably will too. But it's not like we'll get silly rich." Being part of the solution reaps its own rewards. "We have cooperated with most vaccine manufacturers, and certainly almost all of the ones using the mRNA method," she said with a hint of pride. "We have been a small screw in this large machine."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/in-covid-19-vaccine-race-hungarian-village-firm-takes-global-role/articleshow/79232671.cms||---
November 15, 2020||India||India to carry out multiple launches of BrahMos supersonic cruise missiles by month-end||NEW DELHI: Amid the ongoing tensions with China, India is all set to showcase the massive firepower of the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile by the month-end. The three defence forces would carry out multiple firings of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) developed missile system in the Indian Ocean Region in the last week of this month. The BrahMos supersonic cruise missile is the world's fastest operational system in its class and recently DRDO has extended the range of the missile system from the existing 298 km to around 450 km. The defence services are scheduled to carry out multiple test-firings of the BrahMos in the last week of November against different targets in the Indian Ocean Region. The tests would help the defence services to further improve the performance of the missile system, government sources told ANI. In the last two months, DRDO has been successful in testing both new and existing missile systems including the Shaurya missile system which can hit targets at over 800 km and technology demonstration vehicles for hypersonic missile technology. Recently, the Indian Air Force had flown its Sukhoi-30 aircraft from the Halwara air base in Punjab and launched the BrahMos supersonic cruise missile at an old warship acting as its target in the Bay of Bengal area. The air-launched version of the missile has been used to equip a squadron of the Air Force in Thanjavur in Tamil Nadu. The BrahMos-equipped aircraft from the squadron were also deployed close to the Northern borders soon after the conflict with China had started and 20 Indian soldiers lost their lives in the Galwan valley in a clash with the Chinese Army. Last month, the Indian Navy had also carried out the test firing of the Brahmos missile from its warship INS Chennai to showcase its capability to strike targets at ranges more than 400 km in high seas. India is also working on finding export markets for the supersonic cruise missile which has been indigenised to a large extent by the DRDO under its project PJ 10. After the launch of the joint venture between India and Russia in the late 90s, the Brahmos supersonic cruise missile has become a potent weapon for the all three armed forces which are using them for different roles in different trains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-carry-out-multiple-launches-of-brahmos-supersonic-cruise-missiles-by-month-end/articleshow/79232851.cms||---
