November 16, 2020||Goa||Powerlifting makes young girls feel awesome, not manly: Archita||PANAJI: Ever since she picked up weights, Archita Shirodkar has taken many by surprise. When she was just seven, Archita took to martial arts and showed promise beyond her age. A few years later she hit the gymnasium. When ‘old’ enough to do bench presses, everyone rubbed their eyes in disbelief as she did 40 kgs, without practice. Archita is no ordinary teenager. Goa’s first teenage powerlifter and weightlifter has already picked up medals at the National School Games, competing and winning against girls who were three years ahead of her. For the record, she’s only 15. “I always had interest in weights. It fascinated me. If it was entirely left up to me, I would have picked up weights long ago, but my dad said my body would not be able to support. I had to wait till I was 13,” said Archita. For someone who had started weight training just a year ago, she again took almost everyone by surprise at the National School Games in Telangana in 2018 where she picked up a silver medal. Her next assignment was the Junior National Open Powerlifting and Weightlifting Championship in Assam. It was here, for the first time, that she was up against the might of several teenagers who had taken to the sport, earlier than her. “If I look at only Goa, I maybe the only one. But if I open my eyes and look outside the box, there are so many. I want to be better than all of them,” said Archita, who idolises Stefanie Cohen. Competing against those who had a three-year head-start to her, the Class 10 student of Navy Children School finished seventh among 18 competitors. She was the youngest. “I know I have a long way to go, and to win medals, I need to train continuously. Even if I miss a day, it’s like going back to level zero,” said Archita, whose first target is to break her own records of 130kg deadlift, 120kg squat and 70kg bench press. “Then I need to look at those doing exceptionally well at the national level and eventually target internationally.” Her biggest test was early this year when the national lockdown meant every little activity came to a standstill. Gymnasiums, essential to her training, were locked. Nothing, though, could stop the youngster. She still woke up every morning and trained within the confines of her home in Vasco. For a teenager to follow a less travelled path, family support matters the most. She doesn’t have it in short supply; her father – police inspector Siddhant Shirodkar – provides rock-solid backing and doubles up as her coach. “As you would know, he is Goa’s Singham. He’s my biggest hero and my coach at the moment. He always supported me. At first, he was concerned because the body can only take so much of weight (load). “I may have been too young for powerlifting. Most young girls don’t do powerlifting. They think that this will make them manly. They don’t know what they are missing; when you lift weights, it makes you feel awesome,” said Archita.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/powerlifting-makes-young-girls-feel-awesome-not-manly-archita/articleshow/79237427.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
November 16, 2020||India||With 2.9L fresh Covid cases, India sees lowest weekly tally since July||NEW DELHI: India recorded a little over 30,000 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest single-day addition in 155 days, mainly due to a combination of low testing and Diwali festivities. The day’s death toll from the virus was 426, the lowest in 163 days. Covid-19 cases and deaths recorded during the week also fell sharply after having registered a rise last week. The week (November 8-15) saw an addition of 2,92,549 cases across India, a steep fall from 3,25,555 fresh infections recorded last week (November 1-8). This was the lowest weekly addition of cases since July. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news Likewise, 3,476 fatalities were recorded in the week, a drop of 535 from the 4,011 deaths reported in the previous week. The week’s toll was also the lowest since at least late July or early August. While several north Indian states, led by Delhi, recorded an uptick in cases during this week, Maharashtra and the south reported a sharp decline, except in Kerala. However, the next weeks are seen to be crucial, as the impact of the festive season will only be known then. Meanwhile, the country reported 30,126 fresh infections on Sunday, the day after Diwali, which was the lowest daily number since July 13, as per TOI’s database collated from numbers released by state governments. The death toll, at 426, was the lowest since July 5. In Mumbai, active cases dropped below 10,000 for the first time since May. On Sunday, Mumbai had 9,956 active cases, a 52% decline from 20,922 cases seen on October 15. The city accounts for 12% of the state’s active cases (84,918).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/with-2-9l-fresh-covid-cases-india-sees-lowest-weekly-tally-since-july/articleshow/79239142.cms||---
November 16, 2020||India||Modi hints at bold Pangong action that got India the edge||NEW DELHI: In an acknowledgement of Indian troops claiming the heights on the south bank of Pangong lake in late August, Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated the action gained the country crucial bargaining leverage in the confrontation with China. Though the PM did not name China, his reference in his Diwali day speech to manoeuvres carried out by the Indian army on August 29-30 were clear even as he said all actions will be taken to secure the borders. In what can also be seen as a rejection of the Chinese insistence for stalling upgradation of border infrastructure and stopping of patrolling at points on LAC which it has unilaterally declared its own territory, Modi said no power can stop our “brave jawans from protecting our frontiers”. In his speech at Longewala Post in Rajasthan on Diwali on Saturday, he said India will deliver a fierce reply if provoked. “The world today knows that we will not compromise our interests,” Modi said. At a time when Pakistan had increased ceasefire violations, reminding India of the “collusive” threat from Pakistan and China, the PM did not spare the western neighbour, saying sponsors of terror have been hit in their homes.  India has shown to the world that it has the prowess and required political will to give a befitting reply to security challenges. “Our military might has today strengthened our negotiating hand several times. Our hand is stronger because of the sacrifices (of Indian military) and because of their will power,” he said. Modi’s comments made it clear that India was in no mood to get its troops off the strategic heights until it was satisfied that the generous offer of the Chinese to go far as back as Finger 8 was not a ploy to lull India into complacency. Modi did not name China, but few doubts remained as to who he had in his crosshairs when he attacked expansionist forces, the description that he used when addressing the troops at Nemo after the Galwan clash. “The whole world is troubled suffering because of expansionism. Expansionism is a mental perversion and reflects 18th century thought. India has become a bold voice against this(expansionist) thought,” he said. The PM who was at the Longewal post — site of the famous tank battle in 1971 when heavily outnumbered Indian soldiers led by Major Kuldip Singh Chandpuri defeated Pakistan — said the victory was significant. “Pakistan was defeated in the battle of Longowal. They had made an attempt to divert attention away from the genocidal attack on the people of Bangladesh. Their evil intent was ground to dust,” he said. Watch Rajasthan: Indian Armed Forces can strike on terrorist havens anywhere, anytime, says PM Modi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-hints-at-bold-pangong-action-that-got-india-the-edge/articleshow/79239254.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Business||25 years on, India tops 75 crore Internet connections; 50% of these came in last 4 years||BENGALURU: The number of internet connections in India has breached a significant milestone of 75 crore as of August 31, 2020, twenty-five years after the service was first thrown open to the public on August 15, 1995. The number of connections more than doubled in the last four years from just 34 crore in March 2016, coinciding with the country’s Digital India programme, which was launched in 2015. Most of the 75-crore+ connections are in urban areas and availed through wireless devices like mobile phones and dongles. As per the latest information from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), by the end of June 2020, there were 749 million (74.9 crore) internet connections — narrowband (50.8 million or 5-cr) and broadband (698.2 million or 69.2-cr) together. Separate data for broadband alone shows more than 71 crore (716 million) connections by the end of August 2020. Even if narrowband connections remained the same as June, the total number of internet connections stood at 76.7 crore at the end of August. Both datasets were released last week. India had breached the 50-crore mark in September 2018 as first reported by TOI, and from there the country has, on average, added more than 86 lakh new connections each month. While the overall subscriber data is available up to August, the break-ups are available only up to June 30, 2020, going by which, 61% of all connections were in urban areas and 97% of them were wireless. Lt Gen (retd) SP Kochhar, director general, Cellular Operators Association of India (COAI), told TOI: “...While we have 97% of our broadband connections on mobiles, adequate network coverage of the population is still hovering around 50%, which has to increase. There has to be more network rollouts, it must be affordable while quality of service must also be ensured.” Arguing that the telecom sector has been enabling many other sectors, Kochhar said that the government must support telecom as a foundational sector. “They cannot look at the sector as only a primary revenue generating source (by way of various fees and charges we pay). They have to see the secondary revenue generated because of telecom and support to various verticals in the industry,” he said. The COAI has proposed to TRAI to introduce a minimum floor price for data on a trial basis, which the latter has said it may put up for an open house discussion. Aside from this, the association has also asked the government to reconsider spectrum charges and revisit some other fees and charges that are levied and are causing financial distress to the sector. Professor Debabrata Das from the International Institute of Information Technology-Bangalore (IIIT-B), who was an integral part of the Centre’s National Information Infrastructure version 2.0 (NII 2.0), says: “That internet is a game-changer has been reiterated by the pandemic (Covid-19), even amidst which many small businesses managed to work. That aside, access to education, finance and healthcare was enabled by the internet, and I think it won’t be an exaggeration to say it’s now an essential commodity.” Just five states — Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh (including Telangana), Gujarat and Maharashtra — account for 26 crore or 35% of all internet connections. Separate data shows that as of June 30, 2020, Reliance Jio had the most market share, followed by Airtel and Vodafone. While the total number of internet connections have surpassed 75 crore, it doesn’t mean that the same number of people actually have access to the internet. When India breached the 50-cr mark in 2018, for instance, the subscriber base was only 35 crore while the total connections were 56 crore. This data is not immediately available for this year's figures, but if one were to assume that the number of subscribers also grew at the same rate, India would have 47.5 crore people accessing these 76 crore connections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-25th-year-of-internet-connections-surpass-75-crore/articleshow/79239281.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 16, 2020||India||Centre to airlift docs, provide additional ICU beds for Delhi||NEW DELHI: Even as the city grappled with an average of 90 Covid-related deaths per day in the past week, the Centre alerted the Delhi government to the possibility of a further spike in Covid-19 cases in the wake of crowded markets during the festive season and called for doubling of RT-PCR tests and offered to airlift paramilitary staff to augment the city's medical resources while also making available more ICU beds and ventilators. For the second time after June, home minister Amit Shah oversaw a vigorous central intervention in Delhi, with a review meeting with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal resulting in detailed directions on stepping up testing, augmenting capacity of city's hospitals, a review of containment strategies and enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviour. The Centre's presentation pointed to people thronging markets and public places. “The impact of the crowds in markets and elsewhere could show up in about 10-15 days,” a source said. To make up for the shortfall of medical staff in Delhi, the Centre decided to offer CAPFs doctors and para-medical staff, who will be airlifted to Delhi soon. Dedicated multi-departmental teams will visit all private hospitals in Delhi to check availability of Covid-19 medical infrastructure as regards admission status and to ensure that the correct position of beds is displayed. A few designated MCD hospitals will also be converted as dedicated facilities for Covid-19 treatment, especially for those with milder symptoms. While the flux of people travelling to and from Delhi makes Covid control a challenge, the meeting considered the need to improve contact tracing and suggested a new survey of containment zones in the city. Given the alarming slackness in public behaviour, a fresh campaign to urge Covid-appropriate behaviour is likely to be launched soon. After the meeting, Kejriwal said, “We have the assurance that all government agencies of both the central government and the state government will work together to tackle the Covid-19 situation in Delhi.” Delhi has been witnessing between 7,000 and 8,000 new Covid-19 cases a day for the last 10 days and about 90 daily deaths for the last one week, with 104 people succumbing to Covid-19 on Thursday, the highest single-day toll till date. Kejriwal said 750 ICU beds would be added to the city's capacity. “It was also decided in the meeting that the number of tests in Delhi will increase from 60,000 per day to 1 lakh or 1.25 lakh. Delhi government facilities are working at their highest capacity right now, therefore, the ICMR has assured that they will help us to increase the number of tests,” Kejriwal said. Shah put out a series of tweets to highlight the main decisions arrived at the meeting, outlining the fresh strategy. There will be greater deployment of health ministry or ICMR mobile testing vans in zones with high risk of infection, while ICU beds at the DRDO Covid-19 facility in Dhaula Kuan will be utilised and more beds with oxygen facility provided at the 10,000 bed Chhatarpur Covid centre. The meeting on Sunday was attended by health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi LG Anil Baijal, Niti Aayog member V K Paul, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, ICMR director general Dr Balram Bhargava and top officials of the DRDO and Armed Forces Medical Services and senior officers of home and health ministries and Delhi government. A presentation by Paul noted that while the case fatality rate (CFR) was still in control despite the recent rise in cases, health and medical infrastructure, such as dedicated Covid-19 beds, beds with ventilators and ICUs, were showing signs of strain. Accordingly, it was essential to enhance surveillance, strictly enforce containment measures, increase testing and rapidly build up the requisite medical infrastructure, the presentation added. The meeting saw Shah directing that testing capacity for RT-PCR tests be doubled by optimally utilising the laboratories in Delhi and using mobile testing labs in areas where poor and vulnerable sections reside, temporarily relocating testing labs from states where they were unutilised and by utilising spare capacity in neighbouring Ghaziabad, Noida and Gurgaon. This was considered essential to bring down the positivity rate in Delhi. Shah directed adding of 250-300 ICU beds to the DRDO Covid hospital in Dhaula Kuan, which already has 250 ICU beds, of which only 150 are utilised. Also, more beds with oxygen will be created at the 10,000-bed Chhatarpur Covid centre. Watch Covid-19 in Delhi: Amit Shah holds review meet with Harsh Vardhan, CM Arvind Kejriwal, LG Anil Baijal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-to-airlift-docs-provide-additional-icu-beds-for-delhi/articleshow/79239358.cms||Bharti Jain
November 16, 2020||Delhi||November peak: Covid taking four lives every hour in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Novel coronavirus has been claiming nearly four lives in the capital every hour in the past one week. On Sunday, 95 people succumbed to the infection, the third highest single-day toll till date. This month, 1,103 fatalities have been reported in Delhi in the last fortnight, which means 73.5 deaths every day on average for the last 15 days (three deaths in an hour). In fact, this week has witnessed nearly 90 deaths every day and recorded the highest single-day death toll — 104 — on Thursday and the second highest of 96 on Saturday. The total number of Covid-19 deaths in Delhi stood at 7,614 on Sunday with an overall case fatality rate of 1.5%. Delhi reported its first Covid-19 case on March 2. That month, two people succumbed to Covid-19 and, in the next, almost two fatalities were reported every day. May saw 414 deaths — 13.3 on average every day — but June, which saw the first major wave of Covid-19, recorded 2,269 fatalities, which amounts to 75.6 deaths on average every day. The death toll dipped to an average of 39.3 a day in July and 15.5 deaths/day in August as the Covid-19 graph dipped. Read AlsoCentre to airlift docs, provide additional ICU beds for DelhiThe Centre alerted the Delhi government to the possibility of a further spike in Covid-19 cases in the wake of crowded markets during the festive season and called for doubling of RT-PCR tests and offered to airlift paramilitary staff to augment the city's medical resources while also makingThe number of Covid-19 fatalities, however, started increasing from September, which saw 917 deaths or 30.5 deaths every day on average. This figure rose to 37 deaths daily on average in October. “We are trying our best to save every life and the best treatment possible is being provided, including plasma therapy. However, in many cases, patients are arriving at hospitals at a stage when their condition has already deteriorated to severe,” said a senior doctor of a Delhi government hospital. Read AlsoWith 2.9L fresh Covid cases, India sees lowest weekly tally since JulyIndia recorded a little over 30,000 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest single-day addition in 155 days, mainly due to a combination of low testing and Diwali festivities. The day’s death toll from the virus was 426, the lowest in 163 days. Covid-19 cases and deaths recorded during the week alsoOn Sunday, 3,235 fresh cases were recorded in Delhi as only 21,098 tests were carried out in the last 24 hours compared with the nearly 60,000 tests being carried out daily. While nearly 20,000 RT-PCR tests are being carried out daily of late, the number was 9,221 in the last 24 hours, according to the Delhi government’s health bulletin. The positivity rate rose to 15.3% on Sunday compared with 14.7% on Saturday. The overall positivity rate in November is 12.8%, which is a significant rise from the previous four months. The overall positivity rate in June was 21.1%, including some days when it went beyond 30%. July, however, saw the overall positivity rate dip to 9.6%, which further decreased to 7.1% in August, 7% in September and 6.6% in October even as the number of tests being carried out increased massively. The total number of positive cases recorded in Delhi till date is more than 4.8 lakh, while more than 4.3 lakh have recovered, putting the recovery rate at 90.1%. The number of active cases on Sunday came down to 39,990 from 44,456 on Saturday, but the number of containment zones increased from 4,288 to 4,358. Out of the total active cases, 27,089 patients are recuperating under home isolation and 8,741 are admitted in hospital. While 47.5% Covid beds in hospitals are still vacant, the availability of ICU beds reserved for Covid-19 patients is going down with only 164 or 12.2% of total 1,341 ICU beds with ventilators available as per the Delhi Corona mobile application. Watch Delhi: Covid-19 taking four lives every hour in November||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nov-peak-covid-taking-four-lives-every-hour/articleshow/79238886.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 16, 2020||Business||Online jewellers get boost as e-tools click with shoppers||CHENNAI: Be it due to the revenge shopping factor, festive fervour or pent-up demand, consumers are back to buying jewellery and this time, the buzz is in the digital space. Online jewellers are witnessing a standout year as first-time buyers from urban and semi-urban areas log on to buy jewellery this festive season to avoid stepping out. Titan owned-CaratLane, one of the earliest movers in the space, has seen a 40% growth in traffic and 60% growth in online revenue as compared to last year’s festive period. “During the initial phase of Covid, business was largely driven by our repeat customers, but towards the second half, we started to see new customers browsing and buying online,” Avnish Anand, co-founder & business head, CaratLane, said. “What’s impressive is the growth — of 70-80% — from the small-towns as increasing number of customers get comfortable buying online,” he added. In addition to offering BIS Hallmark ornaments and providing return & exchange options, jewellery sites are also investing in digital tools to replicate the offline buying experience using virtual try-ons, chatbot assistance and live video services. Tech startup StyleDotMe, which has built an augmented reality (AR) product mirrAR for customers to virtually try on jewellery before buying, says inquiries have surged over 300% for their tool in the past few months. The startup works with both online sites and traditional stores and mirrAR is being used by over 250 brands including Forevermark and Tanishq. Jewellery shopping is a traditional affair around Diwali and Dhanteras, but business was a muted affair due to sharp rise in gold prices and economic hardships due to the pandemic. This made lightweight jewellery a favourite this year, pushing up demand for online stores like Melorra, known for lightweight ornaments. Melorra founder and CEO Saroja Yeramilli said they have seen a 50% growth in business this year’s festive season compared to last year. “Our revenue till date this year is almost 10% better than last year,” she said. This growth comes when offline jewellers are witnessing falling sales. In a sign of increasing comfort among online shoppers, the average transaction values on Melorra’s site is nearly 40% higher than the previous festive season, Yeramilli said. Melorra launched its own app last month to capitalise on this digitisation. “We are seeing a lot of traction — almost 30% of all our orders in the past month were from the app,” Yeramilli said. Launched in 2017, mirrAR also helps brick-and-mortar jewellers digitise inventory to help customers buy online, and over 20 traditional jewellers have signed up with them post-Covid with around 20 more in pipeline, Meghna Saraogi, co-founder & CEO, mirrAR, said. Jewellers from tier-2 and -3 cities like Kota, Akola, Ratlam are among those going digital, she says. As for traditional stores, Anantha Padmanabhan, MD, NAC Jewellers says the past 10 days have been encouraging for business in stores as well. He expects momentum to continue in the run up to the upcoming wedding season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/online-jewellers-get-boost-as-e-tools-click-with-shoppers/articleshow/79237924.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 16, 2020||Puducherry||Chennai: A mask-maker who has sold none since March||CHENNAI: Here’s a mask-maker who couldn’t sell even one during the lockdown. E Vengadessin designs and makes all kinds of masks, headgear and dolls for theatre groups in Tamil Nadu. But there have been no takers for the last eight months. A gold medallist from Pondicherry University (MA in theatre arts in 2000), Vengadessin trained as a theatre trainer and doll-and-mask maker. Having been in the business for the past 18 years, he says he never expected the pandemic would hit so badly. “There were some extra orders from theatre groups in the last January and February. I was in a hurry and somehow finished making the masks and other costumes in March. But then the pandemic hit. I couldn’t sell even a single mask since March,” said Vengadessin, who lives in Puducherry. “The pandemic is global, but the suffering is personal. I lost grip, and started struggling in the initial months during lockdown,” he said. When many of his colleagues started doing part-time jobs to make a living, Vengadessin had no idea how to survive. “I spent a lot of time looking at the masks out of frustration and disappointment. My wife’s job as a teacher was the only ray of hope. But survival is still difficult,” he said. However, this 46-year-old artist hasn’t lost hope. Despite the hardships, he strives to learn more about mask-making. “I struggled in the beginning, but now I have got used to it. I study more about theatre and costume. I have started making use of this time productively by adapting modern methods in the style of making masks. I am trying to reinvent my style techniques,” said Vengadessin, who has conducted mask-making workshops and seminars on acting in schools and colleges across Tamil Nadu. Vengadessin believes that things will change, and his masks will soon find faces. “I am trying to convince myself that the worst is over. Things will change, and my masks will soon find proper faces on the stage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/a-mask-maker-who-has-sold-none-since-march/articleshow/79241040.cms||M T Saju
November 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar’s daily Covid count drops to 247 after 4 months||PATNA: In what could be a major relief, the state recorded less than 250 Covid cases for the first time in over four months on Sunday. Altogether 247 people have tested positive for the virus in Bihar in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s tally to 2,26,916. The state health department has confirmed five fresh Covid causalities in the last 24 hours. With this, he state’s Covid toll has increased to 1,184. Officially, four deaths were reported in Patna, taking the district’s toll to 298. The victims included a 77-year old woman from Kankarbagh and three men from Indirapuri, Patliputra and Kurji localities of Patna. One death, on the other hand, was registered in Araria. At 614, the number of recovered cases in the last 24 hours surpassed the fresh cases. At least 5,868 people are still battling the virus across the state. As per government data, as many as 2,19,864 people have recovered from the virus so far, taking the state’s Covid recovery rate to 96.89%. In fact, the state’s recovery rate is 3.8% higher than the national average of 93.09%, it said. As many as 96,699 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories across the state in the last 24 hours, taking the number of tests since the outbreak of the virus in March to 1,28,69,405. The daily Covid count of Patna has also declined after a long time. On Sunday, only 89 fresh cases were reported in Patna, taking the district’s caseload to 39,180. However, the number of active cases in the district has dropped to 1,658 with 136 more people recuperating from the virus in the last 24 hours. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) on Sunday registered five more deaths, though unofficially. The victims included a 51-year-old woman from Suratpur village in Vaishali and three men from Patna’s Khajekalan, Patrakar Nagar and Chandmari Road localities. The fifth victim, a 75-year-old man, was from Madhopur in Munger. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said nine patients were admitted to the hospital and 14 discharged on Sunday. The new patients were from different localities of Patna like Kankarbagh, Shastri Nagar, Gardanibagh and also from other districts like Nalanda, Samastipur and Siwan. At NMCH-Patna, no fresh Covid casualty was reported on Sunday. However, two new Covid patients were admitted to the hospital and three discharged on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/states-daily-covid-count-drops-to-247-after-4-mths/articleshow/79238381.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 16, 2020||Patna||Patna: Devotees to get Ganga water for performing Chhath rituals||PATNA: The Patna district administration has taken several steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus during the four-day Chhath festival beginning with ‘nahay-khay’ on November 18. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal and DM Kumar Ravi on Sunday jointly flagged off 75 ‘Ganga Jal’ tankers from Digha Ghat, one for each ward. The Ganga water will be distributed among the devotees for performing rituals and preparing ‘prasad’. Agarwal said each household can take up to 1 litre of Ganga water. “Around 100 tanks will be stationed in different localities of the city. The move will go a long way in avoiding gatherings at ghats. Through jingles and awareness drive, we are encouraging people to perform rituals at home,” he said. Agawal added the traffic plan would be prepared in such a way that only locals would be able to visit ghats to fetch Ganga water. “Basic arrangements will be made at the ghats. Medical teams and security personnel will also be deployed at all the ghats,” he said. This year, celebrations will be allowed only at selected ghats with the permission of the district administration. The DM said barricading work and other preparations have started from Patna Collectorate Ghat to Gai Ghat. “The barricading of ghats, construction of watch towers, help desks, lighting poles, changing rooms, toilets and repair of approach roads have started,” he said. “All the dangerous ghats will be out of bound for the people. Locals who have no facility to perform Chhath at home can do so at ghats. Traffic movement will be restricted on Ashok Rajpath and at Digha to stop overcrowding at ghats during the festival,” Ravi said. Roadside shops selling fruits, vegetables and other puja materials near the ghats will not be allowed this time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhath-admn-to-distribute-ganga-water-among-devotees/articleshow/79238239.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 16, 2020||Patna||Elderly woman & her minor grandson killed, four injured in Bihar||PATNA: An elderly woman and her minor grandson were killed while four others of her family were injured when unidentified criminals opened fired after barging into their residence on IB Road in Ghat Nawada under Dalsinghsarai police station area in Samastipur on Saturday night. IG (Darbhanga Range) Ajitabh Kumar along with Samastipur SP Vikash Burman reached the spot on Sunday to investigate the matter. Police suspect family dispute might be the reason behind the incident. The victims’ residence is at a secluded place on the banks of Balan river. Dalsinghsarai police station SHO Praveen Kumar Mishra on Sunday said the deceased were identified as Ahilya Devi (62) and her grandson Asmit Kumar (10). Mishra said two 9mm empty cartridges were recovered from the spot. He said the injured family members were identified as Ahilya’s daughters Parmila Devi (42) and Puja Devi (21) and Parmila’s daughter Khushbu Kumari (18). Since Parmila’s husband lives separately in Tazpur, she stayed with her mother. “Khushbu is Asmit’s elder sister. She is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Samastipur. Police came to know that she was in a critical condition,” he said. Mishra said Puja’s husband Rakesh Kumar (26) was the only male present at their residence when the incident took place. Surprisingly, Rakesh was only thrashed by the assailants resulting in multiple injuries in his head. “It’s being investigated as why he was spared by the criminals,” he said. The SHO said at least half a dozen unidentified criminals barged into their residence when the family members were relaxing after celebrating Diwali. He said the family had kept all doors open due to the festival. “Ahilya was sitting in the courtyard. She was shot at a very close range. Criminals then entered inside a room and opened fire. Asmit was shot in his chest but the bullet pierced through his body and hit his sister Khushbu sitting behind. Parmila and Puja watching TV with the children were also shot,” he said, adding Rakesh was sitting in another room that time. Mishra said all the six injured persons were rushed to Dalsinghsarai sub-divisional hospital were Ahilya died during treatment. “Rest were further referred to district sadar hospital where Asmit also succumbed to the bullet injury,” he said. The SHO said nothing is clear yet, but prima facie family dispute is suspected to be the reason behind the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/elderly-woman-her-minor-grandson-killed-four-injured/articleshow/79237785.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||600 Covid-19 cases, three deaths recorded in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Testing for Covid-19 was at a low on Saturday with just 21,264 samples being tested across the state as against the regular of 45,000-50,000 being tested daily. On account of the low testing, new cases reported too were just 661 new on Saturday, while three Covid-19 deaths were recorded over the last 24 hours. Taking the latest numbers in count, the total number of cases so far in the state is 2,57,374 and total death toll so far is 1,404. A total of 2,40,545 patients in the state have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection, while there are 15,425 active cases currently. The case fatality rate (CFR) is currently at 0.54%, indicating 1 patient out of every 200 patients is succumbing to virus. The latest recovery rate is 93.46%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/600-covid-19-cases-three-deaths-recorded-in-state/articleshow/79238887.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mysuru||Man attacks woman for rejecting his proposal||Mysuru: A 26-year-old man allegedly attacked a woman with dagger for rejecting his marriage proposal at her house on Dewan’s Road in KR Mohalla under the Lakshmipuram police limits on Sunday. The victim sustained multiple injuries in the attack and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Her condition is said to be critical. After the attack, the accused , identified as Gagan alias Kencha, a cab driver by profession, surrendered to the police with the weapon he used for the crime, said police. “The incident happened around 11.30am on Sunday morning,” said DCP (law and order) N Prakash Gowda. “The girl and her family rejected Gagan’s marriage proposal. Spurned by this rejection, he attacked the girl,” Gowda told TOI. Gagan, a resident of Bellikatte Mission Road, near Urs Road in Devaraja Mohalla and the victim were allegedly in a relationship for the last 3-4 years. However, the girl called off their relationship 15 days ago,” police stated. “When Gagan put forth marriage proposal, the victim and her family rejected it. Spurned by this, he attacked the girl at her home. He knocked the door of her house and when she opened, he stabbed her. She sustained injuries on her chest, stomach, and back. One wound is very deep,” explained police sources. According to the sources, Gagan father passed away and he has an elder brother. Victim’s father too died a few years ago. She is living with her mother and three brothers, they added. Police have registered an FIR against Gagan under IPC Section 307 (attempt to murder).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-attacks-woman-for-rejecting-his-proposal/articleshow/79237268.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mysuru||Initiative launched to boost health care access to adivasi population||Mysuru: In a bid to boost health care access among the adivasi population in the state, the tribal development department has proposed six innovative programmes. The programmes were designed taking into account the specific socio-economic and cultural context of adivasi and tribal communities predominantly spread in green rich districts including Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Uttara Kannada and Dakshina Kannada. According to the proposal, one of the innovative programmes to be launched include setting up of facilities to improve referral and healthcare experience of adivasi and tribal communities at district and higher level hospitals. According to the authorities, these programmes include construction of 10 Dharmashala centres (patient dormitory) at medical colleges/ district hospitals in nine districts, appointment of adivasi social workers at taluk public hospitals and district hospitals, establishment of tribal health cell in community medicine department of district government medical colleges, mobile health units for tribal dominated areas with diagnostic equipment and medicine. It also includes health camps with doctors and nurses, strengthening public engagement with science, environment and health behaviour among tribal communities. “We are planning to implement these new programmes from January 2021,” said tribal welfare department director Sangappa. Mysuru region will benefit most of these schemes as all the districts of this region as it has a huge population of tribal persons. According to the concept note prepared by the department, priority areas include maternal and child health care, NCDs like diabetes, hypertension, cancer, stroke, mental health and injuries. Authorities say due to financial and social barriers, several tribal patients who are referred for higher care for serious or life-threatening conditions often do not seek care due to higher level hospitals being located in big cities and towns. The department will work closely with district health and hospital administration in seven districts as well as with NGOs and community-based organisations to set up accommodation and other services to support tribal patients and caregivers who are referred. “The action plan has been prepared after consulting the doctors and NGOs. The mobile health units are already functional in Mysuru district,” said Sangappa. It’s very important to ensure quality health care for the adivasis who stay in the forests and are invisible to the larger society. So, we came up with the project which can be supported by both Union and state governments. This year, the funding will be done by the Centre. There is also need of sensitising the health care professionals on treating them. The new initiative is aimed at ensuring best health care support for them, said Dr N Nagambika Devi, additional chief secretary, social welfare department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/initiative-launched-to-boost-health-care-access-to-adivasi-population/articleshow/79237287.cms||Shrinivasa M
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Nearly a half of Central district exposed to virus||NEW DELHI: The latest survey shows that seroprevalence in Central district more than doubled from 21.7% in September to 49.5% in October. This indicates that nearly half of the district’s 5.8 lakh population were exposed to Covid-19 and then recovered, thus developing antibodies. The district may be headed for natural herd immunity against the coronavirus given the expert view that infection of 60-70% of the population can protect the general populace. In the July serological survey, Central district had a seroprevalence of 27.8%, which increased to 31.1% in August and dipped to 21.7% in September before surging to 49.5% in the latest survey. Government officials managing the pandemic say the 3,000-4,000 tests are conducted every day in the district and the positivity rate hovers close to that of Delhi, which is around 12% in the past few days. Arava Gopi Krishna, district magistrate (Central), said the administration was analysing the report and encouraging people to wear masks, follow social distancing while also making all efforts to deter Covid-inappropriate behaviour. Due to popular markets like Sadar Bazaar, Chandni Chowk, Khari Baoli and others in Central district, big crowds are a daily occurrence. In most of these gatherings, it is common to see people not maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks. The festive season draws bigger crowds too. Apart from the crowded markets, the central district also has high-density pockets. “Crowded zones in Central district are probably the major causes of increase of antibody prevalence among the people,” surmised Dr Mahesh Verma, member of Delhi government’s expert panel on Covid. In the wake of festivals and crowding in commercial hubs, five mobile vans are carrying out targeted testing in some locations. The vans have been targeting markets and other congestion-prone areas for random testing. Sources attributed the spike in antibodies growth to the discovery of many people during tests who were asymptomatic and hadn’t realised they were infected by the novel coronavirus. “I believe that the growth in seropositivity in the district is due to the number of asymptomatic individuals, who spread the infection because they didn’t know they were carrying it,” reiterated a district official. The gender seroprevalence in August had shown that 31.8% of males and 30.3% of females were positive for antibodies, while the September round returned a higher seroprevalence in females (22.4%) than males (21%). The seroprevalence is highest in the 5-17 year age group of females (55.7%), followed by male in the same age group (54.6%). Covid antibodies were present in 45.2% of females in the 18-49 age group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nearly-a-half-of-central-district-exposed-to-virus/articleshow/79238888.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 16, 2020||Patna||Railways to run 40 special trains to clear passengers’ rush||PATNA: Railways has decided to run at least 40 pairs of special trains to clear passengers’ rush during the festive season under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR). Railways has not yet restored regular passenger train services after imposition of the lockdown since March 24 due to Covid-19 pandemic. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said Hyderabad-Raxaul special train (07003/07004) will leave Hyderabad on November 16 and return from Raxaul on November 21 via Barauni-Dhanbad-Ranchi route. The Hyderabad- Darbhanga special train (07009/07010), which reached Darbhanga on November 12, left for Hyderabad on November 15, he said. Similarly, Darbhanga-Jallandar Cantt weekly special train (05251/05252) will continue its run till November 29. It leaves Darbhanga every Saturday and return for Jallandar Cantt every Sunday. The biweekly Patliputra-Chandigarh special (03255/03256) will run till November 30 while biweekly Patna-Jammu Tavi special (02355/02356) will run till November 29, the CPRO said. Railways has also started another biweekly between Patna and Mumbai (03259/03260) till December 1. The Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Ajmer weekly special (02395/02396) will run till November 26, Kumar said, adding Darbhanga — Mysore weekly special (02577/02578) will run till November 28 and Patliputra-Yashwantpur special (03251/03252) till November 30. Likewise, Gaya-New Delhi special (02397/02398), Gaya-Chennai Egmore special (02389/02390) and Rajendra Nagar Terminal-Howrah special (02351/02352) will run daily till December 1. Raxaul-Lokmanya Tilak special (02545/02546) and Danapur-Tata special (08183/08184) will run till November 30, the CPRO said, adding Howrah-Bettiah special (03055), Patna-Ranchi superfast special (08255), Muzaffarpur-Saharanpur special (04502), Anand Vihar-Saharsa special (04438), Haridawar- Saharsa special (04004) and Patna-New Delhi special (04003/04004) are the other festival special passenger trains to clear post-Diwali and Chhath rush . Meanwhile, Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association secretary Shoaib Quraishi has urged railway minister Piyush Goel and ECR GM L C Trivedi to run daily trains on each route on the pattern of West Bengal from 8am to 11am and from 4.30pm to 8.30pm so that the daily commuters reach their workplace in Patna and return home safely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-to-run-40-spl-trains-to-clear-passengers-rush/articleshow/79238255.cms||Kumod Verma
November 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Ashwini Kumar Choubey supports Chirag Paswan for berth in Union Cabinet||PATNA: LJP led by Chirag Paswan got support from an unexpected quarter on Sunday when Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey didn’t rule out the possibility of his induction in the PM Narendra Modi’s Cabinet after formation of the NDA government in Bihar. Choubey, the BJP MP from Buxar, said he (Chirag) should be given an opportunity to mend himself. “Galti sudharne ka mauka milna chahiye,” he told mediapersons in Patna. He, however, hastened to add that it was his personal view. “It’s the PM’s prerogative who to induct in the next expansion of his Cabinet,” the Union minister of state for health said. In reply to a query, Choubey said: “I think what happened in Bihar will be set on track in days to come.” When asked about LJP’s decision to contest the state assembly polls solo, Choubey said every political party wants to gain more and more seats in elections. And Chirag’s case was no exception, he said. On Saturday, LJP spokesperson Asaraf Ansari had said his party was hopeful of getting a berth in the next expansion of Modi Cabinet. Chirag’s father Ram Vilas Paswan was the Union minister when he died last month. In contrast, JD(U) has its reservation against LJP’s stay in the NDA at the Ventre after damaging the alliance prospects in the assembly elections. “LJP is not a part of NDA in the state. It contested the assembly elections on its own. It is evident that LJP caused huge damage to NDA, especially to our party,” a senior JD(U) leader said. The election results show that LJP dented NDA votes, especially of JD(U), in at least 30 constituencies. While NDA bagged 125 seats, Mahagathbandhan won 110 seats. Though LJP could win only one seat, it garnered 5.66% votes. The party had contested 135 seats and fielded its candidates mostly against JD(U). LJP, however, has suffered its worst performance in this election since its inception in 2000. In February 2005, LJP won 29 seats with 12.67% vote share. In October-November 2005 polls, it got 10 seats with 11.10% vote share. In 2010 polls, it secured three seats with 6.74% votes followed by two in 2015 (4.80%) and one in 2020 polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chirag-finds-support-from-choubey-for-cabinet-berth/articleshow/79237634.cms||Ramashankar
November 16, 2020||Business||RIL buys online furniture firm Urban Ladder||MUMBAI: Reliance Industries (RIL) has acquired 96% of online furniture retailer Urban Ladder Home Decor Solutions for Rs 182 crore, ramping up its hybrid, online-to-offline commerce model and intensifying its fight against Amazon and Walmart-owned Flipkart. The acquisition was routed through Reliance Retail Ventures, in which foreign investors, including sovereign wealth funds of Saudi Arabia, Singapore and Abu Dhabi, hold about 11% equity. Reliance Retail has the option to acquire the remaining shares (4%) of Urban Ladder and it plans to invest an additional Rs 75 crore in the latter by December 2023. Incorporated in February 2012, Urban Ladder, founded by Ashish Goel and Rajiv Srivatsa, posted a loss of Rs 50 crore on a turnover of Rs 440 crore in FY20. While Srivatsa had stepped down from the leadership role at Urban Ladder in October 2019 (he has joined venture capital firm Antler as a partner), Goel will continue to be with the company after the ownership changes. The acquisition price suggests that it was a fire sale by Urban Ladder’s shareholders. The Bengaluru-based furniture retailer had last raised over Rs 700 crore from investors such as Sequoia Capital, SAIF Partners, Steadview and Kalaari Capital. Deepak Shenoy, founder, Capitalmind Wealth, tweeted: Urban Ladder sold to Reliance for (Rs) 182 crore after having raised (Rs) 700 crore. This is actually better than having to shut it down. But distress sale indeed. The Urban Ladder purchase, said RIL will further enable its digital and new commerce initiatives and widen the bouquet of consumer products provided by it. Urban Ladder also runs a chain of stores in several Indian cities. Couple of months ago, RIL had acquired 60% of online pharmacy retailer Netmeds for Rs 620 crore. Subsequently, it announced the purchase of Future Group’s retail business for Rs 24,713 crore. This deal, however, is mired in a legal dispute with Amazon. India’s furniture market, of which 86% is unorganised, is pegged at around $17 billion. Of this, online retail accounts for a small portion. It, however, has the potential to reach 8-9% by FY22 from the current 3%, according to research firm Redseer. Flipkart dominates the online furniture retail sector with a 40% market share, leaving other big players such as Amazon, Pepperfry and Urban Ladder behind. “Digital furniture retail is tough business, especially with consumers taking a long time to come back to the platform for a repeat purchase,” said a senior executive at a large online furniture retail company. “Transporting bulky items like furniture, too, is difficult as it requires a specialized supply chain. Moreover, with the entry of Ikea and the expansion into the category by horizontal players, such as Flipkart and Amazon, the competition got tough and players need deep pockets. Even Fabfurnish, which was bought by Kishore Biyani (of Future Group) from Rocket Internet, couldn’t be kept alive,” he added. Most online furniture retailers, such as Urban Ladder and Pepperfry, have set up physical stores to provide consumers with a touch-and-feel experience. The segment has also given rise to small players, such as Livspace, Foyr and Homelane that are providing online home interior solution services. The larger players, too, have followed suit. The Urban Ladder and other retail acquisitions reflect RIL’s bet on the India consumer story as it reduces its dependence on industrial segments. Its consumer-focused businesses — Jio and Reliance Retail — have emerged as significant contributors to its operating profit in recent years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ril-buys-online-furniture-firm-urban-ladder/articleshow/79239112.cms||John Sarkar
November 16, 2020||Business||Investment in the time of Covid: Insurance, savings take top slot||MUMBAI: The pandemic has changed the income and investment landscapes dramatically over the past nine months, forcing investors to rejig their financial portfolio for long-term security. Investors’ preference for insurance, savings and the size of emergency funds have gone up, while building a corpus for wedding expenses has come down the priority list. There has not been much change in their preference for retirement, which is still among the top three. “For several people, while children’s education remains a top priority, their wedding as a long-term goal has fallen down the preference list from being one of the top three during pre-Covid days,” said Mukund Seshadri, a city-based mutual fund distributor. According to financial advisers, not only people’s preference for health and life insurance has gone up as one of the top long-term goals, but the amount of insurance people are buying has also increased. Among the other changes to people’s long-term financial plans that are being observed are related to investments in real estate, ownership of car and leisure travels. People’s preference for real estate is now higher than before, while their desire to own a car has come down. Also, earlier people used to plan and invest for leisure travel, both domestic and foreign destinations. Those plans now have been put on the back burner. Industry veterans said the pandemic has also strengthened some of the rules of personal financial planning. The lockdown months have once again proven that people should prioritise their ‘needs’ over ‘wants’. “The pandemic has made people realise their true expenses to have a comfortable life,” said Gajendra Kothari, MD, Etica Wealth. “People are concentrating more on savings and less on expenses,” Kothari said. According to Seshadri, for years financial industry veterans have been asking people to ‘pay oneself first’, meaning save first before meeting their expenses. “The pandemic has taught that to people quickly,” he said. Seshadri and Kothari agree that the pandemic has also taught people the importance of having a contingency fund. “People are now aiming to have a contingency fund that can meet their monthly expenses of up to a year,” Kothari said. Earlier, financial planners used to advise clients to build a contingency fund that would last them 3-6 months without any income, Seshadri said. Along with such learnings and changes to people’s savings and investing habits, there has been one negative development that financial advisers are warning people to be careful of. “A large number of people have taken to direct stock investing. In the long run, such investments may end on a negative note,” Kothari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/investment-in-the-time-of-covid-insurance-savings-take-top-slot/articleshow/79239087.cms||Partha Sinha
November 16, 2020||Business||Pharma market posts 10% growth in October||MUMBAI: Building on gains made in September, the domestic pharmaceutical retail market marched ahead with a near 10% growth in October. This was led by a higher number of prescriptions, OPD (outpatient department) visits, and an increased sales and marketing push by pharma companies after ‘unlocking’ in most parts of the country. The robust October growth was double that of September, which had seen a 4.5% jump. The market grew 9.6% year-on-year (YoY) during October, led by a volume growth of 0.9% YoY (September was -4%), price growth of 5% (4.6%) and increase in product launches at 3.7% (3.8%). On a moving average total (MAT) basis for the past 12 months, the growth was 3.9% for October. The revival was on the back of therapies, including cardiac and anti-diabetic, which grew by 19.5% and 9.7% respectively in October (over September), according to data from research firm AIOCD Awacs. Respiratory medicines showed marginal improvement at -6.6% in October as against -10.5 % in September. The market, valued at nearly Rs 1.5 lakh crore, has been sluggish since March, when the lockdown was announced. The sector, however, did not face restrictions since it’s categorised as an essential service. In fact in April and May, the market had dropped into the negative territory due to the absence of prescriptions and lower OPD visits. Revenue in acute therapies grew 6% YoY, while that in chronic and sub-chronic therapies rose 13% YoY each in October. On a MAT basis, revenue in acute therapies grew 1%, while chronic and sub-chronic therapies 9% and 3% YoY, respectively, according to India Ratings and Research. Anti-infective sales showed a positive trend, growing by 6.6% in October as against 1.4% in September, while associated therapy like gastro reported a growth of 13.6% (5.5% in September), and vitamins at 22.6% (16.3%). Pain and analgesics grew at 2.8% during the month from -4.3 % in September. On an annual basis, acute therapies such as vitamins and gastro witnessed a healthy revenue growth of 22.6% and 13.6% respectively during October. Chronic therapies continued their strong growth outperformance with cardiac, anti-diabetic and central nervous system (CNS) reporting YoY 19.5%, 9.7% and 9.6% respectively. Within vitamins, high growth was reported in anti-oxidant products (48% YoY, 15% of segment sales) and protein supplements (30% YoY, 7% of segment sales). In the cardiac segment, heparin product sales showed a huge growth (128% YoY, 4% of segment sales), according to the analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pharma-mkt-posts-10-growth-in-oct/articleshow/79239121.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
November 16, 2020||Business||Fintech executives eye new e-pay entity’s licence||BENGALURU: The race for the proposed new umbrella entity (NUE) for retail payments is heating up. ItzCash founder Navin Surya and Infibeam Avenues executive director Vishwas Patel are joining forces to set up a new firm to apply for the NUE licence with the RBI. Paytm Payments Bank is also considering to apply for a licence, three people aware of the matter said. This adds to the “strong interest” already shown in the NUE from HDFC Bank. Additionally, India’s largest conglomerates like Reliance (through Jio) and Tata Group are also looking to apply for the licence as digital payments continue to soar, aided by the pandemic. The NUE will challenge the National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) and is expected to offer services like managing ATMs, point-of-sales machines, Aadhaar-based payments and remittances. So Hum Bharat Digital Payments is the entity set up by Surya, which will have the backing of Infibeam Avenues, the firm which offers payments gateway and e-commerce solutions. While large conglomerates and financial services companies are also looking seriously at NUE, So Hum would be the first entity that has been set up for the NUE and announced its plan to apply for the licence soon. The deadline for applications is February 2021. So Hum is planning to leverage the NUE to expand digital payments in India beyond urban consumers with a focus on non-metro users. In a statement, Surya and Patel said their aim would be to grow the active digital consumer base to 600 million over the next decade compared to the current base of 100 million. It is in discussions with a range of investors and startups to partner for the NUE. These details have not been disclosed yet. The RBI rules for the NUE mandate that a single promoter can’t have over 40% stake in the firm, with a plan to dilute it to 25% over a period of five years. “Paytm Payments Bank is also looking to apply for the NUE as a bank with other partners,” a person aware of the Noida-based firm’s rationale said. A spokesperson for Paytm Payments Bank declined to comment. “There is definitely a plan to get this licence for HDFC Bank. The mandate (to expand digital payments) is clear from the government as well as the regulator side. They (HDFC Bank) are firming up partner plans and other details currently, “ another person aware of the matter said. Emails sent to HDFC Bank, Tata Group and Reliance Jio did not elicit any response. US-based tech giants like Google, Facebook and Amazon are also reportedly in talks to partner with Indian promoters for NUE, but those are not finalised yet. Bengaluru-based payments startup Razorpay, which recently became a unicorn, is also looking to partner for the NUE with Indian promoters for a “minority stake”. “Razorpay is looking at it from a partner point-of-view and not being a principal promoter. It is in talks with multiple entities looking at the NUE. They are looking to offer their technology expertise to these potential partners,” one of the sources said. Razorpay co-founder and CEO Harshil Mathur declined to comment as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fintech-execs-eye-new-e-pay-entitys-licence/articleshow/79239168.cms||Digbijay Mishra
November 16, 2020||Patna||‘Soop’ makers stare at losses in Saran||CHHAPRA: The manufacturers of bamboo baskets, ‘soops’ (winnowers) and ‘arta ka pat’ (thin layer of red-coloured cotton spread), which are considered essential items during the four-day Chhath festivities and exported to different parts of the country, are likely to have a rough time amid the Covid-19 pandemic in Saran district. They are apprehensive about poor demand and lesser number of customers compared to previous years. Admapur and Kamalpur villages under Sajjanpur-Matihaan panchayat of Dariapur block and Tenhti under Marhoura block are some of the pockets where craftsmen are known for manufacturing bamboo baskets and winnowers. Their products are in demand not only in Saran, but also in Patna, Bhojpur, Muzaffarpur, Vaishali and neighbouring districts of Uttar Pradesh. Likewise, Jhouaan village situated on the Chhapra-Patna NH-19 near Aami is well known for the production of ‘arta ka pat’. The craftsmen usually procure the raw materials in September and transport the finished products to different places of the country later. One of them, Anil Mahto, told this newspaper, “I am not sure if people will celebrate Chhath the way they did before. It is likely to be a low-key affair due to Covid-19. This will affect our business.” Two other craftsmen, Prahlad Mahto and Ram Nath Mahto, also expressed their apprehension about fewer customers this year. Chhath will begin with ‘nahay khaay’ on November 18 and end with offerings to the rising sun on November 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/soop-makers-stare-at-losses-in-saran/articleshow/79238281.cms||H K Verma
November 16, 2020||Patna||Patna: Havildar's son found hanging in hotel room||PATNA: The body of a 21-year-old youth, son of Bihar Military Police (BMP) havildar Gauri Prasad Singh, was found hanging in a hotel room on East Boring Canal Road under the Buddha Colony police station area in the city around 12.30pm on Sunday. SHO of Buddha Colony police station Ravishankar Kumar said the victim was identified as Aman Kumar, whose father is posted in Jehanabad. “Preliminary investigations revealed that Aman hanged himself from ceiling fan with the help of a rope. He had checked into the hotel around 12.30pm on Saturday. The hotel management informed the police about the incident at around 1pm on Sunday,” the SHO added. He said Aman used to live with family at Mahesh Nagar (road number three) under Patliputra police station area. “No suicide note was recovered from the spot. We have taken possession of Aman’s cellphone for further investigations,” he said, adding the youth probably committed suicide over a love affair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-22-year-old-son-commits-suicide/articleshow/79238409.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 16, 2020||Patna||Bodies of ITBP jawan, 2 others found in Patna||PATNA: Police recovered the body of one Mohammad Khurshid (40) from an empty field in Alba Colony under the Phulwarisharif police station area around 8.30am on Sunday. SHO Rafique-ur-Rahman said Khursid’s throat was slit and his face disfigured with a sharp-edged weapon to hide identity. “Only a small slip of a guest house near Patna Junction was found in Khurshid’s pocket through which the police ascertained his identity. He was a resident of Driver Tola in Katihar town and had come to Patna on Saturday,” he said. “Illicit relation is suspected to be the reason behind the killing. We have begun an investigation into the incident,” he said. In another incident, police rescued an iron bar manufacturing factory owner, Arun Kumar (40), from getting lynched by a mob of 200 people at Sabbalpur under the River police station area in Fatuha on Saturday night. The body of one of Arun’s employees, Anil Kumar (45), was earlier recovered from an underground water tank on the factory premises, River police station SHO Sakendra Kumar said. Meanwhile, police recovered the body of an ITBP constable, Prem Kumar Gupta (32), from a bus at Mithapur bus stand under Jakkanpur police station area in Patna around 9.15pm on Saturday. Police said Gupta was on way to his house in Jehanabad town from Katihar but died mysteriously. “Prem’s father Jawahar Prasad Gupta has lodged an FIR with Jakkanpur police station, alleging that his son was poisoned to death,” police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bodies-of-itbp-jawan-2-others-found/articleshow/79238438.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Patna||New NDA govt won’t last long, says RJD MP||PATNA: A day before the swearing-in ceremony of JD(U) chief Nitish Kumar as CM for a straight fourth term, senior RJD leader and Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha on Sunday said the new NDA government in the state would not last long. “How can someone from a party that has won just 40-odd seats become the CM of the state? The NDA government with wafer-thin majority will not last long,” Jha said. Asked about RJD’s future course of action as far as election results are concerned, Jha said, “We have already approached the Election Commission over loss of our candidates by a narrow margin in some constituencies. The party candidates have also sought certain documents related to postal ballots from the respective returning officers (ROs). Once ROs’ replies come, we will take further course of action.” State CEO H R Srinivasa had recently clarified that contestants in 11 constituencies won elections by a margin of less than 1,000 votes. “Postal ballots were re-verified following complaints lodged by some candidates with ROs. However, no anomaly was found during re-verification of postal ballots,” he had said. Jha claimed the Mahagathbandhan government would be formed in the state sooner or later. “Wait for a week, a month, or for that matter some more time, but the state will be ruled by Mahagathbandhan,” he said, adding that people of the state have voted for a change. He said people of the state would seek accountability from Nitish in days to come by registering their protests on streets. “See, people have woken up and now one can’t supress their mandate. There is a big difference between people’s mandate and decree. In fact, Nitish suppressed people’s mandate with decree,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-nda-govt-wont-last-long-says-rjd-mp/articleshow/79237727.cms||Ramashankar
November 16, 2020||Patna||People of Bihar crushed BJP’s opposition-free dream, says Dipankar Bhattacharya||PATNA: CPI(ML) general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya on Sunday said the people of Bihar have crushed the BJP’s dream for ‘opposition-free’ assembly in the state by giving it the strongest opposition in the country. “Everywhere in the country, the BJP has been trying for opposition-free assemblies, but the people of Bihar have given an opposition combine to the state that is strongest in the country,” Bhattacharya said, adding it would help the opposition to press its agenda of development both within the House and outside it. He said the opposition parties had framed their agenda or ‘Sankalp Patra’ in the light of the demands of various types of movements going on in the state for past sometime. “If such an agenda is also framed by the opposition parties in West Bengal and Assam, they also stand high chance of winning the assembly elections,” Bhattacharya said, adding the alliance of the Left parties and Congress will also receive popular support in West Bengal, as it happened in Bihar. “The experience of Bihar elections holds significance for West Bengal and Assam,” he added. Bhattacharya said the BJP has been trying to project that it was due to the anti-incumbency factor loaded against CM Nitish Kumar that the JD(U) secured lower number of seats in the recently concluded polls, and at the same time, maintaining also that the incumbency factor of the central government and magic of PM Narendra Modi helped both the BJP and other NDA partners in the election. “Such a stand of the BJP is palpably false. The fact is that there was strong popular resentment against CM Nitish Kumar and equally strong anger of the youths, farmers and migrant workers against the central government,” Bhattacharya said. He said the results of the NDA should not be compared with 2015 as the NDA and Grand Alliance were different entities then. “Instead, the poll results of 2020 should be compared with the NDA’s performance in 2010 assembly elections. This will give a proper assessment of the NDA and the Grand Alliance performances,” Bhattacharya said. He said the CPI(ML) would actively active take part in the general strike call for November 26 given by the trade unions over various issues, besides participating in the nationwide agitation of the farmers’ organisations on November 26 and 27.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjps-oppn-free-dream-crushed-says-dipankar/articleshow/79237698.cms||Abhay Singh
November 16, 2020||Patna||Nawada: Man kills neighbour for bid to rape his wife||PATNA: A man hacked his 50-year-old neighbour, Kailash Chaudhary, to death after the latter allegedly attempted to rape his wife at a village under Kadirganj outpost of Town police station in Nawada on Thursday night. The matter came to light after the man, Manoj Chaudhary (45), surrendered before police along with his 30-year-old wife on Saturday. The couple was forwarded to judicial custody on Sunday. Kadirganj outpost incharge Suraj Kumar said one Kailash Chaudhary had attempted to rape Manoj’s wife in a field before the latter attacked him with a sharp-edged weapon. “Manoj reached the spot after his wife raised an alarm and the couple attacked Kailash,” Kumar added. He said the couple used to sell toddy illegally in the area and Kailash was also involved in the same illegal trade. “Kaishal’s wife Mundri Devi has lodged an FIR against the couple, accusing them of killing her husband after he tried to stop them from selling toddy,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-kills-neighbour-for-bid-to-rape-his-wife/articleshow/79237820.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Low-key immersion for major pujas this time||KOLKATA: After compliance to the puja norms laid down by Calcutta High Court, organizers of the city’s major Kali Pujas are gearing up for a safe immersion. The most challenging task, a section of them felt, would be maintaining social distance during the rally. For organizers of Naba Yubak Brinda Kali Puja — popularly known as Phata Kestor Puja — on Sitaram Ghosh Street, it will be an acid test to keep the crowd at bay during the immersion rally as it is one of the major attractions for people in north-central Kolkata. “Every year we make our immersion process a special event. This year we have decided to do away with any kind of crackers. But managing the crowd will be difficult. We need help from police to discourage people from gathering on the route,” said Prabandha Roy, president of the puja committee. Similarly, Sandipan Saha, working president of Janbazar Sanmilito Kali Puja committee, said they will keep their immersion procession as simple as possible. “Unlike previous years, we don’t want a crowd to gather to watch the rally. We need to follow social distancing rules,” he said. For organizers of Purba Putiary Yubakbrinda — popularly known as Bomer Puja — there is no alternative but to cut short the immersion routes to discourage a gathering of revelers. Immersion of Nabakali idols has been one of the major attractions in parts of Kudghat and NSC Bose Road. The puja committee also holds a cracker show. “This year, we have decided to shun any kind of cracker show,” said Biswajit Mandal, local KMC ward coordinator and an adviser to the puja committee. Organizers of Amherst Street Kali Puja will keep their immersion a low-key affair as well. “Unlike previous years, we will refrain from bursting crackers and will discourage people to assemble on the streets for the procession,” said a committee member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/low-key-immersion-for-major-pujas-this-time/articleshow/79238127.cms||Saikat Ray
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: A mask-maker who has sold none since March||CHENNAI: Here’s a mask-maker who couldn’t sell even one during the lockdown. E Vengadessin designs and makes all kinds of masks, headgear and dolls for theatre groups in Tamil Nadu. But there have been no takers for the last eight months. A gold medallist from Pondicherry University (MA in theatre arts in 2000), Vengadessin trained as a theatre trainer and doll-and-mask maker. Having been in the business for the past 18 years, he says he never expected the pandemic would hit so badly. “There were some extra orders from theatre groups in the last January and February. I was in a hurry and somehow finished making the masks and other costumes in March. But then the pandemic hit. I couldn’t sell even a single mask since March,” said Vengadessin, who lives in Puducherry. “The pandemic is global, but the suffering is personal. I lost grip, and started struggling in the initial months during lockdown,” he said. When many of his colleagues started doing part-time jobs to make a living, Vengadessin had no idea how to survive. “I spent a lot of time looking at the masks out of frustration and disappointment. My wife’s job as a teacher was the only ray of hope. But survival is still difficult,” he said. However, this 46-year-old artist hasn’t lost hope. Despite the hardships, he strives to learn more about mask-making. “I struggled in the beginning, but now I have got used to it. I study more about theatre and costume. I have started making use of this time productively by adapting modern methods in the style of making masks. I am trying to reinvent my style techniques,” said Vengadessin, who has conducted mask-making workshops and seminars on acting in schools and colleges across Tamil Nadu. Vengadessin believes that things will change, and his masks will soon find faces. “I am trying to convince myself that the worst is over. Things will change, and my masks will soon find proper faces on the stage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-mask-maker-who-has-sold-none-since-march/articleshow/79237915.cms||M T Saju
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Breathing easy: 2020 Diwali the cleanest since 1997, says West Bengal Pollution Control Board||KOLKATA: The city may have witnessed its cleanest Diwali since 1997, say WBPCB officials. In 1997, Calcutta HC judge Justice Bhagabati Prasad Banerjee’s landmark judgment against noise pollution — banning crackers over 90 decibel — had led to a silent Diwali. “I can say this is the cleanest Diwali as far as my memory serves. Even in 1997, some miscreants burst firecrackers in front of Justice Banerjee’s home. But 2020 will certainly be remarkable in terms of reduction in both air and noise pollution,” said WBPCB chairperson Kalyan Rudra. “This was the cleanest Diwali in Kolkata since 1997, thanks to judicial orders, people’s awareness and proactive enforcement,” said a WBPCB scientist, who has been tracking Diwali pollution closely. Except the air quality monitoring station at Rabindra Bharati University, which recorded poor AQI (201-300) since Saturday afternoon, before the firework period in the evening, all stations showed moderate AQI (101-200). “In 2019, the festival was celebrated about 19 days earlier and the impact of night temperature was less than in 2020. But the impact of fireworks in 2019 was alarming. On the other hand, in 2020, there were no firecrackers. But lowering of night temperature was more significant. Our analysis for PM2.5, in 2019, the initial base concentration was 25.4µg/m3, which ended at 60µg/m3 with maxi-mum concentration 768.4µg/m3 as compared to 51.3µg/m3, 100.2µg/m3 and 185.7µg/m3 respectively in 2020,” said WBPCB chairman Kalyan Rudra. The air quality was better in 2017, but that was due to rain having cleared the fumes. On Saturday night, the AQI declined a bit. But that could be attributed to goods vehicles which enter the city after 9pm and leave by 6am. “There was a perceptible change in the air of the city. This Diwali became a festival of light, not noise and pollution,” said Subhas Datta, an environmental activist. “This is so far the best Diwali in Kolkata as far as my memory serves,” said environmentalist Naba Datta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/breathing-easy-2020-diwali-the-cleanest-since-1997-says-state-pcb/articleshow/79238117.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Police fine parents after kids burst crackers on streets||KOLKATA: In a message to parents, cops have taken legal action against people who did not stop their children from bursting crackers on Diwali. In New Alipore’s Sahapur Colony, cops found youngsters bursting flower pots and charkhas. “These children were aged between eight and 15. Their brothers — aged between 19 and 21 — and, in one case, their father, stood watching. However, since these crackers have been banned only this year and are usually in the legal category, we lodged FIRs under IPC 188 and Section 40 (10) of The Calcutta Suburban Police Act instead of the Explosives Act,” an officer said. Police said that though there was initial resentment in the area, they knew that the cases had to be referred to the courts. At Patuli’s Rabindra Pally, cops seized 15kg of banned crackers. “A boy was bursting shells and the locals called us. When we asked him about it, the boy pointed to his father. After seizing the crackers, we slapped a case under Explosives Act,” said an officer. But cops were considerate as well. “At Baishnabghata, we spoke to a girl who was bursting crackers and she said she apologized. The family had two more crackers, which they threw in water. We did not slap any harsh charge,” said an officer. On Sunday, New Alipore and Patuli cops said these cases were aberrations. “The children in most places have been torch bearers of the anti-cracker movement,” said an OC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-fine-parents-after-kids-burst-crackers-on-streets/articleshow/79238121.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Release Rs 120 crore immediately to pay pending salaries of TSRTC employees: K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: In good news for TSRTC employees ahead of GHMC elections, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has issued orders for immediate release of Rs 120 crore to pay two months pending salaries of TSRTC employees which was withheld due to impact of Covid-19 pandemic on state finances. The chief minister also directed officials to increase the bus service operations by 50% in Greater Hyderabad for the convenience of the people. He also decided to ensure that TSRTC, which suffered losses due to Covid-19 pandemic, is put back on the track of earning profits by reviving it. The CM held a high-level review meeting here on Sunday on TSRTC and discussed providing job security to TSRTC workers. He said the state government is protecting the state Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) despite several difficulties and providing security to lakhs of employees and their families of State PSUs. The Telangana government opposed tooth and nail when attempts were made by some forces to privatize the power sector, and also regularised thousands of contract employees of the electricity department. “On the other hand, the Centre is privatizing PSUs, including the LIC. But the state government is protecting its PSUs. I will not sleep till the TSRTC is put back on its track of profit making. I will protect TSRTC as long as I am here. Employees, their families and lakhs of people are dependent on the TSRTC. This is one of the cheapest modes of transport for the poor. Irrespective of TSRTC making loss or profits, we will protect it in the larger interests of the people. The government will financially assist the TSRTC. We have to pay immediately two months’ 50% pending salaries of the RTC employees. The finance department should immediately release Rs 120 crore for this purpose,” the CM said. The CM instructed officials to take appropriate decisions to get over financial constraints caused by the pandemic. “Analyse the measures that need to be taken to bring RTC back to its pre-corona situation i.e., earning profits. The cargo services introduced by the TSRTC have become a big hit and people are patronising it. Like the Indian Railways, TSRTC would also earn profits through its cargo services. I am happy about the TSRTC setting a million parcel transport record,” CM KCR said. He congratulated transport minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar and other officials for successful negotiations with their counterparts in AP, resulting in TSRTC getting lakhs of additional kilometre transport rights. “One after the other, all institutions are coming back on track despite the prevailing pandemic. People are coming out. Services sector like hotels and dhabas are back to business. People have started moving. In this backdrop, find out and discuss at length what measures need to be taken to make people patronize RTC once again,” the CM instructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-release-rs-120cr-immediately-to-pay-pending-salaries-of-rtc-employees/articleshow/79238890.cms||Roushan Ali
November 16, 2020||Kochi||CAG row a bid to divert attention, says Ramesh||Thiruvananthapuram: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac’s allegations against the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) draft report on Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) were a ploy to divert the public attention from scandals centred around the gold smuggling case and Bineesh Kodiyeri’s arrest in a drug case, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said on Sunday. “Isaac is trying to create an issue out of a non-issue. Nowhere in history a finance minister has conducted a press conference on a CAG draft report. It shows that the state finance minister can stoop to any level for political gains,” Chennithala said. The opposition leader said the usual practice is to send the audit findings to the government, and then to hold discussion with concerned departments over the findings. The agency would then once again send the final draft to the government, for final comments. Once the report is finalized with necessary omissions and inclusions, the report is tabled in the assembly with the permission of the governor, Chennithala said. He said if the government has any difference of opinion with CAG, the government can take it up with the agency. He said the finance minister has openly come out against the auditor not only to divert the attention from other issues, but also in the fear that the corruption in several projects undertaken by KIIFB will be exposed. He said the opposition had already flagged up corruption in the trans-grid project. The corruption in the Rs 850-crore Kochi Cancer Centre project is another example, he said. He said the finance minister leaked the CAG report even before it was laid on the table of the assembly, which is unconstitutional. The finance minister will also have to answer the questions raised about corruption in funds KIIFB raised from international market at an exorbitant interest rate of 9.8% through its masala bonds.  He said a major investor is CDPQ, a Canadian agency that has strong ties with SNC Lavalin. Chennithala said when corruption is about to get exposed, the finance minister has begun to make futile accusations against the auditor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cag-row-a-bid-to-divert-attention-says-ramesh/articleshow/79236502.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Couple who ran away with woman’s jewellery arrested in Chennai||CHENNAI: A couple who allegedly duped an aspiring woman news reader and escaped with her jewellery were arrested by Thoraipakkam police on Sunday. The victim, Minimol, 27, from Guindy, came across an advertisement for a news reader job on OLX a few days ago. When she called the contact number given in the advertisement, she was told that they would conduct a screen test at a hotel in Thoraipakkam and asked her to come with her jewellery as it would look good on the screen. She was asked to accompany a woman who arrived to pick her up on a bike. Minimol, was dropped at a hotel in Thoraipakkam. A man introducing himself as an employee of the news channel sent her to a room where she was asked to remove her jewellery for make-up. He asked her to wear artificial jewellery as it would look good in photographs, police said. He then locked Minimol inside the bathroom and escaped with her jewellery. The victim was later rescued by the hotel manager Based on her complaint, police arrested Raven Bistro, 30, of Theni district and Deepa alias Shenbagavalli, 38, of Tiruvanmiyur from a house in Palavakkam. Police said the couple told them they resorted to cheating as they had fallen on tough times. The stolen jewels were retrieved from the couple and they were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/couple-who-ran-away-with-womans-jewellery-arrested/articleshow/79237954.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Pejawar Mutt seer wins arm-wrestling match with student||Udupi: The verdant campus of Poornaprajna Vidyapeetha in Bengaluru came alive on Deepavali as students roared and cheered, while watching in rapt attention an impromptu arm-wrestling match between Sri Vishwaprasanna Tirtha swamiji of Pejawar Adhokshaja Mutt and a student. That the 56-year-old Swamiji was able to best the student, little over 25 years of age, was absorbed with as much awe as it was with inspiration. A one-minute-long video of the arm wrestling match, played out on the lawns of the Vidyapeetha in Bengaluru, has since gone viral on the web. The swamiji ended the challenge in a minute by firmly pushing down the arm of the contender to the ground. All this happened prior to the famed ‘Taila Abhyanjana’ or a period before the traditional Diwali oil bath. Bodies of both the seer and the student were soaked in oil. The students, already chuffed about the Swamiji deciding to spend the festival at Vidyapeetha that was founded by Sri Vishvesha Teertha in 1956, their joy knew no bounds when he managed to win the match with a student half his age. Sri Vishwaprasanna Swamiji is an accomplished yoga exponent, in addition being an expert swimmer. For the students of the Vidyapeetha, where they learn the Vedas and shastras, it was a novel experience to watch the seer exhibit his physical strength. Incidentally, Sri Vishwaprasanna Tirtha had once gone toe-to-toe with Sri Vishwavallabha Tirtha swamiji of Sri Sodhe Mutt in a ‘friendly’ kabaddi match on the occasion of Deepavali at Sri Krishna Temple in Udupi. Those who have been studying the traditions of the Ashta Matas and are acquainted with the history of the Sri Krishna temple in Udupi, state that such events reinforce the strong ties between the heads of the eight mutts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/pejawar-mutt-seer-wins-arm-wrestling-match-with-student/articleshow/79237105.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Bright spot in air quality on Diwali night||AHMEDABAD: The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Ahmedabad city at 12 in the midnight of Saturday was just 122. This was even less than that in 2017, when the AQI at Diwali midnight was over 150. In 2018, the AQI was above 210 on Diwali midnight. A senior officer of the AMC said the AQI of Diwali midnight when compared to that of other years indicates at least 50% less firecracker activity in the city, which was a promising sign. However, the air pollution during the day (mostly from vehicles) showed no sign of abating and began worsening from morning onwards. Readings of System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) show that by 2pm on Sunday, AQI in the city had risen to 259. It was 250 in areas like Navrangpura and 300 in Satellite. The Safar forecast for this Diwali had stated that Ahmedabad’s AQI will be better than in 2018, but marginally higher than that in 2017, largely depending on lighting of firecrackers and emission of fumes. But citizens this year, acted better than expected by Safar, which had said that AQI will be at the edge of ‘very poor category’ on Sunday and will return to ‘poor’ category on Monday if there was 50% less emission from firecrackers. Due to rainfall and severe cyclones, Diwali night AQI in 2019 had been 101, and that had been the least polluted Diwali in Ahmedabad in recent times. In 2019, Bopal area had performed best and recorded an AQI of PM 2.5 at 69 on Diwali night. A senior AMC officer said that the high AQI during the day (both Saturday and Sunday) indicated significant vehicular pollution. “I think the high AQI in the city on Sunday noon is due to buses and vehicles. Today being Sunday, there is a possibility of more people being on the streets than yesterday, which was a festival day,” the officer said. AMC officials, however, added that the possibility can’t be ruled out that the high AQI level on Sunday was the result of firecrackers, which data may not have been updated in real-time due to technical issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bright-spot-in-air-quality-on-diwali-night/articleshow/79234412.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
November 16, 2020||Trichy||Trichy corporation to upgrade underground drainage||TRICHY: Trichy corporation is set to revamp its underground drainage (UGD) network covering the core city which is more than 30 years old. The civic body will spend Rs 214 crore to upgrade the old sewage network and manholes to prevent frequent clogging, overflow and discharge into freshwater bodies passing through the city. The cost of the UGD rehabilitation project will be equally shared by Central and state governments. Trichy Corporation obtained the approval of the smart cities mission’s high power committee recently. The technical sanction is likely to be obtained in the coming weeks. UGD blockage has been a common occurrence near Cantonment, Thennur and Central bus stand with people dumping the solid waste in the sewers. Apart from this, the narrow pipelines and accumulated silt were also causing the sewage to overflow from UGD chambers. The UGD lines were established over a period of time since the 1980s while Trichy was a municipality. Since the width of the UGD lines is not enough to handle the increase in waste water discharge by households and commercial establishments that have increased drastically over a period of time, solid waste dumped in the sewage network has been causing line blockage. As a solution, Trichy Corporation recently included revamping of existing UGD network in the core of the city covering Thillai Nagar, Cantonment and Palakkarai under the smart cities mission programme. “The rehabilitation work shall envisage replacing the narrow sewers with wider pipes, installing manholes and linking the sewage network of all establishments in the vicinity. The three decades-old UGD network at certain points lack manholes while a few buildings were not properly linked to the UGD network, such shortcomings will be addressed,” official sources said. “Stormwater drains being used as drainage carrier will be prevented once the UGD rehabilitation project is completed. Waste water discharged into Uyyakondan canal will also be stopped,” said S Sivasubramanian, commissioner, Trichy Corporation. Since there is no need for land acquisition to initiate the revamping work, the civic body has planned to commence the civil work ahead of the state assembly election in 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-corpn-to-upgrade-underground-drainage/articleshow/79238900.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||TSRTC unions threaten hunger strike||Hyderabad: Notwithstanding chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s instructions to the finance department to immediately release Rs 120 crore to the Telangana State Road Transportion Corporation (TSRTC) towards payment of pending salaries that were deferred to its employees during the lockdown, the TSRTC trade unions have decided to go on a hunger strike on December 1. As many as four trade unions of TSRTC have issued a strike notice to the management as a mark of protest against several issues, including payment of pending salaries. “TSRTC employees across the state have decided to go on a hunger strike on December 1 to demand the chief minister to fulfil the promises that he made on December 1 last year. The chief minister on Sunday asked for the release of two months of salaries, but we would like to remind everyone that it is three months of salaries,” said T Raji Reddy of the RTC employee’s union. “A full-time settlement for employees retired from service since 2018 is also still pending. TSRTC management also owes the Credit Co-operative Society (CCS) an amount of nearly Rs 675 crore to the employees. The chief minister said that the CCS issue will be resolved within two months and yet, the issue is still pending,” he said. Last year, the RTC employees launched the strike on October 5 with a list of 26 demands, which includes the merger of TSRTC with the state government, job security to bus drivers and bus conductors and filling up of vacancies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-unions-threaten-hunger-strike/articleshow/79238899.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Actor hacked to death near MGR Nagar||CHENNAI: An actor who featured in supporting roles in television serials was hacked to death at MGR Nagar on Saturday. Selvarathinam, 41, the deceased, had been a regular in the television and cinema field for the last 10 years. His most recent appearance on television was along with a main villain in ‘Thenmozhi BA,’a serial aired on Vijay TV. A Sri Lankan refugee, Selvarathinam’s wife and children are in a camp in Virudhunagar district. On Saturday, the actor did not go out for shooting and stayed with his friend Mani, an assistant director, police said. In the wee hours of Sunday, he received a phone call after which he left. He told the assistant director that he was on his way to meet his friends but did not give any further details. However, Selvarathinam's roommate received information that he has been hacked to death on Anna Nedumpathai by a gang of unidentified men. The assistant director alerted police, who rushed to the spot and sent his body for post-mortem to the government Royapettah hospital. Police said CCTV footage shows four men moving in a suspicious manner near the murder spot. The gang had come in an autorickshaw to eliminate him. They had a brief argument with him before killing him. According to his family members, the actor did not have any previous enmity with anyone. “We are analyzing the call records of the actor to know who made the last call. We have also got a set of phone numbers to whom the actor made frequent calls,” said an investigating officer. “We have taken pictures of a few of the accused in the case and have launched a hunt for them,” said the officer. His family in Virudhunagar has been informed about his death. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/actor-hacked-to-death-near-mgr-nagar/articleshow/79237962.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Home minister, wife spend Diwali with commandos in Maoist-hit Gadchiroli||NAGPUR: Anil Deshmukh became probably the first state home minister to visit Maharashtra’s remotest police outpost at Patagudam in Maoist-affected Gadchiroli on Saturday, to celebrate Diwali with the security forces. He had also taken his wife along to the post, around 300km away from the district headquarters, near the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border. Deshmukh had flown down from Nagpur to meet the commandos and police personnel posted at the farthest and highly sensitive armed outpost of the state. He also announced a ‘Diwali’ gift of building at least 15 new quarters at the post within an year, so that some personnel can bring their families to stay with them. He also assured to try and upgrade the medical facility in Sironcha taluka by erecting a sub-district hospital, and address other issues he came to know while interacting with the jawans. Deshmukh said he had chosen to be on the ‘field’ and visit Gadchiroli’s remotest corner, where forces are serving as they keep their duties above self-interest and emotional needs. “I have told the force that Maharashtra government is strongly with them. We would cater to their issues and try to address their grievances,” he said. “The jawans deserve special credit for working so far away from their families amid many challenges. Keeping their families behind, the jawans have come from different parts of Maharashtra to serve here. Their sacrifices prompted me to spend some time with them on Diwali,” said the home minister who was accompanied by DIG, Naxal range, Sandip Patil, SP Ankit Goyal and Addl SP Manish Kalwaniya. Deshmukh had also taken his wife Arti along to ensure the mood becomes more ‘family oriented’, and so she could reach out to the women commandos, family and children of the police personnel. “Some of the jawans wanted recreational facilities, like television, which we will ensure soon,” said the home minister. Deshmukh ate with the jawans, strolled into one of the barracks to share tea with a family, and also walked up to the morchas to interact with the police guards deployed there. He spoke to the guard and inspected his weapon too. During his speech, Deshmukh also praised DIG Patil, who had laid the foundation for the Patagudam police post in 2016 when he was serving here as SP. The home minister also extolled the efforts of Gadchiroli police under Patil, SP Goyal and Addl SP Kalwaniya in neutralizing five Maoists in north Gadchiroli around a fortnight ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/home-minister-wife-spend-diwali-with-commandos-in-maoist-hit-gadchiroli/articleshow/79238904.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 16, 2020||Coimbatore||3 of family washed away in Cauvery||Coimbatore: A fun trip turned tragic for a family from Salem as three of them were washed away in the Cauvery river at Hogenanakkal on Sunday. The deceased were identified as Abitha, 38, wife of Riyazudeen, of Salem, her son Mohamed Abas, 10, and daughter Afsa Fathima, 14. Police said the body of Abitha has been found, while search was on for the other two. People from Dharmapuri as well as adjoining districts have been visiting the falls in large numbers since the lifting of Covid restrictions at Hogenakkal a few days ago. On Sunday, the crowd was more, compared to the past and people were jostling with each other, enjoying the coracle ride. Several people also got into the river downstream to take a bath. Among the crowd were Riyazudeen, 45, who runs a travel agency in old bus stand area of Salem city, and family. A police source said, “Riyazudeen ventured deep into the river at Alambadi. As Riyazudeen lost control and was being swept by the water currents, his elder son Mohamed Aswan jumped into the river to rescue him. Following suit, the entire family got into the river in a bid to rescue Riyazudeen, Aswan managed to drag his father out of the river. But the remaining three were washed away. When alerted, fire and rescue services personnel conducted search operations and retrieved Abitha’s body from Nadarkottai. Fire service personnel have roped in coracle operators to search for the remaining two bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-of-family-washed-away-in-cauvery/articleshow/79358711.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Goa||Group seeks protection to law college assistant professor||Panaji: Members of the Shilpa Singh Support Group including her teachers, colleagues and students from across Goa have appealed to the state commission for women for her protection. The group in a letter to chairperson Vidya Gaude as well as the director general of police has stated that Singh has received rape and death threats on the Facebook page of a national news channel, where news of FIR was reported. “We are not able to confirm the presence of these people as these messages now appear to have been removed from the website, but were sent to us by a Facebook user who saw them initially,” the group stated in their letter. “Even as we still wait for a word from the governor’s office regarding giving direction to the state government to provide her round-the-clock security, we urge you to immediately file a complaint against the identified individuals and provide security to Shilpa Singh,” they further stated. The group pointed out that the assistant professor of VM Salgaoncar College of Law, Miramar has recently faced intimidation and threats from Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad, Goa unit and Rashtriya Yuva Hindu Vahini, Goa unit regarding her teaching. Singh’s family faces emotional and mental torture and security threat due to these posts as some of these people might be residing in Goa, they stated. “It is the duty of the state to protect the constitutional right of freedom of expression, and this means protecting those who express their truthful opinion,” the petition stated. The group has held that there was no basis for registering an FIR against Singh as her post is within the ambit of the constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech and expression. “We see the attack on Shilpa Singh as a systematic repression of academic freedom, considering that she has been making a case for the same in her speeches and writings. We also see the attack as politically motivated, a move to foment communal discord and to disrupt peace in Goa and distract from the challenging economic crisis, thereby compounding the enormous challenges which the state is facing today,” the petition further stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/group-seeks-protection-to-law-college-assistant-professor/articleshow/79238910.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Pay of sanitation workers increased||Hyderabad: Ahead of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, the wages of sanitation workers were increased by Rs 3,000. The sanitary public health workers and other field level staff who are being paid Rs 14,000 will now be paid Rs 17,000 and sanitary field assistants who are being paid Rs 14,500 will now be paid Rs 17,500.After the hike was announced, MAUD minister KT Rama Rao lauded the service of sanitation workers during pandemic. On Sunday, sanitation workers gathered at Indira Park and thanked the state government for enhanced pay scale. GHMC in October informed the high court that 28,000 workers in sanitation and other wings working on outsourcing and temporary basis were getting more than minimum time scale pay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pay-of-sanitation-workers-increased/articleshow/79238902.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Perumbakkam residents sick due to filthy water||CHENNAI: It’s been nearly three weeks since the residents of the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements in Perumbakkam complained about contaminated tap water. Residents, for whom this is also drinking water, said apart from the water being muddy, they also often found it infested with flies and worms. “It reeks of sewage,” said K Kanappan, a resident. Kanappan said the tap water seems to have got mixed with sewage, making it impossible for people to use or consume. “We filter the water and boil it at least thrice, but it’s difficult to consume it even after this,” said Shylaja Kumar, another resident of the tenements. Due to this, families said, that they and their children have been falling ill regularly. A few also complained that they have been getting skin infections and rashes because of the water. “A week ago, my son got some rashes. My doctor said it was because of the water and since then, I’ve been buying bottled water. We use it for everything now,” said Shylaja. Parthika, a student and resident of the tenements, said many of the residents have started buying bottled water since tap water is unusable. This has doubled the monthly household expenses. “We are forced to spend more on water than before. First, it was the pandemic and now, this. It’s disappointing that we have to worry about getting this basic amenity,” she said. Residents said the water tanks in the tenements haven’t been cleaned for months. “The maintenance staff doesn’t pay any heed, and when we volunteer to clean it, they stop us,” said Kanappan. Around 20,000 families reside in the tenements and access to good quality water seems to be a common complaint of many. When TOI contacted TNSCB, a senior official said, “We have directed our staff to resolve this issue immediately.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/perumbakkam-residents-sick-due-to-filthy-water/articleshow/79238004.cms||Aditi R
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Minor raped by 16-year-old in Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A seven-year-old girl was allegedly raped by a 16-year-old boy in Roza area of Shahjahanpur city on Sunday night. The girl was playing outside her house when the accused took her to an abandoned place and raped her. The minor was found with severe injuries in her private parts and the police were immediately informed by her parents. The accused, who had passed Class IX last year and then dropped out of studies, has been detained by police. He was hiding in his house. Additional SP (city) Sanjay Kumar said, "The girl has been admitted to a hospital and we have registered an FIR under IPC section 376 [rape] and POCSO Act. The accused is in our custody and we are questioning him. We are yet to ascertain his age, but he is a minor." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-raped-by-16-year-old-in-shahjahanpur/articleshow/79236519.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Cong: Waive off property tax||Hyderabad: Congress on Sunday demanded that the state government waive off property tax of all category of property owners in the state as all the sections of society which were adversely affected by the coronavirus lockdown. “If 50% tax rebate announced by MAUD minister KT Rama Rao is not a politically motivated move to influence the voters in favour of the ruling TRS in view of the ensuing elections to GHMC, then it should be 100% waiver to all section of taxpayers,” AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan told a media conference. The Congress also demanded that the state government scrap the Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) before going to GHMC elections. “The LRS fee is a huge burden on the plot owners and it should be scrapped immediately,” Sravan demanded. While welcoming the enhancement of salaries to the municipal sanitation workers, the AICC spokesperson demanded that the government increase the salaries of even other frontline workers including the police and health department workers. Sravan said the latest government orders that flood-affected families should apply at Mee Seva centres to get Rs 10,000 financial assistance is a testimony to the fact that thousands of families were yet to receive the flood relief, and that the Congress stand has been vindicated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-waive-off-property-tax/articleshow/79238905.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||All govt colleges in city to open from today after 8 months||Ludhiana: All government colleges here will be opening from November 16 after eight months with guidelines issued by the ministry of health and family welfare. Most of the principals state that just like schools, attendance will not be compulsory for the students, especially those hailing from the containment zones. Besides physical interaction, colleges will follow the blended mode of teaching and online mode of content delivery. Gurpreet Sandhu, principal of Government College for Girls, said, “In the first phase with regard to students of final year, not more than 50% on a given day will be present for taking classes physically. For other classes, online mode should be preferred. There will be over 500 students who are expected to come on the first day. Students have been instructed to bring their own food, water and they have to maintain social distancing and wear a mask. We have arranged the college properly, installed hand sanitisers and thermal screening will also be done,” she added. On the same issue, principal of SCD Government College Dharam Singh Sandhu said, “50% of students will be called from among those who are studying in final year. Masks are compulsory for the students. The time-table has been set for the students for both online and offline mode.” Meanwhile, other private colleges affiliated to PU are waiting for PU orders for reopening these. Dr Ajay Sharma, principal of Sri Aurobindo College of Commerce and Management, said, “We have not received the guidelines from university yet and we are waiting for the orders and then only we will decide. Meanwhile, we will go for the testing of students and staff as a precautionary measure. We have plans to continue online studies for the first and second year and will call final year students with 50% attendance after testing.” For polytechnics, engineering colleges and technical universities, the department of health and family welfare has recommended compulsory RT-PCR for Covid-19 for the staff and students before opening these and they will have to link up with local health authorities to report any symptomatic student. Mahinder Pal Singh, principal of SRS Government Polytechnic for Girls College at Rishi Nagar, said, “There are over 200 students who are studying in final year and we have called them in college and the scheduled Covid-19 testing will be done on November 17 for both students and staff. It will take another two to three days for the results and thus we will commence the college from November 22 onwards. Meanwhile, we will continue with the sanitisation process in the college. With the consent of parents only, approximately less than 100 students will be allowed. Those who have been tested Covid negative are suppose to come.” Guidelines for educational institutions *The colleges may consider seeking consent of parents of student for attending classes physically *The duration of the class should be reduced by 10 minutes so as to give the students and opportunity to go out in open space and reassemble for the next class *Teachers will be devoting full working hours as per rules and teaching hours in a day may be extended as per requirements *To ensure that the number of teaching days are not reduced, colleges can reduce the winter break and if possible conduct online lectures on weekends *For practicals, the schedule for work will be staggered to prevent overcrowding *Proper time-table will be put in place by the HoDs keeping in view the SOPs regularly modified by the government *Hostels will be given first to the students of final year of training followed by other students after evaluation of the situation *To start with, only half the number of available slots in the hostels will be allocated *All students and staff members will download and frequently check and update Arogya Setu app/Cova Punjab app||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/all-govt-colleges-in-city-to-open-from-today-after-8-months/articleshow/79237153.cms||Mehak Jain
November 16, 2020||Kochi||A teacher’s gamification techniques wins laurels||Kochi: In 2004, when Manu Melwin Joy was diagnosed with Lymphoma, shortly after he completed his BTech (civil engineering) from Government Engineering College, Thrissur, it was a turning point in the life of the youngster who dreamt of becoming a successful engineer. Until then, he never thought he would end up becoming an academician and a trainer who focuses on gamification, which is comparatively a newer scientific discipline that uses game-thinking and game mechanics in non-game scenarios such as business environment, learning and development, etc. Over the last few years, Joy has received wide appreciation for his skills in gamification training. He has conducted over 50 sessions in India and abroad over the last three year for thousands, including corporate experts, research scholars, teachers, bankers, etc. “After being diagnosed with Lymphoma, I was completely confined to a room for nearly three years as part of the treatment. In those three years I did nothing but read on whatever I could. It helped me realize that engineering wasn’t my cup of tea. Gamification has been an area of interest over the last few years but I started focusing on it keenly since 2017. Gamification is a technique of blending academic/management activity with game techniques like quizzes, puzzles, treasure hunts, etc, to make the process facile, and even a complex subject enjoyable and easily comprehensible to the receivers,” he said. Joy, who is currently an assistant professor at School of Management Studies of Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), plans to open a gamification consultancy and conduct workshops and training sessions. “Gamification has huge untapped potential in India and it will unleash a new variety of options for teachers and corporates in digital world to make their work interesting and less strenuous,” he said. He is currently preparing for a national session to be organized by the Indian Institutes of Management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/a-teachers-gamification-techniques-wins-laurels/articleshow/79236527.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Trichy||Safe Diwali in Trichy as fire department logs just 2 distress calls||TRICHY: The city celebrated its safest Diwali this year, with the fire and rescue department receiving just two distress calls, that too for reporting minor fire accidents. Substantial amount of rain on the eve of Diwali, that kept the thatched roofs and other vulnerable spots in a moist condition, was cited as one of the favourable factors that kept down the number of fire accidents this year. Trichy is covered by two fire and rescue service stations situated in Cantonment and Srirangam. The officials said that the stations received a distress call each on Saturday. The Cantonment fire station that covers major portion of the city, received one distress call from Vasan valley on Vayalur road. The minor fire caused by an aerial firecracker was extinguished in a few minutes. Similarly, the Srirangam fire service station that covers Srirangam and Thiruvanaikoil parts of the city had also reported one minor fire accident. A thatched hut on Amma Mandapam road was caught in flames while bursting crackers on Saturday. Fire and rescue personnel said that this Diwali was one of the safest ever. “We have never received such a low number of distress calls during Diwali in the past,” Melchio Raja, station officer at Cantonment fire station said. Usually, a fire station receives 10 to 15 distress calls on average during Diwali, the officials added. “A lot of awareness was given to the people residing in hotspots. We even mobilised our teams near the hotspots but people seemed to have celebrated safely,” K Muthukumar, leading fireman at Srirangam fire station said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/safe-diwali-in-trichy-as-fire-dept-logs-just-2-distress-calls/articleshow/79238906.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Three celebrities move consumer court||AHMEDABAD: Legendary cricketer Kapil Dev, Bollywood star Govinda and actor-turned parliamentarian Ravi Kishan have approached the Gujarat State Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission against a Vadodara consumer court’s order by which each of them were asked to pay Rs 15,000 in compensation to 18 persons who complained of cheating in a club membership offer. Since the trio got late in challenging the Vadodara consumer forum’s order, they sought the commission’s pardon for the delay. While Dev was late by 67 days, Ravindranath Shukla alias Ravi Kishan was delayed by 57 days in approaching the commission. They had one month’s time since October 20, 2018 when they were fined. The commission has recently condoned the delay for Dev and Kishan on condition of each of them paying Rs 1,000 to all 18 litigants. Govinda too got late with his appeal. The commission is to hear his case on November 23. Vadodara’s consumer forum had rapped the all-rounder and film actors for wrongly allowing their goodwill and photographs in promotion of Sunstar Club membership, by Raman Kapoor and his wife Seema in 2016. The celebrities were held responsible for unfair trade practice. The Kapoors were arrested in 2017 on allegations of fraud. Eighteen of those who had purchased the concerned club memberships approached the consumer forum in 2017, which ordered the Kapoors to return full amounts charged towards membership fees. The fees ranged between Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 3 lakh. The issue had reached the consumer court when those who were sold the club membership by promoters, Raman and Seema Kapoor, found their promises to be false. They had been promised various benefits and facilities at club-affiliated luxurious hotels and foreign trips. The customers had complained that a seminar was organized in November 2016 and the names and goodwills of the celebrities were used to lure people for club membership. The brochure showed the three celebrities as joint directors of the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-celebrities-move-consumer-court/articleshow/79234403.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Agra||Mercury drops below normal as rain cools Agra district||Agra: A mild rainfall in parts of Agra district on Sunday afternoon and evening sent the mercury tumbling below normal inasmuch as residents had to bring out their woollens. A partly cloudy sky kept the sunshine out the whole day while wind blew at a speed of 10 km per hour.According to the weatherman, the maximum was recorded at 26.8 degrees Celsius, which is three degrees less than normal. By 7pm, the minimum temperature had dropped to 14.4 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature will drop below 10 degree Celsius over the next one week, the Indian metrological department has predicted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mercury-drops-below-normal-as-rain-cools-agra-district/articleshow/79236513.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||In Chitlapakkam, garbage spills over waste segregation unit||CHENNAI: Residents of Chitlapakkam on the outskirts of the city complain that the town panchayat has failed to clear garbage from the waste segregation unit on the banks of the lake, leading to a waste pile-up which is now overflowing on the motorable road nearby. According to a member of civic action group ‘Chitlapakkam Rising’, the garbage has not been cleared for weeks together, despite repeated complaints. Cows and dogs are rummaging on the garbage, which is harmful for them, the member said. “Due to the recent rain, a foul odour emanates from the segregation unit because of the uncleared garbage. This is right at the entrance of the town panchayat limit and is not a welcoming sight,” said N Girish, a local resident. In a video posted on a social networking site, the action group lamented that while neighbouring Chennai Corporation is making efforts to become a ‘Smart City’, town panchayat officials are not making any effort to even provide basic facilities like garbage removal. “ It is unclear whether the pile -up is a result of official apathy or something else,” residents said, through the video, and stated that if such situation persists, they have no other option but to move the courts. Residents have already expressed reservations about the local body setting up an incinerator on the Chitlapakkam lake bund. Some of them said no public hearing was conducted about the legalities or environmental impact of the incinerator in a residential neighbourhood. An official with the panchayat said that the waste would be cleared soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-chitlapakkam-garbage-spills-over-waste-segregation-unit/articleshow/79238000.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: TRS regime hurrying through welfare and development measures, says N Ramchander Rao||HYDERABAD: BJP floor leader N Ramchander Rao on Sunday found fault with the TRS regime hurrying through various welfare and development measures just before the GHMC elections. Addressing press conference here, Ramchander said during the Covid-19 lockdown the Central government transferred Rs 1500 each into the Jandhan Yojana accounts without any controversy. But, the distribution of flood relief in Hyderabad is mired in controversies. “The TRS regime talks about the scheme just before the elections, just like the double bedroom scheme announced during the last GHMC polls. But nothing had happened after that,” he said. Rythu Bandhu scheme is also not happening, he alleged. Ramchander sought to know why the state government has given the contract of maintaining the Dharani portal to a private agency instead of government agency like National Information Centre ( NIC). “The private agency was involved in many scams,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/15-sribala-bjp-pressers/articleshow/79238909.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Agra||ATMs run dry in Agra on Diwali||Agra : Most of the ATMs in Agra city ran out of cash by Saturday evening during the festive rush on Diwali. People made several visits to the ATMs of different banks, but had to return home empty-handed. According to bank officials, the situation will remain the same on Monday. ATMs can be refilled only on Tuesday when banks reopen after the three-day holiday, they said. All nationalised, private and rural banks remained closed from November 14 to 16. Hence, there were more customers at ATMs as compared to regular days. There are around 675 ATMs of 40 banks in the district. Except ATMs of major private banks, a majority of the ATMs of government banks remained dry or out of service. Citizens were seen queuing outside ATMs at Sanjay Palace, Kamla Nagar, Shahganj, Sikandra – Bodla, Agra Cantt, MG Road and Tajganj. Situation was worse in rural areas. A senior bank official said, “Dependence on plastic money has increased, especially during festivals. There were problems this time in refilling the ATMs due to the holiday rush.” Mohit Chaudhary, a Sultanpura resident, was unable to withdraw money. “I wasted 45 minutes at one ATM. I am in urgent need of cash but none of the four ATMs have any cash.” Another local Manvendra Verma said, “Banks should make special arrangements. We pay ATM charges and deserve better service. I have checked four ATMs around Baluganj but none of them are working. Now, I'll have to borrow money.” Suresh Ram, a bank manager of Agra district, said, “Such problems are increasingly occurring in city areas when banks remain closed for more than a day. Several banks have assigned the task of loading cash into ATMs to private agencies but it is the responsibility of banks to ensure that the machines don't run dry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/atms-run-dry-in-agra-on-diwali/articleshow/79236525.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hubballi||Inspector named as accused in extortion case; cop dubs allegations baseless||Hubballi: The inspector of APMC/ Navanagar police station has been named as an accused in the FIR filed in connection with an extortion case in Hubballi. Inspector Prabhu Surin has been named in the FIR, along with Shivlila Patil and Santosh Kumar Guddapurmath, both of whom are residents of Bengaluru. In the complaint filed by 74-year-old Omkargouda Patil, a retired officer, the trio extorted 2kg of gold worth Rs 1 crore from him. However, Surin said that it was an issue concerning Omkargouda’s family. “The complainant’s son died in England, and an investigation into the same is under way there. However, Omkargouda asked us to register a case against his daughter-in-law Shivalila and her brother Santoshkumar, blaming them for the death of his son. We refused to file the complaint, pointing to the death having occurred in England,” Surin told TOI. The inspector added that the complainant had himself handed over the gold to Shivalila, and was now claiming that he had been threatened to do so. “All the allegations levelled against the three of us are baseless,” Surin said. Assistant commissioner of police SM Ragi, who is investigating the case, said that an FIR had been registered following directions issued by the court to file a case based on the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/inspector-named-as-accused-in-extortion-case-cop-dubs-allegations-baseless/articleshow/79237150.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Cop ensuring safe passage for drug smuggler arrested||Ludhiana: In a drug smuggling case involving a high-profile accused Gurdeep Singh Rano, a former sarpanch of Rano village, the Ludhiana unit of Special Task Force (STF) on Saturday arrested a Punjab Police constable and a Ludhiana jail inmate.According to STF officials, arrested constable Amrinder Singh Ravi used to take leave from his duty and accompany Gurdeep as his gunman, so that cops did not stop him at any check-post while smuggling drugs. Amrinder was posted at the police lines in Fatehgarh Sahib.The STF is also looking for a dismissed Punjab Police constable Harbhajan Singh, who also used to accompany them. According to officials, jail inmate Avminder Singh Shenty is a drug smuggler and he used to bring drug orders for Gurdeep from inside the jail.On November 6, the STF had arrested former sarpanch Gurdeep and Iqbal Singh of Payal area, Ravej of Mahavir Colony here and Randeep Singh of Khanna with 5.39kg heroin, a .315 bore rifle with cartridges, a .12 bore pump action gun and a .32 bore revolver with cartridges, and Rs 21,04,950 drug money. Besides, eight vehicles, including a Toyota Fortuner, an Audi Q7, two Toyota Innovas, two BMW cars, one Mercedes Benz and one Jaguar were also recovered from them.According to the STF officials, these smugglers are part of an organised international drug network being run by infamous smuggler Tanveer Singh Bedi from Australia.Ludhiana STF inspector Harbans Singh said Gurdeep is a high- profile man, who has links with several politicians. During the investigation, the STF had found him roaming around with a pilot. However, the police administration said Gurdeep was not provided any kind of security.During the interrogation, Gurdeep confessed that constable Amrinder and a dismissed constable Harbhajan Singh used to accompany him in a Gypsy along with some private bouncers of Gurdeep, who used to wear ‘khaki’ clothes.“On the information of Gurdeep, the police arrested Amrinder, who used to take leave from his duty to accompany him as his gunman to ensure that Gurdeep was not stopped at any check-post. The police are also trying to trace the dismissed cop. Amrinder and Harbhajan were associated with Gurdeep for the last around one year,” the inspector said. Talking about the jail link, inspector Harbans said, “Avminder Shenty is a drug smuggler having links with several peddlers in Punjab and smugglers settled abroad. He came in touch with Gurdeep through some peddlers. Gurdeep used to procure and supply contraband on the inputs of Avminder. Avminder was connected to Gurdeep via a mobile phone from the jail. Avminder was brought on a production warrant on Thursday and arrested in his case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cop-ensuring-safe-passage-for-drug-smuggler-arrested/articleshow/79237154.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 16, 2020||Goa||Won’t destroy Mollem, but can’t stop infrastructure projects: Goa CM to kids||PANAJI: After a large group of children met chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday with a plea to stop coal transportation through Goa and to scrap the double-tracking of the South Western Railway route, he assured them that coal handling capacity at the Mormugao port would be reduced by more than half the present level within a year, but that it wasn’t possible for him to stop any Centre-funded infrastructure project abruptly. He however vowed not to allow destruction of the Mollem forest. “As long as I am the state’s chief minister, I will not allow Mollem to be destroyed,” he told the children. “I am as concerned about Mollem as you all are, if not more.” The state has been witnessing a groundswell of public opinion against three Centre-funded infrastructural development projects — the railway double tracking project up to Vasco, four-laning of the Panaji-Belagavi national highway, and the laying of power transmission lines — all cutting across Mollem forest, a biodiversity hotspot. “We don’t want coal in Goa, and double-tracking will facilitate coal transport, and the dust generated during transportation will damage our lungs,” one boy told Sawant. “I have come to you to request you for a coal-free Goa,” another child said, with one more adding, “Double-tracking is being done for coal, and it needs to be stopped”. The CM met them a day after children’s day on the sidelines of a function at Sakhali. Sawant told the children not to mix double-tracking and coal, as the track doubling project wasn’t aimed at facilitating only coal transportation. “If we totally stop coal handling, will there be opposition to double-tracking?” he asked the children. When a girl told Sawant that the existing single track was sufficient for Goa’s small population, Sawant told her, “I have raised the concern of the people with railways minister Piyush Goyal. If you tell me to stop the project, can it be done? He (Goyal) said we’ll re-study the project.” The double-tracking project covers a 300 km route, out of which which only 70km remains to be undertaken. “Now that I raised the people’s concerns about the project before him, Goyal said he also felt concerned about the project. He said they will review the project, study it and decide accordingly.” To a girl who persisted with her queries, Sawant said, “I too have a daughter your age. You’re like my daughter. I will reduce coal in Goa, and in future will totally stop coal handling.” He said that as the coal industry had been functioning in Goa for the past 40 years, it couldn’t be stopped overnight, since the livelihoods of 2,000 people working in that sector was at stake. “They also have children,” he told them. He also said that for the past year, the government has been trying to figure out alternatives. He told the children that some other plans are being worked out, including tourism projects, as reported by TOI last week. “The Union shipping minister will visit Goa within a month,” he said. “I need some time and we will totally close down coal handling in future,” he told the children. On double-tracking, the CM told the children that the project has been on for the past ten years, and it didn’t start during his tenure. To this, a child retorted, “You as chief minister have the power to stop it”. Sawant replied: “I can’t say stop any central projects just like that. Crores of rupees are spent... for anything (different) we have to study the issue and see the viability. Maybe a committee would be set up soon to study the issue.” He also explained that the news of 70,000 trees being cut at Mollem was based on wrong information. “Only one project is coming up at Mollem, and that’s the Tanmar transmission line,” he said. “I am also concerned about Mollem, Goa has 70% tree cover,” he said. The CM said that the state needs power for industry and to generate employment. He also said that only 29 people in the state have opted for solar power. When quizzed about why government buildings are not solar-powered, he explained that his government has expedited the process, and since finance is an issue, it’s being done on PPP (public-private partnership) mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wont-destroy-mollem-but-cant-stop-infra-projects-cm-to-kids/articleshow/79238911.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Agra||Over 250 test Covid-positive in Agra in past four days||AGRA: With heavy rush in market places and violation of social distancing norms, over 250 people were tested Covid-19 positive in the past four days of the Diwali festival. Also, at least three Covid patients have passed away since Thursday. According to the health bulletin, a total of 256 fresh Covid cases surfaced in Agra district in the past four days. The Covid sample positivity rate increased to 2.6% and fatality rate was recorded at 1.9%. Despite the drop in the number of samples collected on Diwali, at least 42 new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 8,190. On Thursday, 2,822 samples were collected and 68 people were tested Covid positive, while there were 83 cases out of 3,532 samples collected on Friday and 63 out of 2,129 on Saturday. Only 1,430 samples were tested on Sunday. Moreover, 57 Covid patients were discharged on Sunday. Of the 8,190 cases reported in the district, 7,479 [91.3%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district decreased from 570 on Saturday, to 555 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-250-test-covid-ve-in-agra-in-past-four-days/articleshow/79236521.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat government may invite fresh bids for Nargol port||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat government is weighing the option of inviting fresh bids for developing Nargol port. The state maritime regulator, Gujarat Maritime Board, has cancelled the work awarded to Cargo Motors for the Rs 4,000 crore port project. A consortium of Cargo Motors Pvt Ltd and Israel Ports Co was selected as the developer for Nargol port in August 2012. While Israel Ports soon backed out from the project, the development of the port has been stuck for quite some time now, said sources in the state government. “Cargo Motors was given enough time to build the port but due to some reasons it could not be done in the stipulated time-frame. Gujarat Maritime Board terminated the Letter Of Intent (LOI) awarded to the company last year. The government is now exploring the option of inviting fresh bids,” said a government official. Nargol lies about 120km south of Surat and 140km north of Mumbai. It is a multi-purpose port capable of handling solid, liquid and container cargo. Nargol was finalized as a port site after another port project at Maroli, about 10km away from here, was abandoned in the face of resistance from local fishermen who feared their livelihood could be affected if Maroli port was to be developed. Israeli firm Zim Integrated Shipping Services had won the Maroli port project but backed out later. The proposed port was to have an initial cargo handling capacity of 1.2 million twenty-feet equivalent units (TEU). Plans were also afoot to set up a car terminal by setting up a roll-on/roll-off (ro-ro) facility in future. This allows wheeled cargo, such as automobiles, to be rolled off or on to vessels without the need for cranes. During the bidding process in the past, at least two dozen companies had initially shown interest in developing the port but only four, including Sterlite-Vedanta combine and Gammon India Ltd, qualified for the final round. Cargo Motors and Israel Ports won the bid by offering high waterfront charges of 171%. GMB levies a royalty charge on per tonne of cargo to the port developer for using the the state’s waterfront. These charges depend on the type of cargo handled. As the earlier port project at Maroli faced problems of land acquisition, the Nargol project was proposed to be developed on reclaimed land measuring around 75-100 hectares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-government-may-invite-fresh-bids-for-nargol-port/articleshow/79227635.cms||Maulik Pathak
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Family loses 20% relief as accident victim was drunk, without helmet||CHENNAI: A city accident claims tribunal has cut 20% of compensation for contributory negligence of an accident victim, who rammed his motorcycle into a truck in an inebriated condition. He was also not wearing a helmet. The family of the accident victim, a mechanic with the state transport corporation, lost Rs 7 lakh of the Rs 34.5 lakh total compensation awarded. According to the petition moved by the family of Venkatesan, he was riding his bike along the Arani-Arcot Main Road on March 16 when the truck moving in front of him was halted suddenly, causing the accident. Venkatesan succumbed to injuries from the accident four days later, according to the petition. The family sought a compensation of Rs 75 lakh from the truck’s insurer. In response, the insurer contended that the motorist was under the influence of alcohol early in the day and was not wearing a helmet and smashed into the parked vehicle. Perusing the FIR and chargesheet, the tribunal stated that the statement of the eyewitnesses that the truck was moving at the time of the accident gains precedence. Death report stated that the motorist was under the influence of alcohol and not wearing a helmet at the time of the accident, it added and held that 20% contributory negligence ought to be slapped on the victim and 80% on the truck driver. Of the Rs 34.5 lakh compensation arrived at, the tribunal decuted 20% and told the insurance firm to pay Rs 27.6 lakh to Venkatesan’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/family-loses-20-relief-as-accident-victim-was-drunk-without-helmet/articleshow/79238011.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Man murdered with his head crushed in Budaun; elderly man shot dead in Bareilly||Bareilly: A 35-year-old man was found murdered in his house with his head crushed with a heavy object in Kinnapur village under Ujhani area of Budaun district on Sunday morning. Police said the victim was alone in the house as his wife had gone to Punjab. Police sent the body for autopsy and started an investigation. Ujhani circle officer Sanjay Reddy inspected the spot and assured the victim’s relatives that the case would be worked out soon.In a separate incident, a 70-year-old man was shot dead in his sleep in his house in Bhuta area of Bareilly district late Saturday night.Police, who were alerted by neighbours, said victim Roshanlal, a marginal farmer, used to live alone in the village after the death of his wife, while his children live in the city. Additional SP (rural) Sansaar Singh said, “We have registered an FIR under IPC section 302 (murder) against unidentified accused on the complaint of Ashok Pal, the victim’s son, and our team is investigating the case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-murdered-with-his-head-crushed-in-budaun-elderly-man-shot-dead-in-bareilly/articleshow/79235235.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Hospitals receive 15 cases of burns caused by crackers||tnnLudhiana: About 15 persons received burns due to crackers in the city on Saturday night.The spokesperson of a hospital on Brown Road said, “We received 10 patients with burns on the day. Of them, five had eye injuries.”The spokesperson of a hospital near Tagore Nagar said, “Five to six cases of minor burns were reported. The patients were discharged after the first-aid.” No such case was reported at two hospitals near Sherpur Chowk and on Chandigarh Road. The health department officials said no cases of burns were reported at civil hospital.With the pollution level high, the vulnerable sections took measures to protect themselves.“As my father is allergic to high air pollution, he closed his room door and windows to keep toxic air out. Unlike here, in many countries, people light up diyas on the festival and don’t burst crackers. Religious leaders can also play a role in ensuring people celebrate green Diwali,” said Dr Amandeep Singh Bains, a dentist from Dugri.An elderly man of Pakhowal Road said, “Those contributing to air pollution perhaps don’t understand the harm they cause others.” “Air pollution, which was high because of cracker bursting and stubble burning, aggravates respiratory problems. Many of the sufferers may require medical aid in such a scenario. It causes problems to patients with hypertension and heart diseases, too,” said Dr Sunil Katyal, Ludhiana president of Indian Medical Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hospitals-receive-15-cases-of-burns-caused-by-crackers/articleshow/79237171.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Accident victims to be remembered today||Ahmedabad: Globally, the third Sunday of November is marked as the World Day of Remembrance for Road Accident Victims. Dr Pravin Kanabar, the president of Ahmedabad Traffic Consultative Committee, said that the day is meant for paying homage to those who have lost their lives in the past one year in road traffic accidents. “It is also meant for creating an awareness about the importance of road safety rules,” said Dr Kanabar. “On Sunday, we have organized an event in collaboration with the city police, all Rotary Clubs of Ahmedabad, Centre for Environment Education and other NGOs at Sardar Patel Stadium,” Dr Kanabar said, adding that there would be an all-religion prayer and a session on road safety. In 2019, Ahmedabad had recorded the deaths of 439 persons in road accidents which left 1,148 people injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/accident-victims-to-be-remembered-today/articleshow/79227639.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Goa||Protest goes national on Twitter, thousands ask govt to #SaveMollem||PANAJI: Thousands of netizens took to social media on Sunday in a planned tweetstorm to highlight the Mollem issue, with the hashtags #IndiaWithGoa, #SaveMollem, #ChildrenOfTheForest and #DropFIRsAgainstGoans getting widespread national support. Users also tagged authorities in their tweets. “@PrakashJavdekar yesterday 39 scientists have echoed the landscape level concerns of these projects to both forests in Goa as well as Karnataka,” Nandini Velho tweeted. Another user asked chief minister Pramod Sawant to “revoke the forest clearances immediately”. “Mollem national park is home to 235 bird species, apart from 18 that are endemic in the Western Ghats and seven of high conservation concern are found here,” the user wrote. The movement also garnered some support from the film fraternity, with actor Dia Mirza tweeting, “More power to these young voices that care to engage and demand change. #SaveMollem” Online protesters also took to memes to voice their displeasure, as well as pointed out how the heritage of the place would be affected. “The Mollem national park contains important temples dating to the Kadambas of Goa, and (is) home to waterfalls such as Dudhsagar falls and Tambdi falls,” one posted. Many users also shared images of the Mollem forests. “If these projects happen, it will create havoc in Goa. Threat to the Mollem forest is endangering the homes of many species. Thousands are protesting to save Goa from becoming a coal hub,” another wrote. One user held the Union environment ministry, Sawant, and power minister Nilesh Cabral responsible “for sanctioning this murderous act”. Another posted a technical challenge to the Centre, wondering whether the ministry understood soil erosion, and whether it knew that landslides and eroded soil from hill-cutting or land-filling deposits in rivers and streams, affecting aquatic life. The tweetstorm received solidarity from users across India, with Mumbai’s Aarey forest activists also joining the chorus. “Coal dust, which can travel to distances of 5-15 km depending on wind and train speed, will negatively affect farming,” another read. Other green groups too joined in. “Conserving the Western Ghats is not a choice but a constitutional duty of every citizen, including the project proponents,” wrote the Karnataka-based United conservation movement. The Aravall Bachao handle posted, “There has been no cumulative impact assessment of all three projects in Goa. A fragmented assessment does not give the real picture of the impact that the region is going to take, and is mere lip service to the EIA process.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/protest-goes-natl-on-twitter-thousands-ask-govt-to-savemollem/articleshow/79238914.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Bomb expert cop and family fish out honours from open water swimming||NAGPUR: Head constable Sukhadeo Dhurve, 46, part of city police’s Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad (BDDS), led his family, including nine-year-old daughter Tanvi and 17-year-old son Sarthak, in completing a relay swimming expedition from Elephanta to Gateway of India. Covering the distance of 16km in 4 hours and 31 minutes last year earned them a place in this year’s India Book of Records. The family has earlier been featured in the Asia Book of Records in 2019. Sukhadeo had also earned the title of ‘world’s fastest tribal swimmer’ from the organizers after he had crossed the Strait of Gibraltar at Spain in 2009, in 4 hours and 45 minutes. The Dhurves, residing at Ganeshpeth police quarters, are a family that bonds over swimming. They are also gearing up to cross the English Channel and Palk Strait, which are both about 35km wide. The family stretches their swimming practice sessions longer and harder at the pool of Kamgar Kalyan Mandal, at Raghuji Nagar in Sakkardara. Avid swimmer Sukhadeo’s journey began in the small ponds and rivers at Kondhali, near Nagpur, where he fell in love with the sport. Swimming helped Sukhadeo, who came from a struggling farmer’s family, to get a sports quota job in the police force in 1997. His first major recognition came after he swam the strait from Dharamtar to Gateway of India, a distance of 35km, in 9 hours and 18 minutes, making him the first police constable in Maharashtra police to do so. Swimming gave Sukhadeo not only accolades for his achievements in adventure swimming in India and abroad, but also the love of his life, wife Vaishali. She too had represented RTM Nagpur University in national level competitions and is a zilla parishad teacher. “We are four souls in the family bonded by a common dream to take our national flag higher in adventure swimming, representing Nagpur city police,” said Sukhadeo. “My wife runs the show in the house, practices and also looks after the children. I chase my dream and passion for swimming, which is shared by my family,” he said. “My daughter (Tanvi) is a prospect, and I am gearing up to groom her personally,” said the cop. His anti-sabotage duties in checking premises for explosives also make his work equally challenging and demanding. Vaishali said it is a challenge for her too to ensure the family is taken care of. “I go to school and also take my children for swimming practice,” she said. Amid the busy schedule, Tanvi cannot help point out that her mother made four types of Diwali ‘chiwda’ in two hours. The family’s swimming zeal finds it’s ultimate expression in the words of Tanvi, the youngest member of the Dhurve family, who wants to follow in her father’s wake and become an Olympic medal winner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bomb-expert-cop-and-family-fish-out-honours-from-open-water-swimming/articleshow/79238913.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ringing in the Gujarati New Year||AHMEDABAD: This week’s start will be a Monday sans the Monday blues; rather it will be more about the yellows and oranges of the marigolds, greens of the asopalav festoons, reds of the kumkum, goldens of the dry-fruit coated besan laddoos, silvers of the kaju katlis, off-whites of the ghuhgras, beiges of the laapsi and kansaar laced with ghee and a hint of blues and fuchsia pinks of the fine silks! Regardless of the shadow of the pandemic and clouds of firework pollution, the New Year’s sun is shining bright upon Ahmedabad. Come New Year, and the splash of colours blended with traditions, complete the celebrations and festivities. While the business community is looking to open new account books and perform the pooja rituals like yesteryears, people are getting decked up for video chats with family and loved ones! Jigar Soni, a city-based jeweller, said, “According to our annual tradition, we open the shop, perform the pooja and worship a new gold or silver coin every year, which we accumulate over years. For a lot of people, buying gold or silver is an annual tradition on New Year.” For most people, even when Diwali and New year holidays mean travel or gatherings, this year’s likely to be a quiet one. “My mother, 80, and I go for a short getaway or savour an elaborate lunch at a city hotel. However, thanks to Covid-19, mom hasn’t been out since six-seven months. We will watch a couple of old English films while savouring home-cooked laapsi andtraditional Gujarati meal,” said Jigna Ravat, a professional. Apprehensions over eating out during the pandemic has also led many to turn to simpler lifestyles, this New Year. “I am done with extravagant celebrations and instead, I prefer low-key ones because there’s only more joy, simplicity and relaxation. What better a New Year than revisiting mithai recipes from my grandmom’s cookbook?” asked Dhara Gandhi, a Vejalpur resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ringing-in-the-gujarati-new-year/articleshow/79234430.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||8 FIRs against those violating cracker time limit, no arrests||Ludhiana: Even as orders were issued allowing residents to burst green crackers between 8pm and 10pm on Diwali, many flouted the rule in the city.Crackers were burst past Saturday midnight and on Sunday.While police failed to nab the violators, eight FIRs were registered on Sunday against unidentified accused in different localities for bursting crackers beyond the permissible time limit. Though the city police had earlier stated that special patrolling teams would keep a check on violators, there were no patrols in majority of the areas.The cops had also issued a WhatsApp number (9115601159), asking residents to report about those flouting the rules in their localities. Daresi police lodged an FIR against unidentified people bursting crackers after the permissible time limit in New Shivpuri. Division 3 police filed a case against those using crackers near Baba Than Singh Chowk. Dehlon cops filed an FIR against a group of people bursting crackers after 10pm. The group fled on noticing the police party. The Division 6 police lodged two FIRs against violators at Sua Road and Overlock Road. Sarabha Nagar police found some men bursting crackers in Sunet village till late night. Division 5 police lodged two FIRs against those breaching the rules near Dhyan Singh Complex and on Premjit Road.No arrests were made in any of the cases, as police said the violators escaped on seeing them. All FIRs were registered under Section 188 (disobedience of the orders duly promulgated by the public servant) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/8-firs-against-those-violating-cracker-time-limit-no-arrests/articleshow/79237179.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 16, 2020||Goa||Entrust Torda murder case to CBI: Khaunte||Panaji: Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte on Sunday demanded that the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) should investigate the murder of Vilas Methar who was burnt near Torda-Porvorim. Khanute alleged that IPS officers were using the murder investigation to settle political scores. The independent MLA also said that BJP and Congress have joined forces to attack him on flimsy grounds in Porvorim. He said that the state government is using Goa police to silence BJP’s opponents, particularly those who expose illegalities, addingthat he is silent on the investigation in Methar murder case, but that does not mean he is approving whatever police are doing in the name of investigation. “Death of Vilas Methar is an ideal case, which should be given to the CBI. Let the truth come out,” he said. “The trend of political victimisation that has been started by IPS officer will percolate to DySPs and police inspectors, corrupting the entire system.” The CBI should not only inquire into the death of Methar but also investigate the murder and rape of a woman at Paithona ward, said Khaunte. He pointed out that the same person, in whose construction site the incident happened, was leading candle light march demanding justice for Methar.Businessman Shailesh Shetty, a close friend of Khaunte, was arrested by Goa Police for his alleged role in Methar’s murder. Shetty’s car was allegedly used by the accused in the murder to flee the state, say Goa police. “You cannot victimise somebody just because he is having political affiliations. This is exactly happening with the superintendent of Police, pleasing his masters, which is the government and the chief minister,” Khaunte said. The former minister also blamed chief minister Pramod Sawant for the increase in serious crime in Goa. He said that law and order, which is the home department’s responsibility, has gone for a toss. Sawant is the home minister. “Whether it is money laundering, underworld, drugs or other issues, government gets hurt when we raises the issues, but at the same time tries to make the best out of the adverse situation,” Khaunte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/entrust-torda-murder-case-to-cbi-khaunte/articleshow/79238923.cms||---
November 16, 2020||India||A regulator for NGOs that get foreign funds? Govt vets plan||NEW DELHI: After tightening the rules related to Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) for non-governmental organisations (NGOs), the government is examining a proposal to set up a regulator for charities receiving overseas donations. The approach has been recommended by a study conducted by the Central Economic Intelligence Bureau (CEIB), an arm of the finance ministry, to set standards for NGOs receiving funds from abroad. The CEIB examined "various typologies of misuse of NGOs" and suggested an independent ‘National Commission for Charities’ that can take actions and even de-register those found misusing rules. The 53-page report has been shared with the home ministry and enforcement agencies for their comments. Recently, the Enforcement Directorate had seized the bank accounts of Amnesty International after it was found violating FCRA rules which led the international NGO to later claim that it had to shut down its India operations because of the ED action. The paper suggests building a unified database of NGOs, contributions received and their total expenditure. It recommended making this database available to all enforcement agencies for better and effective coordination on a ‘whole-of-government’ approach. An independent regulator for charities and the NGO sector could create an "arm's length" from the government, reducing allegations of biased and unreasonable actions. On the other hand, some sections of the voluntary sector could see a new level of regulation and restrictive rules in the proposal. The exhaustive study has suggested institutional level changes and those pertaining to the income tax department. The I-T department deals with tax exemptions granted to charities and trusts based on their eligibility. Modifications in tax provisions have also been suggested. The changes recommended by the CEIB study included “creation of a centralised regulatory organisation/independent national commission for charities, setting up of separate bodies/commission at the national and state level for awarding grants to NGOs besides a rationalised, comprehensive and unified legal framework”. Last week, the government had notified some changes to FCRA rules where it made it mandatory for voluntary organisations to be operational and doing charity for at least three years before being eligible to receive foreign funds. It also stipulated that NGOs must have done charity work of at least Rs 15 lakh in voluntary activity during this period to be eligible for foreign contributions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/a-regulator-for-ngos-that-get-foreign-funds-govt-vets-plan/articleshow/79239413.cms||Pradeep Thakur
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Dehradun: One dead, six other family members injured while returning home on Diwali||DEHRADUN: At least one person died and six others sustained injuries after the SUV they were travelling in fell into a gorge near Dugadda in Pauri district on Saturday (November 14) morning. The seven people on board the car during the accident were from the same family and coming from Delhi to their native village to celebrate Diwali. While one family member died on the spot, the six injured were rushed to a nearby hospital. Sources said that the vehicle fell in a gorge at 5:30 am around five-km ahead of Duggada on the Gumkhal-Pauri route. Upon getting the news of the accident, a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) team rushed to the spot. According to SDRF, while two persons were seriously injured, four others suffered minor injuries. They all are undergoing treatment at the Kotdwar Hospital. The deceased has been identified as Anil Budakoti (50) and the injured include — 4-year-old Ashok, 45-year-old Rajni, 42-year-old Ramesh, 30-year-old Prashant, 29-year-old Sooraj, and 25-year-old Neeraj. They all are residents of Chargad Patti in Pokhada block of Pauri district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/one-dead-six-other-family-members-injured-while-returning-home-on-diwali/articleshow/79236535.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: God help you if you stay at any of these locations||NEW DELHI: With an hourly PM2.5 concentration of 1,970 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3) at 1am on Diwali night, pollution readings at east Delhi’s busy residential area Vivek Vihar touched 33 times the safe standard, the highest in the capital. This was the result of the firecracker ban being flouted widely across Delhi-NCR on Saturday. The safe standard for PM2.5 is 60 µg/m3. Track the pollution level in your cityMundka in west Delhi followed close behind with the hourly PM2.5 concentration touching 1,853 µg/m3, while it was 1,798 µg/m3 in the bustling sub-city of Rohini in north Delhi, data from DPCC showed. In contrast, it seemed that the residential areas around Aurobindo Marg stuck to the cracker ban, with hourly readings touching a high of just 668 µg/m3. Similar low readings were recorded at Najafgarh (631 µg/m3), Dwarka Sector 8 (889 µg/m3) and Pusa (758 µg/m3), indicating some compliance with the ban. All pollution reading stations recorded PM2.5 over 10 times the safe standard on Diwali day, DPCC data showed. The peak pollution level across Delhi was generally recorded between midnight and 1am, but some locations saw a spike at 3am, including Mandir Marg. This indicated that firecrackers may have been burst there well past midnight. The hourly PM2.5 concentration in the area touched 1,073 µg/m3 at 3am, the highest through the day. Sonia Vihar (1,752 µg/m3) and Patparganj (1,686 µg/m3) were some other busy residential areas that recorded high PM2.5 levels close to midnight. “A steep increase in PM2.5 indicates additional emissions being introduced to Delhi’s air, which was largely through firecrackers. While the base pollution in the morning was high, this increased manifold by the evening. Peak readings were recorded at midnight at most locations,” said a DPCC official. Meanwhile, locations like Major Dhyan Chand National Stadium, which is not surrounded by a residential locality, recorded the lowest readings across Delhi with a PM2.5 concentration of 581 µg/m3. Similarly, Narela, an industrial area, recorded a PM2.5 peak of 663 µg/m3. In 2019, Vivek Vihar (east Delhi), Ashok Vihar (northwest), Anand Vihar (east), Wazirpur (northwest) and Jahangirpuri (north) were the most polluted locations on Diwali day. The five cleanest stations last year were Najafgarh, Sri Aurobindo Marg, Alipur, Narela and Pooth Khurd (Bawana). Data from CPCB, which monitored the three locations of ITO, Janakpuri and Pitampura on Diwali day, showed that almost all parameters, including SO2, NO2, PM2.5 and PM10, were higher this year compared with 2019. “Pitampura recorded a significant increase in PM and SO2, indicating a huge impact of firecrackers,” said CPCB. The average PM2.5 level at Pitampura was 865 µg/m3 through the day compared with 511 µg/m3 last Diwali. At ITO, the average PM2.5 level was 454 µg/m3 compared with 291 µg/m3 last year, while at Janakpuri there was a minor spike to 535 µg/m3 from 513 µg/m3 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/god-help-you-if-you-stay-at-any-of-these-locations/articleshow/79238921.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 16, 2020||Goa||‘Half-baked info given by Mormugao Port Trust to get nod for more coal handling’||PANAJI: The permission granted to Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) to enhance the amount of coal handled at mooring dolphins is based on “half-baked” presentations and without adequate data, said Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) member Blaise Costabir in a dissent note submitted to the government. In his note submitted to GSCPB member secretary Shamila Monteiro, Costabir expressed concern over the data presented by MPT and suggested that photoshopped images were used to seek permission to increase the quantum of coal handling. “The board clearly noted the fact that (source apportionment) report was not available and thus the presentation, which was clearly half-baked, could not be appropriate for taking a decision. Thus the board at that time decided to wait for the report,” Costabir said. According to Costabir, the board had refused to take into account his concerns.  Monteiro claimed that Costabir left the meeting early and thus is not entitled to comment on the board’s decisions. “The minutes clearly reflect my attendance and there is no mention of the undersigned having left early as no such request was made. I am sure the other board members who left with me in the lift will attest to my presence till the end,” Costabir said. GSPCB’s minutes of the meeting state that superintendent engineer Sudin Prabhudesai made a presentation on behalf of MPT, seeking permission to handle 2 MMT of coal. Based on the presentation, GSPCB allowed MPT to permit two ships per month to unload coal not exceeding to 0.2 million tonne per month at mooring dolphins with conditions up to December 31. The permission was granted after deliberating on the impact of coal handling and transportation. GSPCB imposed certain conditions for coal handling. “I was present for the entire presentation, including asking for a picture of a grab bucket to be re-shown as it appeared photoshopped as there was not a speck of dust visible in the picture, which is improbable. I also asked why the dust levels showed an increase in a slide and the MPT representative stated that it is because children were playing near a data collection station,” Costabir said in the dissent note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/half-baked-info-given-by-mpt-to-get-nod-for-more-coal-handling/articleshow/79238917.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Fisheries College bats for aquatic quarantine facilities near airports||Mangaluru: The College of Fisheries here has proposed to establish aquatic quarantine facilities in the vicinity of international airports in Karnataka along with necessary transportation facilities. The project proposed under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), is expected to take shape near the Bengaluru and Mangaluru airports. This is one of the 22 proposed projects. Dr A T Ramachandra Naik, professor, department of aquatic environment management, College of Fisheries, said the purpose and scope of setting up quarantine facilities are to prevent the ingress of dangerous exotic diseases into the country through imported marine products. Reports suggest that India has managed to export 12,89,651 MT of seafood despite the sluggish demand in its major export markets due to the pandemic. The cancellation of orders and slowdown in cargo movement had an impact this year. A quarantine facility will play an important role in quality checking and certification, he said. Besides, the college has proposed a disease monitoring and surveillance network, and aquatic animal health referral laboratory. Dean Dr A Senthil Vel has proposed 22 projects worth an approximate Rs 1,500 crore to fisheries minister Kota Shrinivas Poojari. The projects have been approved at the department level, and are before the National Fisheries Development Board, Hyderabad, the nodal agency for distribution of funds for the projects. Some proposed projects Cost ( In crore) Genetic improvement programmes and Nucleus Breeding Centres (NBCS) for shrimp, finfishes of marine, brackish water, freshwater Rs150 Establishment of Fisheries Science Centre (fish aquaria and museum) in schools, colleges and at Pilikula Rs 258.2 To study the climate change impacts on fisheries and aquaculture of Karnataka and establish adaptation methods and technologies for mitigating its adverse impacts Rs 10.9 Pilot project on establishing a research centre to conserve and protect the endemic species of flora and fauna in the Western Ghats of Karnataka Rs 141.5 Development of low-cost ready to eat fish products for distribution to government schools/orphanages/women centres in pouches Rs 8.9 Pilot project on large scale production of larvivorous fish in malaria, dengue and chikungunya in disease-prone areas of Karnataka Rs 20.4 Establishment of a data centre in College of Fisheries, Mangalore (FISHDaC, COFM) to act as a central information repository unit Rs 60.2 Establishment of Centre for Traceability, Labeling, Certification and Accreditation, including barcoding for aquaculture products Rs 13.9||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/fisheries-college-bats-for-aquatic-quarantine-facilities-near-airports/articleshow/79237196.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Germany climbs up preference list for int’l edu, US still the number 1 choice||Mumbai: The pecking order of international education providers is changing. The United States continues to be the largest host country for students wanting to pursue a foreign degree, followed by the UK and China. But with students broadening their options, Germany has gained popularity and has climbed up one notch to occupy the fourth spot, upstaging France. Fresh data released from the German Academic Exchange Service, DAAD, shows that China and India are the most popular source countries for international students coming to Germany, making up around 13% and 7% of the international pool respectively. With that, Germany has gone ahead of France. According to the UNESCO 2019 data, China sits formidably at the third spot. “International students are extremely interested in studying in Germany despite the corona pandemic; expectations are that the coming years will see recovery in the declining figures and an increase beyond previous levels,” read a DAAD presser. “The corona pandemic has altered international students’ mobility patterns on a global basis. This is a good starting point from which we can in future convince even more talented young people of the benefits of our education system and thus connect them to our country,” said DAAD president Joybrato Mukherjee. The most significant countries of origin for international students coming to Germany in 2019 were China, with around 40,000 students, followed by India (20,600), Syria (13,000), Austria (11,500) and Russia (10,500). Interestingly, student numbers from Germany’s third largest source country, Syria, have soared by 275% in the last three years. The 13,000 Syrians studying in Germany in 2019 accounted for 4% of international students; the vast majority are refugees. In 2001, 2.1 million students from across the world left home in pursuit of higher education; the numbers in 2019 were about 5.3 million. While Canada and China have during this period become top draws, the US’s hold has loosened, the UK has found it difficult to add big numbers and smaller Asian nations like Singapore have marched in for space. Speaking of the rise of the Asian region, Rajika Bhandari, Raisa Belyavina and Robert Gutierrez in their work ‘Student Mobility and the Internationalization of Higher Education’ have noted, “While this has resulted in a somewhat smaller market share for top host countries, it is nonetheless a positive development as it has brought more countries into the field of international education and has changed the relationship between sending and receiving countries from a unidirectional ‘brain drain’ type of mobility to one of dynamic, mutual exchange.” The trio feels the journey from being a nation which sees its scholars leave the shores for greener academic pastures to becoming a magnet for students from around the world is a long one, fraught with challenges. They have said: “They (the rising Asian countries) are likely to face the dilemma of how to increase the capacity of their higher education systems to provide adequate opportunities for their expanding college-age population while also accommodating incoming international students and engaging in the type of international educational exchange that is necessary in today’s globally competitive world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/germany-climbs-up-preference-list-for-intl-edu-us-still-the-number-1-choice/articleshow/79238928.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Diwali crackers spark fires at 3 places in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Diwali crackers caused fires at three places in Pilibhit district on Saturday night, reducing commercial, household goods to ashes and damaged two cars and a motorcycle. At another place, a carelessly placed earthern lamp in a storeroom caused a fire. All the fires were doused by the fire brigade and no loss of life was reported.Sunil Sharma, SHO of Bisalpur Kotwali police station, said two cars parked in an open shed in Durga Prasad locality here were completely damaged after a burning cracker fell on their synthetic covers at around 11 pm.Two incidents occurred in Sungarhi locality, under Sungarhi police station, said SHO Atar Singh. A bike of one Rakesh Gupta parked outside his house caught fire as the sparks of a firecracker fell on it. A burning rocket that fell in the house triggering a fire. House owner Lalta Prasad claimed goods worth Rs 50,000 were damaged.Dharmendra Singh, a pan masala dealer at Piparia Mandan village under Barkhera police station, suffered a loss of over Rs1.5 lakh after a carelessly kept earthern lamp inside his storeroom caused a fire, burning down pan masala sachets, said Kamal Singh, SHO concerned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/diwali-crackers-spark-fires-at-3-places-in-pilibhit/articleshow/79235244.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Trident group chairman’s father dies||Ludhiana: Trident Group chairman Rajinder Gupta’s father Nohar Chand Gupta passed away on Saturday. He was 90 and his cremation was held on Sunday at the Civil Lines crematorium, which was attended by a large number of people from all walks of life, including leading industrialists, politicians and senior government officials as well. Some of the prominent persons who attended the cremation included Kamal Oswal, Anoop Bector, Sheela Jain, JR Singhal, VK Goyal. Several business associations and noted personalities have expressed grief over the passing away of Nohar Chand Gupta. Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore, chief minister Amarinder Singh and other politicians have offered condolences to the family over the demise of Nohar Chand Gupta. Initially, a resident of Bathinda, Nohar Chand had shifted to Ludhiana with family, where he, along with his sons Rajinder and Varinder Gupta set on a new beginning in addition to their factory at Barnala. Ludhiana-based Trident Group is a $1 billion Indian business conglomerate and a global player. Group is vertically integrated textile (yarn, bath & bed linen) and paper (wheat straw-based) manufacturer and is one of the largest players in home textile space in India. Supplying national, captive and retailer owned brands, the organisation is highly decorated with awards from its customers, vendors, and various government entities in recognition of advancing the highest standards in product quality, social responsibility, and environmental stewardship.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trident-group-chairmans-father-dies/articleshow/79237191.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid claims life of Civil Lines woman, infects 64||Ludhiana: A resident of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 64 tested positive on Sunday.The 74-year-old woman, a resident of Civil Lines, died at Deep Hospital.The day also saw an outsider dying of the virus and nine others testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has risen to 860 and that of outsiders to 347. To date, 4,17,856 persons have been tested.Of the 64 fresh cases, 39 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 11 positive cases’ contacts, 12 from OPD and two through tracing process.The local health department officials said the Ludhiana case count was 21,404 and 2,976 of outsiders.So far, 19,798 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.49% of the total cases.There are 743 active cases.The number of persons home quarantined is 1,375.On Sunday, 17 persons were quarantined and 1,744 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH.Eleven patients, including five of Ludhiana, are on ventilators.95 positive cases on Nov 14On November 14, no death was reported from Ludhiana even as 95 residents and 12 outsiders tested positive here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-claims-life-of-civil-lines-woman-infects-64/articleshow/79237214.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Rajaji Tiger Reserve now open for tourists||DEHRADUN: The Rajaji Tiger Reserve Park was opened for tourists on Sunday. Over 100 tourists visited the reserve on day one. Komal Singh, warden Rajaji Tiger Reserve, told TOI that principal secretary Anand Vardhan opened the gates of the reserve from Mohand while the gates of Motichoor range were reopened by Singh himself. “There is a cap of 300 tourists to take safari per day in Rajaji which will remain open till June next year. The park — divided into seven ranges — has many animals, including leopard, reindeer, sambar, chital, pangolin etc. The Chilla range of Rajaji National Park is the biggest habitat for Asiatic elephants,” said Singh, adding that four among the seven ranges were opened for tourists. Notably, only contractual safari vehicles will be allowed to operate inside the reserve and entry of outside vehicles is prohibited. The prices of safari are marked at Rs 150 for Indian tourists and Rs 550 for foreigners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rajaji-tiger-reserve-now-open-for-tourists/articleshow/79236549.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand police constable hurt in Manglaur gas cylinder blast dies||ROORKEE: The Uttarakhand police constable, who had sustained severe burn injuries in a gas cylinder blast in a sweets shop in Roorkee, died on Saturday night while undergoing treatment in a Delhi-based hospital. The gas explosion had taken place in Manglaur on November 7. This is the second death due to the blast. Victim Pankaj Kashyap (30), who was posted as a gunner of SP (crime) at Dehradun, had come to his home at Thithki village near Manglaur to celebrate Diwali. He is survived by his parents, wife, and a two-year-old son, said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh. Earlier on November 7, at least thirteen people had sustained critical injuries in a cooking gas cylinder blast at Shree Balaji Sweets Shop. The injured were rushed to the civil hospital in Roorkee. Five persons, critically injured, were referred to higher centres, including AIIMS Rishikesh. A day after the explosion, Manglaur-resident Ashraf (30) had succumbed to his burn injuries. On the same day, Haridwar district magistrate C Ravishankar ordered a magisterial probe into the matter whereas the local police have registered a case of homicide and negligence under appropriate sections of the Indian Penal Code against Ashish Garg (alias Bobby), the owner of the sweets shop where the cylinder blast took place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-constable-hurt-in-manglaur-gas-cylinder-blast-dies/articleshow/79236544.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Two men die in separate accidents||Ludhiana: Two persons have died, while two sustained serious injuries in two road accidents reported on Saturday night and Sunday afternoon. In the first incident, a man died while two men got injured when their scooters collided near Ferozepur road. The deceased has been identified as Rajesh Kumar, 35, of Kundanpuri area. According to police, Rajesh Kumar, along with his friend Raj Bansi, 30, of the same locality were going on a scooter to Jagraon. Near Jhammt village, another scooterist Rakesh Masih rammed into their scooter. The collision was so impactful that Rajesh died on the spot while the injured were taken to hospital by onlookers. ASI Ravinder Kumar, in-charge police post Raghunath Enclave, said that the accident occurred around 8pm on Saturday. Rakesh Masih was overspeeding and collided with the scooter which Rajesh Kumar was driving. Both Raj Bansi and Rakesh Masih are seriously injured. An FIR has been lodged against Rakesh Masih. In another accident, Surinder Singh, 41, of Noorwala road died on Tajpur road. Surinder used to works in a factory on Tajpur road and when he was crossing a road, a speeding tuck crushed him to death. The truck driver managed to flee. Division number 7 police have registered a case against the unidentified driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/two-men-die-in-separate-accidents/articleshow/79237203.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Non-movement of trains causing losses of Rs 22k crore to industry’||Ludhiana: Punjab industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora on Sunday expressed concern over the non-movement of goods trains into Punjab. Holding the central government responsible for the present situation, Arora claimed that losses worth Rs 22,000 crore had been incurred by Ludhiana and Jalandhar business units alone due to the situation which was turning from bad to worse for the state’s businessmen. Arora was in Ludhiana to preside over a state-level function held to mark Vishwakarma Day. Speaking to mediapersons Arora said, “As the goods trains are not plying for more than a month now, a loss of Rs 22,000 crore has been reported for industries in Ludhiana and Jalandhar alone. More than 13,500 containers are lying at Dhandari dry port and they could not be sent to other parts of the country and similarly, the incoming containers remain undelivered. We urge the Union government to start train services immediately as the situation is damaging Punjab’s industry and is having serious repercussions on state’s economy as well.” Meanwhile, addressing the gathering on occasion of Vishwakarama Day, he said, “Lord Vishwakarma was the founder of the craft, architecture and engineering in the world. Whatever industrial and infrastructure growth we observe around us is happening only with the blessings and mechanical skills created by Lord Vishwakarma, which have facilitated mankind to grow faster with technological day-to-day advancements. In line with the ideology and teachings of Lord Vishwakarma, our government has been laying thrust on imparting skill training to the youth across the state so that they could live a life with dignity and self respect. Lord Vishwakarma was a divine architect of the entire universe, who was believed to be the master of all machinery and equipment being used by the people in the industrial activities.” On this occasion, he also announced a grant of Rs 11 lakh for the construction of Vishwakarma temple. Arora also honoured several prominent industrialists, which included Baljinder Singh Kalsi, Raghbir Singh Sohal, Dr Avtar Singh Khaire, Harwinder Singh Chaggar, Surinder Singh Riyat, Jagdish Singh Kular, Jasmer Singh, Nirmaljit Singh, Darshan Singh Lotey, Kashmir Singh, Dinesh Singh Bhogal, Amritpal Singh Crystal and Surjit Singh Chaggar with Vishwakarma Awards. Prominent amongst those present on the occasion included MLAs Rakesh Pandey and Surinder Dawar, leaders KK Bawa, Gurpreet Singh Bassi, Amarjit Singh Tikka, Ramesh Joshi, Balkar Singh Sandhu, Sham Sunder Malhotra, Mohammad Gulab and Ashwani Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/non-movement-of-trains-causing-losses-of-rs-22k-crore-to-industry/articleshow/79237216.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Day after Diwali, city breathes year’s poorest air||Ludhiana: The city witnessed the poorest air of the year a day after Diwali. The air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 345 on Sunday. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) media bulletin, the AQI in Ludhiana on Saturday 4pm was 300, which was poor with possible health impacts as “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”. However, the hourly data from 4pm till Sunday noon indicated pollution levels were the highest on Sunday morning.The AQI level in the city increased to 307 by Saturday 5pm, which comes under very poor category with possible health impacts as “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure”. The AQI between 8pm and 10pm, in which the authorities had allowed green crackers, increased from 321 to 332. The figure reached 346 by 12am on Sunday and by 1am was recorded at 353. It further increased to 378 by 7am and dropped to 364 by noon and reached 345 at 4pm. Last year, the AQI on Diwali day (on October 27) was comparatively lower in Ludhiana at 239 at 4pm; a day after the festival it was recorded at 353, which is more as compared with the day-after-Diwali figure of this year.The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) officials said most of the norms went up in smoke on Diwali. Officials said people didn’t pay heed to repeated requests and burnt crackers even after the deadline. They added that the AQI may stay high unless winds blow away the pollution particles or rain settles them. Green activists said the authorities failed to enforce the National Green Tribunal (NGT) guidelines. “People continued to burst crackers throughout the night and there was no such thing as green crackers. The authorities failed in enforcing the time limit and many vulnerable people, especially elderly and children with respiratory issues, bore the brunt of their inaction,” said activist Keemti Rawal. He added that now police, like every year, would file cases against unknown persons to show that they have acted and then after a few months impose fine and close the files. Agriculture economist Sardara Singh Johal wrote a message in Punjabi on his Facebook wall. Loosely translated, it said: “What’s a government? Who are the courts? Don’t they know we are completely stubborn, irresponsible and undisciplined residents? Who can stop us? Stop us if you can! We had fireworks all night and are still doing it! What is this environment?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/day-after-diwali-city-breathes-years-poorest-air/articleshow/79237223.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 16, 2020||Goa||Cong minority cell chairman steps down||Panaji: In a minor jolt to Congress, the party’s minority cell chairman Urfan Mulla stepped down from his post and quit as the party’s spokesperson on Sunday. Mulla, in his resignation letter to AICC acting president Sonia Gandhi said he is unhappy with the party’s functioning and the lack of direction. Mulla also blamed the party’s leadership for using minority communities as a “tissue paper” and as a “vote bank” while doing little to help them. He has conveyed his sentiments to the state party leadership as well as to Goa desk in-charge Dinesh Gundu Rao. “I am not happy with the functioning of the party as there is no unity among senior leaders, who are only fighting for their personal gains,” Mulla said. Mulla said that Congress suffers from a lack of organisation, direction, ideology and most importantly lack of leadership. “Nobody is bothered about the party and about the issues being faced by the minorities. The old guards in the party in Goa have brought nothing to the party and have miserably failed in decision making again and again,” Mulla said. He also blamed senior party office bearers and MLAs for not giving younger Congress workers space.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-minority-cell-chairman-steps-down/articleshow/79238931.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Trichy||Sanitary staff clear tonnes of cracker waste||MADURAI/TRICHY: With most streets and roads littered with fireworks waste post Diwali celebrations, Madurai corporation deployed several sanitation employees in extensive cleaning work on Sunday while in Trichy, only emergency cleaning was taken up and the corporation staff are expected to clear the waste in a day or two. Hundreds of corporation employees cleared the streets in Madurai on Sunday with officials saying that only important roads and streets were given priority on Sunday while other areas will be cleaned on Monday. Trichy city saw paper and plastic waste strewn on roadsides with the arterial roads remaining cleaner though residential roads and streets such as Big Bazaar street had heaps of garbage. With Sunday being a holiday for contractual sanitary workers with the civic body, the sanitary department officials said that only permanent workers were deployed to clear the waste on roads. “Through permanent workers, we managed to remove the waste that may cause traffic snarls. In other parts, we will be removing the garbage on Monday,” an official source said. About 420 tonnes of garbage was collected till 6.30 pm on Sunday in Madurai. Although the quantity of garbage collected could increase since cleaning will be carried out late in the evening, it would be far lesser compared to last year. At 6.30 pm on Sunday, 82 tonnes from zone one, 116 tonnes from zone two, 89 tonnes from zone three and 129 tonnes from zone four was collected. The average collection on Sunday would be about 450 tonnes since door-to-door collection would not take place in most of the areas. It is estimated that close to 1,000 tonnes of garbage would accumulate for this Diwali, he said. Many residents did not wait for the corporation employees and cleaned their surroundings. Trichy civic body official anticipate about 150 MT to 200 MT of such waste across the city. Door-to-door waste collection will also resume on Monday, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sanitary-staff-clear-tonnes-of-cracker-waste/articleshow/79238930.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Sanitary staff clear tonnes of cracker waste||MADURAI/TRICHY: With most streets and roads littered with fireworks waste post Diwali celebrations, Madurai corporation deployed several sanitation employees in extensive cleaning work on Sunday while in Trichy, only emergency cleaning was taken up and the corporation staff are expected to clear the waste in a day or two. Hundreds of corporation employees cleared the streets in Madurai on Sunday with officials saying that only important roads and streets were given priority on Sunday while other areas will be cleaned on Monday. Trichy city saw paper and plastic waste strewn on roadsides with the arterial roads remaining cleaner though residential roads and streets such as Big Bazaar street had heaps of garbage. With Sunday being a holiday for contractual sanitary workers with the civic body, the sanitary department officials said that only permanent workers were deployed to clear the waste on roads. “Through permanent workers, we managed to remove the waste that may cause traffic snarls. In other parts, we will be removing the garbage on Monday,” an official source said. About 420 tonnes of garbage was collected till 6.30 pm on Sunday in Madurai. Although the quantity of garbage collected could increase since cleaning will be carried out late in the evening, it would be far lesser compared to last year. At 6.30 pm on Sunday, 82 tonnes from zone one, 116 tonnes from zone two, 89 tonnes from zone three and 129 tonnes from zone four was collected. The average collection on Sunday would be about 450 tonnes since door-to-door collection would not take place in most of the areas. It is estimated that close to 1,000 tonnes of garbage would accumulate for this Diwali, he said. Many residents did not wait for the corporation employees and cleaned their surroundings. Trichy civic body official anticipate about 150 MT to 200 MT of such waste across the city. Door-to-door waste collection will also resume on Monday, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sanitary-staff-clear-tonnes-of-cracker-waste/articleshow/79241094.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Terai farmers observe ‘Black Diwali’ in protest against agricultural laws||RUDRAPUR: The farmers of Terai belt of Uttarakhand observed a ‘Black Diwali’ this year in protest against the three contentious agriculture-related laws. The farmers, under the banner of Terai Kisan Sabha, staged a protest at Mandi Samiti premises in Kichha town on November 14. They cordoned off the area blocking it with paddy-laden trolleys and later burnt effigy of the central government. Tejinder Singh Virk, president of Terai Kisan Sabha, said, “The farmers of the Terai region, which is the rice bowl of the state, do not support the three farm laws — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation), 2020; Farmers (Empowerment & Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance; and Farm Services, 2020. However, the central government has not taken any convincing decision even after more than one month of protests. In view of this, we just lit mashaals (torches) on Diwali night as a sign of our protest.” Meanwhile, Jitender Sandhu, a local farmer, said, “The central government is acting apathetic towards farmers’ demands. Those in office should find concrete ways to address the issue and to end the prolonged crisis. We will now be intensifying our protest if the demand to revoke these draconian laws is not met.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-observe-black-diwali-in-protest-against-agri-laws/articleshow/79236571.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Official poll nominees try to convince rebels to withdraw||Kolhapur: Attempts are now being made by the nominees of major political parties contesting for the Pune division graduate constituency and teachers constituency seats to quell the rebellion by their parties’ local leaders who have been denied tickets. Candidates of both fronts — the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) and the Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) — are facing the tough task of convincing the rebels to withdraw. The last date for withdrawal of nominations is November 17. Arun Lad is contesting as a joint candidate for the MVA and Sangram Deshmukh as the BJP candidate for the graduate constituency. In the teacher constituency, Jayant Asgaonkar is the MVA candidate while Jitendra Pawar is the candidate for the Shikshak Parishad, backed by the BJP. The candidates are trying to ensure that the rebels do not make a dent in their votes. Lad recently met NCP functionary Pratap Mane, who is an ardent supporter of senior NCP politician Hasan Mushrif. Lad said that he has requested Mane to withdraw his candidature and support him (Lad) this time. It is learnt that Mane is adamant to contest the polls. However, Mushrif may be asked to intervene and convince Mane to withdraw. Lad is also facing the tough task of having to convince Shrimant Kokate, a famous name among progressive thinkers in the state. He had met Lad a week ago, before Lad’s official nomination. Kokate said: “Our aim is to defeat the BJP. I have the support of several progressive outfits in the region. I have appealed to the official and non-official nominees to withdraw their nominations and support me.” Former MLA Sharad Patil has been nominated by the Janata Dal, which is ideologically similar to other progressive parties. He too is getting support from several outfits. If Patil continues to stay in the fray, then he may cause a dent in MVA candidate Lad’s votes. BJP, meanwhile, is now being challenged by the candidature of N D Chougule, a professor. He has been given a ticket by BJP ally Rayat Kranti Sanghatana of Sadabhau Khot. Khot said his party has every right to contest the election and demanded that the BJP also support Chougule. Since Chougule is a lesser-known name, no attempts are being made by BJP’s official nominee Sangram Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/official-poll-nominees-try-to-convince-rebels-to-withdraw/articleshow/79238060.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||With 4 additions in census, rhino count in Dudhwa rises to 42||Bareilly: Four rhino calves marked their first birthday at Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) recently and qualified to be counted among adults, as in the fresh census the number of the one-horned species reached 42. “Rhino calves below the age of one year are not considered in the census as most of them either fall prey to other animals or to some disease,” a forest official said. Completely wiped out from Uttar Pradesh jungles somewhere in 1870, five rhinos were re-introduced in Dudhwa from Assam in 1984. Next year, four more rhinos were brought here from Nepal. And in 2018, another four rhinos were translocated in the tiger reserve. The herd prospered under the watchful eyes of forest officials. “We are happy to include four rhino calves in the census and now we have 42 rhinos in Dudhwa. Monitoring teams are keeping a close eye on the rhinos. The calves are not included in the census because they have many threats in the form of weather, carnivores like leopards and tigers,” Manoj Sonkar, deputy director of DTR (core) told TOI. Currently, the rhinos live in enclosures of over 20sq-km in South Sonaripur range (phase 1) and Belraya range (phase 2) of the reserve. “Since the rise in population of the rhinos in phase 1, the patrolling has been increased in the protected area. In 2019, two rhinos died due to infighting while a month-old calf was killed by a tiger in 2020,” the DFO said. Rhinos play an important role in the ecosystem as they are the umbrella species and their absence directly impacts the survival of other mammals, fish, insects and birds. When they run, they flat the grassland making it easier for small mammals to walk. The possibility of forest fire decreases drastically in the area where rhino stays. They also help in pollination of tree seeds through their dung and enrich the soil as well. Under the Rhino Rehabilitation Project five rhinos were brought to Dudhwa in 1984 from the forests of Assam surrounding Kaziranga. Assam is home to two-thirds of the world’s one-horned rhinos. Out of the five rhinos, only three survived-- a female and two males. In 1985, four more female rhinos were brought from Nepal. The herd of seven rhinos flourished in Dudhwa. Bankey, the oldest male rhino, was considered as the father of the rhino population in Dudhwa. He died in 2016 at the age of 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-4-additions-in-census-rhino-count-in-dudhwa-rises-to-42/articleshow/79235863.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||After a quarrel in Haibowal, two lawyers allege custodial torture||tnnLudhiana: Two advocate brothers of Haibowal have accused the area police of wrongly booking them and torturing them in police custody in the early hours of Saturday. However, claiming that they had not beaten up the advocates, Haibowal police stated that five residents of Bachan Nagar were arrested as they had indulged in a spat with the cops. The FIR has been lodged against a former sarpanch, Narinder Singh, two advocates, Sidharth Chandi and Mohit Chandi, Bhupinder Singh and Varinder Singh, all residents of Bachan Nagar, Haibowal. On Sunday afternoon, several advocates gathered and decided to have a meeting on Monday. Besides, the bar council of the Punjab and Haryana high court tweeted to the Punjab Police and chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh to look into the matter. Advocate Shashank Kapur, a member of the Ludhiana Bar Association, said some residents of Bachan Nagar were fighting over an issue. Meanwhile, former sarpanch Narinder Singh reached there to pacify them and got injured. Narinder then called the police. ASI Sham Singh reached there and without listening to anyone slapped Narinder. The residents protested against the police, after which SHO inspector Jaskanwal Singh reached the spot and took the residents, who were initially fighting, into custody. The SHO also asked Narinder Singh to get his medical examination done. Since advocates Sidharth and Mohit were close by, Narinder asked them to accompany him. Narinder got his medicolegal report after which SHO inspector Jaskanwal Singh asked him to come to the police station to record his statement. “The trio reached the police station, where the SHO started misbehaving with them and also snatched their phones. The SHO took Mohit and Sidharth to the lock-up and brutally thrashed them. Then they roughed up Narinder. When three of them did not return home, the residents reached the police station, but cops did not allow them to come in. The residents staged a protest outside. All night, cops tortured the advocates and also lodged an FIR against them for manhandling ASI Sham Singh,” added Kapur. By morning, the advocates were bailed out. Additional deputy commissioner of police-III Sameer Verma said, “The accused, including advocates, Narinder Singh, Bhupinder Singh and Varinder Singh, had a fight with their neighbours. The accused locked them in their house and also vandalised their property. When the police reached there and released the residents, the accused manhandled ASI Sham Singh, after which the FIR was lodged.” On asking about the visible injury marks on advocates’ bodies, ADCP Verma said, “They had indulged in a fight with the other residents and those injury marks are of it. They were not tortured in police custody.” The FIR has been lodged under sections 353 (assault or criminal force to deter a public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/after-a-quarrel-in-haibowal-two-lawyers-allege-custodial-torture/articleshow/79237227.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||NGO pays fine, gets man released from jail||Ludhiana: 41-year-old Surendra Pradhan of Orisha, who was convicted in a murder case in Ferozepur, had to spend four extra years in the Ludhiana Central Jail as he was unable to pay Rs 5,000 fine to get himself released from there. In 2016, remission was granted to him on the condition that he would have to pay a fine of Rs 5,000. However, since Pradhan was not in touch with his family, he could not pay the fine. However, on the eve of Diwali, city-based NGO Help paid his fine and got him released from the jail. Pradhan shared that he had thought that he would die inside the jail as two decades of his life had been spent there. He was 21 year old when he was lodged in the jail in a murder case. But now, after getting released he was fell short of words to express his joy. President of Help NGO advocate Gaganpreet Singh said that the jail authorities had told him about the case of Pradhan. He was from Odisha and had come to Ludhiana in 1999 to earn a living as he belonged to an extremely poor family. In two decades, nobody came to meet him in the jail. In 2016, the court granted him sentence remission on the condition of paying a fine of Rs 5,000. As he was unable to pay the fine, he had to spend four more years in the jail. “After I came to know about the matter, I decided to help him. On the eve of Diwali, we paid his fine and got him released from the jail. We gave him new clothes and some money. When we gave him some currency notes of Rs 500, Pradhan thought these were fake notes. He had no idea about demonetization. Surendra was barefooted and when we asked him to wait for a few minutes so we could buy him footwear, he did not agree. He was so excited to go back to his hometown to meet his family that he started walking out to reach the railway station,” added Gaganpreet. “Before leaving, Pradhan said just one thing to us that God could not come to help him, so He sent us. His words touched me,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ngo-pays-fine-gets-man-released-from-jail/articleshow/79237221.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Schools should be able to get NOC online: Edu Dept||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand education department has directed officials to ensure that schools are able to obtain the NOC for re-opening online. An order has been issued in this regard. The department officials have also been given the training to get a grip of the online process. Under the online process, the district education office will do an inspection from their side and if a shortcoming is found, then the interim NOC to reopen the school will be cancelled. After the district office, the education directorate will also conduct an inspection to cross-check. Meanwhile, the education department has also released an order to fill vacant posts for primary education teachers. The department will appoint teachers by the end of this month and is expected to appoint about 2,000 teachers. It has also been ordered that Urdu teachers shouldn’t be appointed for those schools where no students have enrolled themselves for Urdu classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/schools-should-be-able-to-get-noc-online-edu-dept/articleshow/79236561.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 16, 2020||Trichy||Trichy police station gets ‘child-friendly’||TRICHY: Trichy city police have established a ‘child-friendly corner’ on the premises of the law and order police station at Thiruverumbur for children who accompany their mothers who come to the police station to lodge complaints or seek police help in any issues. The facility resembles a kindergarten classroom with wall paintings and toys. R G Anand, member, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, inaugurated the facility in the presence of H M Jayaram, inspector general of police, central zone, Z Annie Vijaya, deputy inspector general of police, superintendent of police, Trichy district Senthilkumar, M Devasitham, vice-president, International Justice Mission and Mohan, former member, state commission for protection of child rights. Children who accompany their parents could be able to enjoy themselves when elders are meeting police officials. Moreover, such facilities would make police officials and others to understand children’s rights, DIG Z Annie Vijaya said. A total of 10 more such facilities are ready for inauguration at various police stations in Trichy range, which were set up in association with International Justice Mission, an NGO, inspector P Azeem told TOI.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-police-station-gets-child-friendly/articleshow/79238932.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reports 1 death, 23 new Covid cases||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district on Sunday registered one Covid-related death along with 23 fresh cases. With this, the total number of cases in the district has reached 48,718, of which, 1,666 have succumbed to contagion. A total of 46,441 patients have been treated in the district so far. The number of active cases in the district has come down to 611 after 34 patients got discharged from various facilities on Sunday. Of the recent 23 Covid-19 cases in the district, seven were reported from the city. With this, the total number of cases in the city has reached 14,788. According to official information, of the 611 active patients in the district, 448 have been staying at isolation in their homes while the others have been admitted to various facilities. Meanwhile, Satara district reported 134 cases and two deaths on Sunday.s Sangli reports 29 cases, 3 deathsSangli district reported 29 Covid-19 cases and three deaths. The number of active cases in the district has come down to 436 after 105 patients were discharged. A week ago, the number of active cases stood at 2,539. So far, Sangli district has reported 45,747 confirmed cases, of which, 1,665 have succumbed to the infection while 43,240 have been treated and discharged. Solapur rural adds 113 patients, 3 succumbSolapur city reported 20 cases along with one Covid-related death on Sunday while the rural areas of the district reported 113 cases and three deaths. The active cases in the city have come down to 455 while in rural district, active cases stand at 1,849. The total number of cases in city has reached 9,941 while those in rural district have swelled to 33,214. The death toll stands at 552 in the city and 989 in rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reports-1-death-23-new-cases/articleshow/79238062.cms||---
November 16, 2020||India||25 in net in 4 days for GST fraud, govt to step up ops||NEW DELHI: The government has arrested 25 persons over the last four days as part of a nationwide operation against fraudulent tax credits for goods and services tax (GST), with the exercise expected to intensify in the coming days. Some 350 cases have been filed for issuing fake invoices against 1180 entities, with other entities involved being probed, an official source said. The arrested persons, including two chartered accountants and the son of Maharashtra lawmaker, will face charges under the anti-money laundering law and Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities (COFEPOSA) Act, the source said. Under GST, credits are available for taxes paid on inputs. While the misuse of the provisions has been rampant in several parts of the country for nearly three years, the government has now launched a massive action against offenders although it had moved in fits and starts in the past. Punjab, Delhi and Surat are known hubs for these fraudulent transactions ever since GST was launched in July 2017, where credits in lieu of cash is rampant. The crackdown began after a green light from the revenue department following a meeting with officers from various wings with both the direct and indirect tax boards working with filed officers. From November 9, Directorate General of Analytics and Risk Management along with DGCI and Central Board of Direct Taxes collated data and used artificial intelligence to identify suspected entities. So far authorities have acted in Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Ludhiana, Chennai, Nagpur, Kolkata, Gurugram, Jind, Ballabhgarh, Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Bhilai, Jodhpur, Hyderabad, Mathura, Raipur, Visakhapatnam, Jamshedpur, Patna, Imphal, Meerut, Guwahati, Pune, Siliguri, Bhopal and Bhubaneshwar, the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/25-in-net-in-4-days-for-gst-fraud-govt-to-step-up-ops/articleshow/79239511.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Martyred jawan’s funeral in Ajara today||Kolhapur: Residents of Bahirewadi village in Ajara tehsil of Kolhapur district are waiting for the mortal remains of martyred jawan Hrushikesh Jondhale. As per army sources, Jondhale’s body will be brought to the village on Monday morning and the last rites with gun salute will be performed at 7 am. Since the news of Jondhale’s martyrdom of spread in Bahirewadi, the villagers halted all Diwali preparations. Not a single diya has been lit outside houses in the village since the last two days. The villagers have voluntarily decided to mourn the martrydom for five days. Upon request made by the gram panchayat administration, the villagers contributed the efforts to clean up the ground of Bhairavnath School Ground, raise pandals and put up barricades. The village administration has decided not to allow people to attend the funeral if they fail to wear face masks. Also, to ensure that all villagers could attend the last rites, large tracts of the nearby farmlands, too, have been cleared.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/martyred-jawans-funeral-in-ajara-today/articleshow/79238065.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Trichy||5 more butterfly species add colour to TBCT||TRICHY: Tropical Butterfly Conservatory Trichy (TBCT) has recorded spotting of five new butterfly species, which has taken the total number of species in the conservatory to 119. The conservatory was reopened for public on Thursday seven months after it was closed in March due to Covid-19 pandemic. Only a few forest personnel had access to the conservatory during this period. Less human activity and better rain have made the conservatory more conducive for butterflies to breed, said senior forest officials. Grey pansy butterfly known as common bush hobber is the 115th species spotted in the conservatory. It is among the six-pansy butterfly varieties found in the state. While five other pansy varieties were already spotted, TBCT now have all pansy butterflies found in the state. Lemon, chocolate, peacock, blue and yellow pansy are the other five pansy butterfly species spotted in the state. Dark palm dart is the 116th species spotted in TBCT. These butterflies are commonly spotted in wayside vegetation, bamboo forests and mid hills. Tamil Bush brown is the 117th species found in forests and hills. Common four-ring is the 118th species found in forests as well as human habitats. Black spotted pierrot is the 119th species, which are spotted in forest edges and dry woodlands flowery gardens and beach hinterlands. “Among the new species, Tamil bush brown, common four-ring and black spotted pierrot are rare, said district forest officer D Sujatha. The number of butterfly variety spotted in the conservatory is increasing gradually, she said. Southern birdwing – the state butterfly of Karnataka and Blue Mormon – the state butterfly of Maharashtra is among the rare species, but they have been frequently spotted in the conservatory recently, said R Santhosini, junior research fellow at TBCT. Even though the conservatory is in a dry region, moisture is maintained with artificial fountains, waterfalls and lakes, which have made it ideal for butterflies to breed, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/5-more-butterfly-species-add-colour-to-tbct/articleshow/79238938.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Congress candidates to raise poll campaign funds on their own||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Congress is faced with acute fund shortage for campaigning for the upcoming local body polls. As KPCC and the respective DCCs are unable to provide funds for campaigning, the ward committees have been distributed coupons to shore up funds on their own. KPCC has distributed coupons of Rs 100 to Rs 1,000 denominations to the ward committees to collect funds from well wishers of the party and also from the common man of their respective localities. Each ward committee will be responsible for collecting funds and utilize for their candidates. The ward committees will have to submit details of the collection after the election to the respective district congress committees. “KPCC is unable to source funds for campaigning. We are having acute fund shortage and hence there is no centralized funding. Hence, this time we issued coupons to collect funds at the local level itself,” said KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran. KPCC has distributed coupons worth Rs 20,000 to Rs 50,000 from block panchayats to the corporation level ward committees. “During the pandemic, it is difficult to source funds since everywhere there is crisis. That was the reason why the maximum limit of the coupon has been kept at Rs 1,000. The party well wishers and the common man will support us,” said Ramachandran. However, the party believes that restrictions for campaigning due to the pandemic situation will lead to more expenses this time. “There is a need for more display boards, pamphlets and social media campaign since there are restrictions in house-to-house visits and street corner meetings. Hence we are forced to source more election campaign materials. Also, we have to concentrate more on social media campaign this time for which we need the service of more people,” said Neyyattinkara Sanal, DCC president of Thiruvananthapuram. During local body elections in the past, KPCC and DCCs used to give only a token amount for their campaign. Rest was sourced at the local level. But this time there is no contribution from both these committees. Hence, we decided to issue coupons, said MLA and senior party leader V D Satheesan. KPCC gets support from AICC only during assembly polls and Lok Sabha elections. Even during assembly bypolls there is no AICC support for the state committee. Hence, the candidates of local body polls now are forced to shore up funds on their own for campaigning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cong-candidates-to-raise-poll-campaign-funds-on-their-own/articleshow/79237280.cms||Rajiv G
November 16, 2020||Trichy||Shut Mukkombu dam disappoints many holidayers||TRICHY: Many families had to return disappointed from Mukkombu dam, a popular picnic spot in Trichy, as it was closed on Sunday. As the day after Diwali is a Sunday this year, many people wanted to venture out for an outing. As the dam was closed, many of them moved to Tropical butterfly conservatory which was opened recently. Recreational spots and other places of tourist attraction are gradually being reopened following nod from the state government. But dams across the state which are potential tourist attraction are yet to be reopened. Significant among them are Mukkombu and Kallanai dam in Trichy region which remained closed. “We were expecting the dam to be open today as many recreational spots are reopened across the state,” said S Murugan from Kulithalai who came along with his family. “The climate was also ideal to spend quality time along the banks of Cauvery. Government could have considered reopening the dam at least with some restrictions,” he added. Mukkombu regulator prevents Cauvery from flooding as excess water is diverted to Kollidam in case of an emergency. Off late it has became a popular tourist destination with separate bathing area apart from parks that include Science Park for children. Mukkombu has been developed in to a park with toy train service and artificial waterfall. “Like other places are gradually reopening, Mukkombu will also be reopened soon but was consciously avoided during the festival season over apprehensions of Covid-19 spread,” said PWD chief engineer S Ramamoorthy told TOI. “People are at home during these holidays and they were not allowed to move out for close to seven months. If the park is opened at this moment, it may put the public at the risk of contracting Covid-19. Further, there is good flow in the Cauvery and there is risk of people entering the river which may turn fatal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shut-mukkombu-dam-disappoints-many-holidayers/articleshow/79238945.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai breathes easy this Diwali; air, noise pollution levels fall||CHENNAI: The air and noise pollution levels in the city this Diwali have been less than on the festival day last year. A substantial decrease has been recorded in the values of PM 2.5, sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide over last year’s levels, says a communication from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). On Saturday, the PM10 levels were between 52 micrograms/m3 and 111 micrograms/ m3 against the prescribed 100 micrograms/ m3, said TNPCB chairman A V Venkatachalam. PM2.5 levels were between 32 micrograms/ m3 and 59 micrograms/ m3 against the prescribed 60 micrograms/m3. Except in Triplicane and Sowcarpet, the PM10 levels were within the limits as were the levels of gaseous pollutants such as sulphur dioxide. The air quality index was moderate in Triplicane, satisfactory in Sowcarpet and good in Besant Nagar, T Nagar and Nungambakkam. The ambient noise levels, between 54 decibels and 69 decibels on Friday, ranged from 71 decibels to 74 decibels on Diwali. The noise pollution values this Diwali were lower by 4 decibels to 6 decibels over last year. The TNPCB recorded air quality and noise pollution over 24 hours in Besant Nagar, T Nagar, Nungambakkam, Triplicane and Sowcarpet. Venkatachalam said this was mainly due to the city’s residents largely abiding by the Supreme Court’s directions and the TNPCB’s effective awareness programmes. While other government departments and the media also played their part, the still-raging Covid-19 pandemic was a key factor. S M Shiva Nagendra, professor of civil engineering at IIT-M, said intermittent rain in the morning followed by breezy conditions helped disperse particulate matter, leading to low pollution levels. The city’s roads were relatively cleaner. This year, the civic body collected cracker waste four tonne lower than the previous year. In October 2019, on the Diwali day (October 25 and 26) the civic body collected 22.5 tonnes from all the 15 zones. This year, it has collected only 18.6 tonne (November 13, 14 and 15). “We ensured that the streets were swept regularly and the bins were cleared every day to avoid overflow of garbage. In Adyar and Teynampet, where the new contractor took over, focus was more around temples and markets,” said a civic body official. Hari Balaji V R, from Urbaser-Sumeet, the contractor, said cracker waste was collected in Teynampet and Adyar and stored separately. “It is still being collected. It will be transported to Gummidipoondi to the facility of the pollution control board that has a treatment facility for hazardous waste,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-breathes-easy-this-diwali-air-noise-pollution-levels-fall/articleshow/79238094.cms||P Oppili
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Fire accidents up in Chennai but burn injuries down||CHENNAI: Though there has been an increase in the number of fire accidents due to burning of crackers compared to last year, there has been a fall in burn injuries treated at hospitals this Diwali. Police said a one-and-a-half-year old boy died of burn injuries suffered from fireworks on Saturday. The baby was taken to Jipmer in Pondicherry and later brought to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, the referral centre for cracker burn cases in the city. A total 18 people arrived at major government hospitals in the city with burn injuries. Of them, two were critical and others with less than 2% burns on their hands were discharged after treatment. Last year, 40 burn injuries were reported. A senior doctor from KMCH burns ward said though it was feared that hand sanitisers containing flammable alcohol could result in more hand injuries while bursting crackers, not a single such case was reported. Most private hospitals in the city reported two or three cases of eye injuries during the weekend. According to data, 33 of the 40 distress calls in Chennai involving minor fires occurred after rockets landed on thatched roofs and trees. Police booked 428 people for bursting crackers beyond the stipulated timing. Majority of cases were reported from Chennai west zone -- Anna Nagar, Pulianthope, Avadi and Poonamalle areas (229). South, East and North zones registered 95,57 and 37 cases respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fire-accidents-up-but-burn-injuries-down/articleshow/79238119.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Woman dead, husband hurt in road accident in Nainital||NAINITAL: A 46-year-old woman, identified as Dhana Mishra, died and her husband Vallabh Mishra sustained critical injuries in a road accident in Nainital on Sunday. The woman and her husband, residents of Halduchaur area of Nainital district, were on a motorbike when a car coming from behind hit their vehicle. The couple was going to collect fodder when the accident took place, said the police. Upon getting information of the accident, the police reached the spot and took the couple to Dr Susheela Tiwari Hospital in Haldwani where the woman was declared dead while the husband is still critical and is undergoing treatment. The police added that the couple is survived by a son and a daughter. The family was informed about the accident and the victim’s body was sent for postmortem. The driver of the car fled the spot, police are still looking for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-dead-husband-hurt-in-road-accident/articleshow/79236602.cms||Prashant Jha
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal mourns Soumitra Chatterjee’s demise, thousands join legend on his final journey||KOLKATA: Thousands walked with the hearse van on veteran actor Soumitra Chatterjee’s last journey — a three-km ride from Rabindra Sadan to the Keoratala crematorium where the 85-year-old’s last rites were performed with full state honours on Sunday evening in the presence of his daughter Poulami Bose, chief minister Mamata Banerjee and a host of eminent intellectuals, actors and admirers from across the city. A 15-minute gun salute preceded the last rites that commenced at 6.45 pm, signalling the end of an era for Bengal’s cinema and culture. And with Soumitra Chatterjee, Bengal also lost a part of its history, said Mamata Banerjee. The flower-decked van carrying the actor’s body started its final journey at exactly 5.30 pm with a few thousand people following the vehicle on foot, carrying candles and placards with Soumitra’s photographs. His favourite Tagore songs were sung along the way. Mamata Banerjee led the march, flanked by chief secretary Alapan Bandopadhyay, director Raj Chakrabarty and actor Rukmini Maitra. It was a remarkably disciplined procession, though and for once none seemed to mind the lack of social distancing. The mourners wore masks and clicked photos with their mobiles. CPM leaders Biman Bose, Surjya Kanta Mishra and Sujan Chakrabarty, too, joined the procession. “Soumitra Chatterjee will continue to live in his works, achievements and in the hearts of the people,” Mishra tweeted. A poster at the crematorium said: ‘Biday Feluda’. It was indeed a touching farewell for the icon who strode the Bengali cultural sphere gallantly for close to six decades. Thousands lined up along the pavements as the procession marched on, clicking pictures from mobile phones, trying to catch a final glimpse of the icon. By the time the march reached the crematorium, several thousand had joined it. It is the end of 60 years of great work, said actor Dhritiman Chatterjee. “He was simple and innocent and I have never seen any hint of pride in him. Once at the end of a programme at Kalamandir, there was a shortage of cars. I was supposed to go to Salt Lake and Soumitra Da was headed for Tollygunge. He simply asked me to take the car and took a taxi instead,” recalled Chatterjee. Theatre personality Bibhash Chakraborty said he admired Soumitra as a stage actor and director. “He preferred to live normally and never believed in stardom. He would go the market for his daily needs. Like his acting, his life was also natural and simple,” he said. Minutes before the actor’s body was to be inside the crematorium, daughter Poulami bade her father a tearful farewell, bending down to kiss him. It was a painful parting, not just for a daughter but also for the millions of the actor’s admirers for whom the curtains now come down on a brilliant show. Filmmaker Sandip Ray recalled: “He had an excellent chemistry with my father. He was a professional and was very much involved in the shooting. He used to study a lot about the characters he played. He even maintained a diary during the shooting.” When he was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic on October 6, the signs were far less ominous, though. “I spoke to him from Midnapore that day and he sounded quite well. Unfortunately, his condition deteriorated very soon,” said Mamata Banerjee. Doctors at Belle Vue, too, rued that he had coped with Covid quite well initially. “There was hardly any impact other than encephalopathy. It usually starts receding in 5-6 days but sadly in his case, it got worse and eventually led to his death,” said Arindam Kar, critical care head at Belle Vue. Earlier, the actor’s remains were taken to his Golf Green residence and then to Technicians’ Studio and Rabindra Sadan where it was kept for two hours for people to pay their last respects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-mourns-thousands-join-legend-on-his-final-journey/articleshow/79238120.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Parents in the dark as martyr’s body flown to Nagpur day after Diwali||NAGPUR: Relatives are pouring in at Ramesh Satai’s small house with mud walls in Katol town. Till Sunday, they had only told him that his son Naik Bhushan Satai was injured in firing at the line of control (LoC), and was undergoing treatment at the ICU in an unconscious state. As they met Ramesh and his wife Meera, all convinced him that everything will be fine soon. Little do the aged parents know that on Monday morning only their son’s mortal remains would arrive wrapped in the tricolour. Even as the arrival of relatives left the parents a little curious, Bhushan’s body was being flown to Nagpur from Srinagar. The officials decided not to break the news to the aged parents on Diwali day, considering their state of mind. On Friday afternoon, Bhushan who was manning a post in the Guzer sector along the LoC, fell to a mortar shell fired from the Pakistani side in violation the ceasefire. It was Diwali eve. “Only their younger son Roshan knows that Bhushan is no more, and he has not disclosed the news to his parents,” said his uncle Naresh Satai. “The relatives who are meeting the parents are asking him to remain strong,” the kin told TOI over telephone. Bhushan’s sister Sarita, however, suspects something amiss and has taken ill, said a neighbour. “Almost 20 to 25 relatives visited them and went back. The family is thinking they have gone back home. However, the municipal council’s community hall has been opened for them, as they are staying overnight for the funeral on Monday,” said an acquaintance. The neighbours are looking after the relatives, he added. Meanwhile, at 5pm on Sunday, the aircraft carrying Bhushan’s body reached Nagpur airport. The remains were taken to Kamptee cantonment. After a wreath-laying ceremony on Monday morning, the body would be taken to Katol. “Bhushan had come on leave last month and they were searching for a match for him, but it did not work out this time. There were plans to marry him when he came the next time,” said his uncle. Bhushan’s grandfather owned a four-acre farm, which was divided among three brothers, leaving just one acre to his father’s share. Bhushan’s father worked as a labourer with a contractor to add to the family income, said a relative. “The family’s condition had begun to change after Bhushan joined the Army around 10 years go. His father too had stopped working and his younger sister had got a job as a teacher, while Roshan was still searching for a job. The family depended on Bhushan’s earnings. Their condition had barely improved when he was killed,” said the uncle. Bhushan, who turned 28 in October, always wanted to join the Army. He was recruited after passing higher secondary. He wanted to take up further education but got a job in the Army, said kin. From 6 Maratha Light Infantry, he was among the four personnel killed in the latest ceasefire violation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-in-the-dark-as-martyrs-body-flown-to-nagpur-day-after-diwali/articleshow/79238954.cms||Shishir Arya
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Covid cases cross 68,000 mark in Uttarakhand; low recoveries and tests in the festive week||DEHRADUN: With the state recording 213 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand shot up to 68,215. According to official data, the state tested 72,173 people for Covid-19 between November 7 and 14, the lowest count of people tested for the virus in the last five weeks. Those tracking the Covid-19 infection trend in the state say that the comparitively low number of new infections despite heavy festive rush in markets is the consequence of low sample testing. “Uttarakhand used to test below 10,000 Covid-19 samples per week till June but the testing reached 50,000 by mid-August. Around Dussehra, the state was testing over 80,000 samples per week. However, the testing reduced to 72,173 in the 35th week of the Covid-19 outbreak in the state i.e between November 7 and 14. It should also be kept in mind that the number of deaths have remained constant and the recoveries have fallen drastically,” said Anoop Nautiyal, member of Social Development for Communities Foundation , an organisation closely tracking the Covid-19 scenario in the Himalayan state. “The ongoing festival season and approaching winter demand a bigger push and focus on Covid-19 testing,” he added. Till Sunday, the state had tested 11,75,816 Covid-19 samples and the test results of 9,092 samples were awaited. The sample positivity rate in the Himalyan state was 5.8% on the day. Of the 213 fresh cases, the maximum of 80 infections were reported from Dehradun, followed by 38 from Udham Singh Nagar, 36 from Nainital, 35 from Pauri Garhwal, nine from Haridwar, eight from Uttarkashi, three from Pithoragarh, and two from Almora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-cases-cross-68k-mark-in-ukhand-low-recoveries-and-tests-in-the-festive-week/articleshow/79236599.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 16, 2020||Hubballi||Hubballi: Nehru Stadium pavilion will soon be a thing of the past||HUBBALLI: The pavilion at Nehru Stadium in Hubballi, an integral part of the 62-year-old structure since its inception, is being demolished to make way for a new structure that will house a VIP lounge, coaching area, gymnasium, a gymnastic arena among other facilities. The pavilion is likely to be razed entirely in a few weeks. Spread across 6.4 acres, Nehru Stadium was built on what was formerly Gulkawwana Kere, and in the past six decades, it has been the venue for numerous matches of the Ranji Trophy. Sachin Tendulkar, Sunil Gavaskar, Kapil Dev, Mohammad Azharuddin and Anil Kumble are among the illustrious names in Indian cricket who have played on the ground. On the other hand, Nehru Stadium has also served, by dint of its location at the heart of Hubballi, as the venue for several political rallies. Former Prime Ministers VP Singh, Manmohan Singh, former chief minister Ramakrishna Hegde and former deputy PM LK Advani, to name a few, have addressed rallies at Nehru Stadium. Senior politician Pandurang Patil said that its central location made it convenient for hosting political rallies and gatherings. In addition to the pavilion, a spectators’ gallery and a complex for shops are the only structures that have been added to the Nehru Stadium since its inauguration in 1958. Former convener for Karnataka State Cricket Association’s Dharwad zone Baba Bhusad remembered playing on the ground as part of Karnataka Finance Minister’s XI against Maharashtra Finance Minister’s XI in 1968, when the stadium was a decade old. “Our team was captained by former Test cricketer V Subramanyam, while the Maharashtra side was led by former India skipper Ajit Wadekar,” said Bhusad, attributing the stadium’s present condition to a combination of negligence and decreasing sporting activity. Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Ltd special officer SH Naregal said that a sum of Rs 20.3 crore had been allocated for the refurbishment of Nehru Stadium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/pavilion-at-62-year-old-nehru-stadium-to-soon-pass-into-oblivion/articleshow/79236543.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Active West Bengal Covid-19 cases at five-week low||KOLKATA: Active Covid cases in Bengal reported a five-week low on Sunday, slipping below the 30,000 active Covid case mark for the first time since October 10. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas, however, continue to buck the state-wide trend reporting more active Covid cases in the same period from October 10-November 15. Bengal had witnessed a surge in active Covid cases in late October. The trend reversed due to a significantly high hospital discharge rate in November. On Sunday, Bengal reported 29,314 active cases, going below the 30,000-mark. This is the lowest since October 9 when it had reported 29,296 active cases. On October 10, it stayed below the 30,000 case mark, reporting 29,783 active cases, slightly higher than Sunday. On October 11, the active cases rose to 30,326. The surge continued till October 26, when it reported 37,190 active cases before the active caseload started reducing. Active Covid cases give an indication of how many Covid patients need immediate medical attention. However, on October 10, the state’s two Covid hotspots — Kolkata and North 24 Parganas — had reported 6,513 and 6,382 active Covid cases respectively. On Sunday, Kolkata reported 7,275 active cases while North 24 Parganas reported 7,228 active cases. However, unlike North 24 Parganas, Kolkata has been witnessing a four-day slide in active Covid cases. Kolkata and North 24 Parganas have reported 42.3% of the total 4.3 lakh Covid cases in Bengal. The reduction of the active Covid cases has been the sharpest in November. According to data released by the Bengal health department, in the November 1-15 period, 60,594 people have been released in Bengal. The average discharge per day has been highest in November with over 4,000 people being released. Bengal achieved a discharge rate of 90% on November 10. On Sunday, it reported a discharge rate of 91.4%. Between October 10 and November 15, 2,098 people died with Covid in Bengal. Around 1,694 or around 80.7% of these people had co-morbidities; the remaining 404 cases – that is around 19.1% – did not have such medical conditions. Bengal has 1.7% Covid case fatality rate that is slightly higher than the national CFR of 1.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/active-bengal-covid-cases-at-5-week-low/articleshow/79238125.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Trichy||Theatres remain deserted sans big releases this Diwali||TRICHY: Although most theatres reopened on Saturday with a couple a small budget films hitting the screens, there was minimal crowd this Diwali with only 35% occupancy. Without new film releases starring big names, theatres were not packed with fans raising banners and celebrating their icons. Tall flex banners on theatre premises and early morning shows were also missed this year. Movie buffs recalled how it was a visual treat to see theatres jampacked inside and outside with fans worshipping their icons on their big releases. “It has been missing this year as more than missing big releases people are afraid of Covid-19 infection and want to remain off from crowded places,” said S Arivalagan, from KK Nagar. While theatres could reopen from Tuesday across the state, majority chose to reopen on Saturday owing to two new films releases on Diwali. In Trichy, except for Urvasi which is undergoing renovation, all the 13 theatres in the city and 75 theatres in the district reopened on Saturday. However, there were less takers for these new released as the movies lacked star value. “The excitement was indeed low in theatres this Diwali as films of big stars with commercial value didn’t hit the screens,” said S Srither, joint secretary of Tamil Nadu Theatres Association. “The turnout was only 35% in the last two days against the permissible 50% audience. But the reopening has given us hope,” he added. “Within two weeks, actor Sasi Kumar’s film with actor Sathyaraj is releasing. Two big films are releasing this Chritsmas. But we will be having our real Diwali on Pongal in January when two big films will be releasing,” he said. “We will request the state government to allow us to operate with 75% occupancy. We believe that the government will oblige to our demand if there is no second wave of Covid-19 by December,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/theatres-remain-deserted-sans-big-releases-this-diwali/articleshow/79238952.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Woman crushed after car jumps red light on Bypass||KOLKATA: A 26-year-old woman — a mother of two — was killed after being hit by an SUV near Kadapara Crossing on EM Bypass while she was crossing the road between 5.37am and 5.50am on Sunday. The impact was such that the woman, Gouri Dey, fell 80 metres away. The driver, Aritra Aditya (23), and his brother Arjun Aditya (20) could only run a short distance towards Salt Lake stadium before they were assaulted by residents of Kadapara and Duttabad. After the accident, locals from Duttabad and adjoining areas blocked the road for nearly 75 minutes till cops came and assured of action. The SUV hit the curbstone of a median divider and dragged along for around 6m before it turned westward (its rear side faced the Hyatt Regency). The front side got completely damaged with its airbags inflated. Forensic experts, who visited the spot, said the two passengers were not wearing seatbelts and the car had hit the woman at a speed of 85-95kmph or even more at the point of impact. The cops, who reached the spot, rescued the two brothers and took them to CNMC Hospital but were finally admitted to the Apollo Hospital. A joint team from Phoolbagan police, fatal squad of Kolkata Police and Beliaghata traffic guard, along with forensic experts, are probing the case. The analysis of CCTV footage and the account of another driver revealed the Adityas are three brothers, who reside at Vivekananda Road in Nagerbazar and run a business together. The brothers had left home early to go to south Kolkata. As they approached Kadapara crossing from Ultadanga side at high speed, the signal turned amber. A car on the right lane stopped but since they had crossed the stopline, Aritra pressed forward without slowing. “Dey is a resident of Duttabad and her parental house is at Kadapara. On Sunday, she saw a car stop and did not bother to check if the signal had turned red. Instead of crossing close to the road median divider, she tried to cross midway right in the middle of the Salt Lake-bound road. We have reasons to believe that she slipped over at least once after impact before landing on the road 80m away,” said an investigating officer. Dey was later declared dead at the NRS Hospital. Based on recommendation from forensic experts, the police have slapped the culpable homicide not amounting to murder case in the accident. “The speed of the car was almost 1.5 times the permissible limit. They were not wearing seatbelts and jumped the signal despite another vehicle stopping beside them. We will arrest them once they recover,” said an officer. “We are looking at lodging an FIR if the victims lodge a complaint. We might also lodge a suo-motu case,” said officers probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-crushed-after-car-jumps-red-light-on-bypass/articleshow/79238131.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Deen Dayal Upadhyay statue vandalised by miscreants, probe ordered||MUSSOORIE: The statue of Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay installed at a park in the city’s Landour Market was vandalised by unidentified miscreants on Diwali (November 14) night. On Sunday morning, locals informed the authorities after discovering the disfigured statue of the founder of Bharatiya Jana Sangh. Subsequently, an FIR was filed by police. “A probe has been initiated to determine whether anti-social elements were involved in the incident or the statue was damaged due to Diwali fireworks. Meanwhile, the damaged statue would be replaced by a new statue within two to three days,” SDM Mussoorie Manish Kumar told mediapersons. The official also said that Mussoorie Municipal Council (MMC) would be asked to install CCTV cameras at the spot to ensure that such incidents do not occur in the future. Notably, initial police probe has revealed that the statue, which was made of fiber, suffered damage due to crackers. However, it hasn’t yet been ascertained if the damage was done intentionally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/deen-dayal-upadhyay-statue-vandalised-by-miscreants-probe-ordered/articleshow/79236617.cms||Anmol Jain
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Tight-fitting respirator face mask can fit without need to shave beard, UK medical study says||London: Now there is hope that bearded faith-observant Sikh, Muslim, Jewish as well as other bearded ‘by choice’ doctors and dentists working on the Covid-19 frontline may in the future not be faced with the choice of shaving their beards to fit into protective masks or being redeployed to other duties, thanks to research undertaken by a team of British Sikh doctors and dentists. An innovative technique of under-mask beard cover, instead of shaving, has been developed by Dr Rajinder Pal Singh, a Manchester-based India-born Sikh transplant surgeon. Respirator face masks such as N95 or FFP3 are mandatory respiratory protective equipment for healthcare workers working in aerosol-generating environments involving Covid-19. The research has found that an under-mask beard cover can be worn beneath respiratory masks and the individual can still pass the ‘fit test’, which is a mandatory test that certifies the mask wearer to have an adequate face-mask seal competency. The current mask manufacturer national policies for a fit test mandate that the wearer must be clean-shaven to allow for a robust face-mask-face seal. Prof Gurch Randhawa, professor of diversity in public health at the University of Bedfordshire and co-author of the study, said: ‘’Although it is meant for safety of the wearer, it is not a cultural competent policy as it is unclear whether the equality impact assessment was adequately done when such a recommendation was made.’’ Five Sikh doctors working in the NHS were temporarily removed from frontline duties after refusing to shave their beards to fit into standard masks earlier in the year whilst in Canada two Sikh doctors shaved off their beards so they could continue treating Covid-19 patients. This spurred Dr Rajinder Pal Singh to try out an improvised method in India — the under-mask beard cover called ‘thattha’ — to allow him to wear an FFP3 respirator mask, and ‘pass’ the NHS qualitative fit test, but the test can only be validated once there is acceptance from the health and safety executive given that the policy still mandates wearer to be clean shaven. And for that acceptance, a robust proof of the efficacy of the technique was required. The duo Prof Gurch Randhawa and Dr Rajinder Pal Singh also teamed with GPs Dr Sukhpal Singh Gill, Dr Sukhdev Singh, Dr Gaggandeep Singh Alg, and dentists Dr HS Safri, Dr Gurpreet Singh and Dr BS Ubhi. “After revising several materials, I improvised the ‘thattha’ material from fabric to an elastic rubber theraband (Pilates elastic stretch band) which was recommend by my wife Dr Kapilmeet Kaur, a gynaecologist in Stockport, as this gave the best seal fit and covered my entire beard, chin and cheeks and tied a knot on the top of my head,” Dr Rajinder Pal Singh said. He has named it the ‘Singh Thattha’ technique, in honour of the Sikh community as the origin of the thattha comes from Sikhs in Punjab who use a fabric version to tie around their beard after application of gel to let the mould to set in and hold. Several bearded UK dentists belonging to the faith-observant Sikh community adopted the technique and the study showed that 25 out of 27 of them could pass the qualitative fit test. Next the team decided to test the efficacy of the ‘Singh Thattha’ to a robust level of a quantitative testing by a highly experienced and certified fit -tester in a study funded by the UK Sikh Doctors and Dentists Association (SDDA) , and, all 5/5 fully bearded Sikh individuals passed the fit test, leaving no doubts about the efficacy of the innovative technique. The findings, published in UK peer-reviewed medical journal, Journal of Hospital Infection, raise hopes for faith-observant bearded professionals on the Covid-19 frontline across the world, who have been automatically failing mask fit tests. Dr Sukpal Singh Gill, president of the SDDA said: “The concept of making the mask fit the face, rather than making the face fit the mask should be reasonably taken forth in this regard. We look forward to building on these study findings and informing future policy and practice.” Whilst those unable to shave beards could always wear alternative masks such as powered air-purifying respirators (PAPR), these enclosed perspex hoods were in short- short-supply when the Covid-19 pandemic hit Britain and remain expensive and cumbersome to use, and are also not suitable for all purposes. Dr HS Safri said: “The alternatives offered may not allow dentists and some surgeons to function to their abilities as surgical loupes cannot be fitted on them.” “We are now writing to the health and safety executive to say this should be an alternative to a fit test for anyone who has a beard. Since this has been published in a journal we now have the first level of evidence we need to be taken seriously. We are hoping to set a UK standard that is adopted internationally,” Dr Sukhdev Singh, chairman of the Sikh Doctors Association, said. “Redeployment to other areas incurs a loss of skillset and need for re-training, and junior doctors have had their training impacted. I believe the pioneering work of Dr Rajinder Pal Singh will prove to be an exemplar of culturally competent practice, enabling staff from all faiths to look after their patients without having to remove their beards and change their identity,” Prof Gurch Randhawa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-need-to-shave-religious-beard-to-save-covid-19-patients-study/articleshow/79238956.cms||NAOMI CANTON
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||1,054 cases, 30 deaths in past 48 hours||Chandigarh: Punjab recorded 1,054 in last 48 hours, while 30 people lost their lives to the virus. The overall tally of the state shot up to 1,41,658 while the total death toll to 4,458. As many as 507 people were found infected on Saturday, while 18 people succumbed to the virus. On Sunday, 547 cases surfaced and 22 people died. Of 30 deaths, seven were reported in Jalandhar, four each in Bathinda and Sangrur, three in Patiala, two each in Hoshiarpur, Gurdaspur, Fazilka and Muktsar and one each Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Mohali and Amritsar. As many as 179 people were found infected in Jalandhar, 159 in Ludhiana, 158 in Mohali and 112 in Patiala. Test reports of 91 people came positive in Bathinda, 81 in Amritsar, 58 in Gurdaspur, 44 in Pathankot, 34 in Fazilka, 19 each in Sangrur and Muktsar, 16 each in Hoshiarpur and Faridkot, 12 in Nawanshahr, 11 in Barnala, 10 each in Ferozepur, Moga and Kapurthala, seven in Mansa, four in Ropar, three in Fatehgarh Sahib, and one in Tarn Taran. Total Summary till Date Total suspected cases | 28,68,278 Total patients tested positive | 1,41,658 Cured | 1,31,431 Total deaths | 4,458 Active cases | 5,769||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/1054-cases-30-deaths-in-past-48-hours/articleshow/79238968.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Nepal extends border sealing period till December 15||PITHORAGARH: The Nepalese government has decided to not reopen the border with India for at least another month, citing the Covid-19 pandemic. Sources, citing a Nepalese government decision taken in this regard a few days ago, said that it has been decided to let the border remain closed till December 15. Earlier, the border was expected to open on November 15. India and Nepal have around 20 entry points along the border of which seven are in Uttarakhad. All these points are closed since March 25 when the lockdown began. Occasionally, a few of these posts are opened on special circumstances as was done recently when Nepalese pensioners of the Indian Army were allowed to enter India to withdraw their pension from the State Bank of India. Meanwhile, the news of the border not reopening till at least a month was met by dismay from residents of areas near the border. “In the wake of the festive season, we were hoping that the border check-points will be opened in November so that normalcy can resume and people can travel and do business,” said Sanjay Agarwal, a businessman from Banbasa in Champawat district. He added that business activities along the Nepal border have “totally collapsed due to the border being sealed since the business was dependent mainly on Nepalese customers.” “Indian traders have been unable to go to Nepal to collect their money in the last seven months and our losses are constantly mounting,” Agarwal said. In a similar vein, Pramod Kumar, a trader of Jhulaghat, said, “People living on both sides of the border had been requesting to open the border so that normal movement can resume, but there is a sense of disappointment that the border will remain closed for another month.” Puspha Devi, a Nepalese national married to an Indian, who is staying in Pithoragarh, added, “My maternal home is in Nepal and I was hoping that the border will open on November 15 and I will be able to go to Nepal to see my parents but I am disappointed that my wait has become longer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wait-for-reopening-of-india-nepal-border-continues-nepal-extends-border-sealing-period-till-dec-15/articleshow/79235953.cms||Prem Punetha
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Dubbak redux: BJP to go the whole hog for GHMC polls||HYDERABAD: The BJP, in a bid to score over the TRS in the upcoming GHMC elections, has come out with a strategy to use Andhra Pradesh party leaders for the campaign. Highly placed sources said right from D Purandeswari to Kanna Lakshminarayana, many leaders have given consent to campaign in GHMC areas. However, there is big confusion in BJP whether to go aggressive with the campaign. “Party is concerned about the voters response as special category status played negative role in our election result for Malkajgiri, but they are needed for local connect,” a senior leader said. In view of this, the party will make them connect with local communities through campaign in respective areas and also involve them in door-to-door campaign. Meanwhile, BJP state president Bandi Sanjay Kumar has appointed 20 committees to work for the elections. All committees will be headed by state level leaders and Union minister of state for home affairs G Kishan Reddy will be chairman of the election management committee. Former state president Dr K Laxman will be the convener, Vivek Venkata Swamy and Garikapati Mohan Rao, Chintala Ramachandra Reddy will be joint conveners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dubbak-redux-bjp-to-go-the-whole-hog-for-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79238967.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 16, 2020||India||Pak concocting documents to accuse India of terrorism: Govt||NEW DELHI: After Pakistan claimed to have unearthed “irrefutable evidence” of India’s alleged involvement in terrorist activities, India hit back on Sunday and said concocting documents and peddling false narratives would not absolve Pakistan of terror sponsorship. Calling upon Islamabad to end its support to cross-border terrorism, the government said in a statement that even the country’s leaders had never hidden the fact that Pakistan had become a factory for producing terrorists. This was yet another futile anti-India propaganda exercise which sought to justify cross-border terrorism, the government said. “The so called claims of ‘proof’ against India enjoy no credibility, are fabricated and represent figment of imagination. This desperate attempt will find few takers as the international community is aware of Pakistan’s tactics and proof of its terror sponsorship has been admitted by none other than its own leadership,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, adding India was confident the world would hold Pakistan to account. India’s reaction came a day after Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi addressed a press conference, alongside Army spokesman Maj Gen Babar Iftikhar, in which he presented audio clips to claim that India was behind some of the terror attacks in Pakistan. While Islamabad had claimed that Indian diplomats in Afghanistan were promoting terrorist activities, the Kabul government rejected these allegations as baseless. The Afghan government said it would never allow anyone to use its soil for disruptive activities against any third country. The government recalled that the face of global terror, Osama bin Laden, was found in Pakistan and that Pakistani PM Imran Khan glorified him as a “martyr” from the floor of Parliament. “He admitted the presence of 40,000 terrorists in Pakistan, their science and technology minister proudly claimed involvement and success of Pakistan, led by its prime minister, in the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 Indian soldiers were martyred,” Srivastava said. Despite repeated calls for restraint and adherence to the ceasefire understanding of 2003 for maintaining peace and tranquillity, he said, Pakistani forces continued to engage in providing cover fire to infiltrators. India had summoned Pakistan's charge d’affaires on Saturday to lodge a strong protest over unprovoked ceasefire violations by Pakistani forces in multiple sectors along the LoC in J&K on November 13, resulting in the death of four civilians and serious injuries to 19 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-concocting-documents-to-accuse-india-of-terrorism-govt/articleshow/79239524.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Ex-MP Chandrawati, who defeated Bansi Lal, dies of Covid-19||ROHTAK: Chandrawati, former lieutenant governor (LG) of Pondicherry, died during her treatment at the PGIMS Rohtak on Sunday morning. The first woman parliamentarian of Haryana, who had defeated stalwart Bansi Lal in Lok Sabha polls in 1977, was 92. She was living in Charkhi Dadri after her retirement from active political life. She was also the first woman MLA, the first minister (1964-66 and 1972-74) and first opposition leader in the state assembly. She had also served as the president of Janata Party from 1977 to 1979 and served as LG of Pondicherry from February to December 1990. After receiving the death of her news, people assembled at her residence in Charkhi Dadri. Due to her being infected from Covid-19, her last rites were performed under the supervision of health department officials at her village, Dallawas, in Charkhi Dadri. Former CM and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda called her death irreparable loss to the state. photo caption: The health officials performed the last rites of Chandrawati at her village Dallawas in Charkhi Dadri with the pandemic norms as she was COVID-19 positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ex-mp-chandrawati-who-defeated-bansi-lal-dies-of-covid-19/articleshow/79238970.cms||Sat Singh
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||No green crackers on Diwali despite Uttarakhand govt order||NAINITAL: Even though the Uttarakhand government had banned the sale of ordinary crackers in the six major cities of Dehradun, Haldwani, Rudrapur, Kashipur, Haridwar and Rishikesh and allowed only green crackers which have low emission levels, the guidelines were openly flouted on Diwali. Several residents told TOI that “after over seven months of living under the shadow of the pandemic, Diwali was finally an opportunity for celebration”, and therefore, despite the ban, they bought regular crackers. Somesh Rawat, a Haldwani resident. said that even though he was aware of the guidelines, he bought regular crackers since his family “wanted to celebrate properly after being in the shadow of the pandemic for several months.” Meanwhile, some other residents said that they did try to buy green crackers, but no shop in their locality had any, and therefore, they had to buy the regular ones. “We had to buy the regular ones for children since they wanted to celebrate Diwali,” said Shivam Tiwari, a resident of Rudrapur. Kanak Singh, a resident of Race Course in Dehradun, blamed the government for failing to keep a check on the sale of crackers despite guidelines. There was some enforcement in place in a few cities though. In Haridwar, over 100 people were fined for bursting crackers beyond the specified time limit of 10 pm and in Rishikesh, the number was around 70. Residents said the number of challans should have been more.“Despite a time limit being specified, people were bursting crackers well into the night. The administration did fine some of the people, but it wasn’t nearly enough,” said a resident. Government officials said that efforts had been made to enforce the guidelines. “We had deployed police personnel across the district to ensure that the state’s guidelines are followed. We have asked for more details on challans and fines issued,” said Nainital district magistrate Savin Bansal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-green-crackers-on-diwali-despite-govt-order/articleshow/79236634.cms||Prashant Jha
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Yogi Adityanath, Trivendra Rawat reach Kedarnath, to attend shrine closing ceremony today||Dehradun: A day before the closing of portals of Kedarnath for winter, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his Uttarakhand counterpart Trivendra Singh Rawat offered prayers at the revered shrine on Sunday and attended the evening aarti. The two CMs are also scheduled to attend the portal closing ceremony of Kedarnath in the early morning hours of Monday. Thereafter, Adityanath and Rawat will leave for Badrinath, where the UP CM is slated to lay the foundation stone of a tourist guest house being built in Badrinath by the UP government. The proposed 40-rooms facility will be a ‘green building’ constructed in Garhwali style and is estimated to be completed in two-years’ time at a cost of around Rs 11 crore on one acre of land. On Sunday, both the CMs also inspected the ongoing projects at Kedarnath. Addressing mediapersons at Kedarnath, the UP CM said, “For a long time, I have been waiting for the opportunity to offer prayers at Kedarnath. Whenever I prayed, I always thought about coming to Kedarnath and feel blessed to have got an opportunity to visit the revered shrine and be able to also attend the portals closing ceremony.” Adityanath said that he had last visited Kedarnath around 12 years ago. Recalling the 2013 Kedarnath floods, the UP CM said that the reconstruction work done under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi and CM Rawat was “praiseworthy”. “The reconstruction and development works carried out in the region has further strengthened the faith of the devotees,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yogi-adityanath-trivendra-rawat-reach-kedarnath-to-attend-shrine-closing-ceremony-today/articleshow/79235960.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||11 Covid-19 deaths, 383 new cases in Himachal||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 11 Covid-19 deaths and 383 positive cases on Sunday while 209 positive patients have also recovered. Three deaths were reported from Kullu district, two deaths each from Kangra and Shimla district, one death each was reported from Una, Chamba, Solan and Mandi districts. The state has 29,713 positive cases of which 6,879 cases are active, 22,370 patients have recovered, 435 patients have died while 22 have migrated out. In all, 4,58,629 persons have been tested for Covid-19 in Himachal Pradesh till Sunday of which 4,28,778 persons have been tested negative while the results of 138 samples are awaited. Positive cases reported include six from Bilaspur district, one from Chamba district, nine from Hamirpur district, 40 from Kangra district, 74 from Kullu district, 122 from Lahaul-Spiti district, 16 from Mandi district, 80 from Shimla district, three from Sirmour district, 18 from Solan district and 14 from Una district. Those recovered include 22 from Bilaspur district, 18 from Chamba district, two from Kinnaur district, seven from Mandi district, 108 from Shimla district, 17 from Sirmour district, 30 from Solan district and five from Una district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-covid-19-deaths-383-new-cases-in-himachal/articleshow/79238972.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Shimla||Himachal bans farewell parties in educational institutions||SHIMLA: Amid surge in Covid-19 cases in Himachal Pradesh, the education department has imposed a ban on organising farewell parties, lunch parties and retirement parties in all educational institutions of the state till further orders. In view of the spurt in cases, the government has already closed all educational institutions from November 11 to November 25. In a circular issued to the educational institutions, director of higher education Amarjeet Kumar Sharma has said the current scenario warrants certain restrictions to prevent transmission of coronavirus, but it has been observed that farewell parties, lunch parties and retirement parties are still being organised in various institutions. He said it has been found that gatherings in such farewell parties have led to increase in coronavirus cases in the educational institutions and been instrumental in the spread of pandemic. “In view of the safety and security of students and staff, the heads of all educational institutions are again directed not to organise any type of farewell parties, lunch parties or retirement parties…,” Sharma said in the circular. The heads of all educational institutions have also been directed to follow the guidelines and SOPs issued by the state government from time to time in letter and spirit, and in case of laxity, he has warned of action against the erring officials of such institutions. As on Saturday, the state had a total of 29,330 positive cases, of which 6,716 cases were active, 424 patients had died and 22,161 patients had recovered, while 22 patients had moved out of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-bans-farewell-parties-in-educational-institutions/articleshow/79238978.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Sculptures and murals to adorn Residency Road flyover||NAGPUR: Driving through crowded Sadar will no longer be a tiresome exercise as National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is beautifying the Residency Road flyover. You will be able to gaze at sculptures and other art works while driving or shopping in the prime commercial district of the city. The project is a brainchild of Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari. NHAI has awarded the job to city-based designer firm Hastankit. Deepti Deshpande of Hastankit said beautification work had already begun and would be completed in four months. The sculptures and artworks have been designed by her and Lalit Vikamshi. The work order was issued months ago but work could not start due to Covid. Deshpande said the area under the flyover has been divided into five zones: urban green zone, portraits of Nagpur zone, shopping zone, educational zone and sports zone. The starting point was the ramp along Kasturchand Park. The designer said, “Urban green zone provides a needed public space for corporates and other visitors of the entertainment sector. Portraits of Nagpur zone exhibits knowledge about Nagpur's remarkable personalities, illuminated in both English and Marathi.” Following the portraits of Nagpur zone is the shopping zone beautifying the Residency Road. “As we move towards Raj Bhavan, the educational zone begins, serving colleges and schools in the vicinity. Hence, an aquatic park and birds park is proposed here, for children to enjoy exciting 3D visuals to learn from,” said Deshpande. The Hastankit director further said that next was painted pillars with images of spacecrafts launched by India. “We pride Nagpur for its several facets, one of it being the ‘Tiger Capital of India’. We have designed sculptures and graphics increasing the awareness towards saving wildlife,” she added. “Nagpur is famous as Orange city. So we are marking it with a sculptural monument of orange city. Moving towards the end of our bridge is the Mankapur indoor stadium. Hence this zone is named sports zone, where wonderful artworks have been proposed to inspire and make people aware of the importance of this sector and health,” she said. “Part of the flyover above BTJ square is uniquely made up of Iron metal and not of concrete. To enhance the structure form, to creatively illuminate the busy square and to make it more fascinating to cross, the above stripes has been highlighted with vibrant colours,” she added. “Last but not the least, we have a patent over this Nagpur word “Mahol”. A huge text sculpture saying Mahol will be installed,” said Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sculptures-and-murals-to-adorn-residency-rd-flyover/articleshow/79238977.cms||Ashish Roy
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Prefabricated Covid centres being set up in Himachal: CM||Shimla: Expressing concern over increasing number of Covid-19 patients and casualties in Himachal Pradesh, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday said prefabricated Covid care centres (CCC) with adequate number of beds were being set up in the state. While presiding over a video conference with DCs, SPs, chief medical officers, principals and medical superintendents ofgovernment medical colleges of the state, he said stress must be laid on contact tracing of infected persons. He asked doctors to ensure proper treatment of patients, especially of those with co-morbidities. “Prefabricated Covid care centres with adequate bed facilities are being set up at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College, Shimla, Dr. Rajender Prasad Govt Medical College, Tanda, Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri Government Medical College, Ner Chowk and at Nalagarah to meet the demand in case of increase in number of Covid patients,” he added. The CM said it had been felt that change in climate was also resulting in fast spread of the virus. He asked senior doctors to ensure at least three rounds of wards of Covid patients to instil confidence in patients. “It has also been felt that casual approach of people and laxity in adhering to SOPs is a major reason for the virus spreading. Social gatherings are attributing maximum to the increase in Covid cases in Himachal. Gathering of large number of people in social functions in a closed environment, like marriage halls and community centres, is resulting in increase in number of cases. Focus must be laid on IEC (information, education and communication) to sensitise people,” he said. He added bed capacity of all Covid hospitals and care centres must be increased to meet the requirement in case of sudden spike in the number of patients. He said more ambulances with oxygen cylinder must be deployed to facilitate prompt transportation of critical patients from home isolation to Covid care centres or hospitals. Health minister Rajiv Saizal said communityparticipation must be ensured to check the spread of virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/prefabricated-covid-centres-being-set-up-in-himachal-cm/articleshow/79238984.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Ahead of opening, colleges scramble to adhere to standard operating procedures||BENGALURU: Faculty and managements were busy overseeing sanitising operations, ensuring Covid-19 tests for students and staff, placing hand sanitisers and thermal scanners at strategic locations and prominently displaying safety protocols on campus as preparations were on in full swing on the weekend to reopen colleges from Tuesday. Colleges closed on March 16 in the wake of the pandemic and have been shut since. Although classes have continued online, this is the first time since then that colleges will have students on campus for classes. However, colleges are unsure just how many students will actually turn up on Day 1 as students have been given the option of choosing between online and regular classes. Most expect a low turnout. “As of now, we have no idea what the turnout will be like. We will have to wait and see,” said TD Kemparaju, vice-chancellor, Bengaluru North University. “We hope attendance will increase through the week. Colleges have been asked to submit weekly reports on how classes are progressing. We are hoping colleges will not find it difficult to maintain social distancing now as only final year students are allowed on campus.” Bangalore North University, as also Bangalore University, has said it will resume regular classes only for final year students for now. Karisidappa, vice-chancellor, Visvesvaraya Technological University, said colleges have been instructed to open laboratories for students who have trouble attending online classes. “Colleges have mapped the nearest Covid-19 testing centres for students and faculty. Some centres are seeing see long queues. But we have to wait to see how many will actually attend,” he said. VTU too has decided to hold classes on campus only for final year students. On the other hand, some colleges have decided to wait and watch. “We will wait and see how many students will come on Tuesday. If the numbers are very low, we will continue with online classes that we have been conducting till now,” said Shanti Rajendra Kumar, principal, Dr Ambedkar Evening College. KN Subramanya, principal, RV College of Engineering, said: “We do not know how many will come on Day 1 as students have to get Covid negative certificates. We have asked our final year students to come. As and when they come, we will make batches of 10 and start practical classes.” The social welfare department has released standard operating procedures for reopening of hostels as well. The rules state only 50% of a hostel can be filled at a time. Preference should be given to students with disability and outstation students. Many hostels had been converted into quarantine centres and these had to be sanitised thoroughly to be turned into hostels again and ensure they were safe for students. Meanwhile, many students of St Joseph’s College, who returned to Bengaluru as the college had announced regular exams, have checked into their PG accommodations. “Nothing has changed here. There are no Covid rules or etiquette that is being followed in my PG. We are on our own. We should take care of ourselves,” said a student from Manipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/colleges-gear-up-for-reopening-unsure-of-attendance-on-day-1/articleshow/79237316.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Pembilai Orumai not to contest local body polls||IDUKKI: Pembilai Orumai, the women’s union of tea garden workers, which led the historic agitation of women workers at the Munnar Kannan Devan Hills Plantations Limited, has decided to opt out of the local body elections. Pembilai Orumai had fielded 26 members for grama panchayats and five for block panchayats in the last elections and had won two seats in grama panchayat and one in block panchayat. Gomathy Augustine won the Devikulam block panchayat and Vellathai and Mariyamma won in Munnar grama panchayat. “Mainstream parties hijacked all those who won under the banner of Pembilai Orumai soon after the elections. Vellathai and Mariyamma joined Congress and Gomathy joined CITU,” says Lissy Sunny, president of Pembilai Orumai. “Now, we have over 2,000 members. We decided to stay out of the elections unanimously. But we will not allow Gomathy to contest under the banner of Pembilai Orumai. I have written to the district collector, demanding that she should not be allowed to use the name and flag of our organization for her election campaigns,” said Lissy. But Gomathy denied the rumours that she will be contesting the elections. “I will not contest the polls this time. But I will continue my fight for the rights of plantation workers,” Gomathy said. The Pembilai Orumai movement started as a huge protest movement in September 2015 with plantation workers hitting the streets demanding an increase in wages and bonus for its over 4,000 women employees. The protest was led by Lissy Sunny, Gomathy Augustine, and others, and emerged as one of the most powerful organisations in the district. Its success prompted Pembilai Orumai to field its own candidates in the ensuing local body elections but later internal rifts broke out and several key members joined other outfits. Gomathy contested the 2019 Lok Sabha election from Idukki as an independent candidate but could get only a few votes. Last week, High Range Samrakshana Samithi, a people’s movement formed under the Catholic Church to protect the interests of farmers in the district, had announced that it will not contest local body polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/pembilai-orumai-not-to-contest-local-body-polls/articleshow/79237339.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 16, 2020||Trichy||Trichy: Pest attack adds to coconut farmers’ woes||TRICHY: Two years since the cyclone Gaja, which destroyed lakhs of coconut trees in delta districts, the problems of coconut farmers are still unresolved. Coconut saplings planted in place of the uprooted trees are now suffering from the attack of the palm rhinoceros beetles. Farmers have appealed to the authorities to find a solution to save the half-grown coconut trees. The efforts by the farmers who are trying to come out of the disaster by planting new coconut saplings have hit a roadblock with the attack of pests. The one-and-a-half-year-old coconut saplings are under the attack of palm rhinoceros beetle and red palm weevil in many places across the delta districts. “We are already in distress. The beetle menace has added to our woes. The government should help farmers to eliminate the beetles as soon as possible. We appeal the government to distribute pesticides free of cost to farmers", Adaikalam, a farmer from Peravurani said. Meanwhile, another coconut farmer, Gandhi, opined that the Union government should establish the Coconut Development Board in Thanjavur where farmers have cultivated coconut in several acres of land. Scientists from the Coconut Research Station in Veppankulam said that they had advised farmers to bury the trunks of the coconut trees which were uprooted during the cyclone. However, many of them did not follow the advice. The trunks which had rotten over time caused pests like palm rhinoceros beetle, red palm weevil and termites to grow, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/pest-attack-adds-to-coconut-farmers-woes/articleshow/79238988.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana adds 1,957 Covid-19 cases, 8 die||CHANDIGARH: Haryana’s overall count of Covid-19 cases is all set to breach two lakh-mark as 1,957 new cases and eight deaths reported on Sunday took the tally to 199,874 and death toll to 2,019. Active cases in the state are also set to breach the 20,000-mark. With the rise in cases, the recovery rate has further come down to 89.21% even as 1,930 recoveries took the overall cure count to 178,298. Now there are 19,557 active cases, which include 334 critical patients, who are either on ventilator or oxygen support. While the state’s death rate has dipped to 1.01%, the doubling rate has gone up to two months, i.e 60 days. Of the latest deaths, three were recorded in Bhiwani district, two in Faridabad and one each in Gurgaon, Sonipat and Sirsa districts. While Faridabad reported the highest 643 fresh cases on Sunday, 515 persons tested positive in Gurgaon. Besides, Hisar reported 163 new cases, Sonipat 136, Rohtak 92, Jhajjar 61 and Mahendragarh 43. The other 15 districts reported less than 40 cases, with four of them less than 10, while Kaithal reported no new case. On Saturday, the state had reported 2,118 new cases and five deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-adds-1957-cases-8-deaths-tally-close-to-2l/articleshow/79238986.cms||Manvir Saini
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Portals of Gangotri shrine closed for winters||DEHRADUN: The portals of Gangotri shrine in Uttarkashi — dedicated to goddess Ganga — were closed for the winter season on the occasion of Annakut festival on Sunday. According to the Devasthanam Board, over 23,500 devotees visited the temple in this year’s yatra season. Priests closed the portals amid chanting of hymns and rituals at 12.15 pm. Gangotri temple committee president Suresh Semwal said, “After performing special rituals, the palanquin carrying the idol of goddess Ganga was taken out from the temple.” Gangotri is the first shrine among the Char Dham temples to be closed. The idol of goddess Ganga will be shifted to its winter abode at Mukhba village where the devotees will offer prayers to the deity for the next six months. The temple will open in April-May next year. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat, who was in Kedarnath on Sunday,in a post on Twitter, said, “I pray to Goddess Ganga to keep her blessings with all of her devotees.” The closing ceremony of the temple was attended by MLA Gangotri and Devasthanam Board member Gopal Rawat and deputy district magistrate Bhatwadi Devendra Singh Negi. Social distancing norms were in place during the closure of the valve and the departure of Utsav Doli, officials claimed. Meanwhile, the portals of Kedarnath and Yamunotri shrines will be closed on the occasion of Bhaiya Dooj on Monday. The palanquin of the deity will leave for Omkeshwar temple at Ukhimath, which is it's winter abode. Similarly, the “doli” of Yamunotri will be taken to Kharsali, which is the abode of the deity in the winter months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/portals-of-gangotri-shrine-closed-for-winters/articleshow/79236646.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 16, 2020||Pune||Congress demands waiver of mandatory security deposits for civic projects’ land acquisition||PUNE: The city unit of the Congress party has demanded a waiver of the mandatory security deposit to acquire land for civic infrastructure projects. The Congress has written a letter to the state government in this regard, in an attempt to ease the financial burden on the Pune Municipal Corporation, which has been badly hobbled by the pandemic. Under existing land acquisition rules, the local self-governing body — PMC in this case — must deposit 30% of the land value with the district administration once the notification for land acquisition is issued. The money is parked with the collectorate until final settlement and the PMC does not earn any interest from it. Citing a similar waiver given to the public works department, the Congress party asked that similar consideration be extended to PMC as well. The Congress contended that this money, if freed up, could give infrastructure projects in the city a boost, as many had to be halted for a lack of funds. The letter claimed that several key infrastructure projects, such as 24X7 water supply, High Capacity Mass Transit Route, road expansions and garbage processing units have been held up due to land acquisition. “The financial condition of the civic administration has weakened because of the pandemic. A lack of access to funds submitted as security deposits will increase the financial burden on the civic body. So the state government should do away with this provision as it would speed up the land acquisition and construction of civic infrastructure,” said Ulhas “Aba” Bagul, the Congress party chief in PMC. The development plans for PMC areas have two different types of land use — ‘existing land use’ and ‘proposed land use’. The acquisition of land for projects under proposed land use has ground to a halt due to financial constraints. PMC officials explained that, apart from cash payments, other modes of compensation for landowners include transfer of development rights (TDR) or floor space index (FSI). “Landowners do not like these options due to fluctuation in FSI rates and reduction in TDR rates; they prefer cash compensation, which increases the financial burden on the civic administration,” a civic official said. “Even the infrastructure projects are getting adversely affected due to the delay in land acquisition, so relief should be given to PMC from submitting the deposits,” said Bagul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cong-demands-waiver-of-mandatory-security-deposits-for-civic-projects-land-acquisition/articleshow/79238179.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Pune||Two-year-old boy killed in hit-and-run in Warje||PUNE: A two-year-old boy died after he was hit by a car on the Warje-NDA road on Saturday morning at Ganapati Matha area in Warje. The Warje police arrested the car driver for rash and negligent driving, later the same day. Deceased Ayush Datta Sabane’s uncle, Digambar Sabane (25), lodged a complaint with the Warje police, who then arrested the car driver, Ganesh Maruti Joshi (45). Assistant inspector Bapu Raikar of Warje police station said,“Sabane, the boy’s grandfather Dhondiram (60) and Ayush left their home around 11am and went to a grocery store. The shop owner was preparing a bill for the grocery items when Sabane heard noises coming from the entrance of the store. Sabane turned back to find Ayush lying on the road,” he said. Raikar said, “Sabane rushed outside and found that Ayush was bleeding from his head. Passers-by informed Sabane that a speeding car had hit the boy and gave him its registration number. We then located the driver using that number,” he said. The local residents took Ayush to a private hospital in Warje. Later he was shifted to a private hospital in Erandwane, where he was declared dead on arrival, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-year-old-boy-killed-in-hit-and-run-in-warje/articleshow/79238180.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mangaluru||MSCL to update progress of all projects in real time||Mangaluru: The glacial pace at which infrastructure projects often progress is a source of enduring chagrin among the public. However, Mangaluru Smart City Ltd (MSCL) is now offering a chance to the people to stay abreast of the status of all of its projects on Twitter and Facebook, where the civic agency will constantly update their progress. In fact, MSCL has already started uploading details of all projects it is currently executing on a real-time basis on its Facebook page, SmartCity Mangaluru, and on its Twitter handle @SmartMangaluru. Information pertaining to ongoing work being disrupted, diversion of traffic to facilitate execution of projects and any form of disturbance that its projects may cause the public, MSCL will update on the social media portals. Work having commenced on concretisation of the road between Hampankatta and Bavuta Gudde, the pedestrian underpass near Town Hall and with work on the underground drainage network in Bunder also getting under way, MSCL officials felt compelled to keep the public informed about the progress of each of these projects, and keep them aware of any inconvenience that may result from the execution of these projects. Since the citizens were growing increasingly apprehensive about the problems they might face owing to work beginning simultaneously on three projects, MSLC officials and elected representatives from the city including Mangaluru City South MLA D Vedavyas Kamath to come up with a solution. Meanwhile, MSLC officials too have been directed to expedite work on all ongoing projects. An example of the real-time update on the progress of projects was the suspension of concretisation on Hampankatta Road following unexpected showers on Friday. The officials were quick to inform the public of the suspension on the social media sites. The social media pages are being constantly monitored, and all developments, major or otherwise, being reflected. MSCL managing director Akshy Sridhar told TOI, “We are trying to keep the people informed about the progress of our projects in real time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/mscl-to-update-progress-of-all-projects-in-real-time/articleshow/79237337.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Citizens prep to welcome Padwa & Bhaubeej today||PUNE: Plans to bring in the Hindu new year on Monday include sumptuous food and family get-togethers. After traditional Diwali celebrations with the immediate family, Punekars are gearing up to welcome the new year. Padwa is the beginning of the Kartik Maas (month) as per the Hindu calendar. “It is also the beginning of the new year. People often wake up early in the morning and seek blessings from elder members of the family. Several families also worship books on the day to kick start the new year with new account books,” said Amol Mulay, a city-based priest. Speaking about the celebrations at her home, city-based homemaker Jyoti Shinde said, “Our Padwa or new year custom is fixed. We wake up early in the morning and seek blessings from our elders. The entire family would then go to the temple to offer prayers. This year, we will offer prayers at home. This will be followed by a family lunch of a special meal.” According to Pandit Mulay, Bhaubeej will also be celebrated on Monday this year. “Padwa and Bhaubeej are on the same day this year. Bhaubeej tithi will set in on Monday evening.” he stated. City-based working professional Sayali Jadhav said, “While the family will enjoy a meal together for Padwa in the morning, we will have another delicious meal in the evening as my brother will come to my house to celebrate Bhaubeej. The customary applying of tika and ‘ovalna’ will be done. I have got him a gift hamper of his favourite items.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citizens-prep-to-welcome-padwa-bhaubeej-today/articleshow/79238208.cms||Rujuta Parekh
November 16, 2020||Pune||Places of worship get ready to reopen doors cautiously in Pune||PUNE: Temples, gurdwaras and mosques in the city have undertaken all precautionary measures to welcome devotees, while churches under the Poona diocese will reopen anytime after Tuesday, when diocesan authorities will approach the district collectorate for guidelines. Dagadusheth Halwai Sarvajanik Ganpati Trust in the city will open its doors at 5am on Monday only for darshan, without any offerings, said trustee Mahesh Suryawanshi. “For the first two weeks, devotees will only be able to take darshan, which will be neatly organized in queues, maintaining all social distancing norms and other precautionary measures such as use of sanitisers and masks. No devotee will be allowed inside the temple without a mask while all our security personnel have been trained to handle devotees based on standard operating procedures (SOPs) laid down by the state government,” said Suryawanshi. Two weeks later, devotees will be allowed to offer flowers and ‘sreefal’. In the third phase, around December, devotees will be allowed to perform ‘abhishek’ inside the temple and sit inside the porch area. Besides, Suryawanshi said that the trust has made online darshan facility available for those who can’t make it to the temple. Satish Nair, trustee of Ayyappa Temple at Rasta Peth said, “We are expecting a crowd on the first day of reopening the temple so we have to be cautious. We have sent notifications to our members on social media that if they want to visit the temple, they should wear masks and carry their own sanitisers. We will be allowing only 10-15 people at a time and ensuring social distancing norms are followed correctly. The temple will be sanitized and we will follow all protocols set by the municipal corporation.” Fr Malcolm Sequeira, vicar-general of the Pune diocese, said the diocese will issue instructions to its churches about reopening after a meeting the district collector. Individual churches will then hold meetings with the local parish councils on implementing SOPs, he said. Sequeira said churches plan to introduce more services (masses), which would help restrict the number of people attending each service. To this end, the diocese also plans to hold services in convents or chapels besides at churches. The Pune diocese controls 38 churches from Pune up to Lonavla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/places-of-worship-get-ready-to-reopen-doors-cautiously/articleshow/79239350.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Woman wrongly diagnosed with cancer to contest polls||ALAPPUZHA: Rejani V, who was given chemotherapy after a wrong diagnosis of cancer, is contesting local body polls to register her protest against the government authorities for her present plight. In 2019, Rejani was subjected to chemotherapy at Kottayam Medical College Hospital on the basis of a wrong test report from a private laboratory. The doctors later realized that the woman was not affected by cancer when the result of the samples to the MCH lab was found negative. “I don’t know how to explain those days. I am an ordinary woman and mother of a girl child. The shock and my mental depression at that time cannot be expressed in words. I had lost my hair and turned bald. I also experienced physical uneasiness,” said 39-year-old Rejani. Rejani, abandoned by her husband, has an eight-year-old daughter. She worked as a cashier in a textile shop in Pathanamthitta. “The government has not come forward to help me. I knocked many doors of government departments but none opened for me. So in September 2019, I staged one-day fasting protest in front of Mavelikkara taluk office and BJP supported my agitation. After that, I got Rs 3 lakh from the chief minister’s distress relief fund. I requested the government to give me a job or better compensation as I was unable to work due to the health issues after undergoing chemotherapy. Still I am facing various health issues. The government did not consider my requests. So I have decided to contest in the election as an NDA candidate to register my protest against the government,” she said. According to Rejani, till the last election, she cast her vote for CPM and her experiences forced her to rethink. Rejani is contesting in Bharanikavu block panchayat from Palamel block division. “I am an ordinary person and I know the problems of the poor. So, I don’t make tall promises. But I will stand with the ordinary people and will try to address their issues,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/woman-wrongly-diagnosed-with-cancer-to-contest-polls/articleshow/79237388.cms||Sajimon P S
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||MP Balu Dhanorkar celebrates Diwali with transgender community||CHANDRAPUR: Congress MP Balu Dhanorkar and his wife, MLA Pratibha Dhanorkar made their Diwali memorable by choosing to celebrate it with people from the transgender community. The Dhanorkar couple invited the transgendered folk to their house and shared festive joy, while also discussing the problems they face and their solutions. The transgender community was at the forefront during Dhanorkar's campaign for parliamentary election. Now that the transgendered folk, who mainly depends on alms, are facing crisis of livelihood in the wake of lockdown followed by social financial crunch, Dhanorkar spent time with them on the occasion of Diwali. The guests were overwhelmed with the gesture and the joy radiated on their faces during the celebration. The couple sought blessings from the community and distributed gifts among them. The Dhanorkar couple asked the community members about their expectations from the society. The MP assured that he would voice their problems at the national level and strive hard to bring transgendered folk into the mainstream of society. He recalled their support during the election campaign and claimed he had remained in touch with them since then. The invitation to the community for Diwali celebrations was to convey the message that they are not only a part of society, but also their family, MP Dhanorkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mp-dhanorkar-celebrates-diwali-with-transgender-community/articleshow/79238995.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 16, 2020||Pune||Covid-19: August was most critical for PCMC, key data reveals||PUNE: The Covid-19 positivity rate in the twin towns was highest in August at 26% and the lowest (at 6.7%) during the second week of November, a report by the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation has said. The civic body said its health department recorded 28,000 new cases and over 500 months in August, making the month one of the PCMC's most critical. The report, however, added that cases have been dipping since October 22. According to the data, the positivity rate in the week of October 15-October 21 was nearly 10%, which receded to 9% over the following week. The week of November 5 to November 11 saw the lowest test positivity rate - 6.7%. The PCMC report said weekly tests too dropped slightly during the October to November transition. From October 15 to October 21, there were 14,982 tests; the November 5-November 11 period saw just over 12,094 tests. Additional commissioner of the PCMC, Santosh Patil, said so far, they have not seen any fresh spikes. But he added that officials are waiting for clearer data. “Our staff has been working tirelessly, even during Diwali. We can't be complacent during the festival period. Crowding at marketplaces needs to stay under control and for that, citizens should be more responsible. Masks and sanitisers are priority for everyone," Patil said. Abhijit More, health activist, said, “The number of daily tests should not drop. The possibility of a second wave cannot be dismissed just yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/with-26-positivity-rate-was-highest-in-aug-for-twin-towns-lowest-in-nov/articleshow/79239352.cms||Piyush Bhusari
November 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Serosurvey findings back school-reopening; resurgence unlikely, say experts||PUNE: Experts tracking Covid’s spread in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) have said that reopening of schools is unlikely to cause a surge in cases. They cited data from serosurveys in the PMR, which shows adolescents between 12 and 17 years of age had the second-highest antibody prevalence (35%) after the age group of 51 to 65 (35.5%), meaning the young have had substantial contact with the virus already. A vaccine, the experts said, is also unlikely to have a major link with reopening of schools as according to the global consensus, children will be the last to receive any Covid-19 inoculation. Even for healthy adults, vaccination is at least a year (or more) away due to prioritization. The experts were reacting to reports that said parents were increasingly hesitant to send children back to school until there was a vaccine in circulation. "We are not preventing infection in children by closing schools," said epidemiologist Amitav Banerjee. "This is very much evident from the results of the Pimpri Chinchwad serosurvey which found that scores of adolescents have unwittingly contracted virus and have recovered from it." He added, "So since this antibody study has shown that children are already having almost the same level of immunity as the general population, the reopening of schools will not cause a resurgence of infection in the community. Banerjee said the Union health ministry's message during the pandemic's early phase had sparked fear among parents. "The health ministry officials' initial briefings implied that children were at high risk from virus. But this was not based on evidence. The pandemic's unfolding over the next eight months has shown that the virus hasn't impacted children much." Social scientist and anthropologist Aarti Nagarkar, however, cited a recent Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) observation that stated children could act as silent spreaders. "In another study, Indian researchers studying data from Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, found that children and young adults are efficient spreaders within households, especially in resource-limited settings. So we have to be extremely careful while reopening schools," Nagarkar said. But some experts also cited data from contact-tracing investigations that suggests children are less likely to be the main transmitters. Most countries, based on the evidence gathered so far, opened primary and lower classes first with no impact on transmission levels in the surrounding community. "With the current evidence, we can propose reopening of primary and middle-school, also along with higher classes," Banerjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/serosurvey-findings-back-school-reopening-resurgence-unlikely-experts/articleshow/79239351.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 16, 2020||Pune||Hunger for reading feeds sales of Diwali anka||PUNE: The state’s appetite for food for thought on Diwali through a range of special magazines has increased this year; with many of these Diwali anka going out of stock despite reprinting and others witnessing demand for their publications soar. Distributors and bookshops said they had received an unexpected high demand for the Diwali anka this year, attributing it to lack of access to good reading material for many months. However, some publishers worried about the impact of Covid-19 and lockdown on demand for the special issues, which reduced the number of pages and copies printed. “Frankly, we are overwhelmed with inquiries for the Diwali anka and some popular publications are already out of stock. The copies of Mauj, Akshar, Dhananjay are already sold out. In fact, Mauj was reprinted owing to the demand but, even that is sold out,” said Rasika Rathivadekar of Akshardhara book store in Pune, which has been hosting an exhibition of Diwali magazines for the last 25 years. A hundred years after the Diwali special magazines were first published, they remain a festive treat for literature lovers and avid readers. While illustrations and comics dominate magazines for children, the ones that are heavily based on literature have short stories and poems. Renowned Marathi writers such as Jaywant Dalvi, Madhu Mangesh Karnik and Vijaya Rajadhyasha first wrote in Diwali magazines and then these were published as short story collections. Last year, nearly 275 Diwali anka were printed and distributed across the state. The pandemic did reduce the number of magazines printed to 200, adding to the demand for those out in the market. “The demand for Diwali anka has been beyond anyone’s expectation. Due to the lockdown for six months, there was no way to gauge the public’s mood and lesser number of magazines were printed. Many renowned Diwali anka such as Zee Utsav Natyancha, Shatayushi, Kathashri — were not printed and added to demand for magazines in the same category,” said Shrikant Bhutda of Poonam Agency in Pune. Many stores and distributors started home delivery of the Diwali anka to meet the readers’ requirements. “We got online bookings from Maharastra, Bangalore, Dubai and USA,” Rathivadekar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hunger-for-reading-feeds-sales-of-diwali-anka/articleshow/79238213.cms||Swatee Kher
November 16, 2020||Pune||Mechanic held for stealing seven bicycles||PUNE: A 22-year-old bicycle mechanic from Bavdhan was arrested on Saturday on the charge of stealing seven high-end bicycles from different housing complexes in the past few months. A team of Hinjewadi police led by sub-inspector Rohit Divate made the arrest after tracing the mechanic, Ramu Rathod (22), on a CCTV camera. Police have recovered all the stolen bikes from him. “During questioning, Rathod claimed that someone had stolen his bicycle and so to fulfil his love of riding a bicycle, he stole one from a housing society in Bavdhan. After his successful first attempt, Rathod began to steal bicycles at regular intervals. He used to steal the high-end ones as most of these bikes did not come with locks,” Divate told TOI on Monday. The officer said Rathod used to enter the society premises on his stolen bicycle. “He had even stolen the bicycles from lobbies of the buildings on the second, fourth and the sixth floor,” Divate added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mechanic-held-for-stealing-seven-bicycles/articleshow/79238241.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Father-son duo held for celebratory firing during Diwali, after video surfaced in Kheri||Bareilly: A businessman and his son were arrested after a video purportedly showing them opening fire in the air during Diwali celebrations in Singahi area of Kheri district surfaced on social media. In the purported video, the son could be seen using the pistol of his father, said police. Police seized the pistol and recommended the district magistrate to cancel the licence. Kheri SSP Vijay Dhull said, “The action came following a video of Ramsnehi Gupta and his son Hardik surfaced on social media in which they could be seen firing gunshots in the air during Diwali celebrations despite there is a ban on celebratory firing. They were booked under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We will also write to the authority concerned to cancel the licence of their pistol.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/father-son-duo-held-for-celebratory-firing-during-diwali-after-video-surfaced-in-kheri/articleshow/79235446.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||University spends over Rs 81 lakh in last 5 yrs to fight legal cases||NAGPUR: Nagpur University has spent over Rs81 lakh on legal matters in various courts in the last five years, an RTI reply has revealed. It included expenditure on hiring lawyers for fighting cases filed by students, colleges and individuals like Sunil Mishra, Shoma Sen and others. It also included ten filed by the university against individuals. In the last four years, 539 cases have been filed against the NU administration. Even its own employees have filed about 24 cases against the university in these years. However, NU didn’t file any case against any of its staffers in this period. Replying to RTI queries by activist Abhay Kolarkar, NU’s public information officers — Shoeb Khan and Manoj Joshi — said that the university had appointed 51 lawyers on its panel. However, it took help from some senior counsels in important cases like petitions against banned colleges and other issues. NU roped in six lawyers, including senior counsels from outside its panel and granted them remuneration of Rs2.65 lakh in 2018. In 2019, it assigned four lawyers and spent Rs4.10 lakh on their fees. The university had made provision of Rs25 lakh in its budget for 2016-17, 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21 financial years towards legal expenses. According to NU officials, the university spent a considerable amount in getting back its 70-acre land free from encroachment after fighting a bitter legal battle over the years. A couple of cases against the encroachers are still pending in the lower judiciary. Many students also approached the higher judiciary for getting their degrees or for revaluation marks. In 2014, TOI ran a series on how NU had wasted its precious general funds collected from examination fees on roping in senior lawyers for pleading its cases for lifting its own admission ban on the 250 colleges despite the fact that it already had its standing counsel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/university-spends-over-rs-81l-in-last-5-yrs-to-fight-legal-cases/articleshow/79239021.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 16, 2020||Pune||Makers should aim for more affordable vaccines: WHO chief scientist||PUNE: The World Health Organisation's chief scientist, Dr Soumya Swaminathan, has said that more Covid-19 vaccine candidates should be developed to cover different populations and their requirements. Because the vaccines will have to be deployed on an unprecedented scale, the shots will need to serve regions and people with different needs. For example, one vaccine could prove to be safer for pregnant women while another could be more effective among the elderly. Dr Swaminathan said approximately 70% of the world’s population would need to be immunized for the pandemic to completely end. She said, "The goal by 2021 is to reach 20% of the world population This would help end the acute phase of the pandemic by reducing deaths and protecting the most vulnerable and at-risk populations." The scientist also urged all vaccine developers to continue with their trials - irrespective of who was ahead - because none of the frontrunners had enough vials immediately available of everyone. There are nearly 200 vaccine candidates in different stages of development - some 10 are in phase 3. Dr Swaminathan said ideally, vaccines in development should be affordable with optimal storage conditions (in room temperature or refrigerators) for ease of delivery. She also lauded the world's scientific community that had, within 10 months, put at least 200 vaccine candidates in development. "Historically, the shortest period a vaccine has taken to be developed is four years. The normal timeline is about 10 years. What we are doing now is doing things in parallel: folding one trial phase into the next; investing in manufacturing capacity while still in clinical trials; and preparing for distribution and delivery in countries,” she said. Dr Swaminathan said the duration of protection from these vaccines is still unclear, but since it's likely that emergency-use authorizations would be issued, blinded trials will have to continue to determine long-term efficacy. Safety data will have to be collected in an unbiased manner, she said. However, she said the larger concern is ensuring vaccines that are being readied reach every country in the world. The WHO has also convened the COVAX initiative, in partnership with Gavi the Vaccine Alliance and the Coalition for Epidemic Innovations (CEPI) to guarantee free and equitable access to vaccines. “By pooling the procurement for large volumes, the facility offers the best chances of delivering vaccines simultaneously to high and low-income countries. Efforts are on to raise funds to the tune of $7 billion to distribute two billion doses by the end of 2021," she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/makers-should-aim-for-more-affordable-vaccines-who-chief-scientist/articleshow/79239353.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 16, 2020||Pune||Pune sees sunny day with a cool breeze||PUNE: Pune recorded minimum temperature of 17.4°C on Sunday, keeping up with the increase in night and day temperatures in the last few days. On November 12, the city recorded 9.8°C as the mercury plummeted to a single digit number for the first time this winter, but the following the day, the minimum temperature went up to 15.3°C and further increased to 17.7°C on Saturday November 14. On Sunday, weather was sunny with a cool breeze. Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 17.4°C and 18.6°C minimum temperatures, which were above normal by 2.7 and 3.6 degrees Celsius, respectively. Similarly, these observatories recorded day temperatures above normal by 1.7 and 1.4 degrees Celsius. Minimum temperatures have begun rising to above normal levels in last couple of days. The IMD models suggested night temperatures were expected to be on the higher side in parts of central, southern Maharashtra till November 22. “Western disturbance will cause an increase in minimum temperatures during November 14-16 period. Another western disturbance was expected to affect western Himalayan region around November 17-18, which would keep minimum temperature on the higher side,” a senior met official said. Around November 18-19, there may be interaction (confluence) between easterlies and westerlies even over central, northern parts of the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-sees-sunny-day-with-a-cool-breeze/articleshow/79238237.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 16, 2020||Pune||Pune’s air quality drops to ‘very poor’ post-Diwali night: IITM report||PUNE: The city’s Air Quality Index (AQI) slipped into the “very poor” category in the early hours of Sunday following the bursting of firecrackers on Saturday night (Laxmi Puja day), as per a report by the Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology (IITM). Track the pollution level in your cityThe city registered 302 on the AQI scale, which falls into the “very poor” category (301-400). Senior scientist Gufran Beig told TOI that the number of crackers this year was only half the quantity when compared to the past four years. “Even so, the magnitude of PM2.5 or AQI post-Diwali day is almost consistent with the past four years (except last year, when rains affected celebrations),” said Beig, who heads IITM’s System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) project, which monitors air quality across the country in real-time. Beig predicted that the air quality in the city would return to normal on Monday. As per the SAFAR report, the air quality on Saturday was in the moderate category as the weather was warm. “But in the wee hours of November 15 (Sunday), the air quality deteriorated significantly due to the accumulation of fire-induced PM2.5 fine particles under cooler and low boundary layer height conditions,” the report stated. Katraj, with an AQI of 345, and Hadapsar with 334 were the worst-polluted areas in the city, while Pashan and Alandi, with AQI of 162 and 189 respectively, were the least affected. The peak hours were from Saturday midnight to 6am on Sunday, the report added. Beig surmised that residents of Katraj and Hadapsar must have burst a larger quantity of crackers compared to other areas. “On the other hand, Pashan has a vast green cover, while Alandi is comparatively less populated. These factors reflect in the findings,” he added. The report said the air quality of the city was expected to be in the “moderate” category (101-200) on November 17 and 18. Last year, the air quality during Diwali was among the best in Western India. This was mainly due to the rainfall activity in the city because of Cyclone Kyarr over the Arabian Sea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/citys-air-quality-drops-to-very-poor-post-diwali-night-iitm-report/articleshow/79238243.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||12-year-old girl among three killed in separate road accidents||Pilibhit: Three people, including a 12-year-old girl, were killed in two road accidents in the last 24 hours in Pilibhit.The girl, Meenakshi, a resident of Bagwa village under Jahanbad police station, died early Sunday morning after the bike she was riding on along with her uncle was hit by an unidentified vehicle near Kundra Kothi village under Nawabganj police station of Bareilly district. Police said the duo was on their way home from Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar when the accident took place, and the girl was rushed to the district government hospital in Pilibhit, where doctors proclaimed her dead upon arrival. Her uncle, Naresh Kumar, who sustained multiple injuries, is undergoing treatment.Jahanabad police station SHO Harish Vardhan Singh said police lodged a zero FIR against the driver of the unidentified vehicle under section 304 A (causing death by negligence), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 279 (rash driving on a public way) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and transferred the case to Nawabganj police station. The second accident took place near Jaunapuri village under Neuria police station around 3.30 pm on Sunday, where two people — Shiv Kumar (42) and Manoj Kumar (28) — of the same village were killed on the spot after the tractor-trolley they were travelling in overturned and fell into a roadside ditch.SHO Jagat Singh said the bodies were sent for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/12-year-old-girl-among-three-killed-in-separate-road-accidents/articleshow/79235451.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Many final year results withheld, students clueless||NAGPUR: Several final year students from various streams have been left in the lurch with technical glitches and procedural delays hitting their results. As seen during last month’s cumbersome online examination, students are clueless about their fate as results are either withheld or roll numbers suddenly declared ‘invalid’. Generally, final-semester results are withheld for division mainly for students who have backlogs in any of their previous semesters. Yet, those getting the same reasons claim that they never had any backlog paper, and still their result is shown as ‘withheld’. There could be numerous reasons for this though, major being lack of mark sheets of all semesters. To update the record, final result is withheld until all mark sheets are available. Pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe said no complaints have been received so far from students without any backlog. “Withheld results belong to students whose college has not forwarded backlog exam marks. This time, the backlog exams were held offline at college level due to Covid-19,” he said. Dudhe said the reason for withholding results in other cases needs to be ascertained from the exam section. Top exam officials couldn’t be contacted for comment. Some NU officials blamed the huge pile of internal marks as well as backlog exam mark sheets running into lakhs. “Many colleges are yet to send the practical marks. All colleges have been asked to send practical marks as soon as possible. These are in lakhs as each subject marks are sent in a separate envelope. The inflow of envelopes may not have matched the speed of result declaration,” they said. Sources said many colleges are claiming they have already sent the marks, but officials are unable to trace them in the pile of envelops. “Hence, it is better to instantly ask colleges to send the marks again to avoid postal delays,” they said. Former management council member Mahendra Nimbarte said there are problems galore in post-exam period. “Some students complained their roll number is invalid. Some say their number is withheld while they never appeared. How can it be said NU conducted 95% exams? On the other hand, many students couldn’t fill competitive exam and recruitment forms for which October 31 was deadline set by the government. This was done keeping in mind the career prospects of students. When chancellor office too said October 31 is cut off, how can university delay results till now? Now, these job aspirants will have to wait for next exam date, which may not be possible until next year.” Senate member Manmohan Bajpai said a couple of BCA and BE students approached him too with same issues in result. “Therefore, we are insisting on offline Senate meeting to hold the university administration accountable for the mess. There are corona-related and online exam issues which need to be discussed in Senate meeting and resolved,” he said. Some students also took to social media regarding date of result as they faced cut off dates for competitive exams and admissions in other universities. Nimbarte too said Senate meeting must be held offline. “The university administration is trying to duck tough questions by members on student’s issues,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-final-year-results-withheld-students-clueless/articleshow/79239023.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Real estate firm MD booked for cheating||Pilibhit: The managing director of a Madhya Pradesh-based real estate company was on Saturday booked for allegedly disappearing with the money of Pilibhit residents, following the chief judicial magistrate’s order. Complainant Govind Ram of Rooppur Krapa village under Sungarhi police station — one of the company’s field officers posted at the Pilibhit office — stated that he joined the Pilibhit branch of a Madhya Pradesh’s Datia-based developers in 2011. The company accepts public deposits on interest, he said. Govind said he managed to open fixed and recurring accounts of locals to the tune of over Rs 8.5 lakh with the firm. “The promoters, however, sneakily winded up their financial business in July 2017 and disappeared from the scene with the deposits without informing anyone,” alleged Govind. “After pursuing the firm’s managing director for three years for the refund of the deposited amount, I lodged written complaints with Sungarhi police station and the superintendent of police for getting an FIR registered against the fraudster, but they remained apathetic,” alleged Govind. SHO Atar Singh said following the court order, the managing director was booked under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing the delivery of property) and 406 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/real-estate-firm-md-booked-for-cheating/articleshow/79234754.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad’s minimum temp 4°C above normal||AURANGABAD: At 19 degrees celsius, the minimum temperature in Aurangabad was hovering four degrees above normal on Sunday. The minimum temperature, which had dropped to 12 degrees celsius by November 11, has shown sharp decline of seven units over a period of five days, as per data available with the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Weather expert Kirankukar Johare said weakening of northerly wind has resulted in the temporary surge in the minimum temperature in Aurangabad and other parts of the city. “The winter chill is expected to make a comeback shortly. Going by the emerging weather systems, Aurangabad and other parts of the region may witness severe winter conditions in days to come,” he said. “The winter chill is palpable on Narak Chaturdashi, one of the major early days of Diwali that witnesses early morning bath. However, there was no usual chill in the air this time, which offered a bit strange feeling. The winter suddenly disappeared during Diwali,” said Ulhas Dev, a private professional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabads-min-temp-4c-above-normal/articleshow/79236760.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Winter sets the stage for arrival of migratory birds at Jayakwadi||Aurangabad: With the onset of the winter, the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary, located at around 50 km from Aurangabad, has started witnessing the arrival of various migratory birds. While birds flying in from different part of India like seagull, river tern, black wing stilt, open bill stork, glossy ibis, black-headed ibis, wagtail, painted stork and sandpiper can already be seen flocking the sanctuary, birds that fly in from faraway countries are yet to arrive.  Flamingo (Siberia), barn swallow (Europe), eurasian wigeon (Europe), bar-headed goose (Siberia), plover (Europe), little stint (Europe), garganey ducks, pintail duck (Europe and western Asia), common crane (Siberia), Osprey (Europe) and Comb duck (South Asia, China) are among the migratory birds that visit Jayakwadi sanctuary. Veteran ornithologist Dilip Bhagat said cold weather and other factors influence the migratory journey of birds. “While migratory birds make it to the sanctuary from Atlantic, Europe and northern Asia by travelling hundreds of kilometres. Some birds also undertake such journey from north India, south-west and north-east parts of the country,” he said. Bhagat said the total number of migratory birds arriving every year at Jayakwadi vary from season to season and can reach maximum up to 10 lakh. Some of the migratory birds like as coot, spoonbill duck, painted stock stays at Jayakwadi dam beyond the end of the winter season and breed also, said experts. Pimpalwadi, Sonewadi, Dahegaon, Dahephal, Lakhefal, Kaygaon Toka, Brahmgavhan, Ramdoh and other locations near Jayakwadi dam are considered ideal locations for viewing the migratory birds. Aurangabad district forest officer (wildlife) Vijay Satpute said the annual bird census will be undertaken at Jayakwadi bird sanctuary by involving experts and NGOs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/winter-sets-the-stage-for-arrival-of-migratory-birds-at-jayakwadi/articleshow/79236757.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kochi||LDF announces list of candidates for Thrissur||Thrissur: The LDF leaders on Sunday announced the front’s candidates for Thrissur corporation and district panchayat. In the 55-member corporation council, CPM is contesting 38 seats, while CPI will contest eight seats; three seats have been allocated to LJD, two seats each to Kerala Congress (M) and the Janata Dal (S). Congress (S) and NCP have been allocated one seat each. Among the 38 seats allocated to CPM, 31 candidates will be contesting as party nominees, while the remaining seven will be independents backed by the party. In the 29-member district panchayat the CPM nominees will be contesting in 16 seats, while CPI has been allocated eight seats. LJD has been allocated two seats, while Kerala Congress (M), NCP and INL have been allocated one seat each. Congress had announced its first list of candidates to the district panchayat, corporation, as well as to Kodungallur municipality and to six panchayats on Thursday. According to a release issued by DCC president M P Vincent, Congress has announced a list of 11 candidates to the Thrissur district panchayat, and they include the DCC vice-president Joseph Tajet, and DCC secretary P K Rajan. The party has also released a list of 21 candidates for Thrissur corporation, as well as to some municipalities and panchayats. Even though the district president had said the party will soon be announcing the remaining candidates to the district panchayat and corporation, discussions were going on even on Sunday evening to finalize the nominees. BJP was the first party to announce the list of candidates for elections to the Thrissur corporation council. The party announced a list of 36 candidates to the corporation on Wednesday last. BJP district president advocate K K Aneeshkumar had said the party would announce the remaining candidates soon, but the selection process remained inconclusive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ldf-announces-list-of-candidates-for-thrissur/articleshow/79237418.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Allan’s father to contest on RMPI ticket||Kozhikode: In a surprise move to embarrass CPM, Muhammad Shuhaib, father of Allan Shuhaib who was arrested for alleged Maoist links, has declared his candidature in the polls to the city corporation. Shuhaib will be the candidate of the Revolutionary Marxist Party of India (RMPI) from the Valiyangadi division and is expecting the support of UDF. “There is a situation in Kerala where democratic political activity has become impossible,” Shuhaib told reporters. He said CPM is steeped in degeneration and his fight is against such tendencies. RMPI state secretary N Venu said Shuhaib’s candidature is against the police raj in Kerala and the policy of slapping UAPA against innocent people. There are many people within CPM who are dejected with the police policy of the government and Shuhaib is the representative of such a large section, he said. Shuhaib was the branch secretary of CPM for many years. But he distanced himself from the party in the past ten years. In recent years, Shuhaib had started associating with the party and took part in the Reformation Wall and anti-CAA protests organized by CPM. In the initial days of Allan’s arrest, Shuhaib had not spoken anything against CPM and pinned his hopes on the party, hoping that it would intervene to salvage his son, who is also a party member. Allan’s family lost faith when chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan asserted that Allan was indeed a Maoist and the law would take its own course. Shuhaib severed all connections with CPM when the prosecution took a stern position against granting bail to his son. He will be contesting from his native Valiyangadi where he has good connections. UDF has not decided on fielding candidates in the ward, but discussions are on with RMPI for extending support to Shuhaib.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/allans-father-to-contest-on-rmpi-ticket/articleshow/79237426.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Managements take measures to maintain social distance as people prepare to visit shrines||Aurangabad: Different places of worship in the city and the region are gearing to reopen from Monday by making concerted efforts to follow the standard operating procedure.Marathwada has three famous Jyotirlingas and some popular pilgrim towns including Mahur in Nanded district and Tuljapur in Osmanabad district, along with some historic mosques and churches.Rajesh Deshmukh, the secretary of Parli Vainath temple in Beed district, said on an average 10,000 people visit the Parli Vainath temple every day.“To regulate the flow of people, we have put up barricades and marked circles so visitors can stand in a queue and maintain social distancing. Thermal guns have been procured to scan the people. The local civic body has been helping us in conducting regular sanitisation of the temple,” he said.The Tuljabhavani temple at Tuljapur has started online booking for the visitors to regulate the crowd. “Around 3,000 people can take free ‘darshan’ while another 1,000 can avail the paid facility for the same every day. The movement of people will be regulated in such a way that around 500 people can take darshan in every two hours by maintaining social distancing and other safety norms,” said the authorities from the public relation department of Tuljabhavani temple.Leaders of the Christian community have issued an advisory to the followers and priests.Bishop of Marathwada diocese M U Kasab told TOI, “We have asked to sanitise the churches and take all the precautions to maintain social distancing norm at the churches. We have also decided to hold prayers in two to three shifts instead of one to ensure not more than 50%occupancy at a time.”Maulana Naseem Miftai, of the Jama Masjid, Aurangabad, said, “We have asked all the mosque management committees to ensure all the norms laid down by the state government and the advisories issued by the health experts and administrations are followed. We have made it mandatory to use masks and wash hands using soap or sanitisers while visiting mosques.”Citing Islamic rulings, he said during the current situation, people are permitted to pray while maintaining distance.Wearing masks, use of sanitisers and temperature checks have been made mandatory. People above the age of 65 years, children below the age of 10 years and pregnant women have been advised to not visit the places of worship for now as a safety measure amid the current pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/managements-take-measures-to-maintain-social-distance-as-people-prepare-to-visit-shrines/articleshow/79236766.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Prayers heard: All places of worship to open from today||Nagpur: Authorities in-charge of places of worship are happy that state government has finally allowed the shrines to open. They have promised that they will strictly follow the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the government. Some devotees are angry with the government for allowing religious places to open so late. Chandrashekhar Bawankule, president of Koradi Temple Trust, said that the SOP issued by state government would be followed strictly. “We will provide sanitizers to devotees and ensure that they maintain social distancing. Strict vigil will be maintained to ensure that people with Covid like symptoms are not allowed entry inside the temple,” he added. Omprakash ‘Munna’ Yadav, president of Sai Mandir Trust, said that the temple would open for devotees from Monday. “We have made all the arrangements for following the SOP. There will be separate entrances for men and women. Barricades have been erected for this purpose,” he added. Mosques in the city are set to open from the fazar (early morning) prayers on Monday. The clerics said the prayers will be held in strict adherence of the guidelines. Maulana Hafiz Masood of Jamiat-e-Ulema-e-Hind (JuH), said the community members are thankful of the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for having allowed the places of worship to open. “As it’s part of the namaz to perform vazu (washing of person) before offering prayers, people are being asked to do it at their home itself. For those who stay near the mosque can always do the vazu at home and come,” said Masood. “For those who stay away from a mosque, a separate tap will be installed for vazu,” he said. Traditionally, mosques have a canal line structure in which water is released. Masood said its use will be discouraged as water remains stagnant in a hauz and can spread infection, said Masood. “In the normal course, big mosques have the capacity to accommodate up to 500 person at a time. Proper distancing will be maintained. A congregation is expected only for Friday prayers,” he said. Father Anthony D’Souza, parish priest of SFS Cathedral, said preparations are already on to welcome devotees after a long time. “From Monday, both the morning and evening mass shall be conducted as per normal schedule. Masks will be compulsory, physical distancing shall be practised and sanitizer dispensers are being put up in the premises,” said Father D’Souza. Pastor John George of All Saints Cathedral said the reopening schedule will be decided after an internal meeting. “We all will discuss this with our Bishop, under whose guidance the next step will be decided. We have to go through the SOPs and guidelines in detail and may also meet with local authorities to get some clarity,” said Pastor George. While authorities managing religious places are happy over government’s decisions to allow shrines to open, some devotees are angry that the order came so late. Nikhil Chiplunkar, who used to go to Shani Temple every week, slammed the government for allowing temples to open after bars, restaurants, malls, etc. “Does Covid spread only in temples and not in bars? It is ridiculous that bars opened before temples. What kind of warped logic is this,” he said. Arti Gadge, another regular temple visitor, too slammed the government. “Government finally opened the temples but on last day of Diwali. The sky would not have fallen down had they opened them before the festival,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/prayers-heard-all-places-of-worship-to-open-from-today/articleshow/79238352.cms||Ashish Roy
November 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Man held for injuring two with sharp-edged weapon on Diwali in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: The Jalna police on Sunday arrested 24-year-old man who allegedly visited his friend on the pretext of extending Diwali wishes and stabbed him with a sharp-edged weapon. The suspect has been identified as Arun Tayde. He was arrested from his relative’s house in the Nutan Vasahat area-based Sahakar Colony. The alleged incident took place on Saturday in Barwar Galli of the Old Jalna area in neighbouring Jalna district, leaving Lakhan Madare (22) and his neighbour Rahul Pare injured. Police said that a scuffle had erupted between Lakhan and Arun following some issues related to monetary transactions between the two. Later, Lakhan blamed Arun for not being fair in transaction and stopped interacting with him. Though the suspect made attempts to patch up, Lakhan ignored him, eventually leaving the suspect infuriated. Kadim Jalna police station inspector Prashant Mahajan said that the suspect has been arrested and that an investigation is under way. Citing the complaint, police said that on Saturday, the suspect made a call to Lakhan and said that he wants to meet him for Diwali and patch up. The victim readily agreed. Accordingly, the suspect ,riding a bike, reached Lakhan’s house. Soon after extending Diwali wishes, the suspect attacked him using a sharp-edged weapon. As soon as Lakhan was stabbed, he cried out for help. Hearing his cries, one of his neighbours who was bursting firecrackers outside, rushed to his aid. However, he too was attacked by the suspect and sustained injuries. As the incident started attracting people from the locality, the accused immediately fled on the bike. Police have seized the suspect’s bike from Mallav Galli of the Gandhinagar area of the town. Police said that the injured duo has been admitted to a private hospital and their condition is said to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-held-for-injuring-two-with-sharp-edged-weapon-on-diwali/articleshow/79236775.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Defection: Ernakulam tops districts with most no. of disqualifications||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ernakulam has the highest number of local body representatives to be disqualified under anti-defection law since 2014. As per the list of members/councillors published by state election commission on those disqualified for six years, 36 local body representatives in various local self-government institutions in Ernakulam district have been disqualified since 2014. Kannur with two had the least number of disqualifications. The candidates are disqualified for contesting in election for a period of six years from the date of disqualification and it is done as per provisions of Kerala local authorities prohibition of defection Act. The act provides for disqualification on the ground of defection, if a member of local authority, belonging to any political party voluntarily gives up her/his membership, or if such a member votes or abstains from voting in a meeting of a municipality or in the election of its chairperson, deputy chairperson, member of a standing committee or the chairman of the standing committee, contrary to any direction in writing issued by the political party to which he belongs. In 2020 itself, 10 members of local bodies had to be disqualified for defection and in 2019, 14 members were disqualified. The period of disqualification of some members is such that they wouldn’t be able to contest in 2020 local body elections and 2025 elections. A member who was disqualified in 2014 won’t be able to contest elections even this year as the period of disqualification would end only two days after the final date for submission of nomination forms. Thiruvananthapuram had reported 13 cases of disqualification for defection while Varkala municipality recorded the highest number of members to be disqualified. Five members, including the former chairperson of Varkala municipality, were barred from contesting elections for six years in 2015 after they violated the whip of Congress party. Similar to legal tussles pertaining to reservation of wards and reservation of head positions in local bodies, disqualification of members has always led to writ petitions. Some of the members obtain stay order from court and cite this as a reason to contest in local body elections. However, the poll panel has specifically directed returning officers to scrutinise the stay order carefully. “The stay order always comes with a set of conditions. It may not cancel the disqualification but will only lay down conditions for execution. A stay order hence requires careful scrutiny with regard to conditions. Returning officers will study the conditions of stay order and in absence of specific directive cancelling the disqualification, nominations will not be accepted from members who have been disqualified under anti-defection act,” said an official. There had been rare instances in the past when even disqualified members would cite stay order from court to contest in election. The election commission is keen on avoiding such cases this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/defection-ekm-tops-dists-with-most-no-of-disqualifications/articleshow/79237434.cms||Aswin J Kumar
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Covid-19 Recoveries rising in Wardha district||WARDHA: The coronavirus caseload of district reached near seven thousand cases, the total number of cases is 6995 after 47 tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday and 8 on Sunday. Meanwhile, 19 patients were discharged on Saturday and 63 on Sunday and recoveries reached 6343 and active patients under treatment are 430. 499 tested reports were received on Saturday and 85 on Sunday and 55 of them (37 men and 18 women) were detected positive while the cases were detected from Wardha (33), Karanja (7), Hinganghat (5), Deoli and Selu (3 each), Ashti and Samudrapur (2 each). Three deaths were reported due to coronavirus on Sunday, two men (20 and 60 years) from Wardha and a 49-year-old man from Ashti died due to coronavirus. The death toll reached 222 in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/recoveries-rising-in-wardha-district/articleshow/79238683.cms||Balwant Dhage
November 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||3 arrested for assaulting, robbing man||Visakhapatnam: Police on Saturday arrested three youngsters for a robbery at Midhilapuri colony under PM Palem police station limits. The accused were identified as E Venkatesh (20), a first year polytechnic student from Chandrampalem, T Anil (20) a painter from Ganesh Nagar, and G Lokesh (19) a delivery bpy from PM Palem, both said to be in school. DCP (Crimes) V Suresh Babu said that on Saturday, a resident of VUDA Haritha apartments was heading to his house when the three accused followed him on a bike, assaulted him and stole close to Rs 9,000 from him. Based on the man’s complaint, police formed a special team and arrested the trio on Saturday itself, recovered the cash and a cellphone. Police said that Venkatesh, the main accused, was earlier involved in an offence under Ananthagiri police station limits and released on bail last month. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/3-arrested-for-assaulting-robbing-man/articleshow/79236777.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Kadapa bags national award for water conservation||AMARAVATI: YSR Kadapa district has bagged Union Jal Shakti ministry’ award for water conservation efforts. Last year, the Centre had selected 255 drought-hit districts to take up water conservation projects. The Centre had promised to honour the districts which implemented the programmes as per the mandate. Led by collector Chevuri Harikiran and District Water Management Authority (DWMA) project director Yadubhushan Reddy, the administration rolled out different works in the 13-mandals-with poor groundwater reserves. “Using technology to oversee the implementation has given us best results,” said Harikiran. The collector said that they have geo-tagged the works that have been taken up for water conservation for better monitoring. He said they have taken up renovation of traditional water bodies, rain water harvesting, reuse and recharge works and intensive afforestation. He said that they have launched a campaign to create awareness on minimising use of ground water. The district administration noticed over-exploitation of ground water in 13 mandals due to drought for the last seven years. Poor rainfall forced farmers to dig more borewells and go for exploitation of water to save crops. About 8,000 new borewells were dug every year depleting ground water levels. Ground water level dipped to 19.33 metres by 2018 from 9 meters in 2001. “We have taken advice of geological experts before readying action plan,” said Yadubhushan Reddy. He said they took up 218 check-dams, 912 water conservation bodies, 17583 farm ponds to boost ground water recharge. Reddy said they have also removed about 108 lakh cubic meters of silt from the village tanks during 2018-19 and intensified similar works during 2019-20. The sustained efforts of the officials had helped recharge nearly 18.38tmc of water and brought over 65000 borewells back into life to provide irrigation water to farmers of over 2 lakh acres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/kadapa-bags-natl-award-for-water-conservation/articleshow/79236743.cms||Samdani MN
November 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Man who consumed pesticide dies||VIJAYAWADA: A man, who attempted suicide with his cousin after a losing a bet placed on a IPL match, died while undergoing treatment on Saturday. O Komaraiah and O Suresh, both residents of Perecharla in Guntur district, consumed pesticide on November 9 at Bellamkonda. Suresh had died on November 10. Bellamkonda sub-inspector S Rajesh said that while Suresh lost the money in betting, Komaraiah was not involved in betting but had vowed Rs 80,000 for which he had pledged his house. The latter worked as a fortune-teller and could not earn the amount to cover the debt. On November 9, Komaraiah and Suresh decided to meet at Bellamkonda where they bought some drinks and a bottle of pesticide near the tracks. They mixed and consumed the pesticide with the drink and recorded a video while doing so to apologise to their family. Police rushed to the spot after knowing about the video and moved them to a hospital where Suresh died while Komaraiah, who was moved to Guntur for better treatment, died on Saturday. Police have arrested O Baji Rao and O Tirupati Rao for placing bets with Suresh. “The betting was between relatives and there was no involvement of any organised betting ring,” SI Rajesh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-who-consumed-pesticide-dies/articleshow/79236761.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hubballi||Gambling Dens raided, 65 held, Rs 49 lakh seized||Dharwad: The Dharwad Rural police raided 18 gambling dens in the district on Saturday night and arrested 56 people engaged in gambling. IGP (Northern Range) Raghavendra Suhas said that the police team raided Ramya Residencey near Yarikoppa bypass and other places, and recovered Rs 49 lakh, 34 vehicles and 66 mobile phones. He said the raids were conducted following a tip-off that the people were playing three-cards and ‘andar-bahar.’ Some bigwigs including political leaders, hoteliers and businessmen were among the arrested, the sources said. The district SP had directed all the clubs where people play cards to close during Diwali. Meanwhile, the SP has suspended four police constables who were found gambling in a den near Mummigatti on the outskirts of Dharwad. They are Manjunath Bagavi, Atmanand Betageri of Garag police station, Ismail Sayyednavar of Rural police station and Moiuddin Mulla of the District Armed Reserve, Dharwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/gambling-dens-raided-65-held-rs-49-lakh-seized/articleshow/79236333.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Court grants conditional bail to notorious bookie||AURANGABAD: The district and sessions court has granted conditional bail to an infamous bookie who was recently booked and arrested in an IPL betting case in Aurangabad city. Manoj Dagda, the bookie, after getting bail in one of the recent cases registered against him under the Maharashtra Prohibition Act, was again booked and arrested on the charges of cheating, forgery, along with sections of the Maharashtra Gambling Act after his name cropped up in a case. Additional sessions judge Sanjay Kulkarni on Saturday granted conditional bail to the accused, while asking him to remain present before the investigation officer every Monday and Tuesday, between 10 and 11 am, till the filing of the chargesheet. Representing the accused, lawyer Abhaysinh Bhosale contested that the accused is not a habitual offender. He added that though other accused named in the case are yet to be arrested, it cannot be the ground for keeping Dagda behind bars. The lawyer also cited the recommendations of the high power committee that was formed to address the issue of prison overcrowding during the pandemic. The prosecution, meanwhile, submitted before the court that the City Chowk police, on October 19, had raided private premises and caught two accused — Nemichand Kasliwal and Akash Kasliwal — allegedly placing bets on IPL matches. During the course of an investigation, the accused divulged the name of Dagda. The crime branch of the city police summoned Dagda for questioning. The crime branch found that he was allegedly using SIM cards obtained by forging documents. The analysis of call details revealed his alleged connection with the gambling racket, following which, he was arrested on November 3. After police custody of three days, the accused was remanded to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/court-grants-conditional-bail-to-notorious-bookie/articleshow/79236778.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Cracker ban goes up in smoke in west UP, AQI stays in severe zone on Diwali night||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: Air pollution soared in most cities of western UP, including the NCR, as people took to the streets to burst crackers on Saturday night. The Deepawali night’s haze stayed till Sunday afternoon when some parts received drizzle which gave a breathing respite. The Air Quality Index (AQI) in Agra was in the “very poor” category on Sunday. The level of pollution post-Diwali in 2019 was “moderate”, better than this year, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to data available on CPCB website which monitors air pollution in more than 100 cities across the country pointed out that the AQI in 2019 on the day of Diwali was 100 (satisfactory). However it rose to 319 (very poor) this year on the same day. Similarly, post-Diwali, the AQI was 179 (moderate) in 2019. But, on Sunday it reached 347. The state government’s attempt to ban the use of fire crackers in 13 cities including Agra appeared ineffective as the level of pollution increased. The pollution control board is also in the process of analysing the data pre and post Diwali. Confirming this, regional officer of Agra pollution control board Bhuvan Yadav said that a third party is preparing the information and soon they will have the entire analysis of the pollutants, including PM 2.5, 10 and others in the air across the city. Meanwhile, rain accompanied by hailstorms in Mathura and other parts of western cities gave some respite. Meerut recorded an AQI of 373 which was in the “very poor” category. But it was better than neighbouring districts like Baghpat which registered an AQI of 430, Bulandshahr with AQI of 427 in the “severe category”. Delhi, on the contrary, recorded 435 AQI, again “severe” category. The AQI of Moradabad reached 392 on Sunday. However, moderate rainfall in the region on Sunday evening brought slight relief from the hazardous air pollution. In the evening, the UPPCB recorded AQI at 352 which was “very poor”. The prominent pollutant PM 2.5 was 352 and PM 10 was 242.  (With inputs from Anuja Jaiswal, Ishita Bhatia & Maria Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/cracker-ban-goes-up-in-smoke-in-west-up-aqi-stays-in-severe-zone-on-diwali-night/articleshow/79244181.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Agra||Cracker ban goes up in smoke in west UP, AQI stays in severe zone on Diwali night||MEERUT/AGRA/BAREILLY: Air pollution soared in most cities of western UP, including the NCR, as people took to the streets to burst crackers on Saturday night. The Deepawali night’s haze stayed till Sunday afternoon when some parts received drizzle which gave a breathing respite. The Air Quality Index (AQI) in Agra was in the “very poor” category on Sunday. The level of pollution post-Diwali in 2019 was “moderate”, better than this year, the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to data available on CPCB website which monitors air pollution in more than 100 cities across the country pointed out that the AQI in 2019 on the day of Diwali was 100 (satisfactory). However it rose to 319 (very poor) this year on the same day. Similarly, post-Diwali, the AQI was 179 (moderate) in 2019. But, on Sunday it reached 347. The state government’s attempt to ban the use of fire crackers in 13 cities including Agra appeared ineffective as the level of pollution increased. The pollution control board is also in the process of analysing the data pre and post Diwali. Confirming this, regional officer of Agra pollution control board Bhuvan Yadav said that a third party is preparing the information and soon they will have the entire analysis of the pollutants, including PM 2.5, 10 and others in the air across the city. Meanwhile, rain accompanied by hailstorms in Mathura and other parts of western cities gave some respite. Meerut recorded an AQI of 373 which was in the “very poor” category. But it was better than neighbouring districts like Baghpat which registered an AQI of 430, Bulandshahr with AQI of 427 in the “severe category”. Delhi, on the contrary, recorded 435 AQI, again “severe” category. The AQI of Moradabad reached 392 on Sunday. However, moderate rainfall in the region on Sunday evening brought slight relief from the hazardous air pollution. In the evening, the UPPCB recorded AQI at 352 which was “very poor”. The prominent pollutant PM 2.5 was 352 and PM 10 was 242.  (With inputs from Anuja Jaiswal, Ishita Bhatia & Maria Khan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cracker-ban-goes-up-in-smoke-in-west-up-aqi-stays-in-severe-zone-on-diwali-night/articleshow/79236784.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kochi||CPM, CPI to fight separately in 2 Palakkad local bodies||Palakkad: As the Left Democratic Front (LDF) key partners Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPM) and Communist Party of India (CPI) failed to reach a seat sharing consensus, they will fight against each other in Ottapalam municipality and Mannur grama panchayat local bodies. Both the parties held their respective election conventions on Sunday. CPI said that they have decided to go it alone in these two local bodies due to the unilateral announcement of candidates by CPM. In Mannur grama panchayat, CPI will contest 12 seats on their party symbol and support an independent candidate in a seat. After the last election, some CITU workers joined AITUC and the CPM had demanded CPI not to accept them. But they were given membership in AITUC and this led to the fight between the two LDF partners in Mannur, it is said. As the seat sharing talks between CPM and CPM in Ottapalam failed on Saturday, the CPI mandalam committee has decided to contest in six seats alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-cpi-to-fight-separately-in-2-palakkad-local-bodies/articleshow/79237451.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Pollution control boards take Diwali weekend off, release no data||Nagpur: Government pollution control boards do not reveal the air quality data for Saturday and Sunday, the two key days when crackers were burst during the ongoing Diwali festival. However, private agencies show that the levels were “unhealthy” on Saturday evening. Maharashtra and Central Pollution Control Boards did not register air quality levels due to “insufficient data”. On Friday, the air quality index was “satisfactory”. However, private agencies reflect data for the last two days from the same monitoring location, which is at Civil Lines. As per the information displayed on website aqicn.org, the air quality index was 168 on Saturday at 9pm, with the deadly particulate matter (PM) 2.5 reaching dangerously high levels. On Sunday night too, the AQI was 155, which is also unhealthy. Another website, IQAir, showed that the air quality index level in the city reached 101, with PM 2.5 being the deadly pollutant. Although government data was not available this festive season, environmentalists said that heavy smog enveloped the city on Saturday and Sunday night. Following the National Green Tribunal’s diktat that non-attainment cities should not burst crackers, city police had allowed only a small window for bursting crackers between 8-10pm. The National Clean Air Programme (NCAP), which was released by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), in January 2019, has categorized 102 cities in the country as ‘non-attainment’. These cities have consistently witnessed deteriorating air quality when compared to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards. Maharashtra has the highest number of non-attainment cities, with Nagpur being one of them. However, activists alleged that the norm was not followed in most parts of the city. In many areas, people started bursting crackers before 8pm and continued till 2.30am. While these directives have been extended to November 30, there are no reports of police taking action against violators. Stating that rules were blatantly violated in the city, founder of environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation Kaustav Chatterjee said, “The air quality index reached nearly 200 in the city, which is alarming. No time restrictions were followed across Nagpur.” Adding that confusion prevailed over bursting of crackers till the last minute, Chatterjee said, “At first, NGT stated that bursting of crackers is not permitted in non-attainment cities. Then, police gave relaxations and MPCB declared that green crackers are allowed. However, there is no one to monitor if the green crackers available in the local markets are authentic or not.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pollution-control-boards-take-diwali-weekend-off-release-no-data/articleshow/79238390.cms||Manka Behl
November 16, 2020||Aurangabad||Woman attacked with acid & set ablaze dies; live-in partner held in Maharashtra||AURANGABAD: A 22-year-old woman died of burn injuries after her live-in partner allegedly threw acid on her before dousing her with petrol and setting her ablaze near Yelamb ghat in Beed district in the early hours of Saturday. The couple had stopped near the ghat after setting out on a motorcycle ride from Pune, 200km away. The man, Avinash Rajure (25), has been arrested. The woman, Savitra Ankulwar, suffered 50% burn injuries. Rajure was arrested from Degloor in Nanded district on Sunday evening in a joint operation carried out by the Beed and Nanded police. The couple hailed from Shedgaon in Degloor and had been living together at Shirur, near Pune, for the last two years. Beed superintendent of police R Raja told TOI, “We have arrested Rajure, who was named by Ankulwar in her dying declaration. Rajure is employed with a private company in Pune.” Raja, citing Ankulwar’s dying declaration, said that Rajure had suggested that they go on a long ride to Beed on Friday. “They stopped somewhere between Manjarsumba and Kej of Beed district, where Rajure said that would rest by the road side. Around 3am on Saturday, Rajure tried to strangle Ankulwar before throwing acid on her. He then pushed her into a small pit near Yelamb ghat, doused her with petrol and set her ablaze. He fled as she began crying for help.” Raja said that as the place is deserted, the critically injured woman lay unattended for more than 12 hours in the pit. “A passerby noticed her and called the police. A team from the Neknoor police station reached the spot and took her to a nearby rural hospital, from where she was referred to the Beed civil hospital.” Ankulwar succumbed to her burn injuries on Sunday. The police are probing the reason behind the murder and checking if it had been pre-planned. The incident sparked strong reactions from different quarters. BJP spokesperson Chitra Wagh and leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis took to social media and put up serious questions to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/woman-dies-live-in-partner-held-on-charge-of-acid-attack-setting-her-ablaze/articleshow/79236801.cms||Mohammed Akhef
November 16, 2020||Kozhikode||CU asks colleges to prepare syllabi for new-gen courses||Kozhikode: In a strange decision, Calicut University has asked affiliated colleges under it to prepare and submit syllabus for the new-generation interdisciplinary courses recently sanctioned by the state government in the colleges. The decision by the varsity asking colleges to submit syllabus for the newly-sanctioned courses has raised many eyebrows as the task of preparing syllabus for courses is the mandate of academic bodies like board of studies, faculty and academic council. The move to make the affiliated colleges themselves take the lead in syllabus preparation has led to charges of academic dilution and the varsity abdicating its crucial responsibility. The varsity does not have board of studies for many of the newly-introduced academic subjects. As per the syndicate decision, the varsity has issued order asking the affiliated colleges to prepare and submit the syllabus for the newly-sanctioned programmes which do not have existing syllabus in the varsity. The order states that after due process the syllabus should be placed before the academic council by November 15. Preparing syllabus for a new study programme is an elaborate exercise which is normally carried out by the concerned board of studies in consultation with subject experts and often workshops are held to prepare the draft. Course syllabus is an important document which includes course outcomes, number of credit, maximum marks for external and internal evaluation, number of instructional hours and reference materials. “Preparing syllabus for courses is a key academic responsibility of the university. The decision by the varsity asking affiliated colleges who have applied for the courses to submit syllabus is unheard of and is a clear case of abdication of the responsibilities of the varsity. The move will have serious implications for the students as the colleges might not have the academic expertise to prepare the syllabus and it could later pose issues for students even in getting equivalency for the courses,” syndicate member Rasheed Ahammed, said. University vice-chancellor M K Jayaraj said that the university had decided to commence the new courses this academic year as per the government direction and also to provide more academic opportunities to students. “As preparing syllabus after constituting BoS would lead to time delays, we asked the colleges who submitted proposals for new generation courses to submit draft syllabus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cu-asks-colleges-to-prepare-syllabi-for-new-gen-courses/articleshow/79237468.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Extend relief: Uttam to CM||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress president N Uttam Kumar Reddy in a letter to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao urged him to extend immediate relief to the residents of Osman Nagar, Saif Nagar, Abdullah Yehya Nagar and other localities which are still submerged in stagnant flood water. “The residents of these localities are living in miserable conditions as their houses remained submerged in stagnant rain water for the last two months. Over 5,000 people in these colonies are forced to live on the streets as they could not return to their submerged houses. Several areas under Jalpally municipality of Ranga Reddy district under Maheshwaram Assembly constituency are still under stagnant rain water. No efforts have been made by the authorities to pump out the flood waters,” he stated in the letter to CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/extend-relief-uttam-to-cm/articleshow/79238432.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Online abuse, discrimination at home on the rise: Child helpline||Mangaluru: Childline Dakshina Kannada, a free, phone emergency outreach for children in need of care and protection, recorded a rise in online abuse and discrimination at home during the pandemic. The 1098 service received 1,155 calls between April and September and of these, more than 100 calls each were related to physical abuse, emotional abuse, children found begging, education-related and family related. Renni D’Souza, collab director, Childline Mangaluru, said: “Since schools were closed, we noticed a drastic reduction in calls related to corporal punishments and issues at school. But there has been a 30-40 % rise in online abuse and issues that have cropped up due to increased use of technology. This includes girls feeling discriminated against at home. In case the girl has an elder brother, most often it is he who decides when and for long she uses a mobile phone.” D’Souza said many girls complained about their elder brothers changing phone passwords often and mother’s too felt boys were doing the right thing by keeping an eye on girls. “We have had to counsel the entire family including the boy. The nature of controlling varies from family to family,” D’Souza said. On online abuse, D’Souza said: “Teenagers want to get out of the trap. A 14-year-old girl had reached out for help. She joined a WhatsApp group called PubG Lovers and would frequently receive calls asking her to perform certain tasks. She had to cope with frequent arguments at home as her parents thought she spent too much time on the phone, and on the other hand, she wanted to quit the group, but could not. We noticed how disturbed children got as they unable to share their problems with parents and parents too fail to understand children.” Childline has documented about 11 calls related to child marriage and five were prevented with timely intervention of officials. In two cases, the girls were not minors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/online-abuse-discrimination-at-home-on-the-rise-child-helpline/articleshow/79237470.cms||Deepthi Sanjiv
November 16, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: Shirdi trust sets daily devotee quota of 6,000||NASHIK: For lakhs of devotees, entry to the Saibaba temple complex in Shirdi will be restricted even after the religious places reopen in the state on Monday. The Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust (SSST) in Shirdi has decided to allow only up to 6,000 devotees for darshan per day. In comparison, before the pandemic, daily footfall used to be between 20,000-50,000. Moreover, there will be no distribution of sweets, although devotees would be getting prasad at the sprawling ‘prasadalaya’ while following proper social distancing norms. The Bhakt Niwas run by the trust will also open for the devotees, but only a limited number of people will be given accommodation. Under the guidance of Ahmednagar district collector Rajendra Bhosale and SSST CEO Kanhuraj Bagate, the temple trust has framed a new set of rules to ensure that devotees adhere to all Covid-19 safety protocols. Bhosale visited Shirdi on Sunday afternoon and reviewed the preparations. “A team of our trust had visited Tirupati to study the standard operating procedure (SOP) adopted by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) in September. Our rules are based on the TTD-devised SOP,” said the Shirdi temple trust officials. According to the trust functionaries, long serpentine queues for free darshan would not be allowed. “At most, 6,000 devotees would be allowed. Of them, 50% would be allowed free entry, while the rest would be paid darshans. We have created a separate website for prior registration for paid darshan. The biometric system of registration would be in place for free darshan,” said the trust officials. Only those registered would be allowed entry inside the temple and for darshan, they added. The trust officials said the entry would be from Gate 2 and exit from G5. Devotees will have to wear face masks at all times and ensure strict social distancing within the temple premises. Shirdi’s Sai temple attracts pilgrims not only from Maharashtra but from all across India and the world. The economy of the pilgrim temple town depends on the devotees. Since the temple was shut in mid-March, local hoteliers and other vendors were deeply affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shirdi-trust-sets-daily-devotee-quota-of-6000/articleshow/79236834.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 16, 2020||Kolhapur||Kolhapur’s Mahalaxmi temple to open for limited hours from today||KOLHAPUR: The Mahalaxmi temple will be open for three hours each in the morning and evening and only 25 devotees will be allowed inside the temple at a time. As per state government’s order, the temples in the district are going to open from Monday — Diwali Padwa. The temples were closed for the last eight months due to the pandemic. Members of Paschim Maharashtra Devasthan Samiti (PMDS) met on Sunday and discussed various possibilities to manage the devotees so that the safety guidelines are followed strictly. Mahesh Jadhav, chairman of PMDS, said, “We have decided to let the devotees inside for limited hours in morning and evening. The devotees will not be allowed entry to sanctum sanctorum. We are going to set up pandals outside the entry gate for the devotees to wait till their turn. Everyone has to wear masks. After every couple of hours, the temple premises will be sanitised.” The devotees will be allowed only from East gate and exit from South gate. All shops on the temple premise will remain shut for sometime now. Jadhav said no special entry to VIPs will be allowed till the situation normalises. “Every devotee arriving will be checked for oxygen saturation and temperature. Those having Covid symptoms will be asked to get the health check up done. Also, I request the devotees to not bring the elders and children for darshan,” Jadhav said. “Soon online booking for darshan will be started especially for those residing in far flung cities and towns. Not more than 3,000 devotees would be able to take darshan of goddess Mahalaxmi every day,” Jadhav added. Similar arrangements will be made at Jyotiba temple located at Wadi Ratnagiri in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapurs-mahalaxmi-temple-to-open-for-limited-hours-from-today/articleshow/79236849.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Board to bear exam centre sanitization costs||Nagpur: State education board has decided to bear sanitization costs of centres for the upcoming supplementary exams, thus ending the friction with host schools and junior colleges. Various school associations had threatened to boycott the exams beginning next week unless state paid for the sanitization costs. Board officials told TOI that they will be providing sanitization equipments to all exam centres. Ravikant Deshpande, divisional secretary of the board said, “The decision has been made and conveyed to all centre superintendents. They will be provided with all materials needed to sanitize premises. Also we are going to provide thermal temperature checking device as part of the SOPs.” Deshpande held a meeting with centre superintendents a few days ago and briefed them about the safety protocols to be followed. “Every CS has been made aware of the unique situation we find ourselves in. We cannot take any chance with regards to health of students. Hence wearing masks will be compulsory as shall be sanitization of premises on a daily basis,” said Deshpande. While sanitization costs can be high, board officials were fortunate as the supplementary exam has very few students. Deshpande said, “On an average 10%-15% students appear for supplementary exams as compared to the summer one. So this means fewer centres as well.” Under his jurisdiction of six districts (Nagpur, Wardha, Bhandara, Gadchiroli, Chandrapur and Gondia) only 50-odd exams centre are there. “For Std X we have 24 exam centres whereas for XII we have 31. In fact we have already started sending the sanitization materials to most centres,” said Deshpande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/board-to-bear-exam-centre-sanitization-costs/articleshow/79238464.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 16, 2020||Nashik||Nashik administration, religious heads request people to follow norms||NASHIK: The district administration has laid down the standard operating procedure (SOP) for opening of religious places across the district from Monday and the religious heads have appealed to the people to follow the norms in order to contain of the spread of Covid-19. The district administration on Sunday announced the SOP for the temples, masjid, churches, gurdwaras that have been allowed to open their doors to the the people from Monday by the state government so that people can visit their religious places to offer prayers. The SOP mainly includes allowing limited number of people into the religious places besides ensuring the physical distancing between the people, use of sanitizers and use of the masks as the main precautions to cut down the spread of the disease. The religious heads have asked the community members and even the the members of the organising committees to ensure all the the directions issued by the state government were followed in totality. “We have ensured that no person without mask will be allowed to enter church for offering his prayers and at the same time the entry will be regulated to 50% capacity. The additional number of the people will have to wait for their turn and at the same time prayers will be telecasted on screens so that the people outside can see the happenings inside the church,” Vency D’mello, priest in-charge of Holy Cross Church Nashik, said. There are 13 catholic churches across Nashik district six of which are in Nashik city and there are 80 protestant churches across the district 20 of which are in Nashik city. Maulana Mufti Mohammed Ismail, who heads the Muslim community in Malegaon and also the member of the legislative assembly, pointed out that the the religious places will be sanitized after every prayer so that chances of people contracting the disease is diminished. “At the same time, we will ensure that the people do not overcrowd and they will asked to wait for their turns,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-admin-religious-heads-request-people-to-follow-norms/articleshow/79236839.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Lecturer, auto driver, salesman; all rendered homeless by lockdown||Nagpur: Sania quickly covers two-month-old Zainab’s face as the wind blows harder. Her one-year-old son sleeps besides her on the pavement outside the Central Museum boundary wall. The kids have been swaddled in layers of warm clothing to protect them from the cold. Mohammed Sultan, the kids’ father, dries clothes on the museum wall and other belongings of the household lay scattered, next to a rickety autorickshaw parked close by. The family sits away from the other homeless, who live on the road divider facing the Meetha Neem Dargah a little ahead. They can be distinctly identified apart from the rest, who have made the road their permanent home. Yet, like the others, even they depend on alms from passers-by. Once regular visitors to the dargah, Sultan and his family have been thrown to the streets by the lockdown. As locals confirmed, the family moved to the footpath some three months ago, when Sania was almost full-term pregnancy. Zainab was born in a government hospital and brought to the footpath after discharge a week later. Since then, a corner, a little away from the rest of the homeless, has been the family’s home. “I am an autorickshaw driver and we used to live in a rented room at Sindi Bhavan Slum near Tajbagh. There was no work after lockdown, and I could not pay the Rs1,600 a month rent. After three months, the landlord asked us to leave. I have been working since 12 years but could not save much,” says Sultan in a disgruntled tone. There was no place at the home of relatives too, he said. Sultan’s aged mother lives with his brother, who runs a cycle-rickshaw. “They were not in a position to feed us. My mother-in-law too barely manages to earn a living, working as a domestic servant. We had no choice but to come here and stay,” he says. The permit for his autorickshaw lapsed during the lockdown, and its chassis needs repairs, says Sultan, who still drives it to run errands. He hopes to get some help to repair the autorickshaw so that he can afford a home again. “It may take Rs10,000 to 12,000 to repair the vehicle. I am willing to do any other job also,” he says. Firoz Khan of Meetha Neem Dargah Trust, who confirmed Sultan’s story, said they have been trying to help him too. Sultan says, “It was a caesarean delivery, so my wife needs to be fed well. If someone offers money, I go and buy eggs for us. There is a public bath close by, but we cannot afford going there daily. It costs Rs10 for a shower,” he says. Sania wears a veil, which is getting tattered, and speaks little. There are more such homeless across the town. K Lal (name changed), was found sitting on a bench near MLA Hostel, with his belongings in a plastic bag. He is another victim of the lockdown. He used to work in a consumer durables store in the city but had left for home in Bihar after lockdown. When he came back, the owner had already employed someone else, leaving him stranded. Since then, Lal lives on the street, calling on the shop once in a while, requesting to get his job back again. As he hopes to be employed there again, Lal preferred not to disclose his or the employer’s name, to avoid embarrassment. Also close to MLA Hostel, Avinash Sakhre runs Mama Tea Stall. He was earlier a faculty at a hotel management institute, but lost his job in the lockdown. Now Sakhre runs the tea stall for subsistence. The family had moved to their own house from a slum in Gaddigodam in November last year, but soon after he lost his job. He now has to pay an EMI of Rs24,000 for the home loan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lecturer-auto-driver-salesman-all-rendered-homeless-by-lockdown/articleshow/79238501.cms||Shishir Arya
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Durgam Cheruvu bridge turn selfie point, many booked||HYDERABAD: With several people risking their lives on the Durgam Cheruvu cable bridge by stopping to click selfies, the Cyberabad traffic police has warned the public that such stunts will attract a penalty. Ever since the inauguration of cable bridge in September, the maximum number of traffic violations on the bridge have been due to motorists stopping for a selfie. Officials say that most number of people were booked as they were busy clicking selfies, unmindful of the zipping vehicles. This is followed by cases booked on pillion riders for not wearing a helmet. “So far, the Cyberabad police booked a total of 2,631 cases for different traffic violations since September 25, the day the bridge was thrown open to the public. Of the 2,631 cases, 1,338 cases were booked for stopping on the carriageway for clicking selfies,” officials said. Six CCTVs installed on the bridge to capture videos and registration numbers of the vehicles stopping. Further, traffic police personnel also man different locations of the flyover to take photos of the violators and direct the motorist to leave the place. Deputy commissioner of police (Traffic) Vijay Kumar said that it is dangerous to stop the vehicle and take selfies on the flyover as it can lead to accidents. “There are footpaths on the flyover for such activities. But stopping the vehicle on the road and taking selfie will attract penalty of atleast Rs 200,” the DCP said. Moreover, officials have observed that more number of people stop to take selfies in the evenings due to the larger number of tourists. Interestingly, the number of motorists taking selfies on the Biodiversity Flyover is now nil. Earlier, a few fatal accidents occurring due to similar selfie stunts were reported on the flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/durgam-cheruvu-bridge-turn-selfie-point-many-booked/articleshow/79238498.cms||Srinath Vudali
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents await MoD nod for smooth ride in Yapral||HYDERABAD: For over two lakh people, the two-kilometre pothole-filled stretch between Hanuman mandir junction in Yapral and Balaji Nagar is their lifeline. Though it is in GHMC jurisdiction, local military authority (LMA) has control over it and mandarins sitting in Delhi will decide when the road should be relaid. In the past, the civic body and LMA both disowned the stretch, but now the Army claims rights over it. Local legislator has got sanction of Rs 2crore, but LMA is waiting for the nod from the ministry of defence (MoD). Following petitions from locals, GHMC commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar shot off a letter to GOC, Telangana & AP Sub- Area, stating “the road is in a deplorable condition and requires urgent recarpet. There are lot of potholes and deep craters and further the road has deteriorated due to recent rains. This is causing severe jjdiscomfort for motorists, senior citizens and pregnant women.’’ Residents of nearby colonies formed a Joint Action Committee (JAC) to take up the issue. “It is taking a severe toll on locals,’’ JAC president Sai Kumar told TOI. When contacted, a defence public relations officer told TOI: “Urgency of the road condition has been conveyed and as soon as the sanction is received, GHMC will be allowed to repair the road’’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-await-mod-nod-for-smooth-ride-in-yapral/articleshow/79238505.cms||Srinath Vudali
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Therapeutic walkway opened at Indira Park, 17 more on anvil||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday inaugurated the panchatatva park (therapeutic park) at Indira Park. KTR said that as many as 17 such parks with walkways based on the concept of acupressure will be developed inside the various parks across the city. “The GHMC will develop 17 panchatatva parks which are based on the therapeutic concept of acupressure. One such facility was inaugurated today,” said Rao. The design of the panchatatva walkways is inspired by five elements of nature— fire, air, earth, water and ether. The walkway is a circular track developed using eight components. Stones of three types, 6mm chips, rough sand, tree bark, black soil and water are also used. As on date, an area marked for yoga, open gym and infinity walking tracks—walking tracks in the shape of number 8— are some of the features around the panchatatva walking track in Indira Park. Another feature of the walking track is Navagraha Vanam. The Navagraha Vaman is a combination of nine plants that represent the nine grahas (nine planets). The area around the panchatatva track also has 40 varieties of medicinal and herbal plants Apart from the acupressure walking track, there are four other infinity walking tracks. Officials said that an open gym will also be built at Indira Park, along with 50 theme parks and 300 tree parks across the city. “It has been proposed to provide one more open gym at Indira Park,” GHMC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/therapeutic-walkway-opened-at-indira-park-17-more-on-anvil/articleshow/79238512.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hubballi||Fall in cases, but teleconsultations with docs still popular in Dharwad||Hubballi: Although Covid-19 cases are falling rapidly, those with other ailments still prefer to consult with doctors virtually rather than visit hospitals to seek medical advice. teleconsultation is not a new concept, but awareness was low prior and it gained prominence only after the nationwide lockdown was enforced. Doctors now say electronic consultation is the new big thing in the medical field and is here to stay. Doctors and patients say teleconsultation saves time and energy and patients can consult with doctors from the comfort of their homes. Dr Shivanand Hiremath, a psychiatrist at Antharya Neuro Psychiatric Centre, said he launched teleconsultation services in 2017, but there were few takers over the past three years. However, he received a flood of calls during the lockdown as regular patients and others began consulting him via video calls. “Many patients of mine now interact through video calls and many rural patients too are consulting virtually,” Dr Hiremath said. “Personally, I prefer that the first consultation be in-person. teleconsultation is best for follow-ups.” Dr Sachin Hoskatti, a well-known physician, said teleconsultation has its advantages but it sometimes cannot replace physical consultation. “It is better if the first visit is made in person,” said Dr Hoskatti. “Follow-ups can be done through online consultation and its best for people suffering from diabetes and hypertension and the elderly who require regular follow-ups.” Rashmi Katnur, a resident of Abhinava Nagar, said members of her family have been consulting doctors online for some time now. “I am a diabetic and I was diagnosed during the lockdown,” she said. “I began monitoring my blood glucose levels using a monitoring system at home, but my sugar levels were not in control and visiting the doctor during the lockdown was not easy. So I began a teleconsultation with a diabetologists and he changed my tablets and doses. Since then I regularly take his advice.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/fall-in-cases-but-teleconsultations-with-docs-still-popular-in-dharwad/articleshow/79237596.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Are authorities ready for second Covid wave, asks pvt hospitals||Nagpur: Apprehending a three times severe Covid wave because of lackadaisical public mood towards preventive measures, private hospitals in the region have raised a question over the administration’s preparedness in dealing with any sudden spike in cases. The concern comes in the wake of private tertiary care hospitals being at the receiving end of patients and authorities’ ire over bills running in lakhs as Covid treatment involves additional high cost protective gears and isolation facilities. Private hospitals had been reluctant but compelled to treat Covid patients by local administrations due to shortage of government/civic-hospital beds in August and September. Ahead of the projected second Covid wave in coming days, the Vidarbha Hospitals Association’s (VHA) has asked if authorities have put enough infrastructure in place to meet the needs in case Covid numbers start rising again. This again indicates that the VHA seek to ensure Covid treatment is done free of cost at government facilities only. VHA president Dr Ashok Arbat said the second surge as projected by government is sure to be seen. In a press release, Dr Arbat sought reply from authorities as to whether they have made enough infrastructural and manpower arrangements at least now to tackle the ‘forthcoming tsunami of cases’. VHA secretary Dr Alok Umre said during peak Covid days no bed was available in any hospital and nature had given enough time to government to make alternative arrangements as had been repeatedly pointed by judiciary. On capping of charges and accusing doctors of fleecing patients, VHA legal adviser Dr Pradeep Arora said that the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has not only quashed the capping of charges of non-Covid patients but also held that any capping of charges of Covid patients should be compensated by state government. “In spite of this verdict, the civic authorities are still persisting with illegal procedures like auditing and inspections,” he said. VHA vice president Dr Shrikant Mukewar feared that private Covid warriors will again be pulled up though it would be the government which did not keep itself ready. VHA vice president Dr Pramod Giri said it is the primary responsibility of government to take care of Covid patients and provide free treatment. “If government does not make sufficient arrangement, they will again trample on the rights of private hospitals and crush them unconstitutionally,” he said. VHA convener Dr Anup Marar added that since no appreciation was ever showered in favour of private health care sector by government, the government will surely refrain from availing the services of private health care sector during second surge. Former VHA president Dr Uday Mahorkar said the morale of all private practitioners has been dented. VHA convener Dr Sameer Paltewar said the government was hiding its failure in arranging infrastructure and organizing manpower. Dr Dilip Rathi, Dr Shantanu Sengupta, Ravi Mannadiyar, Dr Avinash Pophali, Dr Prakash Khetan, Dr Deepak Jeswani, Dr Prashant Rathi, Dr Kush Jhunjhunwala, Dr Akash Balki and Dr Amol Deshmukh too supported the VHA’s in questioning authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/are-authorities-ready-for-second-covid-wave-asks-pvt-hospitals/articleshow/79238568.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 16, 2020||Patna||RaGa’s priority was picnic, not Bihar polls: Shivanand||PATNA: RJD attacked its ally Congress for the first time after the Bihar election results with the former’s vice-president Shivanand Tiwari on Sunday holding Rahul Gandhi responsible for the dismal performance of his party in the polls. “When polls were in full swing here, Rahul Gandhi was having a picnic at (his sister and Congress general secretary) Priyanka ji's house in Shimla. This shows how seriously he took the Bihar election which was being watched by the entire nation with a hope of emergence of a new political force in the opposition. Is this the way to run a party?” Tiwari told TOI. “Rahul Gandhi came for electioneering, but he campaigned only for three days in Bihar. He addressed only two election meetings per day (total six meetings in the state). PM Narendra Modi is very senior to him (Rahul) in age. But he had been addressing three to four meetings per day. Moreover, Rahul Gandhi left Bihar after campaigning for three days. He went to Shimla for a picnic at his sister’s house,” Tiwari, who is considered close to RJD boss Lalu Prasad said. “Earlier, I had asked at a coordination committee meeting of the Mahagathbandhan why Rahul Gandhi will address only two election meetings in a day,” Tiwari recalled. Accusing Congress of not giving adequate time for electioneering, Tiwari said: “They had fielded candidates in 70 constituencies. But they (Congress leaders) did not hold even 70 election meetings. This again shows how serious they were about the Bihar polls.” Tiwari also questioned Priyanka Gandhi’s absence in the Bihar campaign. “Even Priyanka Gandhi did not come for campaigning in Bihar election which was being watched by the entire nation with a hope,” he said. Tiwari’s attack on Rahul comes just three days after the admission by two Congress functionaries that the Mahagathbandhan had failed to reach the magic figure of 123 assembly seats because of the poor performance by the grand old party. Accepting Congress’s failure, its general secretary Tariq Anwar had tweeted on Thursday: “We should accept the truth. Because of Congress’s weak performance, Bihar could not get the Mahagathbandhan government. Congress should introspect to find out what went wrong.” Similarly, senior Congress member Shakeeluzzaman Ansari had held the party’s central managers responsible for the Mahagathbandhan “snatching defeat from the jaws of victory”. In a letter to party president Sonia Gandhi, Ansari had held Bihar screening committee chairman Avinash Pande, Bihar in charge Shaktisinh Gohil and special poll emissary Randeep Surjewala for the election “mess”. He had alleged that the national panel had distributed tickets on its whims and fancies and had demanded a probe to inquire the reasons behind the defeat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ragas-priority-was-picnic-not-bihar-polls-shivanand/articleshow/79238593.cms||Madan Kumar
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Residents of Osman Nagar hold protest||Hyderabad: Residents of Osman Nagar held a unique protest against the state government demanding that the stagnant flood water be drained out to keep their locality clean. Osman Nagar was severely affected by the recent floods in the city. Several houses are still submerged due to poor drainage system. Many residents have left their homes unable to live with stagnant water all around. As part of the protest, the residents gathered in flooded Osman Nagar holding candles. They urged CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to resolve the problem at the earliest. “Despite plaints to officials our problem persists,” said a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-of-osman-nagar-hold-protest/articleshow/79238535.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Contract lecturers to work in govt junior colleges of choice||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Sunday decided to give an opportunity to the contract lecturers to work in the government junior college of their choice in vacant posts. The chief minister instructed the officials concerned to prepare guidelines in this regard. At a meeting to review the issues of contract lecturers in government junior colleges, education minister Sabitha Reddy and Rythu Bandhu Samiti chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy brought to the notice of the CM the problems being faced by the contract lecturers in government junior colleges. The CM said the state government has taken several measures for the welfare of junior college contract lecturers. The attempt to regularise their services failed due to cases in court. “The government has doubled their salaries. In the past they were paid for 10 months. The state government increased it to 12 months with full pay. The government is also giving them the service benefits,”he said. He added that the government has increased leaves and extended facilities like casual leave and maternity leave for the lecturers. “The government will take more measures for their welfare,”he said. The CM directed officials to prepare guidelines keeping in view existing regulations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/contract-lecturers-to-work-in-govt-junior-colleges-of-choice/articleshow/79238547.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglars steal cell phones from shop||Hyderabad: A gang of thieves burgled an electronics store in Madinaguda early on Saturday. The store owners in their complaint to the police said that 119 mobile phones worth Rs 14 lakh were stolen. According to police, a gang of four persons entered the store by prying open the shutter. “The gang stole the phones that were kept on display and in other areas and sped away in a car,” police said. However, as there was a security breach in the store, the store’s Mumbai security team immediately alerted their local store manager. “By the time the manager reached Madinaguda, he found the shutter half open and the mobile phones missing. When the manager verified the CCTV footage, he found the accused entering the store without a mask,” police said. There was reportedly no security guard near the store. Police suspect that the accused fled towards Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglars-steal-cell-phones-from-shop/articleshow/79238598.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Farmer dies while electrifying fence||Chandrapur: A farmer was killed while trying to electrify his farm fence in village Gojoli in Gondpipri tehsil on Saturday evening. Victim Sainath Meshram (42) hooked a wire to the power supply passing close to his farm and was connecting it to the wire-fence, when he got electrocuted. Farmers are facing large scale destruction of crops from intruding wild boars. Failing to get sufficient compensation against the crop loss, they electrify the fences of their farm with power supply line. There had been many instances when big cats like tigers and leopards have been killed by electrified fences. Meshram’s dead body was later found by fellow farmers who were returning home from their fields. Dhaba police is investigating into the case. The incident reveals desperation of farmers to protect their crops. Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve have successfully implemented the solar fencing scheme in its buffer zone. They have provided solar panels and batteries to the farmers in buffer area of tiger reserve to deter the intruding wild animals in the agriculture fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmer-dies-while-electrifying-fence/articleshow/79238597.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Problem of smart cards shortage returns, more than 1 lakh pile up at transport offices||HYDERABAD: A severe shortage of smart cards has returned to haunt the applicants of registration certificates and driving license at Regional Transport offices across the state. As many as 1.3 lakh cards have piled up in the 11 regional transport offices in Hyderabad and Rangareddy districts alone, leaving applicants in the lurch. Many say that they are yet to receive the cards despite clearing the driving test and all the mandatory vehicle checks and paying an application fee which includes service charge, smart card fee and postal charges. “My application for registration of my four-wheeler was approved in September but I am yet to get the RC. The officials should think of a permanent solution to this problem and stop collecting fee for smart cards and postal charges if they are unable to dispatch them on time,” said Madhusudhan Rao, who had applied for his vehicle registration at the Uppal RTA. Delivering key documents through speed post was made mandatory by the government in 2008 to ensure that no fake addresses are used. Another applicant, Sai Kiran, said, “It has been nearly a month since I applied for my license at Khairtabad transport office and I am still waiting for the documents to be delivered to my postal address. There is also no communication between the traffic police and the transport officials over this issue. I was forced to pay Rs 700 for my license and on top of that traffic penalty for not having my smart card, which is issued as a physical evidence for having a driving license.” When asked if they had access to the mobile application called mwallet, where applicants can access key documents online, many questioned the reason for the officials collecting postal charges for smart cards despite introducing the app. RTA officials said the cards are usually sent to vehicle owners within a week. Confirming the shortage of smart cards, C Ramesh, joint transport commissioner (IT and vigilance) said, “The shortage is due to the pandemic. We will arrange for the cards soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/problem-of-smart-cards-shortage-returns-more-than-1l-pile-up-at-transport-offices/articleshow/79238596.cms||Moulika.KV
November 16, 2020||Kochi||Malayali dispora: Voluntary, virtual & on call 24x7||SEATTLE: Medical professionals across the globe have been an epitome of undivided heart and abounding comfort for the needy, during this pandemic. There is no debate about this. For them, help and comfort offered to the sick, especially those infected by the coronavirus, have made our respect and gratitude towards them all the more intense. Meanwhile, Malayali doctors based in Seattle, Washington state, have extended this wholehearted commitment to a higher degree. Under the aegis of Kerala Association of Washington (KAW), six Malayali doctors came together to help the community during the pandemic by assisting those in need in a virtual space. A WhatsApp group by the name, ‘Doctors on Call’ was created wherein any Malayalis residing in Washington or the Tri-state area could reach out for assistance or clarifications on one’s medical condition. This forum, however, was not a consultation medium, nor could the doctors provide medications or prescriptions -- but rather a virtual forum provided as a quick reach-out space. Dr Deepthi Mani, who is the Internal Medicine physician for Valley Medical in Seattle, reiterated the virtual group was of utmost help, during the onset of the pandemic. “The modeling data had only begun to trickle down for mass media consumption and so people were confused and anxious about how to go about with their lives.” KAW made a toll-free number and also created an account of the number of senior citizens above the age of 60, who were likely to require medical assistance. This were among the first few steps that the association took soon after the group was initiated. Ojus John, President of KAW, said that the members of the association came together to make CDC (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) approved face masks during the initial days, as there was a shortage and were delivered to all who couldn’t find one. “The group was also helpful to get clarity on the precautions that needed to be taken, the level of sanitization required at homes and personal spaces.” KAW has always been central for social activities in the state of Washington. The members felt it was imperative to reach out to all in the community, especially the elderly who might not be dependent on the technology as the rest of population. To make sure, they don’t leave any stone unturned, KAW personally reached out to senior citizens who might require a routine check-up during the continued lock-down. “The group acted as an Information Centre that allowed people to clear doubts on medical issues and even get clarity on how to travel safely. Online sessions were conducted by the medical professionals that paved way for ignoring all the wrong and fake news that were doing the rounds,” said Jyothish Nair, secretary, KAW. As the work of translating medical doubts continued in the group, the association also raised money to help those who were laid off from work. "KAW acted as a middleman to sort out all questions people had on safety and survival. The group hugely helped in awareness creation especially when no one knew where to get tested or how soon they’d get the results,” says Shibu Baby, treasurer of KAW. Although ‘Doctors on Call’ was initiated during the onset of the pandemic, the online space still functions to respond to those in need, as in the US, the ‘flu’ season is just around the corner. Remitha Mathew is a journalist from Kochi, now living in Washington state in the US||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-dispora-voluntary-virtual-on-call-24-x7/articleshow/79237707.cms||Remitha Mathew
November 16, 2020||India||Some vaccines that require cold chain at -70°C not ‘ideal’ for India: Experts||PUNE: Leading health experts in the country have expressed concern over the number of cold chain facilities that will have to be readied to deploy vaccines with recommended storage temperatures as low as -70°C. Former director general of the Indian Council of Medical Research, Dr NK Ganguly, told TOI that most of the Covid vaccines being developed require super-cold storage and may prove difficult for even the most sophisticated cities to store and transport. “Medical freezers that go down to -70°C or -80°C are rare even in American and European hospitals. Most, if not all the current vaccine frontrunners, require stringent cold chains, making them immensely challenging for India to deploy,” he said. The concerns come amidst reports that said the Pfizer vaccine, which promises 90% efficacy, will need to be stored in -70°C. The Moderna vaccine too — its efficacy rating is expected by December-end — needs -20°C to survive. The experts said such vaccines will not be ideal for developing countries. Ganguly said the Pfizer vaccine may prove to be a “logistical nightmare” for India, with heatwaves, widespread power outages and large rural belts. “Also, massive pre-orders for the vaccines (Pfizer and Moderna’s) from the UK, USA and Japan will make them mostly unavailable for us until 2021,” he said. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of epidemiology and communicable diseases at the ICMR, said some vaccines will not be feasible for India. He said, “Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are mRNA (messenger RNA) shots that require ultra-low storage temperatures. We do not have such freezers in our country. Pfizer has announced it will provide a dry ice container that will be able to maintain a temperature of -70°C for up to 10 days. But it is still not logistically feasible,” he said. However, Dr Kant said there are vaccines in development that can be stored in temperatures between -2°C and -8°C. Health officials said existing cold storage networks fulfil requirements of three vaccine candidates — from Bharat Biotech, Zydus Cadila and Serum Institute — that are being tested for Indian conditions. A senior central health official said the doses would require over 16,000 cold chain storages. WHO scientist: Aim for more vax optionsWHO’s chief scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan said more Covid-19 vaccine candidates must be developed to cover different populations and their requirements, reports Nisha Nambiar. For example, one vaccine could prove to be safer for pregnant women while another could be more effective among the elderly. She said nearly 70% of the world’s population must be immunised for the pandemic to completely end. She urged all vaccine developers to continue with their trials — irrespective of who was ahead — because none of the frontrunners have enough vials immediately available for everyone. Watch Why Covid vaccines may not be 'ideal' for India||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-vaccines-that-require-cold-chain-at-70c-not-ideal-for-india-experts/articleshow/79239546.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||A first in state: CBI recruits excise official on deputation||Thiruvananthapuram: For the first time in its history, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has recruited an official from the state excise department on deputation to the agency. The CBI has recruited P Muraleedharan, who is the circle inspector of excise, Kasaragod, to the premier investigating agency on deputation for three years. He is one of the three officers selected to serve in the agency on deputation from the state. Two other police officers have also been selected to fill in the three vacancies available in the special crime branch, Thiruvananthapuram, of the CBI. Even though the CBI regularly recruits officials who are serving in the state police and vigilance whenever vacancy is reported, it is for the first time that it has recruited an official from the excise department. The CBI had written to the excise commissioner asking if anyone is willing to join the agency. As many as five excise officials had applied for deputation from the excise, out of which the agency has selected one of them. Though it is the serving officers in the state agencies who are drawn on deputation, the recruitment is not a mere formality. The officials are to appear for a written examination in the first round. “The intention is to test their capacity on legal and procedural matters. Questions are asked to test their knowledge of Indian Penal Code, criminal procedure code and Evidence Act,” top sources said. Once they clear the written test, they would be interviewed by a panel consisting of top CBI officials. This year, the interview board consisted of the joint director of CBI, a senior SP and a public prosecutor. “Different situations would be narrated and then we would be asked on how would we proceed in such situations,” one of the candidates who appeared for the interview said. Once the interview is also satisfactory, the agency would then go through the candidate’s past records, annual confidential reports and then shortlist the candidate. Once this procedure is over, there would also be a confidential verification of the officer from various sources by the counter-intelligence cell of the agency and that completes the selection process. The CBI, formed under the Delhi Police Special Establishment Act, also draws its manpower from a range of investigating agencies, other than the direct recruitment. The agency operates Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and special crimes bureau (SCB) in various states categorized under various zones. In the state, it runs an ACB and SCB in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram, respectively, under the Chennai zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/a-first-in-state-cbi-recruits-excise-official-on-deputation/articleshow/79236956.cms||KP Saikiran
November 16, 2020||Patna||Bihar govt asks senior citizens, kids to keep off Chhath ghats||PATNA: The state government has asked senior citizens and children below 10 years not to visit the ghats for celebrating Chhath amid Covid-19 pandemic. The state home department, in its order on Sunday, issued detailed guidelines for celebrating Chhath. It has also urged those suffering from fever or any other kind of serious ailments to remain indoors and not to reach the Ganga or any river ghat to offer ‘arghya’ to the Sun God. The Chhath celebrations will begin on November 18 with ‘nahay-khay’ and conclude with the morning arghya to the Sun God on November 21. In the guidelines, the state government has also mentioned that devotees should not take a dip at ghats during Chhath this time while performing ‘arghya’. The ghats will be barricaded in such a way to prevent people from taking a dip in the river water. No fair, religious events like ‘jagaran’ or cultural event would be allowed across the state during the Chhath festivities. Authorities have been directed to officially encourage people to celebrate Chhath indoors as gatherings take place at the river ghats or near ponds, which will make it impossible to maintain social distancing and increase the risk of spreading Covid-19 virus. No food stalls would be allowed around the ghats during Chhath. Besides, community feeding (bhoj) or distribution of ‘prasad’ or ‘bhog’ would also not be allowed. Chhath Puja organizing committees along with the officials would have to ensure adequate amount of sanitisers for everyone. The government has directed the district administrations to make arrangements for the devotees to carry water from important rivers to their respective homes for the festival while maintaining social distancing and ensuring use of mask by everyone. Social distancing and use of mask would have to be ensured even at small water bodies where people gather for Chhath. District administrations have been directed to sanitize places around the water bodies. The urban development and housing department and panchayati raj department have been directed to issue required directions for the sanitization works. The local administrations have also been directed to take help from puja committees, civic bodies, ward councillors, panchayat representatives and others in spreading awareness about Covid-19 and the regulations issued by the Centre as well as the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-asks-senior-citizens-kids-to-keep-off-chhath-ghats/articleshow/79238606.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Truck driver kills cleaner, surrenders||HYDERABAD: The driver of a truck killed its cleaner near Karimnagar after an argument with him and drove with the body in the truck’s cabin for over 200 km till Konijerla in Khammam and surrendered before the police on Sunday. The accused, N Raju (48) and the deceased B Raju (45) were residents of Kakinada. The duo had travelled to Karimnagar from Kakinada and while returning to their hometown with a load of rice grain, an argument broke out between them over tying of tarpaulin near Manakondur in Karimnagar. “The accused claimed that B Raju tried to attack him with a knife and in self-defense he retaliated and killed the cleaner. Both of them were drunk at the time of the incident,” Wyra CI Vasanth Kumar said. After committing the murder, N Raju kept the body in the berth behind his seat and drove the truck towards Kakinada. En route, after reaching Konijerla police station in Khammam district at around 11 am, Raju surrendered before the police. “The accused parked the truck in front of the police station and surrendered. He claimed that the victim tried to kill him and he retaliated in self- defense. There are multiple stab injuries on the victim’s body and the accused does not have a single injury. So it does not appear to be a case of killing in self-defense,” the CI said. Police registered a case under Section 302 of the IPC against Raju and arrested him. The victim’s body was handed over to his family members after the postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/truck-driver-kills-cleaner-surrenders/articleshow/79238599.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Build endurance to keep pace with modern lifestyle: Experts||Nagpur: Modern busy lifestyle has both positive and negative impact on individual well-being. Negative impacts, of course, are more hazardous and stay for long. Most crucial but silent sufferer of modern lifestyle is our endurance. We are losing our ability to work hard for prolonged period of time and the ability to resist fatigue. November 16 is celebrated as International Day for Endurance. On this day, TOI spoke to doctors and experts in the fitness field who shared basics about endurance, which level of endurance is up to the mark, and strategies to boost it.“Endurance is a measure of fitness. It includes muscular endurance and cardiovascular endurance,” said consultant physiotherapist Dr Pratiksha Gadpal-Gadkari. Cardiovascular endurance refer to the ability of an individual to perform large muscle dynamic exercises such as swimming, walking or biking for long period of time. Muscular endurance refers to the ability of the muscle group to perform repeated contractions over a period of time.“There are several reasons for reduced endurance. The leading one is lack of physical activity due to sedentary lifestyle or bed rest without any accompanying disease,” she said. Due to less active life, muscle mass decreases. As a result, people start experiencing decrease in exercise tolerance and decrease in bone mineral density which may lead to osteoporosis. “To become physically fit, individuals must participate regularly in some form of physical activity. Consistent and carefully planned exercises can result in higher levels of fitness for healthy individuals, slower the decrease in functional capacity of the elderly and recondition those who have been ill or have chronic disease,” said Dr Gadkari. According to cardiologist Dr Amal Amale, 30 minutes of brisk walking for five days a week is basic to maintain cardiac well being.“Most of us are not athletes but performing endurance training builds up cardiac and skeletal muscle metabolism which makes the body ready to avoid cardiovascular events,” he said. According to Dr Amale, endurance exercises, in short, work as a medicine in cardiology and should be incorporated in treatment plan by all physicians. Retrospectively, in patient who had already suffered heart attack and is in heart failure, endurance exercises have proven to improve quality of life and avoid further events and hospital admission.Fitness trainer Allan Morde said one should always aim for progress while incorporating endurance exercises into fitness routine. “You can increase distance, time or difficulty when comfortable. A lazy lifestyle always ends up in poor endurance, so put on your shoes and start exercising for your better health,” he said. Pain medicine specialist Dr Sunita Lawange said that physical activity, especially aerobic exercise, raises pain tolerance and decreases pain perception. Moderate to vigorous cycling program significantly increases pain tolerance but has no effect on pain.According to the doctor, yoga mixes physical positions and postures with breathing exercises, meditation and mental training. They have more gray matter in parts of the brain related to pain processing, pain regulation and genes, too, can affect how one perceives pain.“When it comes to gender, for unknown reasons, females report longer-lasting and higher pain levels than males. Physical activity such as aerobic exercise also raise pain tolerance and decrease pain perception,” said Dr Sunita. In short, the experience of pain is complex. It involves both physical and emotional pain. Although one can’t always change the source of pain, there are ways one can alter your perception of it to help manage it. RECOMMENDED EXERCISES Walking | First choice to start exercise, good joint problems, at least 30-40 mins of walking everyday can boost enduranceStair climbing | Can improve cardiorespiratory performance, but should be avoided by people having severe knee and hip problemsCycling | Both stationary or on road cycling increases cardiovascular fitness, improves muscle strength and flexibility, joint mobility and coordinationSwimming | Good for enhancing endurance Running | Any amount of running, even once a week is better than no running Aerobic dance | Great fitness activity. Not for those with any orthopaedic problem or shortness of breath||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/build-endurance-to-keep-pace-with-modern-lifestyle-experts/articleshow/79238602.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops nab 11 for playing cards||Hyderabad: Police in Kukatpally Housing Board (KPHB) Colony nabbed 11 persons while they were playing cards. From the accused, police seized Rs 14,300 cash and 52 playing cards. Police nabbed them after conducting a raid based on a tip-off. A case was registered against them under the Gaming Act. They were placing bets while playing 3 cards game, which is a game of chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-nab-11-for-playing-cards/articleshow/79238603.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Foreign liquor adulteration racket busted, 99 bottles seized||HYDERABAD: Excise sleuths believe imported whiskey and scotch, being smuggled to the city from Mumbai-based, gangs is adulterated. Suspecting that organised gangs are selling adulterated liquor as scotch, an excise team sent the seized stock of scotch and imported whiskey from a Mumbai gang to a lab. Acting on specific information about Mumbai-based gangs supplying foreign liquor illegally into Hyderabad, the Zaheerabad excise station staff, under the supervision of A Chandraiah, district prohibition & excise officer, Sangareddy, kept a watch on the suspects and intercepted Sravan Purohit of Mumbai, who was bringing 99 bottles of scotch and other varieties of imported liquor to the city, in a private travels bus. As Sravan was transporting the liquor in Mumbai-Hyderabad private bus while travelling as a passenger, an excise team asked him about the supplier and customers. As the supplier, Rahul Phadte, who is also an employer of Sravan was operating from Mumbai, the enforcement team tried to nab the buyers from Hyderabad. However, the buyers were only in contact with Rahul and to nab them, the excise team made Sravan inform Rahul that he got delayed by a few hours due to bus breakdown. Rahul then spoke to buyers and informed Sravan to wait for them near Taj Deccan Hotel. However, after making Sravan wait for about six hours on the road in an auto with liquor, the buyers from city called off the deal. “We suspect they spotted one of our team members,” an excise official said. Cops then examined a litre bottle of seized liquor, including 48 bottles of Black Lable, 25 bottles of Double Black, a Royal Salute and a Johnnie Walker Platinum. “There was slight leakage from some bottles, which would not happen if the bottles are sealed in factory. We suspect it was adulterated liquor bottled in Mumbai or Goa. Samples have been sent to lab for testing,” an excise official said. Sravan confessed that he was supplying liquor to Hyderabad gang for an average price of Rs 1,500 to Rs 2,000 per 1 litre bottle. The Hyderabad team is selling the same to customers for Rs 3,000 to Rs 3,500, when the retail price for the same is Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fgn-liquor-adulteration-racket-busted-99-bottles-seized/articleshow/79238605.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kolhapur||1 fatality each in Solapur rural & Kolhapur, 2 deaths in Satara||Kolhapur: The district reported 23 fresh Covid patients and one death due to the infection on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 48,718. The death toll has now risen to 1,666. The number of active cases has reduced to 611 after 34 patients were discharged after recovering. As many as 46,441 have recovered from the contagion. Of the active patients, 448 patients are currently in home isolation, 34 patients are undergoing treatment in CPR Hospital, 13 patients are getting treatment in the IGM Hospital Ichalkaranji and the rest are being treated in private hospitals and the rural Covid care centres. Of the fresh cases, Kolhapur city reported seven. Thus, the number of cases rose to 14,788 in the city. 29 test positive in Sangli Sangli district reported 29 fresh cases and three patients succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday. The number of active cases in the district has reduced to 436 after 105 patients recovered from the contagion. A week ago the number of active cases was 2,539. The total number of patients in the district has reached 45,747, of them, 1,665 have succumbed to the infection and 43,240 have recovered. Solapur rural adds 113 cases Solapur rural reported 113 fresh cases and three Covid deaths while Solapur city recorded 20 new cases and one Covid death on Sunday. There are 455 active cases in the city, while Solapur rural has 1,849 active cases. Of the total 9,941 patients in the city, 552 have died due to the infection. The rural parts have 33,214 patients, of them, 989 have succumbed to Covid. 134 cases in Satara Satara district reported 134 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/1-fatality-each-in-solapur-rural-kolhapur-2-deaths-in-satara/articleshow/79356354.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Meerut||Robbers loot family on Diwali night, shoot at one person||Bijnor: A shoe salesman's Diwali night turned into a nightmare when robbers silently scaled the wall of his house using a ladder and looted the family of cash and valuables, and also shot at the salesman's brother, who was rushed to hospital, where he's reportedly in serious condition. The gang reportedly also targeted four other families the same night, though details of the other robberies are yet to be released by police. The incident occured in Saini colony in Amroha during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Around five miscreants barged into the house of Puran Singh and looted them of Rs 2 lakh and valuables by holding his three-year-old daughter at gunpoint. When his brother tried to resist, they shot at his shoulder and escaped. The injured brother was taken to district hospital from where he was referred to a higher centre in Meerut for treatment. Amroha SP Vipin Tada said, "Police rushed to the scene and found one of the families had allegedly been looted of Rs 2 lakh and jewellery. Five persons were involved in the loot, during which one person was shot at and had to be admitted to hospital. A case was registered against unidentified miscreants. Police are on the hunt to nab them. They will be arrested soon." Omvati, one of the victims said: "I was forced to give my gold earrings because they were beating all of us. My husband was thrashed and my brother-in-law was shot at when he tried to chase them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/robbers-loot-family-on-diwali-night-shoot-at-one-person/articleshow/79236918.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi University students find PG dreams in balance||NEW DELHI: Delhi University student Nitish Kumar Mishra appeared for the online open-book examination in July-August but found himself marked absent when the results were announced on October 27. Despite writing several times to DU, the final-year BCom (H) examinee from Aryabhatta College, and many others like him, are still awaiting to be declared eligible for postgraduate courses. DU is yet to rectify many such mistakes, though its own PG admission process is to begin from Wednesday. Several students have either got zero or have been marked absent. “Even after 18 days, the DU examination department has not rectified the results despite many emails to them,” said Mishra. While the PG admission notification states provisional admission will be granted to those whose results are yet to be declared, it doesn’t say anything about those with wrong results, he said. He is worried that he will miss out on his LLB admissions that starts from Wednesday despite getting a good rank in the entrance. Aakansha, a student of Dyal Singh College, has cleared the entrance for MA in Punjabi at DU. She got her results only on November 2, but it says she was absent. “The next day, I wrote to my college nodal officer, who told me to send screenshots of the mails.” She said, “I even got a receipt letter from the examination department after uploading my answer sheets.” The story of Janki Devi Memorial College’s philosophy student, Ruchika Khavatiya, and six of her classmates is no different. “The DU authorities directed me to a phone number that doesn’t work,” said Khavatiya, who aspires to study law in postgraduation. Their faculty had spoken to the principal, who took up the matter with DU, she said. “But there has been no rectification.” DU dean of examinations D S Rawat told TOI, “We will rectify all results in a couple of days.” He said the authorities had been working on the issues since Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-students-find-pg-dreams-in-balance/articleshow/79238679.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Fire breaks out in store, four rescued||HYDERABAD: Fire broke out at an electrical goods store in Kukatpally on Sunday. No casualties were reported. The store, Ramdev electrical and hardware goods shop, which is on the third floor of the building, caught fire around 4:30 am. Fire fighters rushed to the spot and rescued four people from the building. “We rescued four people, which included the watchman and his family. Six fire tenders were pressed into service,” said Regional Fire Officer (Central Region) V Papaiah. It took more than four hours to douze the fire. “The damage is estimated to be around Rs 1.5 crore, “ said Laxmi Narayana, inspector, KPHB police. Meanwhile, In Habeebnagar, a pile of garbage caught fire and later spread to a scrap collection unit. “There were no injuries or casualties reported. Someone lit a pile of garbage and the fire spread to the unit,” said P Shiva Chandra, circle inspector, Habeebnagar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fire-breaks-out-in-store-four-rescued/articleshow/79238610.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Drop in fireworks leads to better air quality index on Diwali in 2020||Hyderabad: At 97, the air quality index (AQI) in the city was much lower than 106 recorded during last Diwali, indicating a considerable drop in fireworks this year. As per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) standards, an AQI between 0-50 is considered good, 51-100 satisfactory, 101-200 moderate and 201-300 poor, while AQI above 300 falls in the very poor and severe category. Last year, the AQI in Hyderabad was under the moderate category. This year, significant improvement in air quality was noticed at six locations where Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations (CAAQMS) are set up. Officials attributed reduced pollution levels to better atmospheric component, sensitisation among people in bursting firecrackers owing to Covid-19 pandemic. “The wind speed was better than last year making the dispersion faster. Not just that, due to Covid-19, many were under the impression that it may lead to further spread or may worsen health condition of those infected. Due to this, not many people burst firecrackers,” said Prasad Dasari, senior scientist, Telangana State Pollution Control Board (TSPCB). The high court ban on use and sale of firecrackers and subsequent relief from the Supreme Court, merely two days before Diwali, led to lesser sale and use of firecrackers this Diwali. “A good number of people indeed refrained from buying and bursting firecrackers this year following the HC order. However, in few pockets of the city, people continued to burst firecrackers even beyond 10 pm,” said Babu Rao, an environmentalist. The worst-affected was Sanathnagar where the 24-hour PM2.5 (referred to particulate matter such as that found in smoke and haze and having different diameters — in this case less than 2.5 and 10 microns) concentration level was recorded at 115.51 ug/m3 as against 176.81 ug/m3 recorded last year. Generally, PM2.5 is considered to be at a safe level between 0 and 60 ug/m3. Although the 24-hour PM2.5 concentration level was much lesser this year, the level in Sanathnagar peaked to 515 ug/m3 at 10 pm (highest in the city) on Saturday and dropped to 239 ug/m3 by 12 am. Last year, the area had peaked to 462 ug/m3 by 11 pm on Diwali day. Similarly, independent monitoring of PM2.5 levels done at Hyderabad US Consulate at Begumpet recorded a peak of 378 ug/m3 by 10 pm. In terms of PM10 levels, 95.74 ug/m3 24-hour concentration was recorded at Bollaram Industrial Area as against 108.54 ug/m3 recorded last Diwali. At 93.89 ug/m3, high levels were observed at the Hyderabad Central University as against 88.29 ug/m3 last year, 105.08 ug/m3 at Icrisat Patancheru as against 83.26 ug/m3 last year and 125.81 ug/m3 as against 92.91 ug/m3 at Zoo Park last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drop-in-fireworks-leads-to-better-air-quality-index-on-diwali-in-2020/articleshow/79238635.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 16, 2020||Nagpur||Record low cases as testing goes down on Diwali||Nagpur: All 11 districts in Vidarbha region together reported only 361 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday. But the decline hardly is an indication of infection tapering out. Due to Diwali falling on November 14, the number of tests went down across the region as a result of which very few new cases reported on Sunday. Meanwhile, in last two days, the region reported 1,121 new cases, 1483 recoveries and 25 deaths. Vidarbha’s total death toll reached 5,740 on Sunday. More deaths are still coming from Nagpur division while Amravati division reported only five deaths in last two days. Fatality rate of Vidarbha is still constant at 2.72%, which is higher than state’s 2.63% and national average of 1.47%. More patients are recovering from Covid-19 now. Out of 2,10,869 total cases reported till date, 1,95,789 have recovered for a recovery rate of 92.84%. This is more than state’s average but less than national average. Total 760 new cases were reported on Saturday while 361 new cases were reported on Sunday. Sunday’s cases include Nagpur (80), Buldhana (89), Chandrapur (61), Gadchiroli (46), Yavatmal (28), Bhandara (17), Amravati (15), Washim (14), Wardha (8), and Akola (3). On the other hand, 715 patients recovered on Saturday and 768 on Sunday. Patients recovered on Sunday include Nagpur (188), Chandrapur (121), Buldhana (96), Bhandara (89), Yavatmal (89), Gadchiroli (83), Wardha (63), Amravati (19), Akola (13), and Washim (7). Overall, 9,241 patients are under treatment in the region. These numbers don’t include updated figures from Gondia district as the district information office is yet to release updated data. Gadchiroli: The district reported 108 new cases in last two days, 46 of them on Sunday. This took total cases in district to 6,889. In all, 173 patients recovered including 83 on Sunday. Now, 6,317 patients have recovered in district. Recovery rate is around 92%. A 72-year-old man died on Sunday, taking toll to 69. Gadchiroli now has 503 patients under treatment. Akola: The district reported 70 new cases in last two days. Only three cases were reported on Sunday. There was no death. Total 13 patients recovered. Now, out of 8,723 total cases, 8,138 have recovered. Recovery rate is 93.29%. Buldhana: the district reported 159 new cases in last two days, 89 of them on Sunday. Total cases reached 10,408 now. 160 patients recovered taking total to 9,857. Recovery rate is about 95%. No death was reported in district in last two days, so, toll remains constant at 131. Total 420 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 14 new patients on Sunday. With 20 reported on Diwali day, Washim’s total case load reached 5,900. With seven patients recovering in a day on Sunday, total 5,559 of them have recovered. No death was reported in last two days. District recovery rate is about 95%. The district has only 197 patients under treatment. Bhandara: In last two days, 128 new Covid-19 cases were reported, 17 of them on Sunday. 89 patients recovered on Sunday. The district now has 9,515 total cases, 8,557 recoveries and 233 deaths. One death was reported on Sunday. Around 90% patients have recovered in Bhandara so far. Main concern is case fatality rate which is 2.44%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/record-low-cases-as-testing-goes-down-on-diwali/articleshow/79238626.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Stone slab bearing Azam Khan’s name removed from Rampur crossing||Rampur: The administration in UP’s Rampur has removed a slab bearing the name of former Uttar Pradesh minister Azam Khan from a prominent city crossing. A new stone slab, with the name of Rampur district magistrate Aunjaneya Kumar Singh carved on it, has been put in place of the old one at Ram Raheem crossing.The crossing has also got a new name, ‘Sarva Dharma Sama Bhava’ (all religions are equal). And above the new slab, a vertical hoarding with a photograph of the pillar of Rampur Raza library has also been placed. A temple, a church, a gurdwara and a mosque have also been depicted on the hoarding. DM Singh told TOI, “I don’t hold any grudge with Azam Khan. I am here to do my duty. Whenever any new construction or renovation is carried out by the administration, new slab stones are installed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/stone-slab-bearing-azam-khans-name-removed-from-rampur-crossing/articleshow/79236228.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Woman married 4 months ago, found hanging; dowry death suspected||Pilibhit: A 24-year-old woman married four months ago was found hanging at Madhotanda village under Madhotanda police station on Sunday morning. The deceased was identified as Radha. Her father, Naresh Chandra, who lodged a complaint with police, alleged that her husband and in-laws had killed her for dowry. Then, they hanged her body to the show that she had committed suicide. Chandra said Radha was married to Rajkumar of Madhotanda on June 30. The groom's family had demanded Rs 2.5 lakh cash and a motorcycle. He had given Rs 1 lakh and a bike as dowry. His daughter was subjected to physical torture by her in-laws for failing to meet their full demand for cash, he alleged. Radha had said she feared for her life over the telephone to her grandmother on Saturday evening, Chandra claimed. But before he could reach her house, Radha was dead, he told police. Ram Sevak, SHO, said Rajkumar, his mother and his two younger brothers were booked under IPC section 304 B (death of a woman caused by any burns or bodily injury or occurred otherwise than under normal circumstances within seven years of her marriage) and 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his relatives) and provisions of the Dowry Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-married-4-months-ago-found-hanging-dowry-death-suspected/articleshow/79234208.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Surat||Gujarat: Cop hangs on to runaway van’s bonnet for 20 km||SURAT: The reel life scene of movie protagonist hurling himself on a speeding car played out in real life when a lok rakshak dal (LRD) constable jumped on to a pick-up van’s bonnet and clung on it it for nearly 20 km as the driver refused to stop. Constable Ganesh Chaudhary jumped on the van at Viraval checkpost on the exit point of Navsari town when the drive tried to crush him and speed away. The pick-up van was earlier stopped near Navsari railway station and the cops tried to stop the driver to check for the vehicle’s papers on Friday. Cops started chasing the van in different vehicles from the station but the van disappeared through narrow lanes. The cops then reached Viraval checkpost where they saw the van approaching. When cops signalled the driver to stop, he refused and tried to run the vehicle over them. Chaudhary, however, hurled himself on to the bonet and held on to the front guard, requesting the driver to stop. However, the driver kept speeding towards national highway 48. Chaudhary jumped off the van near Baleshwar in Palsana near Surat when the driver applied the brakes. Other cops who were chasing the van saw him lying on the road and took him to theh hospital. Chaudhary lodged a complaint in Navsari town police station against six unidentified persons. The accused were booked for kidnapping, assaulting a government employee and others. “Those in the van informed police that they came to catch pigs, but they escaped when asked them to produce papers. The cop survived despite the dangerous attempt to escape by the accused,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cop-hangs-on-to-runaway-vans-bonnet-for-20-km/articleshow/79233456.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar elected NDA leader, to take oath as Bihar CM for 7th time today||PATNA: JD(U) president Nitish Kumar will take oath as the Bihar CM for a record seventh time on Monday. Some ministers from ally BJP will also take oath of office along with Nitish. However, it is yet not clear who will the next deputy CM from the BJP camp. “The oath ceremony will take place at 4.30pm at the Raj Bhavan,” according to a press statement issued late on Sunday night. Talking to reporters while returning from the Raj Bhavan after staking claim to form the next government, Nitish said the swearing-in would take place on Monday afternoon. “The governor was handed over the letter of support from all four NDA constituents. As per his direction, we shall be taking oath at the Raj Bhavan tomorrow at 4.30pm,” said Nitish, who will be the first CM to take oath for a record seventh time. Nitish, however, parried questions like whether BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi would remain his deputy. Earlier in the day, the legislators of the BJP, JD(U), HAM(S) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) unanimously elected Nitish as the NDA leader in the state legislature, paving the way for his return as the CM for the fourth consecutive term. Senior BJP leader and defence minister Rajnath Singh, who had flown down from Delhi as an observer of the BJP, announced the election of Nitish after a meeting of the NDA legislators held at the CM’s official residence. Soon after his election as the NDA legislature party leader in Bihar, Nitish, along with leaders of the other alliance partners, called on governor Phagu Chauhan and staked his claim to form the fourth NDA government in the state. Curiously, Sushil Modi did not accompany them. BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal, HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi and VIP president Mukesh Sahani accompanied Nitish to the Raj Bhavan. There was speculation in the BJP circles that SuMo would be accommodated in the Union Cabinet and made a member in the Rajya Sabh as one seat was lying vacant after the death of LJP founder and Ram Vilas Paswan, who was also the Union minister. Guessing game on SuMo becoming the deputy CM ended around 4pm when he himself tweeted, “In the last 40 years, BJP and the Sangh Parivar have given me so much that perhaps no other person has received. In the future, I will continue to serve on any position I am given. Nobody can take away my status as a karyakarta.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-elected-nda-leader-to-take-oath-as-cm-for-7th-time-today/articleshow/79238675.cms||Madan Kumar
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man flies in from Canada, fails to cremate mom as body swapped||AHMEDABAD: Amit Chand, who flew in from Canada on Sunday to claim the body of his mother, Lekha Chand, 65, learnt to his horror that the VS Hospital morgue had handed it over to another family. Lekha Chand’s body was given to the Bagadias four days earlier. This is the third body swap at VS Hospital over the past seven years. In the earlier two instances, VS Hospital authorities were saved as the bodies were intact and interventions at the right time prevented the amplification of grief of the bereaved kin. Lekha Chand, 65, a resident of Vejalpur, suffered a massive heart attack on November 11 and was taken to a private hospital on SG Road, where she died. The hospital does not have a morgue. So her kin placed the body at the VS Hospital morgue. On the same day, the Bagadias arrived at the morgue to accept the body of Divya Bagadia, also 65. The morgue attendant handed over Lekha Chand’s body. “We are yet to ascertain whether the Bagadias saw the body physically,” admitted a senior VS Hospital doctor. Amit Chand was handed over Divya Bagadia’s body. A similar swap had occurred in August 2013 with the bodies of Najmabanu Pathan (30) and Teena Thakor (of the same age). Both had succumbed to burn injuries. Police eventually helped the families get the right bodies. Last year in May, police had booked a case against the “doctors and medical staff” of VS Hospital for fraud and criminal conspiracy. The mortuary staff had swapped the body of a murder victim with that of a pregnant woman. The family of 19-year-old Mittal Jadav, the murder victim, was handed over the body of 26-year-old Nasreen Sayyed, who had died during childbirth at the hospital. “As some days have passed, we believe that the body of Lekha Chand could have been cremated,” said inspector G K Bharwad, who is in charge of the Ellisbridge police station. VS Hospital has CCTV cameras across the premises, except at the morgue. “If the probe reveals negligence, we could register an offence” said Bharwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/another-body-swapped-at-vs-morgue/articleshow/79233486.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mysuru||Charred body found case, accused held||Mysuru: The Periyapatna police were able to crack the mystery behind a charred woman’s body that was found beside the road in Kellur village under their police limits on November 8. The body was totally charred between the knee and head. This incident led to district wide protests by several women’s groups. According to the sources, the victim is a resident of a village in Nanjangud taluk. Based on the anklet found on the body, the police were able to identify the victim. In the early hours of November 8, the body was found beside the road in the village. According to sources, on November 9, the parents of a missing woman had approached another police station in the district, with a complaint that their 18-year-old daughter is missing. The investigators have taken one person into custody in relation to the crime. The police said that they don’t want to divulge details relating to the crime at present, and that they will do so shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/charred-body-found-case-accused-held/articleshow/79237330.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mysuru||Police put up barricades on major roads to reduce accidents||Mysuru: In a bid to save the lives of road users and reduce accidents happening late in the night and during the wee hours, Mysuru traffic police have decided to put up barricades across roads to reduce vehicle speed. In the last five weeks, seven people were killed in road accidents that took place during odd hours. All the seven victims were passengers of four-wheelers. The cause for the accidents is believed to be speeding as during night hours there is less traffic and motorists are likely to drive faster than usual. Deputy Commissioner of Police (traffic) MS Geetha Prasanna told TOI that the recent fatal accidents involving four wheelers are a cause for concern. “All these incidents have happened during night hours and one on the eastern stretch of the outer ring road. We immediately took steps to place barricades to reduce speed of vehicles to prevent possible accidents,” she said. In the last week of October, two young car passengers were killed on the spot and two others were severely injured after the car they were travelling in toppled over after hitting a road median on outer ring road near Sathgalli. Similarly, a backseat traveller of a car died on spot while another suffered serious injuries after the car rammed a tree during the wee hours. Two front seat passengers escaped with injuries. Though some of them were found driving under the influence of alcohol, police don’t want to take chances hereafter. Geetha Prasanna said jurisdiction traffic cops have been asked to identify vulnerable roads in their respective limits and take necessary action to curb speed of vehicles especially during night hours to prevent fatal accidents. ON GUARD: City police put up barricades on Outer Ring Road to prevent accidents||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/police-put-up-barricades-on-major-roads-to-reduce-accidents/articleshow/79237252.cms||Lawrence Milton
November 16, 2020||Mangaluru||Back to college: Skeletal transport services worry rural students||Mangaluru: With colleges set to reopen, students in the coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi are worried about the availability of transport facilities, especially buses — both government and private. Even since the nationwide lockdown was lifted, only a few private operators and KSRTC have been operating skeletal services due to low demand. KSRTC has either completely stopped services to remote villages or make fewer trips. Private operators are also offering limited services. Joseph NM, principal, Sacred Heart College, Madanthyar, about 50km from Mangaluru, said most of his students depend on public transport to reach college. “It is a worry how these students will make it to college when there is inadequate public transport,” he said. “Rural students cannot afford their own vehicles like most of their urban counterparts.” Other college managements too say they are aware of the issue and are trying their best to help students. Sri Rama Degree College, Kalladka, has planned to accommodate day scholars who have transport issues in the college hostel. Krishna Prasad Kayarkatte, principal of the college, said some of their students come from about 30km away. “Some of them even come from Karnataka-Kerala border areas,” Kayarkatte said. “I am told buses operate only in the morning and evening from these places. So, the management has decided to provide accommodation for these students at the college hostel. Final year students will get priority.” Besides transport issues, managements also raised concerns over students not being able to carry lunch to college. Some colleges provide a midday meal either free or at subsidized rates, but it’s been halted since pandemic SOPs do not allow it. “It is difficult for students to carry food to college since they leave home early in the morning. SOPs have also banned college canteens from running,” a college principal said. When contacted, SN Aruna, divisional controller, KSRTC Mangaluru, said more buses will be deployed once colleges reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/back-to-college-skeletal-transport-services-worry-rural-students/articleshow/79237190.cms||Kevin Mendonsa
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC dismisses plea of job applicant who hid case information||MADURAI: Verification of character and antecedents is of paramount importance for police services, the Madras high court has observed while dismissing the plea moved by a candidate seeking appointment in Tamil Nadu Special Police Youth Brigade (TSPYB) on the ground that he had suppressed the fact that a criminal case was registered against him. Petitioner Loordhu Packiyam had cleared the written examination and subsequently participated in certificate verification and physical endurance test for appointment to the post of TSPYB in 2014. When his antecedents were verified by the police, they found that a criminal case was registered against him and he was subsequently acquitted on the basis of a compromise. Hence the rejection order was passed for suppressing this, which Packiyam challenged before the HC Madurai bench in 2014. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that the petitioner stated in his application that no criminal case was ever registered against him whereas there were columns in the applications to state even if a criminal case was registered on an earlier occasion. Thus, it was unambiguous that petitioner has suppressed the fact regarding the criminal case, said the judge. Referring to an earlier order of the court in 2019, the judge observed that he is not entitled to relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-dismisses-plea-of-job-applicant-who-hid-case-info/articleshow/79238691.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad Police caution violators on first day||HYDERABAD: Police seem to have gone soft on citizens who burst crackers on Saturday in violation of Supreme Court order, which limited the activity for only two hours. The apex court, in its order, had permitted public to burst crackers for two hours on Saturday. The bursting of crackers started on Saturday evening and went on till late in the night. When contacted to know about the cases booked against the violators, a senior police officer in the Hyderabad police commissionerate said he needs to verify whether any cases were registered or not. Another official said if cases were registered by interfering with festivities, there was a possibility of confrontation. “So, to avoid such a situation, our patrolling teams cautioned people, who were bursting crackers, at public places beyond the permissible time,” an officer said. Incidentally, bursting of crackers at public places is banned by police. With no notification from Telangana government about the two-hour time schedule, many took advantage of it and burst crackers beyond the permissible time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-police-caution-violators-on-first-day/articleshow/79238692.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mysuru||Kidney transplant between incompatible blood groups successful||Mysuru: A rare form of kidney transplant between non matching blood groups (ABO incompatible) was performed successfully at the renal transplant unit of Sigma Hospital in Mysuru. This procedure has given a new lease of life to a 32-year-old woman who was undergoing dialysis treatment for kidney failure in the hospital for the last six months. According to a press release, chief nephrologist of the hospital Dr Vipin Kaverappa stated that this procedure is a boon to patients with kidney failure as they struggle to find compatible donors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/kidney-transplant-between-incompatible-blood-groups-successful/articleshow/79237208.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hubballi||Man held for forcibly marrying, raping minor||Chitradurga: A married man was arrested by the Challakere police in Chitradurga district, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, for having married a minor girl forcibly, and having raped her. Medical examination of the victim was done, and the accused, who is in judicial custody, is going to be produced once again before the Chitradurga special court on Tuesday, said the police. The accused and the victim are said to be relatives and residents of Reddyhalli in Challakere taluk. On November 9, Manjunath had forcibly taken her on his bike while she was attending to nature’s call, and stayed in his friend’s house at Bellibatlu village of Pavagada tauk. Later in the evening, he allegedly tied a mangal sutra to her neck, forcibly at the Anjaneya Temple in Shailapura village. On Friday, the parents of the victim found the accused and the victim standing at the Parashurampura bus stop, and lodged a complaint at the Challakere police station regarding the incident, said the police, who are investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-held-for-forcibly-marrying-raping-minor/articleshow/79236487.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Erode||Lankan ban on import costs turmeric farmers in Erode Rs 50 crore||ERODE: The Sri Lankan government’s ban on turmeric import from India has hit the farmers in Erode hard. Turmeric merchants and farmers in that district said they had faced a loss of nearly Rs 50 crore in the past two months. Sri Lankan government had banned the import of a few agriculture produces from foreign countries, including India, in 2019 to boost local production. Since September this year, they have been enforcing the ban strictly. M Sathyamurthi, secretary, Erode Turmeric Merchants’ and Godown Owners’ Association, said, “It has badly affected the farmers and merchants who have been exporting 7,500 tonnes turmeric to that country yearly.” Turmeric grown in Erode is known for its superior quality. It was one of the factors that attracted Sri Lankan merchants to go for the product. Besides, transportation expenses were also very cheap when they imported from Erode. While the turmeric is locally available at Rs 70 per kg, in Sri Lanka the imported product is priced at Rs 4,000 (Indian Rupee) a kg. “For them, the total expenses won’t exceed Rs 2,000, inclusive of logistics cost, a kg. Hence, many merchants from the district were directly involved in import and export trade with Sri Lanka,” Sathyamurthi said. The turmeric merchants requested the state and the Union governments to intervene in the issue and revive the turmeric trade between the two countries. “While the Sri Lankan government continues to encourage local production of turmeric, it should also allow the trade between the two countries,” Sathyamurthi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/lankan-ban-on-import-costs-turmeric-farmers-rs-50-crore/articleshow/79238686.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gujarat govt lets off schools, pins responsibility on parents||AHMEDABAD: The state government has now categorically stated that school teachers, school support staff and even the principal will not be held responsible if a Covid outbreak happens in a school. A carefully worded consent form for parents was released by the state education department on Saturday and was sent to all schools. The form clearly states that parents will alone be responsible for sending class IX and XII children to school from November 23. ‘at their own risk’. Interestingly, last week the state government had taken a decision to reopen schools. The consent form states that, “Parents are responsible for any risks, for sending their children to school from November 23.” The form further adds that parents also have to take responsibility that their children will follow the SOP declared by the state government. The central government’s SOP runs into 16 pages and contains detailed duties for schools and their staff . “Our children are not gini pigs for the government to see what happens when school reopening decisions are taken. If the government was not sure of who will take responsibility then why did they declare school reopening from November 23,” said a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-govt-lets-off-schools-pins-responsibility-on-parents/articleshow/79233504.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Reconsider penalty for not vacating quarters: Madras HC||MADURAI: Madras high court has directed the authorities to reconsider the penal rent imposed on a policeman who failed to vacate his official quarters in Kanyakumari district despite being transferred. Sub-inspector T Dattis Joyson was transferred to Tuticorin district but he did not vacate his quarters in Kanyakumari since the one allotted to him at Tuticorin was not in dwelling condition. As he was transferred back to Kanyakumari after 18 months, he became eligible to continue in the same quarters. However, since he had not vacated his quarters, the authorities passed an order to collect penal rent, calculated at 400%, which Joyson challenged in the HC Madurai bench in 2014. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that police officials who occupy rent-free quarters are expected to vacate it soon after they are transferred. Though the petitioner’s action of failing to vacate his quarters cannot be appreciated, the judge said that if the quarters at Tuticorin was not in dwelling condition, he can avail the benefit of house rent allowance (HRA) and reside outside as per the service condition. The judge noted that HRA was also deducted from the petitioner’s salary for his over stay, and imposing penal rent at 400% would be exorbitant. Hence, the authorities are at liberty to reconsider the quantum of penalty expeditiously, for which the judge directed the petitioner to submit a detailed representation to them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/reconsider-penalty-for-not-vacating-quarters-hc/articleshow/79238697.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||With less than 15 cases in hosps, least no. of injuries in decades||Hyderabad: This is the first year in decades when cracker related eye injuries and burn injuries are at their lowest. While hospital authorities had pressed in extra people for tackling emergencies, tertiary hospitals around the city together reported less than 15 injuries requiring medical attention. Sarojini Devi Eye hospital, which receives around 50 cases each year, saw just two minor eye injury cases. “Unlike previous years when we had many emergencies and serious cases requiring surgical interventions, this year we only had two minor cases. Both were treated on outpatient basis. With the cracker ban on, this year has been a relief in terms of eye injuries,” said Dr Rajalingam, superintendent of the hospital “We had pressed in extra people to handle any emergency cases if required but we only had a single burn case. We had asked plastic surgeons to do special duty and had posted more number of doctors as we expected many cases. Usually there are 12-15 serious cases each year and another 30-35 minor burn cases but this year luckily people have not had injuries,” said Dr B Nagender, superintendent, OGH. Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS), another tertiary centre, reported four cases of asphyxia of asthmatic patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-less-than-15-cases-in-hosps-least-no-of-injuries-in-decades/articleshow/79238727.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Erode||Erode NGO helps poor buy more time to bury lost ones||ERODE: Unprivileged people in Erode needn’t any longer hurry the burial/cremation of their lost loved ones without waiting for close family members to arrive from faraway places for lack of money to rent a dead body freezer box or other funeral items. All they need to do is to approach the NGO Erode Siragugal, which started an initiative titled ‘Kaadu barai Siragugal’ last December. The NGO, which was mainly into planting saplings on roadsides, relocating withered trees and making seed balls to turn barren hillocks green, launched the initiative to help the poor people who couldn’t afford freezer box, samiyana and other related items for funeral. Its chairman Vimal Karuppannan says, “Sometimes, poor people will bury/cremate the body before their close relatives could arrive the spot as they can’t afford these items. A family needs to be spent at least Rs10,000 – Rs3000 on freezer box a day and the remaining on tea, samiyana and chairs. If the body has to be kept for more days, they would incur another Rs10,000 per day.” He said they would provide all the items free of cost for three days. “We have a godown in Marapalam area and could reach anywhere in the city in no time. We have provided freezer box, chairs and other materials free of cost to nearly 76 people till date.” Vimal said they would also undertake cremation of orphans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/erode-ngo-helps-poor-buy-more-time-to-bury-lost-ones/articleshow/79238702.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Erode||Erode: Three arrested for hacking couple to death||ERODE: The Erode district police on Sunday arrested three accused in connection with the murder of a couple at Kodumudi. M Madhusudhanan, 20, of Sittapullampalayam near Kodumudi, had celebrated his birthday with his friends on November 13. S Perumal, 38, his wife Menaka, 35, and their son Vairamurthy, 12, came on a bike to Menaka’s father’s house at Karikadai street in Kodumudi. It is learnt that Madhusudhanan and his friends teased Menaka. “Irked over this, Perumal argued with Madhusudhanan and his friends who attacked the couple,” police said. The couple sustained injuries and were admitted to the government hospital in Kodumudi for treatment. Meanwhile, Menaka’s father Ramasamy, 57, mother Arukkani, 56, were found dead with hack injuries inside their house on Saturday morning. The Kodumudi police have registered a case and initiated an inquiry. Inquiry revealed that an eight-member gang had murdered the couple. “We arrested V Samynathan, 50, his son Surya, 23, son’s friend Kiruba Shankar, 23, on early Sunday morning,” police said and launched a hunt for five others. Besides the murder charge, police filed the case under SC/ST Atrocities Act of 2018 as well. The accused were lodged at the Coimbatore central prison and further inquiry is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/three-arrested-for-hacking-couple-to-death/articleshow/79238693.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Patna||BJP’s Tar Kishore Prasad, Renu Devi to be Bihar's deputy CMs||PATNA: BJP’s four-time MLA from Katihar, Tar Kishore Prasad, is likely to become the state’s deputy chief minister in the fourth NDA government, replacing the party senior Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), who was otherwise deemed to be a fixture for the post in the Nitish Kumar-led government, party sources said. BJP may also have second deputy CM in its five-time MLA from Bettiah, Renu Devi. Things, however, would be clear during the swearing-in ceremony at Raj Bhavan when governor Phagu Chauhan would administer the oath of office of CM to Nitish on Monday, sources said. SuMo, called the ‘Laxman’ of CM Nitish Kumar since 2005 when the NDA came to power in Bihar, issued three tweets in a span of 13 minutes from 4.09pm, hailing the selection of Prasad as the leader of BJP legislature party and Renu as its deputy leader. “The BJP and the Sangh Parivar have given me so much in 40 years that others might not have got. I will continue to fulfil any responsibility that is given to me even in the future. Nobody can take away the post of party worker from me,” SuMo issued an emotional tweet indicating that people will miss the ‘Ram-Laxman jodi’ (Nitish-SuMo pair) in Bihar. Indeed, an era will be over, as SuMo remained Nitish’s deputy for around 11 years — first from November 2005 to June 2013 and then from July 2017 to November 2020. Earlier in the day, Prasad had been unanimously elected as the BJP legislature party leader and Renu as its deputy leader. A motion in this regard was gone through, albeit partially, at the state BJP headquarters, where the party’s seniors deputed by the central leadership, Bhupender Yadav and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis, asked the MLAs and MLCs present to join the meeting of the NDA legislators, triggering the unfolding of a highly suspenseful drama. “Because the names of Prasad and Renu were announced at the meeting of the NDA legislators, where the MLCs of the NDA constituents were also present, it was deemed that they had been elected leader and deputy leader of the BJP legislature party comprising MLAs and MLCs, respectively, and not just of the BJP in the state legislative assembly,” an informed BJP source said. Further, as there is no provision for the post of deputy CM in the Constitution, it has always been the CM’s prerogative to designate any of the ministers as deputy CM. Also, a couple of states like UP have even three deputy CMs. In the situation, the fourth NDA government led by Nitish may have two deputy CMs. The source said Prasad, who belongs to the Kalwar caste in OBC category, will represent the political aspirations of Mithila, Kosi and the Seemanchal regions. Renu, who belongs to Nonia caste in EBC category, will represent the western north Bihar districts of Champaran. The three regions — Mithila, Seemanchal and Champaran — together have given a good number of seats to the BJP in the state assembly elections this year, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjps-tar-kishore-renu-devi-to-be-deputy-cms/articleshow/79238718.cms||Abhay Singh
November 16, 2020||Surat||Teenager’s app makes e-learning easy for Gujarati medium students||SURAT: While many mobile applications and portals offering online education did brisk business during the Covid-19 pandemic, these are both exorbitantly costly and available in only select languages. But what if you were told that such a mobile application was free and available in Gujarati too. And the brain behind making this material accessible to Gujarati medium students for free is that of a 17-year-old boy Hitarth Sheth, who developed the first application to help his classmates when he was merely a 12-year-old. Hitarth developed a rudimentary app in 2015 when he was in standard VII to ensure that his 60 classmates finished homework on time. Now a student of class XII, Hitarth is celebrating the success of another application he developed to solve problems of Gujarati medium school students when limited content was available online. His second app is much better than the first one and caters to a much larger mass too. “I and a few of my friends had a common problem that we forgot finishing homework on time in class VII. Sometimes we were unable to understand some topics. Hence, I developed an android application for 60 classmates,” said Hitarth, a student of Bhulka Bhavan School. He learnt app development online. The initial success inspired him to create another application that helps individuals to check if they have diabetes symptoms. “Being a Gujarati medium student of class IX, I realised that there is a lot of learning content for English medium students but for Gujarati medium there is little. This encouraged me to develop the app GujjuStudent,” said Hitarth who himself does programming and content creation work on his own. He is making the learning apps available for free to students and 1.2 lakh students have already downloaded his app. The app provides study material from class V to XII including textbooks. Apart from text the app has videos and links of online content. “I realised that if Gujarati medium students are facing so much problem then what would be the condition of students from other Indian languages. I am now developing an application to assist school students of eight different languages,” said Hitarth. He plans to study computer science after school. Hitarth’s father Gaurang is a senior human resource official in a company in Bharuch while his mother is a housewife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/teenagers-app-makes-e-learning-easy-for-gujarati-medium-students/articleshow/79233515.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Model festivity: 1,100 diyas light up Delhi's Naini Lake||NEW DELHI: Residents of Model Town lit 1,100 diyas around Naini Lake on Diwali, followed by a puja, as part of their Deep Utsav. Some diyas were also floated in the lake. However, in the wake of Covid-19, the entry to the lake complex in north Delhi was restricted and people viewed the proceedings from outside. “We wanted to organise a lavish event like last year, but had to curtail it due to the pandemic,” said Mukesh Agarwal, general secretary of Lake Area Residents’ Association, Model Town (LARA). After taking the municipal corporation’s permission, a few residents gathered by the lake in the evening to make all arrangements in the presence of the area councillor. The event was over by 6pm, he added. Many residents gathered outside with family members and even took photos to capture the moment. “We got private sweepers to clean the premises on Sunday morning,” said Pushpendra Goel, vice-president of LARA. Last year, the association had also organised Ram Darbar and bhajan aarti along with other programmes. Priests were invited from Varanasi for the aarti and people had gathered in large numbers to attend the event. North Delhi Municipal Corporation is talking to Delhi Tourism to resume a boating facility in the lake soon, said Goel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/model-festivity-1-1k-diyas-light-up-naini-lake/articleshow/79238700.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Madras HC grants bail to two in murder case||MADURAI: Observing that law presumes innocence unless allegations are established or proved against the people who are charged, Madras high court granted bail to two people arrested in connection with a murder case in Madurai district. The court was hearing the bail petitions filed by Kannayiramoorthy alias Kannayiram and Vigneswaran who were arrested by the South Gate police on August 22, on charges of murdering a man due to family dispute. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that the seriousness of the allegations or the availability of the materials are not the only consideration for declining bail. There are various other factors, which can be considered for granting bail and bail cannot be rejected in a routine manner. The judge said that facts, circumstances, probabilities and other complex nature and the seriousness of the crime are to be considered cogently, so as to arrive at a reasonable decision. Pragmatic approach is to be adopted on certain facts and circumstances, observed the judge. The judge said that as per the prosecution, the petitioners were protecting the activities of the first two accused by watching the surrounding areas on a two wheeler, however they were standing at a faraway place. The prosecution itself is of the opinion that they were watching the scene of occurrence from a distant place, however, they came with the accused for committing the offence. The judge noted that this complex nature of the facts has to be adjudicated during the trial elaborately so as to establish the crime. However, the benefits of the some factual differences are to be held as advantageous to the accused for getting bail. Taking into consideration that the final report was filed and that there were no previous cases against the petitioners, the judge granted bail to them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-grants-bail-to-two-in-murder-case/articleshow/79238701.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Why knee-jerk bans won’t solve problem||NEW DELHI: With people failing to adhere to the ban on firecrackers on Diwali, experts on Sunday said that long-term preparedness was needed for the prohibition to be successful. It was necessary to make the public understand the problem along with strict vigilance for compliance with the ban, they added. Delhi government had imposed the ban on sale, purchase and use of firecrackers on November 5, while National Green Tribunal had imposed a similar ban in the NCR on November 9. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, Centre for Science and Environment, said, “The ban on firecrackers is only possible when there is a long-term approach, along with systematic interventions leading up to Diwali and building sustained strategy for public support. A sudden ban doesn’t work. If a ban needs to be imposed next year, the preparations need to start now.” Karthik Ganesan, fellow, Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, “The ban was ineffective because it was a knee-jerk reaction perceived by many to be targeting a short-lived source. No concerted action was put in place to address the year-round pollution. It is important to first go after clear sources like transport, waste burning and construction waste before addressing seasonal sources. We must look to wean away those regions dependent on manufacturing crackers to other vocations. This will decrease the availability of crackers in the market.” Prof Sagnik Dey, coordinator at Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air, IIT-Delhi, said, “It is difficult to get people to change their habits or culture overnight. Firecracker ban is one such issue. Large-scale interaction and awareness among the public, along with regulatory bans, are required. Unless we take people on board, there will always be rule breakers.” “The problem cannot be resolved overnight, but in a few years with persistent effort. However, we must measure the incremental progress. For example, we should estimate whether the sale or bursting of firecrackers decreased compared with the past year. This will allow us to understand what strategy went wrong so that it can be rectified the next year,” added Dey. Aarti Khosla, director, Climate Trends, said that the ban was flouted due to lawmakers not taking timely action, apart from the very poor understanding of Delhiites who didn’t take air quality as a serious killer. Chandra Bhushan, CEO, International Forum for Environment, Sustainability and Technology, said residents’ welfare associations and schools took the lead against crackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-knee-jerk-bans-wont-solve-problem/articleshow/79238733.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Four held for killing fellow worker in Tuticorin||TUTICORIN: Tuticorin district police arrested four people on Sunday on charges of murdering a fellow worker and throwing the body in a public toilet at Kayalpattinam village to make it appear like an accidental death. The victim, S Pachaimal, 53, of Vilathikulam cut trees and also worked as a mason for a living. On Friday morning, he was found dead in a public toilet on the Rathinapuri Paparapalli Crematorium Road. It was assumed that he died of an accidental fall in the toilet as he was drunk. Arumuganeri inspector Selvi and team retrieved the body and sent it to Thoothukudi medical college hospital for autopsy. Meanwhile, local people found a man in an inebriated condition trying to consume poison at a beach at Kayalpattinam. He blurted out that he and his accomplices beat a man to death and that he was depressed over the same. Alerted by people, police picked him up for questioning. During the grilling, it is revealed that the victim shared a room with A Velmurugam, 32, of Kayalpattinam, S Mariappan, 43, Alwarthirunagari and R Kumar, 49, of Theni, who were fellow construction workers. An argument broke between them in the night on November 12. The three attacked Pachaimal and he died on the spot. They sought the help of T Selvakumar, 36, and take the body in his van and abandoned it in a public toilet. On Sunday police arrested all the four accused – the three fellow workers and the van driver – and seized a bike and the van used for the crime. Case was booked under sections of the Indian Penal Code. Since the victim was a dalit, they were also booked under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities Act). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-held-for-killing-fellow-worker/articleshow/79238719.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Secondary attack rate at 25% in Gandhinagar, only 2 deaths: Study||AHMEDABAD: In a study carried out by a team of researchers from the Indian Institute of Public Health, Gandhinagar (IIPH-G), the secondary attack rate (SAR) of Covid-19 is found to be 25% in the households under survey in Gandhinagar district. That means only 25% of the households reported more than one case after the primary infection. Out of the total, only two deaths are reported — both females. The study has been submitted for publication and is yet to be reviewed, clarified the researchers. The research is titled ‘Secondary Attack Rate (SAR) in household contacts of expired primary cases of Covid-19: A study from Western India’. It is authored by Dr Komal Shah and Prof Dileep Mavalankar from IIPH-G and Nupur Desai, an MPH student from New York University. The study took into consideration 28 confirmed Covid-19 deaths and traced a total of 108 contacts of these patients. Of the total, only 27 lab-confirmed Covid-19 positive cases were found, giving a 25% SAR. The mortality percentage in secondary cases was 7.4%. “It is one of the first studies of Covid-19 severity impact in which we want to understand what happens to the families of the deceased patients,” said Dr Shah. “As the patients have died due to Covid-19, we can safely assume that they were the most affected by the infection.” Dr Shah went on to say: “The purpose of the study is to understand the SAR and its impact on close contacts. The need of the hour is also to understand the characteristics of severe patients in ICU and on ventilators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/secondary-attack-rate-at-25-in-gnagar-only-2-deaths-study/articleshow/79233527.cms||Parth Shastri
November 16, 2020||Madurai||4 district collectors assume office in southern Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: New district collectors assumed office in four southern districts – Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tenkasi and Ramanathapuram – on Sunday, following the recent shuffle by the Tamil Nadu government. All of them took charge on Sunday afternoon. In Tirunelveli V Vishnu assumed office as the 216th district collector. He was the managing director of the Tamil Nadu skill development corporation and the director of employment and training (in-charge) before assuming charge as the collector. Vishnu comes in place of Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, who has been posted as the joint secretary to government in the health and family welfare department. G S Sameeran, who served as director of the fisheries department and managing director of the Tamil Nadu fisheries corporation took charge as the second district collector of the Tenkasi district. He has come in the place of G K Arun Sundar Thayalan, who has now been posted as the joint secretary to government in the environment and forests department. K Senthil Raj assumed office as the 26th collector of Tuticorin district. He was earlier the mission director of the national health mission. He has come in the place of Sandeep Nanduri, who has been transferred as collector of Tiruvannamalai district. Dinesh Ponraj Oliver assumed office as the 23rd collector of Ramanathapuram district in the presence of his predecessor K Veera Raghava Rao, who has been transferred and posted as the director of employment and training. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/4-district-collectors-assume-office-in-southern-tn/articleshow/79238703.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kochi||Now, temp-controlled cargo containers available at Cial||Kochi: The cargo division at Cochin International Airport Ltd’s (Cial) has facilitated temperature-controlled air cargo containers for transporting frozen cooked shrimp to the United States. It is the first time an airport in Kerala is having this facility in its cargo division. The advanced RAP–t2 cargo containers have around a ton of dry ice kept to maintain the temperature at -20 degree Celsius throughout the entire transit time. The first of the four new containers, loaded with 188 cartons of frozen cooked shrimp and cocktail sauce was airlifted from Cial’s centre for perishable cargo to JFK International Airport, New York, by Emirates Airlines on Sunday morning. The cargo was handled in association with Emirates Sky Cargo for Choice Group. Generally used to carry pharmaceuticals and high- value perishables, these containers are being used to carry seafood from Kerala for the first time. The Covid-19 pandemic with its lockdown and restrictions has affected the production forcing the Choice Canning Company to look beyond conventional means of shipping the cargo in order to cater to the requirement of the customers. The required temperature throughout the transit is attained by using around 900kg of dry ice as cooling agent, which is properly controlled with the enhanced air circulation system inside the container. Since dry ice is classified as dangerous goods, Cial used special equipment and protective gears during the transiting of cargo from the perishable cargo terminal to the aircraft. The total quantity of shipment planned to airlift is around 750 cartons of frozen cooked shrimp and cocktail sauce. The remaining cargo will be transported in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/now-temp-controlled-cargo-containers-available-at-cial/articleshow/79236984.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Four held for killing power loom worker in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The Karumathampatti police on Sunday arrested four people, including the owner of a power loom unit, for killing a 42-year-old man. The deceased was identified as A Muthukutty, a native of Ulagankulam village near Amabasamudram in Tirunelveli district. He was working in a power loom unit at Ganapathipalayam and was staying with his wife Jayarani and two daughters in a rented house there. Muthukutty, who was celebrating Diwali with his family, had left the house on Saturday around 3.30pm after receiving a call from his co-worker M Santhosh Kumar, 27, of Vagarayampalayam, a police officer said. “When he failed to return on Sunday morning, his family started a search for him and found him dead in a vacant land at Ganapathipalayam. They noticed injuries on the forehead and left hand.” Police sent the body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Muthukutty recently had a tiff with the owner of the power loom unit V Chandrasekaran, 26 of Arasur. “Muthukutty had been working in the unit for the last two years. Recently, when he demanded his pending salary of Rs 8,000, Chandrasekaran refused to give the money. So, Muthukutty stopped going to the unit. However, he continued to demand the money. A few days ago, Muthukutty, who was drunk, verbally abused Chandrasekaran and told some of his women co-workers that Chandrasekaran is a womaniser. This prompted Chandrasekaran to kill Muthukutty,” the officer said. “Chandrasekaran sent his worker Santhosh Kumar, G Mani, 48, of Perambalur and his friends Senthilkumar, 39, of Kaniyur and Rajagopal of Moppiripalayam to murder Muthukutty. On the Diwali day, they invited Muthukutty to a vacant land to have a few drinks with them and killed him,” the officer added. Police are on the lookout for Rajagopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-held-for-killing-power-loom-worker/articleshow/79238725.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Three-member gang stabs 23-year-old man to death at Kamarajapuram||COIMBATORE: A three-member gang stabbed a 23-year-old man to death at Kamarajapuram here on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as R Janarthanan of Shasthiri Street at Thudiyalur. They have arrested S Guna, 21 and his friend R Rajesh, 21, of Kavundamapalayam in connection with the murder. Janarthanan was a Kamarajapuram native and faced two assault cases, a police officer said. “His family had moved to Thudiyalur two years ago, but he often visited Kamarajapuram to meet his friends, get drunk and fight with people. Guna’s father is running a footwear shop at Kamarajapuram. Janarthanan used to demand money from him. Three days ago, Janarthanan phoned Guna and asked him to give money.” An angry Guna decided to finish off Janarthanan, the officer said. “Guna sought the help of his friends Rajesh and Mari. After learning that Janarthanan was at Kamarajapuram on Saturday morning, the trio reached there on a motorcycle. They found Janarthanan at the Kamarajapuram junction and stabbed him several times. They managed to escape from the place.” Janarthanan’s younger brother R Jagadeesh and relatives took him to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). But doctors declared him dead. Based on Jagadeesh’s complaint, the RS Puram police registered a case against Guna, Mari and Rajesh under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. They arrested Guna and Rajesh on Sunday and seized a knife from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-member-gang-stabs-23-year-old-man-to-death/articleshow/79238722.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Trichy||Nothing much to cheer for liquor business this Diwali||MADURAI/ TRICHY: Madurai region recorded liquor sales to the tune of Rs 103.5 crore on Friday and Saturday. On the eve of Diwali, liquor sold in the region was worth Rs 51.25 crore, whereas on the day of Diwali the sales slight went up to Rs 52.57 crore. Meanwhile, Tasmac outlets in Trichy district witnessed sales to the tune of Rs 8.35 crore on Diwali day. Although there was good sale on Saturday, the Tasmac officials said that the revenue was not on a par with the usual Diwali sales of previous years. Madurai region consists of southern districts such as Madurai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari. The sales of Madurai region was said to be highest during this Diwali among the five regions in the state, sources said. Madurai district is divided into two separate units. Madura North, which has 114 Tasmac shops, sold liquor worth Rs 8 crore on Friday and Saturday put together. On Diwali eve alone, the unit sold liquor worth Rs 4.5 crore. The sale on Diwali was to the tune of Rs 3.5 crore. Madurai south unit has close to 140 liquor shops. The sales details for the unit were unavailable. All Tasmac shops in Madurai district were closed during last year Diwali due to Thevar Jayanthi and Guru Puja functions in Ramanathapuram district. There are about 185 Tasmac outlets in the Trichy district of which 76 shops are in the city. The festival day saw only average sale in the outlets. While the shops in the district were doing business to the tune of Rs 5.50 crore per day before the Covid 19 outbreak, the revenue has gone down by 30% to 35% per day post the lockdown. The economic impact of Covid-19 seemed to be visible in the sales of liquor on Diwali day. The 185 outlets in the district recorded sales for only Rs 8.35 crore on Saturday, while it was Rs 9.17 crore on Friday. “It is difficult to compare with the sales of last year’s Diwali as the liquor price was revised. But we can understand that the business was not on par with the usual Diwali season,” a Tasmac official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nothing-much-to-cheer-for-liquor-business-this-diwali/articleshow/79241215.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Two firemen die dousing blaze in Madurai shop||MADURAI: While the country was celebrating Diwali, two young firefighters died in the line of duty in Madurai city when a portion of the textile store in which fire broke out collapsed on them in the wee hours of Saturday. The victims, P Krishnamoorthi, 31, and K Sivarajan, 33, were the sole breadwinners of their family. Fire was noticed in the textile store in Navabathkana Street near Vilakkuthoon around 2.30 am, and in no time five fire tenders stationed nearby as a precautionary measure dashed to the spot. A fire officer said 75% of the fire was put out by splashing water from nearby buildings. “Since it took time to douse the remaining flames, the firemen entered 15 feet into the old building. All they wanted was 15 minutes to complete the work. But the building caved in unexpectedly,” he said. The incident happened at 3.40 am but the two could be extricated and sent to a hospital only around 5 am when doctors declared them brought dead. Krishnamoorthi, who was attached to the Meenakshi Temple fire station, died on his birthday. A fire officer said, “We keep saying to firemen that personnel safety is utmost important, but sometimes they get carried away in the line of duty.” Two other firemen, M Chinna Karuppu, 30, and R Kalyana Kumar, 37, escaped by a whisker and were admitted to a private hospital with injuries. The sudden demise has shattered Krishnamoorthi’s family consisting of his aged parents, two sisters and a brother while his village, Poongavanam near Thirupuvanam in Sivaganga district is yet to get over the shock. Relatives said the family was living in a rented house but was planning to shift to their own after which they planned to conduct Krishnamoorthi’s marriage. “The government provides Rs 50 lakh assistance to the immediate family members of police personnel who die while on duty, but only half of it was announced for the fire service personnel. It should be enhanced to Rs 50 lakh,” said Dinesh Kumar, a relative of Krishnamoorthi. K Sivarajan, a native of Paraipatti near Checkanurani in Madurai district, is survived by his wife Angayarkanni and children aged one and five. He was attached to the Thideer Nagar fire station. His father-in-law Kannan said that Rs 25 lakh cannot compensate the death of the only breadwinner. Government should consider enhancing the compensation considering the family’s condition, he said. PMK founder Dr S Ramadoss sought world class treatment for the injured firefighters while mourning the death of the two. Director of fire and rescue services department M S Jaffar Sait visited the incident spot on Saturday. He also paid homage to the deceased firemen. The final rites of the duo were performed in their native places with 21-gun salute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-firemen-die-fighting-madurai-textile-fire/articleshow/79238723.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Nothing much to cheer for liquor business this Diwali||MADURAI/ TRICHY: Madurai region recorded liquor sales to the tune of Rs 103.5 crore on Friday and Saturday. On the eve of Diwali, liquor sold in the region was worth Rs 51.25 crore, whereas on the day of Diwali the sales slight went up to Rs 52.57 crore. Meanwhile, Tasmac outlets in Trichy district witnessed sales to the tune of Rs 8.35 crore on Diwali day. Although there was good sale on Saturday, the Tasmac officials said that the revenue was not on a par with the usual Diwali sales of previous years. Madurai region consists of southern districts such as Madurai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tenkasi and Kanyakumari. The sales of Madurai region was said to be highest during this Diwali among the five regions in the state, sources said. Madurai district is divided into two separate units. Madura North, which has 114 Tasmac shops, sold liquor worth Rs 8 crore on Friday and Saturday put together. On Diwali eve alone, the unit sold liquor worth Rs 4.5 crore. The sale on Diwali was to the tune of Rs 3.5 crore. Madurai south unit has close to 140 liquor shops. The sales details for the unit were unavailable. All Tasmac shops in Madurai district were closed during last year Diwali due to Thevar Jayanthi and Guru Puja functions in Ramanathapuram district. There are about 185 Tasmac outlets in the Trichy district of which 76 shops are in the city. The festival day saw only average sale in the outlets. While the shops in the district were doing business to the tune of Rs 5.50 crore per day before the Covid 19 outbreak, the revenue has gone down by 30% to 35% per day post the lockdown. The economic impact of Covid-19 seemed to be visible in the sales of liquor on Diwali day. The 185 outlets in the district recorded sales for only Rs 8.35 crore on Saturday, while it was Rs 9.17 crore on Friday. “It is difficult to compare with the sales of last year’s Diwali as the liquor price was revised. But we can understand that the business was not on par with the usual Diwali season,” a Tasmac official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/nothing-much-to-cheer-for-liquor-business-this-diwali/articleshow/79238726.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: ‘Scholarship to kin of accident victims’||AHMEDABAD: Death of a near and dear one in a road accident might well be the end for him or her, but a beginning of ordeals for the family. As several of the victims are often primary breadwinners of the family, the ripple effects are often felt for a long time. “This World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims – observed on third Sunday of November annually – we are launching two projects. We will reach out to the families of road traffic accident (RTA) victims and offer one direct descendent the insurance cover under Pradhan Mantri Bima Yojana,” said Dr Pravin Kanabar, president of Ahmedabad Traffic Consultative Committee (ATCC). “In another initiative, we intend to provide scholarship to the kin of the RTA victim. For the purpose, we have received the first donation of Rs 1 lakh.” ATCC, in collaboration with the city traffic police and city-based NGOs organized an event at Sardar Patel Stadium on Sunday where over 150 kin of the deceased in RTAs were present. They also shared their ordeals and appealed to the citizens to be careful – as their one mistake can disintegrate families. Silver lining for the city amid Covid-19 pandemic was less RTAs and less deaths compared to past few years. City traffic branch officials said that so far 2020 has recorded deaths of 264 persons in RTAs, whereas 342 sustained severe injuries. For the same corresponding period in 2019, the city had recorded deaths of 351 persons, whereas 457 had sustained severe injuries – recording a dip of 25% in deaths and severe injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/scholarship-to-kin-of-accident-victims/articleshow/79233555.cms||Parth Shastri
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Cops say most people stuck to timings of cracker burst in Madurai||MADURAI: The Madurai city police have booked 154 people for violating rules and restrictions in place while lighting crackers including timing restrictions put forth by the state government. In most of the cases, the accused was arrested. The state government had allowed bursting of crackers between 6am and 7am and 7pm and 8pm in order to bring down the air pollution. The city police booked people under various IPC sections including 286 (negligent conduct with respect to explosive substance), 188 (disobedience to the order duly promulgated by public servant) 268 (public nuisance) and 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter. Police deployments were made at various places in the city to make sure celebrations were peaceful. A police officer said that most of the people lit crackers throughout the day without adhering to the timings. Only those who created problems to others were taken to task. Police teams asked people to stop lighting crackers whenever they spotted while they were on the move. While many paid heed to the teams, some did not. Only such people faced the music. Madurai rural police did not punish people with cases. Only two cases were registered against cracker rules violations by the Madurai district police. Police officials said that people obeyed the orders of the police whenever they were asked to stop bursting crackers, hence they were left off. There were no cases registered in some districts including Virudhunagar. The police in southern districts however registered cases against other violations such as illegal liqour sales, gambling and selling of banned tobacco products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cops-say-most-people-stuck-to-timings-of-cracker-burst/articleshow/79238721.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Big dip in burn injuries this time, but eye injuries remain high in Madurai||MADURAI: Doctors from both government and private hospitals said that burn injuries related to bursting of fire crackers during Diwali has considerably declined in Madurai compared to last year. However, eye injuries caused when bursting fire crackers, especially among children, remains a bigger concern. At Aravind Eye Hospital, a private hospital which specializes in eye care, there were 56 outpatient cases reported on Saturday evening alone which were related to bursting fire crackers, with many being children. Doctors said that corneal tears are the most common injuries suffered when children burst fire crackers and require minimal treatment. “This year, 14 patients have required hospitalization so far while five required surgery. An 11-year-old boy had suffered injury to his iris and as of now, it is likely we may not be able to completely restore his vision. In two other cases of adults, there is bleeding in the eye and they are being kept under observation,” said Dr R Kim, chief medical officer. A simple preventive measure of wearing plastic spectacles or goggles can protect eyes from any injuries due to fire crackers. “Some eye injuries sustained due to fire crackers can lead to complete loss of vision in an instant. But, we find that many people are still unaware of the need to protect eyes when bursting fire crackers,” said Dr Kim. Meanwhile, Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) dean Dr J Sangumani said that this time, only two cases of cracker-related injuries were reported at the hospital. “The two cases included a 7-year-old boy who suffered burns when bursting crackers. However, there were no severe cases of burn injuries. The number is less than last year,” he said. Private hospitals also reported only few cases of cracker-related burn injuries. “We had some outpatient cases in which patients had suffered burn injuries and needed care. It is likely that use of fire crackers may have been limited amid the Covid-19 pandemic,” said Dr Varun Ramamoorthy, ICU head, Velammal Medical College Hospital and Research Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/big-dip-in-burn-injuries-this-time-but-eye-injuries-remain-high-in-madurai/articleshow/79238730.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Gang beheads youth, 22, in broad daylight in Madurai||MADURAI: A youth from Uthangudi was murdered in a brutal manner by an unidentified gang near St Mary’s Church junction here in broad day light on Sunday. His friend, who escaped with injuries, was undergoing treatment at a government hospital. The deceased was identified as B Muruganantham,22, from Solaiappan Nagar near Uthangudi. Police sources said that the youth was walking near the church on Sunday evening along with his friend Muniasamy when a gang which came in a car and intercepted the two. On seeing them, the two tried to escape. However, they chased Muruganantham and attacked him. As he died, the gang decapitated his head and placed in front of the church. Muniasamy was rushed to the Government Rajaji Hospital. On being alerted, a police team reached the spot and conducted an inquiry. DCP (law and order) R Shiva Prasad also visited the spot. The body was shifted to the same hospital for an autopsy. Since the incident took place at a busy junction, it created panic waves in the locality. Meanwhile, a car with sharp weapons was found abandoned on Bypass Road. Police suspect that it was the vehicle used by the murderers. Police are yet to get clues on the murderers and motive behind it. Teams have been formed to trace the suspects. A case was registered with the Keerathurai police station and a detailed inquiry was underway. Watch Shocking: Man beheaded outside church in Madurai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gang-beheads-youth-22-in-broad-daylight-in-madurai/articleshow/79238728.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Vadodara||Banyan City lost 50% of its canopy: MSU study||VADODARA: Perhaps the only city in the country to have been christened for its foliage, Vadodara, or Banyan City touted to be second only to Gandhinagar in terms of greenery, has lost more than half of its canopy in less than a decade. A study carried out by statisticians of M S University has made this shocking revelation. The 2011 tree counting done by the Gujarat forest department had put the total number of trees in Vadodara city at 7,47,200. But the study carried out by students of Master of Science (MSc) has put the total tree cover estimate in the range of 3,15,354 to 3,47,186. It is worth mentioning here that among four major cities of Gujarat which have over one million population, Vadodara has the distinction of having highest tree cover. “It is shocking for us as well that the tree cover in our city has declined in the past decade and will decline more if not stopped today,” said student Vidya Gupta. Gupta along with three other MSc students – Saurabh Bhogale, Ashwini Ner and Kishan Chauhan –carried out the study under the guidance of professor Deepa Kandpal as part of their MSc semester four curriculum. “The students had started with on-field survey of ward number one which is the smallest ward in the city. Later, however, due to Covid-19 induced lockdown the tree cover status of entire city was estimated using artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning methods. These techniques are used to make estimates when the data size is very large,” said Kandpal. Through AI method, the estimated tree count in the city comes at 3.47 lakh while through machine learning approach it comes to 3.15 lakh. “In AI technique, we took map of entire Vadodara and divided it into images. We got 12,056 images. The images were then bifurcated in greenery classes of zero to ten %, 10 to 20 % and so on. Further, in zero to ten %, we got 5,171 images from which the estimated tree count was done. We kept on estimating the tree count based on images divided into greenery classes,” said Gupta. In machine learning technique, the machine is trained to make an estimate by feeding a data and fitting a value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/banyan-city-lost-50-of-its-canopy-msu-study/articleshow/79233542.cms||Prashant Rupera
November 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Despite e-pass relaxation, hotels in Ooty see less occupancy||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Even after scrapping the e-pass system to enter the tourist retreat, Ooty sees not many tourists as expected. Hoteliers report less than 20% of occupancy during the weekend, especially Diwali weekend. On weekdays, the percentage of occupancy stands at single digit. After eight months, the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) registered 3,163 footfalls on Saturday. “This is the first time during this pandemic, the garden has seen over 3,000 visitors. The increase in numbers is attributed to relaxation in e-pass. Most of the visitors were from neighbouring districts,” an official of the GBG said. Secretary of the Nilgiris Hoteliers’ Association N Chandrasekar said, “The crowd we see in the town now is a floating mass. They come in the morning and leave by night. Only this weekend, after eight months, we saw occupancy in hotels close to 20%.” He said, “However, medium budget hotels are doing very bad without any occupancy.” Hoteliers say there has been neither inquiry nor advance booking for rooms so far even after scrapping the e-pass system. It is really a testing time for the industry here, he added. Most of the tourists seen in the town were from neighbouring districts, Karnataka and Kerala. They travel in their own vehicles and leave the town at their convenience. “We don’t see much crowd except for locals in government buses,” an official of TNSTC said. “We wanted a break. Still we feel it is risky staying in a hotel given the Corona situation. Hence, we have visited Ooty for a day. We will leave in the evening,” L Srikanth, a tourist who had come to Ooty with his family from Tirupur, said. While GBG, Government Rose Garden in Ooty, Sim’s Park in Coonoor and Kattery Park are open for visitors, other tourist places such as Doddabetta, Ooty Lake among others are not open for visitors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/despite-e-pass-relaxation-hotels-in-ooty-see-less-occupancy/articleshow/79238729.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
November 16, 2020||Rajkot||CRPF commando’s body found in MP||RAJKOT: The body of a CRPF commando from Kodinar in Gir-Somnath district was found on the railway tracks in Alot village of Ratlam district in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday. The family members of the deceased, Ajitsinh Parmar (24), who served as a commando with CRPF’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (Cobra) unit, said that they had received a call from Ratlam railway police that Parmar’s body was near the railway tracks. “We suspect some foul play. Ajitsinh, who was aboard the Rajdhani Express, might have been killed for robbery or he might have had a fight with someone in the train. His assailants appeared to have thrown him off the running train after killing him,” Shamat Parmar, Ajitsinh’s uncle, told TOI. “We are leaving for Ratlam to claim Ajitsinh’s body,” added Shamat Parmar. Ajitsinh was inducted into the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) three years ago. Ajitsinh last served in Bihar. Earlier, he was posted in Jammu & Kashmir. After the state assembly elections in Bihar, Ajitsinh availed a month-long leave and left for Kodinar on November 12. After coming to Delhi, he had boarded the Rajdhani Express running between Delhi and Mumbai. He was supposed to get down at Vadodara railway station. On the night of November 13, Ajitsinh had the last telephonic conversation with his fiancee Heena. Ajitsinh told Heena that he would be calling her after reaching Vadodara station on the morning of November 14. However, when he did not call, Heena rang him up, but the call went unanswered. Later when the train reached Mumbai, Ajitsinh’s luggage was found by the Mumbai railway police, which called Heena from Ajitsinh’s cellphone, telling her about the belongings. Shamat Parmar then lodged Ajitsinh’s missing person report with Kodinar police station and serving in Gaya. When one of Ajitsinh’s relatives, Yashpalsinh Barad, wrote about Ajitsinh’s disappearance on Twitter, the railway police swung into action. He is survived by parents, a younger brother and a younger sister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/crpf-commandos-body-found-in-mp/articleshow/79233564.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hubballi||Photographers step up measures to avoid accidents||Hubballi: Following the death of a couple during a pre-wedding photo shoot in Mysuru district, photographers are now concerned about the safety measures to be taken during such shoots. In consultation with the stakeholders in their WhatsApp groups, the photographers have framed the do’s and don’ts during photo shoots. They are also planning to print the norms and conditions on back page of quotations/ bills. Speaking to TOI, Karnataka Photographers Association secretary (Bengaluru) A M Murali said that most photographers have decided to insist customers to choose safer spots for pre-wedding shoots. “After much deliberations in about 200 WhatsApp and offline groups, many photographers have decided to display the dos and don’ts on the backside of quotations, bills and even at studios. They have affirmed that they won’t encourage shooting at prohibited places. About three lakh photographers are now sensitised by our 2,500 life members of main body and affiliated associations across the state. Now they are sensitising customers to be cautious enough during shoot,” he said. “As an internal precautionary measure, photographers are now preferring experienced assistants for outdoor shootings. We are already following Covid-19 norms and now concentrating on safety measures too,” he said. Hubballi Photo and Videographers Association vice president Dinesh Dabade said couples, for their pre-wedding shoots, insist on adventurous spots. “When the photographers refuse to do the shoot at such spots, customers offer some extra money. One of the most popular demand is for Titanic type scenes at reservoirs and sea. Now, we have strictly told our members not to fulfil such requests just for money,” he said. We have asked our members to sensitize the customers on safety conditions while accepting the order itself. “After the Mysuru tragedy, our shooting will be restricted at shallow water and other safer places. We will also insist the couple to wear safety jackets wherever is necessary. Also, the presence of the family is a must for the pre-wedding shoots from now on,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/photographers-step-up-measures-to-avoid-accidents/articleshow/79236313.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 16, 2020||Vadodara||Ornaments worth Rs 10 lakh on display burgled||Vadodara: In a major embarrassment to the cops, two burglars broke into a jewellery showroom located just a few hundred meters away from Sayajigunj police station. The incident occurred on the morning of November 13 when the jewellery shop was closed. Two persons broke open the shutter of the S Kumar Jewellers and first tried to break open the safe containing the ornaments. After failing to open it, they stole the gold and silver ornaments kept on display in the showroom. The booty is valued at Rs 9.50 lakh. A CCTV installed outside the showroom has captured images of the duo who had covered their faces.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/ornaments-worth-rs-10-lakh-on-display-burgled/articleshow/79233556.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Opened fire in row over dog excreta, man gets bail||CHANDIGARH: An argument between two neighbours over a dog’s excreta in a residential area of Bahadurgarh city in Haryana’s Jhajjar district during the lockdown led to one of them being jailed for over six months due to alleged use of licenced weapon. The man, arrested in the case for allegedly firing at his neighbours in the acrimonious battle over the excreta of his family dog, was granted conditional bail after six months in jail by Justice Arvind Singh Sangwan of the Punjab and Haryana high court recently. Justice Sangwan made it clear that the man’s bail was likely to be cancelled if he continued to take out his dog in the street to empty his bowels. “In case the petitioner is found repeating the occurrence of taking his dog in the street for the purpose of easing out, it will be open for the complainant party to apply for cancellation of bail,” observed the high court as it set three conditions for granting bail to the accused. The other conditions include that the accused’s licenced pistol would be kept in the police custody till the completion of the trial in the case and the accused would within 15 days pay Rs 50,000 each to the couple injured during the fight over dog excreta. The accused along with his brother and father was booked on May 5, 2020 for causing hurt, attempt to murder, criminal intimidation and Arms Act. He had allegedly injured his neighbour, who is serving in Coast Guard, and his wife by firing with his licenced pistol at them. The dispute between the two groups, according to the FIR, was that the accused had fired on the couple who had objected to the accused’s dog passing excreta in the street, leading to unhygienic conditions in the neighbourhood. The accused allegedly fired two gunshots from his pistol, which hit his neighbour on his palm and the neighbour’s wife on her elbow. The accused, who was arrested the same day, admitted that the couple was injured as he had used his licenced pistol in self-defence and claimed that the complainant and his family were attacking his father and brother. He also claimed to have been injured on his head and arm and alleged that the police did not register any FIR against the complainant. However, while seeking bail, the counsel for the petitioner submitted that without prejudice to his right of defence, the petitioner was ready to compensate the complainant and his wife by paying Rs 50, 000 each towards their medical expenses, subject to the final outcome of the case. The complainant’s counsel argued against the grant of bail and insisted that the petitioner’s firearm should not be released till the trial is over to prevent its misuse. After hearing both the sides, the high court granted bail to the accused observing that he has been in custody since May 5, investigation was complete and it is to be decided during the trial as to who was the aggressor party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/opened-fired-in-row-over-dog-excreta-man-gets-bail/articleshow/79238735.cms||Ajay Sura
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Relief for fireworks industry as sales meet 80% target in Tamil Nadu||MADURAI: Cracker sales for Diwali in Tamil Nadu have come as a relief to the crisis-ridden industry, home to fireworks hub Sivakasi, with traders saying they have realised 80% of their usual Diwali sale in the state. This comes amid bans on sales or green cracker restrictions imposed by many states and union territories across the country. Federation of Tamil Nadu Fireworks Traders (FTFT) representatives pegs the annual Diwali business in Tamil Nadu at Rs 300 crore, which is 10% of the annual pan-India business. Traders said that sale was at its best on the eve of Diwali, which FTFT general secretary N Elangovan attributed to support from the state government and the interest shown by people. “People were restricted from indulging in all forms of festivities, religious celebrations and family events due to the lockdown. But, it being a major celebration after so many months, people bought fireworks almost close to usual,” he said. He added that Virudhunagar, Coimbatore and Tirunelveli districts led in cracker sales this season. Sale at Virudhunagar outlets is said to be Rs 100 crore, almost a third of the business in Tamil Nadu. The district has nearly 1,300 permanent outlets among the nearly 2,000 across the state. Rain and delay in disbursal of bonus by industries hit sales to an extent. FTFT president V Raja Chandrasekar said wholesalers made 80% business this year. “Retailers who bought for Rs 5 lakh every year cut by a lakh this time. There was delay in sales picking up and the rains posed a bigger threat to us,” he said. Crowd could be seen at outlets on the Madurai - Kanyakumari highway from Kovilpatti to Virudhunagar on Saturday too as there was demand due to poor rain on that day. Sale of fireworks gift boxes, which used to be 25% of total sales in the state, was drastically affected due to Covid-19. Orders for gift boxes are placed from August and packing is custom-made based on the budget and requirement. This segment has been drastically hit by up to 50% this year as the targeted customers are affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/relief-for-fireworks-industry-as-sales-meet-80-target-in-tn/articleshow/79238736.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Pune||Tests go online, leave behind pen & paper exams for now||PUNE: Teachers under the current circumstances have had to rethink exam strategies with setting up a fair assessment system crucial to learning outcomes. In many schools, backed by experience and knowledge, schools, students and teachers have swiftly adapted to remote assessments methods. Objective and subjective online assessments, age-appropriate online assessment, plans to call standard X and XII students in a staggered manner to school for a pen-paper test post-Diwali are trending now. Teachers said more than an assessment for students, it will check how effective the teaching has been. President of Victorious Kidss Educares, Robbin Ghosh, said, “ An assessment identifies what students know, understand and can do at different stages. It helps us modify the teaching process to the learner’s needs.” The Bishop’s School in all its branches in Camp, Kalyaninagar and Undri has evaluation of students from standards III to VIII conducted using MCQs, and subjective-objective exam for standards IX to XII through MS Teams. The answer script was uploaded by the student to the teacher who downloaded it and after digital correction sent back. Jayshree Venkatraman, principal at SNBP International School, said they conducted their objective and subjective quarterly assessment tests online in October. However, the answers in the subjective paper were to be shorter than in a pen-and-paper test. “Before the examination, we sent a video to the students to take the exam with integrity rather than a measure of their memory. Parents came back with feedback about how they refrained from cheating and wrote the exam with utmost sincerity. These assessments are a test of our teachers ability to teach students online,” she added. Venkatraman said they will have students of standard X and XII in school after Diwali. “They will come in a staggered manner for a pen and paper examination. It will be a practice session for three hours and they will attempt the papers like a preliminary to the board examination,” she added. DAV Public School principal CV Madhavi said the school’s testing is focussed on age appropriateness. “There are no instructions from the Centre or the state government about the conduct of examination. We are modifying the offline exams to online exams in a way the teachers feel will suit children and assess their understanding of all that has been taught online. Hence, we had oral exams, projects, MCQs and long form exams for different classes,” she added. A pen and paper test is essential for board examination students. she said. “Seven months have gone by, and we feel the students need practice because the education board will conduct the examination in the pen and paper mode. Students must understand the difficulty level of the board exams. Hence, we will set two or three sets of question papers and call students in batches post-Diwali,” Madhavi added. Other schools are getting parents on board to maintain the sanctity of exams. Director of City Pride School in Nigdi, Ashwini Kulkarni, said it was a challenge. “Technology makes it possible to conduct tests periodically and give results easily. Students write from home at their own pace and could be tempted to use wrong means. We told parents that the evaluation was for learning assessment and got to understand the learning outcome of children through exams,” she said. The school will use online evaluation and conventional exams when schools reopen. Director of Sanskriti Group of Schools, Devyani Mungali, said they designed a new format of assessments. “They are in a combination of oral and written formats. The written assessments are designed to be taken at any convenient time of the day when it is practical for parents to provide some supervision,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tests-go-online-leave-behind-pen-paper-exams-for-now/articleshow/79237717.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
November 16, 2020||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Health inspector dies after ambulance hits truck from behind||COIMBATORE: An injured health inspector died while the ambulance in which he was being shifted from Tirupur to Coimbatore met with an accident on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as S Devarasu, 31, from Manapalli in Namakkal district. He was working as a health inspector in Namakkal district. He met with an accident while travelling on a motorcycle in Namakkal on Saturday and he was admitted in a private hospital where first aid was given. Later, he was referred to a private hospital in Coimbatore. On Saturday night, Devarasu was taken to Coimbatore from Namakkal in a private ambulance. His three relatives V Ponnusamy, 45, R Vinoth, 21, P Ravikumar, 27, all from Namakkal were also travelling in the ambulance and Shankar, 35, drove the ambulance. When the ambulance reached near a private hospital at Karumathampatti, it lost control and hit a truck laden with cement bags. The truck was heading towards Kerala. The ambulance was completely mangled and Devarasu died in the accident. His three relatives suffered injuries and were admitted at a private hospital. The Karumathampatti police sent the body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/health-inspector-dies-after-ambulance-hits-truck-from-behind/articleshow/79238732.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Madurai||Candidates on tenterhooks as MBBS rank list to be out today||CHENNAI/MADURAI: The directorate of medical education (DME) will release the rank list for MBBS/BDS admissions on Monday even as candidates held their breath, especially aspirants in government schools who expect a seat through the 7.5% quota. This year, 38,232 students have applied for more than 4,000 seats available in government and self-financing medical colleges. “The rank list will be released by health minister C Vijayabaskar on Monday at 10 am,” said Dr R Narayana Babu, director of medical education. The medical counselling is likely to be held from November 18 or 19 in offline mode at a new location with Covid-19 precautions. According to data provided by National Testing Agency (NTA), the number of students scoring above 400 marks in Tamil Nadu has doubled compared to last year. A total of 11,978 students scored above 400 compared to 5,634 students in 2019. Career consultants and students advisers expect the cut-off to increase for most of the categories this year as well. The counselling may start by filling the 7.5% seats reserved for NEET-qualified government school students — around 300 MBBS seats and 90 BDS seats. The DME has asked aspirants from Tamil Nadu who have studied from Class VI to XII in the state also to provide nativity certificates. Students who have studied in other boards except state board also have been asked to submit the eligibility certificate from Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University. However, later, the selection committee said that students can submit the eligibility certificate at the time of counselling as well. Meanwhile, candidates remained anxious of their chances of making it through counselling for the state quota. Twenty students in Madurai and 24 in Trichy are among those hoping to get seats. “In Madurai, some of the top scores of government-run school students were only around 200-300 and hence only the 7.5% quota has given students any chance of getting a medical or BDS seat,” said a co-ordinator for the government NEET coaching programme. As K Hari, a trainer at a private NEET coaching centre, said parents faced some hiccups during the application process in getting all the required certificates and documents in time because of the pandemic restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/candidates-on-tenterhooks-as-mbbs-rank-list-to-be-out-today/articleshow/79238734.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Customs to quiz M Sivasankar in jail today||KOCHI: The commissionerate of customs (preventive) will record the statement of IAS officer M Sivasankar in jail on Monday. The special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases, had, on Friday, cleared the questioning of the CM’s former principal secretary, who is in judicial custody. As per the court directive, the interrogation must take place between 10am and 5pm with a half-hour interval after every two hours. Sivasankar should also be allowed to contact his lawyer, if required. The questioning assumes significance due to the fact that the same court will deliver its order on Sivasankar's bail plea on Tuesday. According to sources, however, the Enforcement Directorate is yet to share with customs evidence that it is relying on to arraign Sivasankar as an accused. “The inference of customs, based on circumstantial evidence thus far, suggests that he would be involved. If another agency has found a direct link that can connect him with the crime, then that would help the customs probe as well. However, due to some complications some of the findings are yet to be shared with customs,” said a source privy to the information. Customs, it is learnt, would also seek an explanation on certain documents which the bureaucrat had offered to submit in his defense. It will also raise questions on ED’s submissions in open court, including Swapna’s statement that Sivasankar was aware of the gold smuggling. So far, the customs probe has centered on the premise that Sandeep Nair and Ramees K T had masterminded the smuggling. However, an ED counsel the other day told court that Swapna was just the face and that Sivasankar was the mastermind. Customs is waiting for ED to share its findings so that it too can further investigate this aspect. Customs had, in its request for questioning, referred to Sivasankar as a suspected accused. “… It has also come to light that M Sivasankar who has been arrayed as accused no. 5 in the case of the Enforcement Directorate, is also involved in the issue. However, the Customs is yet to determine the actual involvement. So he is now a suspected accused. That being so, the attendance of the aforesaid person in the inquiry is absolutely essential,” the agency said in its petition.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/customs-to-quiz-sivasankar-in-jail-today/articleshow/79243943.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Noise levels cross last Diwali numbers||NEW DELHI: Despite a complete ban on firecrackers, Delhi recorded a noisier Diwali this year as compared to last year, with seven out of the 10 real-time monitoring stations recording an increase in noise levels, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data showed. Track the pollution level in your cityOnly three stations — ITO, Anand Vihar and Dilshad Garden — recorded a slight drop in night-time noise levels as compared to last Diwali. A similar trend was observed during the day, with six out of 10 locations recording more noise as compared to last year. The highest decibel level was recorded during the day at Dilshad Garden at 74 dB(A), a little less than last year’s 76 dB(A). At Punjabi Bagh and Mandir Marg, the noise levels rose from 55 dB(A) last year on Diwali night to 61 dB(A) this year. At NSIT Dwarka, it rose from 58 dB(A) last year to 63 dB(A) this year, and at RK Puram, from 60 dB(A) to 63 dB(A). During the day, the highest spike in noise levels were seen at Dwarka, from 56 dB(A) last year to 64 dB(A) this year. RK Puram, meanwhile, recorded the biggest day-time drop in noise levels from 76 dB(A) last year to 64 dB(A) this year. CPCB measures day-time noise levels from 6am until 10pm and night-time readings from 10pm until 6am. An increase in both readings indicates that not only did Delhi burst more crackers this year, more were burst past 10pm. CPCB also monitored data manually at six more locations, recording an increase in noise levels at Lajpat Nagar, Mayur Vihar Phase-II and Janakpuri.  At Pitampura and Okhla, it recorded a drop in noise levels this year, while it remained the same at Kamla Nagar. The standard for acceptable noise levels in residential areas is 55 dB(A) during daytime and 45 dB(A) at night. Industrial locations like Okhla have a day-time norm of 75 dB(A) and 70 dB(A) at night. While Diwali Day was much noisier, the pre-Diwali day readings, gathered five days before Diwali, indicated there was a decrease in noise levels at seven out of the 10 real-time stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/noise-levels-cross-last-diwali-numbers/articleshow/79238742.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 16, 2020||Pune||Bhor teachers to start own chapter in pursuit of ‘happiness curriculum’||PUNE: The Zilla Parishad’s education department in Bhor Taluka, which has many schools located in tough terrain under its 24 clusters, is trying a new method to improve the quality of education, mental well-being and problem-solving ability among its students. Ashwini Sonavane, the new block education officer, who held charge previously in Naxal-hit Bhamragad village in Gadchiroli, has formed a study group of teachers from each class. This group will look into the Delhi pattern of happiness curriculum and modify it to suit the state’s culture, environment and ethos. They are also trying to bring back the story-telling culture into education. An initiative called ‘chamakte sitare’ will start from Saturday. A five-minute video of a student who has excelled in any field will be shown to all the students every month followed by an opportunity for live interaction with the achiever. “One of our standard VII students is good at singing and has won many awards performing on different stages. We will make a five-minute video of this student talking about her talent, how she manages to learn classical music along with her regular studies while living in a village, the hard work that goes into it, how she manages stage-fright and other aspects. We will show it to all the students when schools reopen and also hold live interactions. Similarly, there are students who are good with their knowledge of farming, yoga or sports or mathematics. We will make their videos too for the same purpose,” Sonavane added. She is determined to bring about a change in the way ZP schools function and their perception outside. “ZP school teachers work hard, and the level of education is not lower than private schools. These schools cater to students who are disadvantaged, who have no one at home to teach them or guide them. We will figure out something of our own from the Delhi government’s happiness curriculum. We will also study other best practices across the world to suit our needs. It is a long path, but we are determined to do something good,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bhor-teachers-to-start-own-chapter-in-pursuit-of-happiness-curriculum/articleshow/79237743.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 16, 2020||Pune||Police bust sand mafia ops in Daund; six land in net||PUNE: The Pune rural police, along with the Daund revenue officials, set ablaze nine boats used by sand mafia for illegal dredging along the Bhima river at Wadgaon Darekar village in Daund tehsil — about 60km from Pune — on Saturday. The authorities destroyed six fibre and three section boats besides seizing suction pumps, totally worth Rs1.20 crore. “We have arrested six persons on charge of dredging sand from the river basin, particularly at night. We got a specific tip-off about the activity and carried out a raid in the early hours of Saturday. The suspects tried escaping in their boats, but we chased and nabbed them successfully. We destroyed the boats by using gelatin sticks and setting them ablaze as per procedure,” said police inspector Narayan Pawar of the Daund police. Pune rural superintendent of police Abhinav Deshmukh told TOI on Sunday, “Controlling illegal sand dredging is necessary to curb crime rate in the district. People who are a part of this business are involved in various crimes, including possession of illegal firearms. We had conducted a special meeting with the district collector to formulate a consolidated strategy to control the menace of sand mining. The collector had asked revenue officials to take action against sand miners with the police’s help.” The northern region of Daund tehsil has gained notoriety for illegal sand dredging. Villages like Deulgaonraje, Pedgaon, Rahu and Wadgaon Darekar are known for these activities. According to records, various police stations in Daund and Shirur tehsil have recorded over 10 crimes related to illegal sand mining in the last two months. “I have directed all police station incharges to take action against sand mafia in their jurisdictions,” Deshmukh added. The former superintendent of police, Sandeep Patil, had sent a proposal regarding procurement of boats for the police to patrol the river along Daund and Shirur tehsils. “Our proposal is still pending with the government. However, the tehsil administration has got boats for the purpose of disaster management. The collector has directed us to use them for carrying out raids against the mafias,” said Deshmukh||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-bust-sand-mafia-ops-in-daund-six-land-in-net/articleshow/79237768.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 16, 2020||Vadodara||Diwali night fire keeps firemen busy||Vadodara: The fun of bursting crackers for many turned out to be a nightmare for some on Diwali night.Fire broke out at a godown and a house due to firecrackers on Saturday night. According to the fire department, a faraskhana godown at Panchvati Society in Gorwa caught fire. “The entire godown was gutted as a cracker fell,” said a fire official. Another incident was reported from an apartment in Tarsali. The owner of the house had dumped wooden waste generated from furniture work on the balcony of the house. As a firecracker fell on the balcony, the waste caught fire. “We controlled the blaze in a short time as it had not spread much,” a fireman said. A few illegal makeshift structures created near a hospital on Sama-Savli Road were also engulfed on Saturday night. However, the cause of the fire is yet not known.During the same hours, a short-circuit in the refrigerator sparked a fire in an apartment in Tarsali. The entire refrigerator was gutted and the walls in the kitchen were charred. The blaze was doused before it could engulf other parts of the apartment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/diwali-night-fire-keeps-firemen-busy/articleshow/79233578.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Rajkot||Two hurt in fight over crackers||Rajkot: In two separate incidents in Jamnagar on Saturday night, two persons were seriously injured in fights that burst over firing of crackers. Police said in the first incident Kripalsinh Jadeja (54) was stabbed by accused Hiren Zala and Ravirajsinh Jadeja allegedly after the former raised an objection against them firing crackers near his bike in Machcharnagar locality of Jamnagar. Jadeja’s condition is said to be serious. In another incident 37-year-old Pradeep Kansara was attacked with bats “Kansara had objected to them hurling rockets horizontally on the road,” said police. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-hurt-in-fight-over-crackers/articleshow/79233596.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||BJP’s new appointment shows focus on Punjab Dalits||JALANDHAR: Appointment of Dushyant Gautam as Punjab BJP affairs in charge underlines the saffron party’s focus on Dalit voters in Punjab as party is preparing to go solo in the state in the 2022 elections. Gautam is a former two-time president of BJP SC Morcha. During his stint in the party wing, he had worked in Punjab as well. The party has appointed Jammu-based Sikh leader Narinder Singh as co-incharge of party affairs. Though demography of the state is not favourable to the BJP with two large voter bases – Sikhs and Dalits – usually staying away from the party, it is desperate to make inroads in sections of Scheduled Caste communities. The ongoing farm agitation has widened the distance between BJP and the farmers – most of whom are Sikh, so it is now even more imperative for the party to increase its focus on Dalit voters. Though BJP has been making attempts to win over Dalits, it has not succeeded much. Elevation of Vijay Sampla as a Union minister of state and then as state president was focused in the same direction. Now, Punjab’s only BJP SC MP, Som Parkash, is also an MoS in the Union government. Though Dalits have been uniting against the BJP in different protests, the party wants to take advantage of issue of post-matric scholarship scam which has led to negative publicity for the Congress. Most Congress leaders, barring chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and minister Sadhu Singh Dharamsot himself, have not even come forward to defend Dharamsot on this. Narinder Singh’s appointment is aimed at making inroads in Sikh constituency in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjps-new-appointment-shows-focus-on-punjab-dalits/articleshow/79238738.cms||IP Singh
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Seven booked for murder in Sangrur||SANGRUR: Police in Sangrur have booked seven persons, including two who are yet to be identified, for allegedly killing a resident of Kalyan village in Malerkotla near here. Dharminder Singh, Lovepreet Singh alias Lovy, Vicky, Jassa Singh and Lovepreet Singh alias Navi are yet to be arrested for the murder of Parminder Singh alias Happy. A case has been registered on the complaint by Parminder’s uncle Gorakhnath. The complainant told the police that Parminder, along with another person, was returning to the village on a bike when the accused had stopped them and shot him four times. Parminder was rushed to a hospital, but doctors declared him brought dead due to excessive bleeding. The FIR has been registered under sections 302 (murder), 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 34 (common intention) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of Indian Penal Code, and sections of the Arms Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7-booked-for-murder-in-sangrur/articleshow/79238740.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Customs to quiz M Sivasankar in jail today||KOCHI: The commissionerate of customs (preventive) will record the statement of IAS officer M Sivasankar in jail on Monday. The special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases, had, on Friday, cleared the questioning of the CM’s former principal secretary, who is in judicial custody. As per the court directive, the interrogation must take place between 10am and 5pm with a half-hour interval after every two hours. Sivasankar should also be allowed to contact his lawyer, if required. The questioning assumes significance due to the fact that the same court will deliver its order on Sivasankar's bail plea on Tuesday. According to sources, however, the Enforcement Directorate is yet to share with customs evidence that it is relying on to arraign Sivasankar as an accused. “The inference of customs, based on circumstantial evidence thus far, suggests that he would be involved. If another agency has found a direct link that can connect him with the crime, then that would help the customs probe as well. However, due to some complications some of the findings are yet to be shared with customs,” said a source privy to the information. Customs, it is learnt, would also seek an explanation on certain documents which the bureaucrat had offered to submit in his defense. It will also raise questions on ED’s submissions in open court, including Swapna’s statement that Sivasankar was aware of the gold smuggling. So far, the customs probe has centered on the premise that Sandeep Nair and Ramees K T had masterminded the smuggling. However, an ED counsel the other day told court that Swapna was just the face and that Sivasankar was the mastermind. Customs is waiting for ED to share its findings so that it too can further investigate this aspect. Customs had, in its request for questioning, referred to Sivasankar as a suspected accused. “… It has also come to light that M Sivasankar who has been arrayed as accused no. 5 in the case of the Enforcement Directorate, is also involved in the issue. However, the Customs is yet to determine the actual involvement. So he is now a suspected accused. That being so, the attendance of the aforesaid person in the inquiry is absolutely essential,” the agency said in its petition.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/customs-to-quiz-sivasankar-in-jail-today/articleshow/79237023.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Pune||Pune: Doctors use brain shunt to save life of three-year-old comatose boy||PUNE: When three-year-old Anshuman fell from a fleet of stairs with a height of just six feet, little did his parents realize the impact of the injury and the extent of brain damage. Anshuman was diagnosed with trauma induced hydrocephalus — a build-up of fluid in the cavities (ventricles) deep within the brain. The condition can damage brain tissues and cause a range of impairments in brain function if not treated properly and in time. A team of doctors in Pune pulled the child off complications, including his comatose state, by inserting a tube or shunt — medically called external ventricular device. The doctors drilled a hole in the skull and drained the excess fluid from the child’s extremely tiny ventricles through the device. The doctors claimed that this was a first of its kind case in Pune where such a young patient was put on external ventricular device and subsequently saved. “The hydrocephalus in the child’s case was due to bleeding in the ventricles due to the trauma. The unique aspect was intracranial pressure monitoring using the external ventricular device in a small child, which has never been reported from Pune,” said Sachin Shah, director, neonatal and paediatric intensive care unit, Surya hospital. The child had met with the accident on January 20, 2020. He was rushed to the Waked-based tertiary care child super specialty hospital the same day. On admission, he was drowsy, having convulsions, and his blood pressure was low. He was intubated and put on ventilator support and medicines were administered to control the convulsions. “His computerized tomography (CT) scan showed a bleeding in the brain causing blockage in the pathway of cerebrospinal fluid drainage (CSF). This, in turn, led to the accumulation of CSF and hydrocephalus,” Shah said. There was severe swelling in the child's brain called cerebral edema. This increased brain pressure (intracranial pressure) was responsible for the drop in his neurological parameters and made him comatose. It was at this point that Shah used external ventricular device — a special hollow cannula that can drain fluid or blood. “If the blood is not removed from the ventricles in the brain, it occludes the flow of CSF. This leads to fluid accumulation in the ventricles and increased intracranial pressure,” Shah said. Sheer small size of ventricles posed a massive challenge. “A misdirected catheter can damage the brain. The purpose of the drain was to continuously monitor the intracranial pressure and relieve it,” said hospital’s paediatric neurosurgeon, Rakesh Ranjan. Just doing the procedure was not enough. Post-operative monitoring, continuous presence of paediatric intensivists, trained nursing staff played a crucial role in the child's neurological recovery. The child was discharged on February 1. When contacted, the child’s parents from Pimpri said their boy was doing fine. “Eight months have passed after the surgery. Our boy is meeting his developmental milestones like any other child after the treatment.” When contacted, Delhi-based paediatric intensivist Nameet Jerath, in-charge paediatric intensive care unit at Apollo hospital, Delhi, said, “This insertion of the catheter in tiny ventricles of a child’s brain is certainly technically a challenging procedure.” Mumbai-based paediatric intensivist Preetha Joshi, in charge of the paediatric intensive care unit at Kokilaben Ambani hospital, said, “Each case of head injury is different and therefore rewuires customized management. This therapy guided by intracranial pressure monitoring is required only in the most severe of the cases. The procedure itself is technically challenging in smaller children and has to be undertaken by experienced specialists to minimize complications.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/doctors-use-brain-shunt-to-save-life-of-three-year-old-comatose-boy/articleshow/79237766.cms||Umesh Isalkar
November 16, 2020||Vadodara||Crackers pierce kids’ eyes, but docs keep vision intact||Vadodara: The festival of lights would have permanently caused darkness in the lives of these kids who were merely watching colorful crackers on the road. Amid all the festive fervour, their eyes got so severely injured due to firecrackers that they could have permanently lost their vision. But timely treatment through pole-to-pole surgery has ensured they will regain their eyesight. “In the last two days, we have witnessed four such cases where children get their eyes injured due to firecrackers even as they are just bystanders,” said Dr Parth Rana, retina and ocular trauma surgeon. Using pole-to-pole technique, Rana treated a two-year-old boy from Rajasthan who got a cut on his cornea and another 10-year-old who received blunt injuries in the eye as a stick or a stone got flung due to a firecracker. Pole-to-pole (cornea-to-cataract-to retina) is a surgical strategy in trauma cases where multiple procedure surgeries are done in a single operation. Luckily, we could save the eyes of the two -year-old boy who had got a cut on cornea (called laceration on cornea). He had come his maternal unle’s house in Ahmedabad for Diwali. We sutured the laceration,” said Dr Rana.Similarly, the 10-year-old had multiple tears on sclera and his eyes have also been saved. “The condition of the 10-year-old’s eye was just like a crushed grape. We had to take 16 stitches,” said Dr Rana.Dr Rana and his team in Ahmedabad performed the surgery using a 3D visualization system which, he says, is the first of its kind set up in Gujarat, Rajasthan or neighbouring Madhya Pradesh. “Also, we have a dedicated paediatric workstation for general anaesthesia through which we can induce anaesthesia in children with ease. Usually, it takes 30-60 minutes for inducing anaesthesia in children, but we can do it within 10 minutes through this work station,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/crackers-pierce-kids-eyes-but-docs-keep-vision-intact/articleshow/79233594.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi sees least number of fire calls in three years||NEW DELHI: Delhi Fire Services (DFS) received 205 calls this Diwali as against 245 in 2019 and 271 in 2018. Out of these, 175 were related to fire, though “only two were specifically related to firecracker bursting”, said DFS director Atul Garg. While 71 calls were related to fire at dump yards or open areas, including one at a cooler-cum-wood godown in Mundka, the non-fire calls were mostly for assistance to rescue birds and animals, Garg added. The department’s control room handled 129 calls during the peak hours ranging from 6pm till midnight. The low number of calls “could be due to imposition of a complete ban, but people were still found bursting firecrackers and most of the garbage dumps that caught fire are due to fireworks”, Garg said. Just before Diwali, National Green Tribunal imposed a ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in the national capital region from the midnight of November 9 to the midnight of November 30. Delhi government had earlier imposed a ban on crackers from November 7 to 30 to combat rising air pollution amid an increasing number of Covid-19 cases in the city. A 28-year-old man died in the godown fire while another was injured. The deceased has been identified as Sunil Kumar (28) and the injured as Aditya (20). Both were residents of Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. Police suspect that Kumar was sleeping inside the godown when the fire broke out. “A call about the fire was received around 11.05pm and 12 fire tenders were sent,” Garg said. The charred body was found inside the godown. The reason of the fire is not known. An FIR has been registered for causing death due to negligence. At Keshavpuram, a fire was reported from a restaurant shut for sometime. It is suspected that the blaze was triggered by a candle lit at the front. No casualty was reported. DFS received 57 calls after Sunday’s rain. Most calls were made by motorcyclists who might have slipped due to dust and earth that had made roads slippery, Garg said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-sees-least-number-of-fire-calls-in-three-years/articleshow/79238771.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 20, suffers ‘acid’ attack in Rampur||Rampur: Bike-borne men allegedly threw acid on the face of a 20-year-old woman on Sunday. Police said it could be an act of a jilted lover. The incident took place in Hareeta village under Azeemnagar police station limits. The woman was rushed to district hospital in Rampur. Azeemnagar SHO Ravindra Kumar told TOI, "It appears to be a case of a jilted affair. The accused is probably a resident of the same village. Parents alleged that the accused threw acid on their daughter's face." Rampur ASP Arun Kumar Singh said, "Police did not find any chemical or acid at the site yet. We came to know about the incident from hospital authorities. No formal written complaint has come from the woman or her parents." An FIR under relevant sections of IPC will be registered against the accused on the basis of the complaint, the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-20-suffers-acid-attack-in-rampur/articleshow/79235704.cms||Nazar Abbas
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||2 advocates burn to death||Hoshiarpur: BJP’s Hoshiarpur-based advocate Bhagwant Kishore Gupta and his junior Siya Bhullar were burnt to death when their car hit a tree on the roadside near Purheeran village and caught fire on Saturday night. Gupta was in his sixties and Bhullar in her thirties, police said. They could not come out of the car and by the time people could control the flames they were burnt to death. It is learnt that the accident took place around 10.30pm on Diwali night. Police sources said it was not known why did the car hit the three. They said that they could not open the car due to central locking system. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-advocates-burn-to-death/articleshow/79238746.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Amritsar||Amritsar: SGPC’s launches centenary celebrations with prayers||AMRITSAR: Akhand Path began at Akal Takht on Sunday to mark the 100th anniversary of formation of Sikh’s single largest representative body Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the bhog of which will be performed on November 17. SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the main function will be held at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on Tuesday. A photo exhibition depicting movements and sacrifices made during the formation of SGPC was inaugurated on November 13, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sgpcs-launches-centenary-celebrations-with-prayers/articleshow/79238743.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||Cracker ban conundrum adds to chaos||BHOPAL: Attempts of the district administration to restrict use of crackers in the wake of Coronavirus pandemic and decision of the NGT's principal bench to ban fireworks in cities where air quality is bad were largely disturbed by statements of higher ups in the government that there is no limit on crackers you can burst or the ambiguity on the two hour time limit — between 8 pm to 10pm as laid down by the district collector under section 144 of the CrPC in compliance to the Supreme Court order. Yes, the cacophony of crackers was less on Diwali day but it went on beyond 10.00 pm and ban on crackers like the ‘sutli bomb’ (series bombs), which finds mention both in the Supreme Court order and district collector’ order was not effective at all. It was not only the NGT recent order or Supreme Court's old standing order in the wake of environmental pollution gases emitting from crackers cause but the administration wanted to restrict use of crackers because of Coronavirus pandemic as well. While the district collector referred to NGT order while issuing prohibitory order on use of crackers, Madhya Pradesh Pollution Control Board (MPPCB) issued an appeal asking people not to burst fireworks for the sake of Coronavirus patients in home quarantine, which could prove dangerous for them. Regional officer of MPPCB, S N Dwivedi, further said that even those who have been cured of the infection could face problems due to poisonous gas which emanates from crackers. “All the appeals from district administration, MPPCB, doctors and social workers made through the media not to indulge in fireworks had its impact. But, at the same time there were statements of the home minister, Narottam Mishra that there was no ceiling on bursting of crackers nor there is a time limit for it to dilute its impact. Both the district collector's order and Mishra's statement came the same day and both were carried by the media", said Manish Gaur, a resident of Arera Colony. Chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, also said that there was no ban or restriction on fireworks and the ban was limited to use and sale of Chinese crackers but on Diwali morning, while addressing the people of the state, he warned them against rising cases of Coronavirus after a brief slump and asked them to remain vigilant and observe Covid-19 protocol to protect themselves against infection of the deadly virus. People didn't heed to the district collector's appeal to burst crackers in community at an open place (entire colony collecting at an open place for fireworks so that BMC staff has easy access to garbage generated by fireworks and collect the garbage themselves at a place so that it could be easily disposed of. Even in covered campuses, people burst crackers in front of their respective houses, thereby leaving the garbage all over the place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cracker-ban-conundrum-adds-to-chaos/articleshow/79238774.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Three civic bodies carry out drives to clear waste in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A day after Diwali, the three municipal corporations carried out special drives on Sunday morning to clean marketplaces and lift garbage from residential areas in multiple shifts. Though the staff turnout was less, the garbage on the streets was in abundance. A north corporation official said that around 5,500 tonnes of waste was transported to dhalaos till evening. Of this, 5-7% was waste from crackers. “On average, we collect 4,500-4,600 tonnes of garbage daily from residential areas, streets and markets. However, waste generation is high on Diwali. Even this time, it was around 10% higher than normal. The garbage included waste from crackers and refuse dumped in markets after sales of goods,” said a senior official from North DMC. With Sunday being another festival, Vishwakarma Puja, just 40-50% staffers came to work. “To fill the gap, we deployed vehicles in multiple shifts to collect waste and sweep roads,” added the official. East Delhi Municipal Corporation claimed that it had been collecting an increased quantity of waste for the past one week. “Except for Diwali day, when waste collection was 1,000 tonnes, our employees were collecting 3,000 tonnes of waste every day for the past one week due to heavy footfall in markets. In comparison, we collect 2,500-2,600 tonnes of garbage on a normal day,” said an EDMC official, adding that waste generated from bursting crackers was just about two tonnes due to the ban. A South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) official also gave similar figures for the amount of waste from crackers. “The waste collected on the day after Diwali is transported to dhalaos by the afternoon and taken to landfill sites at night. Though it is difficult to calculate the percentage of waste from crackers right now, the amount won’t be more than two tonnes,” added the official. “There is no denying the fact that people burst crackers despite the ban, but the overall percentage was less in areas under our jurisdiction,” said the SDMC official. The civic agency collected around 4,000 tonnes of waste during the festivities compared with the average 3,600 tonnes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-civic-bodies-carry-out-drives-to-clear-waste/articleshow/79238807.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 16, 2020||Rajkot||Two bag snatchers stab chaser to death||Rajkot: Two unidentified bag snatchers, who were running after snatching a purse from a woman, stabbed a man to death who was chasing them in Anjar on Saturday evening. The accused were detained on Sunday. Police said that the accused were habitual offenders. “They had snatched a purse from a woman and started running from near Welspun Company near Meghpar Borichi village on the outskirts of Anjar. When the woman started crying for help, Pruthvirajsinh Rana (30) ran after the accused. When Rana got near the accused, one of them pulled out a knife and stabbed him three to four times in his throat, chest and stomach, killing him on the spot,” said M M Jadeja, inspector with Anjar police station. “The accused abandoned their two-wheeler, which was grabbed by Rana, took Rana’s bike and fled from the spot. We tracked them down on the basis of the registration number of their two-wheeler,” said Jadeja, adding that the identities of the accused were yet to be ascertained which would be done after conducting their Covid-19 test. The accused were booked on the complaint of Shailendrasinh Jadeja, the brother-in-law of Rana. Shailendrasinh’s friend, Jagdishsinh Jadeja, saw Rana in a pool of blood and called up Shailendrasinh, who alerted the police. Rana used to work in a private firm of Anjar. He is survived by his wife and two children. The woman, who had fallen prey to the bag snatchers did not lodge a police complaint, though the police recovered her purse from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-bag-snatchers-stab-chaser-to-death/articleshow/79233622.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||Corona second wave looming on Madhya Pradesh?||BHOPAL: Is Covid-19 steadily building up into a second wave in Madhya Pradesh? The question arises from the fact that Covid-19 cases which had gone drastically down in the month of October have been showing a steady increase in the past 14 days. There were only 8,298 active cases in the state on November 2, which has now increased to 9,146. Earlier on September 30, there were 20,997 active cases in the state and in the month of October it reduced to 8,929 (on October 31). It is after more than nearly two months that more than 1,000 positive cases were reported in a single days in state, that too consecutively for three days on November 14, 13 and November 12. In November, number of new positive cases started increasing since November 2, and barring two days November 2 and November 13, more cases were reported every day compared to previous days. So far in November, 12,568 new cases have been reported and only 12,212 patients have recovered. This is less compared to 43,212 new cases in October but what is heartening is that while 43,000 tested positive in October, 54,745 people recovered from the disease in the same month, drastically bringing down the number of active cases in the state. But now it is against going up, i.e., more people are testing positive and recoveries are less. Sources say that the numbers are still less, but it is likely to increase following the festivities of Diwali and the impact of the campaigning of bye-elections will also be visible. It is already visible, in Gwalior where the cases were going down, but since November 4, day after polls on November 3, the number of cases reported every day has increased significantly and more cases are reported everyday compared to previous days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-cases-outnumber-recoveries-active-cases-in-state-rise-to-9000/articleshow/79238805.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Covid toll among Mumbai’s under-40 crosses 500, most victims in 30s||MUMBAI: People under 40 are said to have very low mortality risk from Covid-19. Yet, the toll among people under 40 recently crossed 500 in the city. Data analysed by BMC shows 511 deaths occurred in people aged 39 or below— 344 of them were in their 30s. These 511 accounted for 5% of the total 10,539 deaths till November 14. Analyses by the death audit committee found many young victims had pre-existing health conditions, such as kidney or heart disease, or co-morbidities, including obesity, diabetes, hypertension. A few women had a history of cancer or heart diseases. But in quite a number of cases, victims had no other ailments and death was predominantly caused by Covid severity. Of the 511 deaths, 120 occurred among people in their 20s, while 344 were recorded in the age group of 30-39 years. There were 16 deaths among children below 10, and 31 in those between 10 and 19 years. “We found the prevalence of weak heart, rheumatic heart disease, chronic renal disease as some of the common causes. The group suffering from kidney disease is extremely vulnerable as they have to undergo dialysis repeatedly,” said Dr Niteen Karnik, head of medicine at Sion Hospital and a member of the civic death audit committee. He said that although deaths among the younger population is a tiny fraction of mortalities seen in the elderly, it was worrying. “Importantly, we found that obesity played a role in worsening the outcome in younger patients,” he said. Studies have shown that some of the sickest Covid-19 patients were individuals with obesity or overweight. A metanalysis published in Obesity Reviews found that people with obesity who get infected with Covid were 48% more likely to succumb than a person with normal body weight. “We have seen morbidly obese people weighing 120-130kg succumbing to the virus. Some presented with bad ketoacidosis, a severe diabetes complication where there was a build-up of acids in the blood,” Dr Karnik said. Intensivist Rakesh Bhadade, who is associated with BYL Nair Hospital, said that at least one-third of the deaths among young patients in the hospital ICU could be attributed to obesity. “Obesity impacts overall progression as well as treatment. For instance, it compresses the lungs, making it doubly challenging for the patient to breathe. It’s also tough to intubate such patients,” he said. Still, Dr Bhadade believes obesity or pre-existing diseases explain only a fraction of the young deaths. “We couldn’t perform CT scans in a big chunk of such people as they came to us in a critical and breathless condition, hence these deaths are an enigma,” he said. “Quite a few deaths may have occurred due to pulmonary embolism as Covid is know to cause blood clotting in veins and arteries. In my view, at least 50% of the young deaths in our ICU was purely due to Covid severity where the lungs were completely ravaged.” Dr Kedar Toraskar, critical care head at Wockhardt Hospital, said that the first few months saw many deaths in the young as there were no clear treatment protocols or antivirals. "Late diagnosis combined with late treatment can have a bad outcome. If treatment starts in the first three days, the chances of complications are negligible now,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-toll-among-citys-under-40-crosses-500-most-victims-in-30s/articleshow/79239172.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 16, 2020||Vadodara||Farmer in Vadodara shares bank details, OTP; loses Rs 2.6 lakh||VADODARA: Despite several public warnings by banks and police to not share bank account details and one-time password (OTP), a farmer living in Padra fell into the trap of cyber conmen and lost Rs 2.6 lakh from his account. The farmer Narsinh Mahida received a call from an unknown number on the morning of November 13 and the caller identified himself as an executive of Bank of Baroda. After Mahida told the caller that he withdraws money from his account using withdrawal slips or cheques, the person insisted that he use ATM card for withdrawals. The executive also offered to activate the ATM card and sms services if he shares the card and bank account numbers. After Mahida gave the details, the caller asked him to share the OTP that he would have received through sms. Immediately, an amount of Rs 50,006 was debited from Mahida’s account. When he asked about the debited amount, the person said that it will be credited in few minutes. Later, several debit transactions of different amounts took place from Mahida’s account. When Mahida went to his bank branch and reported losing Rs 2.6 lakh, bank officials informed him that he had been cheated and asked him to approach police. The complaint was lodged in Padra police station and under Information Technology Act and cheating on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/farmer-shares-bank-details-otp-loses-rs-2-6-lakh/articleshow/79233608.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: 5,658 new infections from 4 hotspot cities in just 14 days||BHOPAL: For the past 14 days since November 2, a total of 5,658 fresh positive cases have been reported from four major towns of the state —Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior, of these nearly 48% or a whopping 2,697 fresh cases have been reported from state capital Bhopal alone. On November 15, state capital reported a whopping 237 fresh cases in a single day. Prior to November, it was mostly Indore which reported highest number of cases in the state. Since November 2, it was only on November 13 and 14 that Indore reported more new cases than Bhopal. 2,697 new cases were reported in Bhopal from November 2 to 15, while Indore had reported only 1,475 new cases in the same period, Gwalior had reported 941 fresh cases and Jabalpur had reported 545 fresh covid-19 cases in the same duration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/5658-new-infections-from-4-hotspot-cities-in-just-14-days/articleshow/79242236.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 5,658 new infections from 4 hotspot cities in just 14 days||BHOPAL: For the past 14 days since November 2, a total of 5,658 fresh positive cases have been reported from four major towns of the state —Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur and Gwalior, of these nearly 48% or a whopping 2,697 fresh cases have been reported from state capital Bhopal alone. On November 15, state capital reported a whopping 237 fresh cases in a single day. Prior to November, it was mostly Indore which reported highest number of cases in the state. Since November 2, it was only on November 13 and 14 that Indore reported more new cases than Bhopal. 2,697 new cases were reported in Bhopal from November 2 to 15, while Indore had reported only 1,475 new cases in the same period, Gwalior had reported 941 fresh cases and Jabalpur had reported 545 fresh covid-19 cases in the same duration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/5658-new-infections-from-4-hotspot-cities-in-just-14-days/articleshow/79238831.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Cheating FIR against rape-accused realtor||AHMEDABAD: One more complaint has been lodged against Sunil Bhanderi, a real estate dealer, who is facing the accusation of rape. According to the complaint filed at the Krishnanagar police station on Friday, Bhanderi used Aadhaar and PAN cards of somebody else to open a bank account for illegal transactions. The crime branch is already probing a complaint of rape of a builder’s wife filed against Bhanderi. As for Friday’s complaint, lodged by Ketan Gondalia of Nikol, his brother-in-law Ashwin Sardhara and Bhanderi are friends. Police sources said that Bhanderi used Gondalia’s documents fraudulently to open the bank account. “Transactions worth lakhs were made through the account,” a police source said. “We have lodged a complaint of cheating against the accused.” Police sources said that several complaints have been registered against Bhanderi, including those relating to cheating. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cheating-fir-against-rape-accused-realtor/articleshow/79227593.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Goa||Housing board to team up with pvt builders, develop 60k sqm in N Goa||Panaji: The Goa Housing Board (GHB) intends to develop 60,700 sqm of land in North Goa through a joint partnership with reputed national or international builders. To ensure it gets maximum bang for its buck, the board is looking for a property consultant to develop a viable business model and conduct a market study on Goa’s real estate sector. The land at Colvale, Tivim, Curca and Penha de Franca is already with GHB and the state is open to the idea of residential and commercial projects. GHB hopes that by appointing a transaction advisor, who will be paid approximately one per cent of the project cost, it will be able to maximise revenue and create a self-sustaining business model. The consultant will provide transaction advisory services for selection of a private developer, conduct a market study, carry out site analysis and identify infrastructure facilities. The consultant will also have to develop financial models, including the possible revenue stream for each project. “The state is always on the radar of investors across the world seeking to invest in the real estate market here or seeking second or third homes,” said a GHB official. “There are few projects owned and developed by GHB, whose construction has been completed more than two decades ago and which are under-utilised as per existing demand potential. These properties may attract reputed developers looking at constructing signature projects.” The possibility of creating a special purpose vehicle for joint development of the four projects also remains on the table, but a final decision will be taken after evaluating the pros and cons for GHB and the developer, said the project proposal. GHB has already floated a tender to pick the transaction advisor, who will join the already empanelled consultants that the board has. The transaction advisor will have to conduct the bid process to pick private developers and will remain on board till the joint partnership between GHB and the builder is inked. “The consultant shall evaluate the available data and information with a view to preparing a reasonable estimation of the likely revenues of the private developer from the user charges likely to be collected from the project,” said a GHB official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/housing-board-to-team-up-with-pvt-builders-develop-60k-sqm-in-n-goa/articleshow/79238838.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Meerut||Fire caused by cracker engulfs 3-storeyed house in Muzaffarnagar||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A trader's house in Gandhi Colony here caught fire after a burning cracker fell on a curtain and spread rapidly on Saturday. It took several hours for fire tenders to douse the blaze. According to witnesses, while trader Gurbachan Singh Banga and his family were busy with Diwali puja on the ground floor of the house, a burning cracker hit the curtain of an open window on the third floor. Soon, the fire spread, engulfing the entire building Manjeet Singh, a family member, said some people were bursting crackers on the street outside despite a ban by National Green Tribunal. Goods worth lakhs were destroyed. "Some jeans which were to be sold at my shop were reduced to ashes. Goods worth lakhs have been gutted in fire, we need compensation from the government " Three fire tenders were rushed to the spot. Fire station officer Rishabh Panwar said, "As soon as we received the information about fire, our firefighters with three tenders reached the spot and doused the fire. Further investigation is on in the matter." In another incident, household goods in a room were destroyed when a firecracker landed inside a house in Krishnapuri. Fire tenders doused the blaze.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/fire-caused-by-cracker-engulfs-3-storeyed-house-in-mnagr/articleshow/79237043.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 16, 2020||Hubballi||This village sends one son from every house to serve the nation||Belagavi: Inchal, a little-known village in Belagavi district has a remarkable record. Every street in this village has a soldier serving India. The village has contributed highest number of soldiers to the Indian Army. About 600 jawans from Inchal village are currently serving in the defence and it also has over 200 ex-servicemen. But that is not it’s only claim to fame. The village, located 37-kms from the district headquarters, is not only known for sending its men and women to the army, but also for producing nation-building teachers. About 1,000 teachers from the village are working in both government and private schools. According to the villagers, every family here has either a teacher or a soldier. The village’s association with the Indian Army dates back to 1977 when Rudrappa Bagewadi joined the army. Rudrappa, after clearing PUC, initially made attempts to secure a government job. After failing it, he decided to join the army and started preparing for the same. Many in the village recall that he was seen running and doing various physical exercises while preparing for the job. Finally he was selected in 1977. His grit became exemplary for the many young men and women in the village to emulate. According to the village elders, since then at least one person in each family made up their mind to serve the country. Interestingly, from Bagewadi’s family, 20 persons have served in the army. The Bagewadis have contributed the highest number of soldiers in the district. Mahantesh Bagewadi, a retired soldier and brother of Rudrappa said he was inspired by the latter. “Whenever Rudrappa came home from the duty in far-flung places, he used narrate the tales of national security and stories of martyrs. This drove many youngsters — not just in the family, but in the village — to serve the nation,” he said. Speaking to TOI, Suresh Bagewadi, another retired army personnel said ex-servicemen in the village are guiding the youths to prepare for selection process. “This is helping the village in a big way to send many of our children to the army. Our only aim is to give selfless service to the nation and pass on the same goal to next generations,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/this-village-sends-one-son-from-every-house-to-serve-the-nation/articleshow/79237040.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar: Man, 60, found dead in sugarcane field, face scarred by animal||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Recovery of a 60-year-old man’s body with signs of animal attack has sent a shock wave in Khatauli area of Muzaffarnagar. According to police sources, the man who is yet to be identified seems to have been attacked by a wild animal. Forest department is on alert as the sugarcane harvest has begun and leopards often breed inside tall cane plantations. A police team rushed to the spot and launched an investigation. Dog squad and forensic team were also called in a bid to recognize the man. HN Singh, station house officer of Khatauli police station said, “The body was sent to a post-mortem house and we are trying to establish his identity.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-60-found-dead-in-sugarcane-field-face-scarred-by-animal/articleshow/79237044.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 16, 2020||Meerut||Confrontation over cracker fire in cowshed averted in Amroha||BIJNOR: Timely intervention by police averted a confrontation between members of two communities from turning ugly on Saturday, when a firecracker fell on the thatched roof of makeshift cowshed at Naurahan village in Amroha district and three buffaloes were singed in the ensuing fire. According to police, Afsar Hussain's cowshed caught fire when a burning cracker fell on its roof. On seeing the fire, villagers rushed to douse the blaze and save the three buffaloes tethered inside. After the fire was doused, members of two communities confronted each other. Police intervened and the matter was settled, said Suresh Gautam, SHO. Now, the situation is normal and no complaint has been filed in this connection, he added. In neighbouring Bijnor's Najibabad, four cars were gutted in a fire sparked by a burning cracker near Gurudwara Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/confrontation-over-cracker-fire-in-cowshed-averted-in-amroha/articleshow/79237041.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 16, 2020||Vadodara||45-year-old man drowns in pond||Vadodara: The body of a 45-year-old man was fished out of Tarsali pond on Sunday afternoon.The man identified as Shana Rathodiya, started drowning in the pond while he was taking bath. Locals, on hearing his cries for help, alerted the fire brigade. However, by the time the firemen reached the pond, Rathodiya had disappeared in water. His body was found four hours later. .The body was sent to the SSG Hospital for post-mortem and a case of accidental death was registered at the Makarpura police station. Police said that Rathodiya used to live in a thatched house at Rathodiyavaas near the pond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/45-year-old-man-drowns-in-pond/articleshow/79233613.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bareilly||UP: With 4 additions in census, rhino count in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve rises to 42||BAREILLY: Four rhino calves marked their first birthday at Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR) recently and qualified to be counted among adults, as in the fresh census the number of the one-horned species reached 42. “Rhino calves below the age of one year are not considered in the census as most of them either fall prey to other animals or to some disease,” a forest official said. Completely wiped out from Uttar Pradesh jungles somewhere in 1870, five rhinos were re-introduced in Dudhwa from Assam in 1984. Next year, four more rhinos were brought here from Nepal. And in 2018, another four rhinos were translocated in the tiger reserve. The herd prospered under the watchful eyes of forest officials. “We are happy to include four rhino calves in the census and now we have 42 rhinos in Dudhwa. Monitoring teams are keeping a close eye on the rhinos. The calves are not included in the census because they have many threats in the form of weather, carnivores like leopards and tigers,” Manoj Sonkar, deputy director of DTR (core) told TOI. Currently, the rhinos live in enclosures of over 20sq-km in South Sonaripur range (phase 1) and Belraya range (phase 2) of the reserve. “Since the rise in population of the rhinos in phase 1, the patrolling has been increased in the protected area. In 2019, two rhinos died due to infighting while a month-old calf was killed by a tiger in 2020,” the deputy director said. Rhinos play an important role in the ecosystem as they are the umbrella species and their absence directly impacts the survival of other mammals, fish, insects and birds. When they run, they flat the grassland making it easier for small mammals to walk. The possibility of forest fire decreases drastically in the area where rhino stays. They also help in pollination of tree seeds through their dung and enrich the soil as well. Under the Rhino Rehabilitation Project five rhinos were brought to Dudhwa in 1984 from the forests of Assam surrounding Kaziranga. Assam is home to two-thirds of the world’s one-horned rhinos. Out of the five rhinos, only three survived-- a female and two males. In 1985, four more female rhinos were brought from Nepal. The herd of seven rhinos flourished in Dudhwa. Bankey, the oldest male rhino, was considered as the father of the rhino population in Dudhwa. He died in 2016 at the age of 50.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/with-4-additions-in-census-rhino-count-in-dudhwa-rises-to-42/articleshow/79236449.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Under the banyan tree, the steno age stays alive||NEW DELHI: Just as you enter the Lutyens-era Patiala House Courts from the Purana Qila Road, you run into a giant banyan tree, its mighty arms extending towards the balconies and galleries of the white palatial building, now reeling under the burden of wire mesh and air-conditioning ducts. While the heritage building housing one of the busiest courts of Delhi is itself an oddity in modern times, the space under the banyan canopy is even more anachronistic. Circling the aerial roots of the five-decade-old tree is a typists’ pool with temporary roofing, desultorily illuminated by LED bulbs. Polycarbonate plastic sheets held by rusting iron bars create a circular workspace for 22-25 typists, stenographers and photographers, the backbone of legal paperwork required by litigants and lawyers — documents, print-outs, affidavits, attestations, even quick passport-sized photographs. “We didn’t even have this make-do roof over our head just six years ago. We collected around Rs 2,500 from each user here and had this ‘office space’ created,” chuckled Jagat Singh, 47, who commutes daily from Palwal. Singh sits comfortably on the outer circle of office benches, which themselves appear to have been culled from the junkyard. The collection of broken, repaired chairs behind them and old Pentium computers with screeching printers indicate that typists are uncomfortably stuck in the old and modern worlds. Around a decade ago, the concentric lines of benches used to be stations for heavy typewriters before they transitioned to basic computers and printers. As litigants dictate their affidavits and typists argue over whether they should be labelled shapath patra (undertakings) or ghoshna patra (declaration), extra sweet tea and piping hot samosas keep arriving. A client wonders about a photograph and 56-year-old Keval Kishore pulls a string to let a white backdrop sheet roll down, turning the open cubicle into a photo studio. “I have spent almost my entire adult life under this tree since 1986,” smiles Kishore. “Earlier we worked under the munshis with typewriters, but that era ended around a decade ago.” In 1978, Delhi High Court ceased to operate out of the former raja of Patiala’s palace and it has since housed the district courts. Covid has posed a grave challenge to this stenography hub. “There is a lull in work that I have never experienced before,” said Kishore. “From earning up to Rs 900 a day, I am now down to just around Rs 150, having lost business similarly when the Rohini and Dwarka courts were set up in the last decade.” He hoped the worst was behind, with courts having started some physical hearings after six months of virtual operations due to Covid-19. Typist Manoj Rawat, 40, is among the many here who have run up debts due to litigation going non-physical since March. “Our work is related to the daily functions of court,” he said, not stopping his typing to converse. “I live in Palwal but if I was staying in an urban area, I couldn’t have coped with the loss of earnings.” As workers carrying knapsack pumps regularly disinfect the space, one notices the heavy chains stringing together the decrepit chairs and worn-out benches. Apparently, this is the only way to ensure they are not stolen after winding up work at the end of the day. Singh says the typists have invested around Rs7,500 each to get these furniture items and cannot afford to lose them. “All kinds of people come here,” he says wryly. “My laptops and other equipment worth over Rs1 lakh were stolen a few years ago and we never got to the bottom of it though the entire complex is covered by CCTV camera.” With boards announcing specialty services like affidavits, site plans and agreements, the banyan circle sits multifunction workers aged from the 20s to the 60s. Keval Kumar, 56, says he would like his son, Abhishek, to take over his space once he graduates from college. While the typists’ pool keeps churning out the papers needed for legal processes, it also gives birth to lawyers. Singh said that many workers pursue an LLB degree programme while working, and every year a couple of them become eligible to suit up in black coats. “It is not that people here mindlessly keep on typing all their lives. We have produced more than 20 advocates too,” Singh said with some pride. The typing service providers may have varying opinions on the future of their profession, but are agreed on one thing: if it wasn’t for the out-of-time banyan tree hub, they wouldn’t be there to debate anything at all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/under-the-banyan-tree-the-steno-age-stays-alive/articleshow/79238835.cms||Paras Singh
November 16, 2020||Meerut||Robbers loot family on Diwali night, shoot at one person in Bijnor||BIJNOR: A shoe salesman's Diwali night turned into a nightmare when robbers silently scaled the wall of his house using a ladder and looted the family of cash and valuables, and also shot at the salesman's brother, who was rushed to hospital, where he's reportedly in serious condition. The gang reportedly also targeted four other families the same night, though details of the other robberies are yet to be released by police. The incident occured in Saini colony in Amroha during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. Around five miscreants barged into the house of Puran Singh and looted them of Rs 2 lakh and valuables by holding his three-year-old daughter at gunpoint. When his brother tried to resist, they shot at his shoulder and escaped. The injured brother was taken to district hospital from where he was referred to a higher centre in Meerut for treatment. Amroha SP Vipin Tada said, "Police rushed to the scene and found one of the families had allegedly been looted of Rs 2 lakh and jewellery. Five persons were involved in the loot, during which one person was shot at and had to be admitted to hospital. A case was registered against unidentified miscreants. Police are on the hunt to nab them. They will be arrested soon." Omvati, one of the victims said: "I was forced to give my gold earrings because they were beating all of us. My husband was thrashed and my brother-in-law was shot at when he tried to chase them."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/robbers-loot-family-on-diwali-night-shoot-at-one-person/articleshow/79237046.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 16, 2020||Meerut||Plastic scrap warehouse gutted in fire in Meerut||MEERUT: A massive fire engulfed a plastic scrap warehouse early Sunday morning in Kharkhauda area, Meerut. Several fire engines rushed to the spot and took over four hours to put out the blaze. No one was injured. Initial probe suggested that a firecracker led to the incident. “A massive fire was reported from a plastic scrap godown on Sunday morning. Soon after we got the information, the firemen were rushed to the spot. It took at least four hours to douse the fire,” said Santosh Kumar, Meerut chief fire safety officer. According to locals, the owner of the godown had purchased scrap from rag pickers and stored it here and then sold it further. “Prima facie, it has been found that a firecracker led to the incident. However, a probe has been set up in the matter,” said Kumar. A few days ago, a mattress factory in the same area had caught fire leaving a two-year-old girl dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/plastic-scrap-warehouse-gutted-in-fire-in-meerut/articleshow/79237045.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 16, 2020||Kochi||Malayali diaspora: Poppadom in Florence||MAYNOOTH, COUNTY KILDARE: If the taco is Mexico’s gift to the world, poppadom must be Kerala’s to Europe. While you can eat one with mango chutney or mint dip in Dublin and Belfast, London boasts of nachodoms and chicken poppadoms. Move south to Florence and the humble poppadom will put on its best bib and tucker – scoops topped with vintage blue cheese and exotic olive variants. Maybe the jury is still out there over the culinary appropriation of poppadom but for what it’s worth, the unassuming crunch of Malayali’s Onasaadya favorite is not anymore monolithic. READ THE FULL STORY ON TOI+: How Kerala's poppadam became Europe's go-to snack||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/malayali-diaspora-poppadom-in-florence/articleshow/79237881.cms||Merin Rebecca
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Many parallels between the ikats||AHMEDABAD: One of the most distinguishing feature between Atlas and Patola fabrics are the patterns. Patterns on Atlas ikat are derived from life around the weavers and and include plants, utensils and geometric forms seen in nature. Experts point to shapes such as rhombus, ellipses, mountains and patterns like them. “The mountain shape is the abstract generalization of the Tianshan Mountains and Kunlun Mountains in Xinjiang,” states the paper by a researcher from NIFT (National Institute of Fashion Technology) Delhi and Chinese scholars from the China National Silk Museum, Hangzhou, and University of Shanghai, who have carried out research on the two textiles. The Atlas fabric avoids the forms of animals and humans because the doctrine of the Quran does not permit the depiction of these. Some pictographic patterns such as the appearance of sheep horns are seen in Atlas. Utensils mainly include the local musical instruments like the Duerta. Almond wood pattern is the most common pattern in Atlas, as it is believed to have therapeutic effects on diseases and is said to strengthen the body and hence represents health and longevity. The Patola on the other hand can be categorized into four types – those inspired by plants, flowers, animals and geometrics. Traditional designs of leaf (peepal) on Patola saris were mainly preferred by Brahmin and Jain communities in Gujarat. Muslim women preferred geometric and non-figure patterns, as allowed by their religion. Another preferred Patola is with patterns such as a dancing girl, elephant, parrot, peepal leaf with a double outline, and flowers on a crimson background.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/many-parallels-between-the-ikats/articleshow/79227597.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai Covid testing below 10,000 after 3 months||CHENNAI: The number of people tested for Covid-19 in the city has dropped below 10,000, for the first time in more than three months. Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday, Diwali day, tested only 9,425 samples, official data stated. A week ago, it was testing around 11,000 samples. Exactly a month ago, it was testing around 12,000 samples. However, this has not brought any drastic difference to the Test Positivity Rate (TPR), a measure of the spread of infection, in the city. The TPR on Saturday, despite the decreased testing, was 5.4. On Friday, it was even lower, at 5.02, given that 600 more tests were taken. The TPR a fortnight ago was 6-6.5, while it was around 7 in the third week of October. The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommend high number of tests to be high enough so that the TPR is 5 or below. A senior corporation official said they did not intend to reduce the number of tests, but they had organically come down because of the festival weekend. “Lakhs of people left Chennai to return to their native places,” he said. People also hesitated to get themselves tested during the festival weekend, busy shopping and celebrating with families, he said, adding that intermittent rains could be another reason. The corporation has geared up for increasing testing this week, concerned about the post-Diwali spike. Across the country, especially Kerala, a huge spike was seen after festival crowds had gathered. “Apart from testing, regular enforcement like fining those without masks, shutting down shops not maintaining physical distancing and market-place awareness campaigns would be done with renewed vigour,” he said. Many residents say their family doctors (physicians) ask them to isolate themselves and prescribe medicines if found symptomatic, indirectly asking them to avoid testing. Corporation health authorities say they continue to instruct private doctors to ask symptomatic residents to get tested within 48 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-covid-testing-below-10k-after-3mths/articleshow/79237891.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Meerut||Son of BJP leader found shot dead at his residence in UP’s Khurja||MEERUT: The son of a BJP leader was found dead under suspicious circumstances at his home in Khurja area of UP’s Bulandshahr district on Saturday. Mahesh Kumar, 32, the eldest son of three-time MLA Horam Singh from Jewar, was under “depression” and apparently took his own life, police claimed. The family heard a gunshot and rushed towards Mahesh’s room on Sunday morning. He was lying in a pool of blood. A double-barrel shotgun was recovered from the room. Fatally injured Mahesh was rushed to a local hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police believe that Mahesh was suffering from depression which forced him to take the extreme step. The family of the deceased yet not moved any official complaint with the police. “He was overseeing the treatment of his brother-in-law who died of Covid-19 a week ago. Family of the deceased brother-in-law was blaming Mahesh for the death following which he slipped into depression,” said Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/son-of-bjp-leader-found-shot-dead-at-his-residence-in-ups-khurja/articleshow/79237057.cms||Piyush Rai
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Special wing, task force will be set up to protect Hyderabad lakes||HYDERABAD: To crack down on land sharks, encroaching lakes and water bodies, tougher laws will be incorporated in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) act, a special wing and an exclusive task force will be set up. The decision was rolled out by MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Sunday at a review meeting held in GHMC’s Directorate Of Enforcement Vigilance & Disaster Management (EVDM) office, Budhha Bhavan. “The lakes and nalas in the city will be fixed at a war footing. A task force will be set up for the development of lakes and nalas,” said the minister. The wing is being set up for protection and conservation of water bodies in and around GHMC limits and the task force shall co-ordinate between line departments including GHMC, irrigation and water board. The wing will be headed by a chief engineer from irrigation department and a GHMC official. The task force will consist of officials from Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), water board, irrigation and revenue departments. “This wing will especially protect the water bodies from encroachments and also take up conservation activities,” read a statement issued by MAUD department. The minister stated that the government is coming up with an action plan on water bodies and nalas in GHMC limits. The ones falling inside Outer Ring Road will also be covered. At the review meeting, the minister directed officials of line departments to take up a detailed study on all the lakes and nalas in GHMC limits, keeping in mind the damage caused by the recent floods in Hyderabad and neighboring municipalities. Officials were also directed to study the strengthening and stabilizing of the bunds and closely work with the irrigation department to take up the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-wing-task-force-will-be-set-up-to-protect-lakes/articleshow/79238841.cms||Nabinder Bommala
November 16, 2020||Rajkot||Absconding rape accused nabbed||RAJKOT: A rape accused who went underground after committing the crime a year ago in Kuwadawa village on the outskirts of Rajkot was nabbed from Tarana village of Jodia taluka in Jamnagar district on Saturday. Police said accused Anesh Bhuria (19) was wanted in a case where he is accused of raping a 14-year-old girl. Bhuria is a migrant labourer from Chhota Bhawta village of Alirajpur district in Madhya Pradesh. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/absconding-rape-accused-nabbed/articleshow/79233631.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Metro: How Phase-IV will be bigger, better, stronger||NEW DELHI: Since 1998, when construction of its first phase started, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has always learnt from its mistakes and incorporated changes while executing the next stage. Phase-IV, work on which started late last year, is no different. DMRC has made an extensive plan for its stations in Phase-IV, apart from other systems. These include a new texture for the building exteriors as the current one peels off and gathers dust. The new stations will have bigger escalators and elevators, improved and energy efficient lightning and better airconditioning. A large number of measures are also being taken to make the new stations theft-proof by removing loopholes in the present security measures. As part of Phase-IV, DMRC is at present working on three approved corridors — Janakpuri West to RK Ashram Marg, Aerocity to Tughlaqabad and Maujpur to Mukundpur — with a combined length of 61.6km and 46 stations. A large part of the project cost is incurred on acquiring land. To ensure minimum possible land requirement for stations in Phase-IV, compact stations have been planned with many utilities and services packed inside smaller spaces. This feat has been achieved at stations like Ashram, where DMRC had faced an acute shortage of land. This experience will be utilised in Phase-IV. The stations will also sport a different look. “The exterior walls have certain paint textures that tend to peel off and attract dust. Repairs in patches do not match the existing texture. For future stations, smooth finish paints will be opted for the exteriors of the buildings,” a DMRC official said. Though DMRC structures are built in a manner that they are not vulnerable to trespassers, it is not unusual for miscreants to access the viaduct through minor gaps and steal valuable components, mainly cables. “In the past, cases have been reported of miscreants accessing the viaduct through minor gaps in the structure. Now, the designs will be modified to minimise the gap and make it as theft-proof as possible. These incidents also occur by miscreants using the earthing wire as hand rope to ascend or descend to the target location. Cables will be realigned to curb this situation in future,” the official said. The official added, “DMRC will install bigger elevators in Phase-IV stations, which will be able to accommodate 20 people instead of the current carrying capacity of 8 to 13. However, elevators at AIIMS, Delhi Gate and Hauz Khas stations can accommodate up to 26 people.” For the first time, DMRC is planning to install escalators in sets of two (one for going up and the other for going down) even at non-interchange stations in Phase-IV. “At present, only major interchange stations like Rajiv Chowk, Kashmere Gate, Hauz Khas, etc have dual or multiple sets of escalators, which cater to both upward and downward movement simultaneously,” said the official. “We have observed that passengers prefer escalators and elevators than stairs. That is why their features have been reworked to provide better commuting experience,” he added. DMRC plans to install 295 elevators and 644 escalators at its Phase-IV stations. At present, DMRC operates 935 elevators and 1,030 escalators across its 250 stations and other installations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-ph-iv-will-be-bigger-better-stronger/articleshow/79238883.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai to get 100 new double-decker buses||MUMBAI: The city will get 100 new double deckers, with the BEST management launching a new initiative to ‘save the iconic double deckers’ from being phased out from Mumbai roads. The city has 120 double deckers but 100 will be phased out soon as they complete their lifespan. BEST has decided to replace these buses with brand new vehicles—with new technology and features for passenger convenience. BEST on Sunday announced it has floated tenders for 100 new buses with pollution-reducing BS-6 diesel engines, and automatic transmission for ease of driving.“Each bus will have two doors and two staircases for safety of passengers. It will have pneumatic pressure door closing which will ensure doors are closed at all times and passengers do not fall out of the bus,” said BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade. There will be ‘inter deck communication’ wherein the conductor from the lower deck can communicate with the one on the upper deck. At present they communicate by ringing the bell to indicate that all passengers have alighted from the upper or lower deck at a bus stop. There will be surveillance cameras for passenger safety and 2x2 seating with total capacity of 70. The double deckers have been an iconic Mumbai image for decades, and commuters recall taking a ride on these buses for sheer pleasure of sitting on the upper deck and enjoying the view outside. One of the most popular routes is the one from CSMT to Backbay depot which goes past Marine Drive. Commuters recall the excitement travelling on the upper deck of this bus at Marine Drive. “It is a refreshing experience in the evenings,” said Vivek Kothari, a resident of Cuffe Parade. The double deckers were first introduced in 1937, and it was first run as a horse-drawn double decker in then what was still called Bombay. The BEST undertaking was the first in the country to have a double decker. In 1947, the fleet of double deckers was 242. In 2010, the fleet had gone down to 122. The fleet was later reduced to 120 in 2017. The BEST administration in the latest budget recommended scrapping of 896 buses by 2020-21 which includes phasing out of 72 existing double deckers and 28 in the second phase, leaving 20 in the fleet. “But we will now preserve this heritage of Mumbai and ensure that the fleet is at 120 buses. The cost of procuring these buses will be known only after the bidding by agencies,” said BEST additional general manager Rajendra Madne. Officials said that new double deckers will be based on the New Routemaster buses of London with two doors for ease of movement of passengers. “The two staircases will ensure that one is used for alighting and another for boarding of passengers and there is no clash between them, ensuring speedy dispersal of commuters at any stop,” Varade added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-to-get-100-new-double-decker-buses/articleshow/79239210.cms||Somit Sen
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Annual trade fair at Island Grounds unlikely this year||CHENNAI: The India Tourist and Industrial Trade Fair at Island Grounds, the city’s largest annual event that had been conducted for more than 45 years, will not be held this year. The government has not issued its nod. The only time it was put off was in December 1987 due to the demise of AIADMK founder and former chief minister M G Ramachandran. This year, the annual firecrackers fair was held at the same venue as per schedule last week. The process of bidding for tenders to organise the 70-day trade fair from December third week should have been completed by November first week. Last year, a Government Order for permission to set up pavilions at the fair was issued on September 23. No such order has been issued this year. Official government sources said the finance department has not okayed sanction of funds to the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation (TTDC) to hold the fair. “Only after getting the sanction, the TTDC’s opinion on whether it is in a position to conduct the event will be sought. If the TTDC responds in the negative, the fair has to be rescheduled,” an official said. The TTDC’s revenue will be hit drastically if the trade fair is not held. It was a big draw during Pongal holidays and raked in revenue without expenditure/investment. In the past few years, the handling of the fair had been outsourced, with the selected firm making the investment and collecting entry fees. N Ravi, a former TTDC official, said the corporation got a substantial income from the hotels, boat houses and bars it ran but had to shell out money for operating costs and to pay salaries. “The trade fair used to bring in between Rs 20crore and Rs 25crore without any expenditure,” he said. This money is crucial for the corporation which had lost a lot income in the past seven months, unable to run hotels, tours, boathouses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/annual-trade-fair-at-island-grounds-unlikely-this-year/articleshow/79237876.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
November 16, 2020||Goa||Armed with one vague clue, railway cops nab thief, recover valuables||Margao: Cap with a distinct coloured design, this was the only clue the Railway Police Force (RPF) had of the thief who had stolen valuables worth Rs 2.2 lakh from a lady passenger on the Ernakulam-Nizamuddin Mangala Lakshadweep Express on Friday, of whom they were on the trail. The cops didn’t let the slim chance slip away and maintained a close surveillance of all trains and platforms along the route. Their hard work paid off the when a suspect wearing a cap that matched the clue was spotted in another train at Karwar the next day. As it turned out, the person wearing the cap, Nikhil Kumar, was indeed the thief and he was on the run with the stolen valuables. The goods were recovered and Kumar was arrested. RPF sources informed that Vonita Shetty had complained with the on-duty TTE on Friday that her hand bag was stolen from A1 coach of the train while traveling from Udupi to Mumbai. The purse contained one gold bangle, one gold mangalsutra, one mobile phone, a bunch of keys, Aadhar card, ATM card, Mediclaim card and Rs 6,000 cash, all valued at Rs 2.2 lakh. On getting the information, inspector crime and intelligence, RPF Margao, Vinod Kumar analysed the CCTV footage and noticed a person moving suspiciously on a platform wearing a cap with a distinct coloured design. The photo of the suspect was immediately circulated on a RPF WhatsApp group and a close watch maintained. On Saturday, an on-duty constable of RPF Karwar, Vinayak R D, and the train escort staff of RPF Margao spotted a person wearing a cap that matched that of the suspect. He was in the general coach of the LTT-Thiruvanantapuram Netravati Express at Karwar station. On being nabbed, Kumar admitted to the crime and the stolen items, including gold, were recovered from him. He was returning to his native place in Kannur, Kerala with the stolen valuables. Kumar was later brought from Karwar and handed over to the Konkan Railway police, Margao. He was arrested under section 379 of the IPC for theft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/armed-with-one-vague-clue-railway-cops-nab-thief-recover-valuables/articleshow/79238889.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ahmedabad||Neighbours in bitter battle over evil-beating lemon in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A lemon meant to ward off evil has proved inauspicious to two families, which descended into a serious fight over the citrus charm and ended up in a police station. The two Naroda families filed complaints against each other at the local police station on Friday. Pooja Patel has claimed that on Friday her neighbour Pooja Chauhan came to her house and demanded to know who had placed a lemon in front of her door. “The complaint says that when Patel said that she had not done it, Chauhan got angry and started abusing her; a scuffle ensued,” said a Naroda police official. “Then, according to the complaint, Chauhan’s husband Hirensinh beat up Patel and told Patel that if her family did not vacate the premises, he would kill them.”  Patel called the police control room and lodged a complaint against the Chauhans. In her cross-complaint, Chauhan has claimed that on Friday morning she saw the lemon in front of her door. “She has alleged that when she went to ask Patel about it, Patel started abusing and beating her,” the police official said. “Chauhan has alleged that Patel’s husband Mitesh beat up her husband and threatened her family with dire consequences. We are investigating both the two complaints.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/neighbours-in-bitter-battle-over-evil-beating-lemon/articleshow/79227621.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Will stay clean and green next year too, pledge housing societies||KOLKATA: Almost all housing societies across the city adhered to the high court ban on firecrackers on Kali Puja and Diwali and celebrated the quietest Diwali ever. However, while some residents’ welfare associations vowed to continue the noiseless celebrations in future, others demanded government intervention to prepare environment-friendly crackers and not ban them. “We spent the best Diwali this year. It has been a true celebration of lights and complete slaying of the sound demon. At our complex, we even ensured no one lit even a sparkler or a flower pot. I believe this is the way Diwali should be celebrated in future, considering the number of elderly persons in our complex and the health hazards they face because of increased pollution after Diwali,” said Manak Daga, the president of South City Apartment Owners’ Association. Joy Dasgupta, secretary of New Town’s Ujjwala Apartment, that has shut the access to the roof till Bhai Phonta to prevent any slip up in the implementation of the cracker ban also expressed similar views. “Covid is unlikely to fade anytime soon. Even if the spread of infection eases, it will still have drastic effects on people suffering or recovering from it. For a better society, we should shun all kinds of firecrackers,” said Dasgupta. However, there were others like Silver Spring resident Indranil Chowdhury, who called for an environment-friendly celebration with noise-free and pollution-free crackers. Although, he ensured a cracker-free Diwali at the complex, he said, “I am certain that there can be a way to make greener crackers to celebrate the festival. We should not forget that thousands of poor are associated with the business and it has been a tradition to burn crackers on Kali Puja for years,” said Chowdhury. Some others like Deepak Jaiswal of Merlin Warden Lake View in Ultadanga — an area known for large-scale cracker ban violations in previous years — said they will continue the vigil at their complex to rein in the violators this year, but pleaded that this should not be a norm for the future. “People respect the decision of the firecracker ban this year because of the Covid situation. But it would be almost impossible to make people give up crackers in future,” said Jaiswal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/will-stay-clean-and-green-next-year-too-pledge-hsg-societies/articleshow/79237885.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Flood-hit can apply for aid at MeeSeva||Hyderabad: Flood-affected families who are yet to get Rs 10,000 financial assistance, distributed by the state government towards flood relief, can get it now by applying at any MeeSeva centres. This time the government will transfer the financial assistance directly into bank accounts of eligible applicants. In the first round of distribution of relief, the government had given the assistance in the form of cash. Orders to this effect were issued by municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar on Sunday. All those who have not received financial assistance towards flood relief should submit applications in prescribed format at MeeSeva centres seeking sanction of flood relief. “The details provided by families will be verified for eligibility and financial assistance will be transferred directly into bank accounts of eligible applicants,” Arvind Kumar stated. The state government had disbursed over Rs 475 crore to over 4.75 lakh families in and around Greater Hyderabad so far. Continuous heavy rains had caused flood in and around Greater Hyderabad resulting in inundation of several colonies and storm water gushing into houses in October. The TRS government came in for flak from several flood-affected families for not covering them in the first round of distribution of financial assistance. Several flood-affected families also staged dharnas demanding relief. The opposition parties too had raised a hue and cry over several affected families being given a miss from the list of flood relief and had alleged a scam in distribution of financial assistance. The issue assumed significance as GHMC elections are round the corner. Subsequently, municipal administration minister K T Rama Rao had appealed to the people not to get misled by the opposition parties’ politicisation of flood relief and sought to assure them that the state government would extend the financial assistance until the last flood-affected family gets covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/flood-hit-can-apply-for-aid-at-meeseva/articleshow/79238877.cms||Roushan Ali
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai, neighbours have 44% new cases, but active infections down||CHENNAI: For the third consecutive day, the daily Covid-19 infection count in the state stayed below the 2,000-mark. With 1,819 new cases and 2,520 recoveries on Sunday, the state now has 16,441 active cases. In the beginning of November, the state had around 20,000 active cases. Another 12 people died of the infection in the past 24 hours, taking the Covid-19 toll of TN to 11,478 — third highest in the country, after Maharashtra (45,974) and Karnataka (11,508). TN’s case fatality ratio has been around 1.5% for almost two weeks now. All 12 had co-morbidities such as diabetes or hypertension and were aged 50 or above. On the flip side, recovery rate is nearing 97% in the state. A total of 7,30,272 patients in the state have recovered from the infection. The state continued to test aggressively and the 65,053 samples tested across 209 labs on Sunday took the total samples tested to over 1.1 crore. Thanjavur KG labs was the latest to be accredited (on Sunday) to do Covid-19 tests. Across the state, at least 1.4 lakh samples were tested for every 10 lakh people, almost double compared to Maharashtra (which screens only 80,000 samples for every 10 lakh people residing there). Hotspot Chennai is recovering at a better pace with active cases continuing to decline for the fifth consecutive day. On Sunday, Chennai (502 new cases) and its three neighbouring districts — Chengalpet (123), Tiruvallur (89) and Kancheepuram (82) — together contributed to 44% of the state’s new cases. Western districts with 496 people testing positive came next and Coimbatore (171 ), Salem (87) and Tiruppur (73) topped the region. The region has 4,252 active cases. Both South and Central TN had 160-odd new cases but 1,700 recoveries. With only two cases, Perambalur recorded the least new cases followed by Ramanathapuram (3), Ariyalur (4) and Tenkasi (7).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-neighbours-have-44-new-cases-but-active-infections-down/articleshow/79237984.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC win top priority: BJP leader Tarun Chug||HYDERABAD: Tarun Chug, who was appointed as the incharge of state BJP affairs, on Sunday said his topmost priority is to win the elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). He told TOI that the BJP was very clear on its electoral prospects in Telangana. “I will be visiting the state next week and will meet all the important leaders,” he said. He said that after the Dubbak by-election, people have realized that BJP is the strong replacement for TRS in the state. “We will identify very critical issues and bring before the people of the state,” he said. Expressing gratitude to the national leadership for his crucial appointment, he said that party would play big after Dubbak by-election and the top leadership is serious on winning the next assembly elections in the state. He said that BJP will go to grassroots level and explain to people the difference between Narendra Modi government and KCR rule. “We will tell people that every scheme of Narendra Modi government is for common man whereas TRS works only for the elite. There are enough examples like health schemes,” he said. “In next few years we will strengthen the party from booth level. The new team at state level and national team for GHMC elections will play a major role. Bhupender Yadav, who is made incharge of the GHMC elections, is very good in preparing the right formulas for winning elections. All this will help us,” he added. Chug, who was the co-incharge for Delhi affairs, is also made the incharge of Kashmir and Ladakh along with Telangana. Tarun Chugh was one of the five general secretaries of BJP, and national convener of Beti Bachao-Beti Padhao. He unsuccessfully contested from Amritsar Central Assembly constituency of Punjab twice in 2012 and 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-win-top-priority-tarun-chug/articleshow/79238884.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Homealone woman, 75, robbed in Tirumullaivoyal||CHENNAI: Two men entered the house of a 75-year-old woman on the pretext of requesting for a phone charger and robbed her of three sovereign gold jewellery in Tirumullaivoyal on Saturday. Police said J Pachayammal was alone at her house on Cholambedu Road at the time of the incident. The two men politely sought a phone charger at her gate and the unsuspecting senior citizen allowed them in, police said. Once inside, the duo used force and snatched her chain and forced her to remove her earrings and nose studs. The two men then locked her up inside her house and fled the spot. One of her neighbours who came to check on her found her with bleeding injuries. Pachayammal was rushed to a nearby hospital by some of her neighbours. Her conditon is stable, said doctors. Police suspect the hand of repeat offenders in the crime. “They must have taken note of the woman staying alone and only then decided to target her,” said an investigating officer. On information, Tirumullaivoyal police registered a case and launched a hunt for the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/homealone-woman-75-robbed/articleshow/79237906.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Govt to express dissent on CAG findings about KIIFB||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to express its strong dissent on the comptroller and auditor general (CAG) findings against the KIIFB. For this, the state will soon write to the CAG. Meanwhile, the Congress-led opposition would approach the President and the governor alleging that finance minister T M Thomas Isaac committed serious lapse by disclosing the draft report of the CAG. Isaac said the state would give an elaborate reply expressing its dissent to the CAG.  “The reply is being prepared by the finance department and it is in the final shape. The reply would be given to the CAG through the chief secretary,” said Isaac. He said the findings of the CAG were absurd and the state government was not ready to accept it. The CAG had raised 76 queries during its audit and the reply was given to all. “They were satisfied with that. But it was strange to know that after all this exercise they have suddenly raised the constitutional validity. Not even once the CAG had asked the state government whether the KIIFB has the constitutional validity to source funds from outside. KIIFB is a corporate body and as per the KIIFB Act it can avail loans. The CAG is intruding into the powers of the state government which we will not allow,” the minister said. Isaac said KIIFB was formed under stringent laws and it has been functioning in the most transparent and fair manner. “Credibility is more important for a firm to source funds. That was the reason why the KIIFB could source funds,” he said. However, the Congress-led opposition has decided to take up the issue with the President and governor. It has also been decided to approach the speaker for breach of privilege against the finance minister. The opposition is of the view that the CAG report should not be made public before tabling in the assembly. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the corruption involved in the KIIFB projects and the discrepancies in their fund utilization have been raised by the opposition in the assembly. “Now, to cover up all these the finance minister is accusing the CAG,” he said. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said the attempt of the finance minister was to cover up the misappropriation of KIIFB funds. “The state government is now engaged in attacking the central investigating agencies and a constitutional body like CAG since they are unearthing the corruptions involved in the government,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-express-dissent-on-cag-findings-about-kiifb/articleshow/79236493.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||2020: 61 complaints, 716 arrests; 2019: 136 complaints, 1,282 arrests in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Prosecutions and complaints sharply dipped on Kali Puja and Diwali night on Saturday compared to last year. Police and West Bengal Pollution Control Board (WBPCB) attributed this to better compliance to the firecracker ban order. On Saturday, WBPCB received 30 complaints, out of which nine were from Kolkata. Last year, WBPCB had received 50 complaints from the city alone. Last year, 15 individuals and housing societies had been booked under the non-bailable sections of Environmental Act, 1986, for major violations. This year there was no prosecution under this act. Kolkata Police arrested 708 people across nine divisions till Sunday evening. As many as 758 and 452 were arrested on Kali Puja and Diwali respectively in 2019. Last year, 9,100kg firecrackers were seized in the run up to Diwali. This year the seizure has been around 4,092kg, including 1,637kg on Saturday and 134kg on Sunday. The Lalbazar control room received 85 firecracker-related calls on 100 — mostly from Behala, Kasba, Survey Park, Santoshpur and Joka. Bidhannagar, too, celebrated a quiet Diwali with the police arresting only eight people for bursting firecrackers — five from two Lake Town high-rises and three from Baguiati on Saturday evening. Last year, Bidhannagar cops had arrested 72 persons on Diwali and Kali Puja. Sabuj Mancha — a network of green NGOs across Bengal — which runs control rooms and mobile patrolling units against fireworks, got 52 complaints on Saturday against 86 complaints last year. “We were amazed to see how some notorious spots turned into complete silence zones. This year, Tollygunge, Charu Market and Bhowanipore police stations did commendable jobs. There were a few complaints from Kasba, Thakurpukur and Parnashree,” said Naba Dutta, general secretary, Sabuj Mancha. In Anandapur, police slapped charges under the Explosives Act even against those bursting ‘chocolate bombs’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2020-61-complaints-716-arrests-2019-136-complaints-1282-arrests/articleshow/79237903.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 16, 2020||Hubballi||Senior citizens appeal to reopen C’durga Fort for walks||Chitradurga: Hundreds of senior citizens of Chitradurga town have appealed to the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) to allow them to enter the Chitradurga Fort for their early morning and evening walks, immediately, following a decline in Covid-19 cases. In a memorandum, senior citizens Dr Ramachandra Naik, and former member of Karnataka Nataka Academy, K Ngaraj, said that they could not enter the fort for the last nine months due to the pandemic, as it was closed by the ASI. Earlier, hundreds of people used to jog in the early morning and evening, inside the fort premises. Residents say that their health is getting affected as they are unable to jog. They are also afraid that weeds will grow all over the fort premises, during the lockdown period, particularly in the stretch from Ontikallu Basavanna Temple to Yekanatheswhwari Temple, and can become a shelter for snakes and scorpions. They appealed to the ASI to get bushes and weeds removed, and to help senior citizens to continue their walks inside the fort, the memorandum stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/senior-citizens-appeal-to-reopen-cdurga-fort-for-walks/articleshow/79237093.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||Most Diwali, Kali Puja devotees followed guidelines across state: IG||Ranchi: The festival of lights and Kali Puja were celebrated across Jharkhand on Saturday in the shadow of the Covid-19 pandemic but with far more festive fervour than Durga Puja late last month. People celebrate Diwali by lighting up diyas, colourful lamps, exchanging gifts, sweets and greetings, and also burst firecrackers though with restrictions after the government issued strict guidelines to check pollution and to keep the virus at bay. Markets, however, attracted huge crowds and sweetmeat shops did brisk business. In the city area, Mahanagar Kali Puja Samiti distributed dry bhog along with sanitizer and face masks to members of various puja organising clubs. President of the committee, Vinay Kumar Singh, said the aim was to carry out social responsibility and create awareness among the masses about the risk of Covid infection. “We decided to distribute uncooked food among the needy and the poor so that we can share the joy of festivity with them,” he said. Other puja committees like Cosmos Youth Club of Lalpur built a medium-size pandal and put a cap on the number of devotees to follow social-distancing norms. Devabrata Sen, a member of the committee, said loudspeakers were not used to abide by the government directions. “Though we avoided everything that could have attracted a crowd, traditional puja rituals were organised and bhog was also distributed,” he said. In Jamshedpur, Lakshmi Puja was organised in a big way at the Mahalakshmi temple located at Sakchi Thakurbari road but the committee followed strict Covid safety norms. President of the Satyanarayan Marwari Thakurbari Trust, Kamal Agarwal, said they organised Diwali with fanfare as it was the first since the opening of the temple. Meanwhile, police remained alert throughout Saturday, particularly in the evening when people started bursting firecrackers at their homes. Revellers mostly adhered to the norms voluntarily and by 10 pm, there was almost no cracker sound. IG and police spokesperson Saket Kumar Singh said there was no open violation of the norms anywhere in the state. “People did celebrate Diwali but there was no public gathering and barring a few exceptions, almost all celebrations were within residential campuses,” he said. There were some instances of joint celebrations in housing societies where the residents share common courtyards and terraces. Amit Verma, a banker living at a housing society in Kanke road, they cannot celebrate the festivities in isolation. “We live in an apartment where none of the16 families has a personal terrace or courtyard. So, our children enjoyed the festivity together,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/most-diwali-kali-puja-devotees-followed-guidelines-across-state-ig/articleshow/79238506.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||Samvaad: A tribal conclave gets off on digital platform||Jamshedpur: The 7th edition of ‘Samvaad: A tribal conclave’ got off to a flying start on Sunday. Being live-streamed on a digital platform for the first time, the inaugural session, which was held at the Tribal Cultural Center in Sonari, was viewed by keen lovers of the cultural festival on the dedicated website (https://www.tatasteel.com/initiatives/samvaad/index.html) and on the YouTube channel (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCtyIjTKJAYEaMH3BkcHRVzw, https://bit.ly/2UvmOKB). The MD and CEO of Tata Steel, T V Narendran, inaugurated the event. The theme for this year’s Samvaad is ‘Coming Together for Social Change’. “The theme for this year’s Samvaad is representing a belief that there are inherent aspects of tribalism that place seamlessness as a core value of society,” said the chief of corporate social responsibility of Tata Steel, Sourav Roy. The official also said that each day of the five-day programme will conclude with cultural performances by artists, such as Guru Rewben from Manipur and Tetseo Sisters from Nagaland, and cultural groups from tribes like Galo, Siddhi, Dandami and Bhumij, among others. The programme started by paying homage to the revered tribal icon, Bhagwan Birsa Munda, on his 145th birth anniversary. Songs curated by Padmashree awardee Mukund Nayak and the Samvaad musical collective, Rhythms of Earth, were performed at the launch. Organized by Tata Steel, the congregation of 114 indigenous tribes representing 23 states, nine Union territories and 17 different countries was watched by over 3,000 people on the first day. Cultural activist Ganesh Hansdah said: “The experience of watching the inauguration on the internet was a bit different but exciting. The rhythmic beats of nagada and the Paika dance performance by Munda’s group were enthralling.” The multiple-day festival, which will conclude on November 19, will witness a cross-pollination of ideas among more than 1,000 tribal women and men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/samvaad-a-tribal-conclave-gets-off-on-digital-platform/articleshow/79238493.cms||Sridhar Adivi
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||Admin celebrates Diwali with kin of martyrs in Ranchi||Ranchi: Remembering the sacrifices of the martyrs in their service to the nation, the Ranchi district administration celebrated Diwali at the homes of their kin on Saturday. Representatives of the administration visited over a dozen homes of the martyrs’ kin located in various blocks and felicitated them. They also gifted sweets, shawls and diyas on the occasion, enquired about their well-being and assured help in their problems. Among those felicitated are family members of freedom fighter Somra Tana Bhagat at their house in Baridih under Bero block and Padmashri Simon Baba in the same locality. Block development and circle officers of Namkum, Chanho, Ormanjhi, Rahe, Bundu, Sonahatu and others also visited the family of at least one martyr on the occasion. Talking to TOI, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan said: “We have started the initiative to ensure that family members of our martyrs who have laid down their lives for the nation celebrate festivals with all fervour without facing any problems. The initiative was also conducted to take stock of their well-being, to find out if they are getting the facilities promised by the government and whether they require any assistance from administration.” After the officials’ visit, the wife of martyr Vishwa Kerketta from Namkum said, “Even when my husband is not around, I am grateful and satisfied after the administration officials came to our home and his garlanded his photographs. The gesture brought happiness to my family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/admin-celebrates-diwali-with-kin-of-martyrs-in-ranchi/articleshow/79238059.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||22 CRPF jawans test +ve for Covid after on from Bihar poll duty||Bokaro: When Covid-19 cases are on the wane in Bokaro, as many as 22 CRPF jawans, who recently returned after the Bihar Assembly poll duty, have tested positive for the virus on Sunday. District civil surgeon Dr A K Pathak said, "All the jawans are asymptomatic and they have been admitted to the ANM Covid Care Centre next to the sadar hospital for treatment. Altogether 150 CRPF jawans from the Bokaro group centre had gone to Bihar for poll duty and all of them were tested for Covid-19 upon their return. Out of the 150 personnel, 22 of them tested positive. Meanwhile, the district health department is also apprehending a rise in the new infections as many people will return from Bihar and other states after taking part in Chhat Puja. "We are intensifying our sampling and testing drive," Pathak added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/22-crpf-jawans-test-ve-for-covid-after-on-from-bihar-poll-duty/articleshow/79238454.cms||Divy Khare
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram sees worst post-Diwali air in 5 years||GURUGRAM: Residents woke up to a smog-filled morning a day after Diwali. The city’s air quality index (AQI) reached the ‘severe’ levels again after four days on Sunday and stood at 425, up from Saturday's 358. On Friday, it had been recorded at 324. Track the pollution level in your cityThe AQI in three of the four stations in Gurugram— Vikas Sadan, Teri Gram and Sector 51 — were in the ‘severe’ category. Even though there was a ban on fire crackers, several residents defied it. On Sunday evening, the city witnessed light rain, which experts said could help in bringing down the pollution levels. At Teri Gram, PM2.5 was 453 and PM10 was 358. Similarly, in Sector 51, the PM2.5 after Diwali was at 422 and PM10 was 403. At Vikas Sadan, PM2.5 was at 427 and at Gwal Pahari, PM2.5 was at 395 and PM10 was at 269. According to the CPCB data, this was the city's worst post-Diwali AQI in the past five years. In 2016, a day after Diwali (Oct 31), the AQI was 298 while in 2017, on October 20, the AQI was at 397. As per the data, in 2018 on November 8, AQI was recorded at 389 and in 2019, a day after Diwali (Oct 28) the AQI was at 368. This is the first time in five years that the city has seen ‘severe’ AQI a day after Diwali. Interestingly, compared to the last five years, the level of pollutants in 2020 is down. All the major pollutants such as nitrogen oxide (NOX), carbon monoxide (CO), sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), nitrogen monoxide (NO), ozone, PM2.5, PM10 and ethyl ben are showing a decline when compared to last year’s Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) data a day after Diwali. When asked about the rise in AQI even as fewer pollutants have been released after Diwali, HSPCB officials said that this year, Diwali was celebrated in the month of November while last year it was in October. There is a gap of three weeks. Also, the wind speed was relatively calmer this year and as a result, the pollutants are not getting dispersed quickly. “This year, the pollutants level has remained high because of several reasons, such as dip in temperature and slow wind speed. Hence, we have a higher AQI after Diwali. This year we have seen a 26.26% decline in PM2.5 level from last Diwali. The city will get relief from the pollutants soon. It is likely to clear up by tomorrow because of rain and wind speed,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer, (North), Gurugram, HSPCB. As per the data, PM10 was recorded at 255.07 µg/m3 a day after Diwali in 2019 and has been recorded at 233.48 µg/m3 on Sunday. “Incidents of cracker-bursting were less this Diwali than last year. PM2.5 was recorded at 663.10 µg/m3 on Sunday while last year it was 933 µg/m3. We are still analysing the noise data,” said Shakti Singh, regional officer, HSPCB (south), Gurugram. In terms of AQI, this was also Delhi’s worst Diwali since 2016, when a reading of 431 was recorded and 445 the day after, data from both CPCB and System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/city-sees-worst-post-diwali-air-in-5-yrs/articleshow/79239176.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh becomes second state to achieve 97% recovery rate||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh has achieved another major milestone in its Covid-19 pandemic management on Sunday by crossing the 97 per cent recovery rate. The south Indian state is the second one in the country to accomplish such a remarkable recovery rate after Bihar ever since the first case was detected in Kerala in January. Even as several states continued to witness a steep spurt and fluctuations in the key metrics pertaining to the disease, Andhra Pradesh in the last two months displayed a clear turnaround. While the recovery numbers improved from 70 per cent to 95 per cent in just a span of two months, it took about 25 days for the state to record the latest two percent recovery rate due to the plateauing curve, both in terms of new cases and recoveries. Other than a few districts like East Godavari, West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur and Chittoor, the infection rates have been low in other districts for the last several weeks. There are less than 1,000 active cases in seven districts, indicating the improved conditions. The state’s large-scale testing, even at this juncture, might have helped in preventing the spread of the virus, officials said. The state conducted the latest one million tests in just 13 days, which is a record for the state since the beginning of the outbreak. Meanwhile, the state reported 1,056 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the lowest single-day case total in the last 130 days. Of the total 8,54,011 cases recorded as of Sunday, 8,28,484 patients have been cured and discharged from hospital. The discharge rate was almost 99% in Kurnool and Vizianagaram districts. Even after crossing the 8.5 lakh case mark, there are only 18,659 active cases. Nine districts recorded less than 100 cases on Sunday. Another 14 patients succumbed to the disease, taking the cumulative toll to 6,868. Andhra Pradesh about a week ago launched the second state-wide sero survey to understand the disease prevalence in the community and the results are expected to be out in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/andhra-becomes-second-state-to-achieve-97-recovery-rate/articleshow/79237113.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||Soumitra made Palamu popular||Ranchi: Soumitra Chatterjee, the legendary thespian who breathed his last at a Kolkata hospital on Sunday afternoon, camped at the Daltonganj circuit house for three months in the summer of 1969 to shoot for Satyajit Ray’s classic ‘Aranyer Din Ratri’. Recalling how the actor writhed in pain after he suffered a fall from a horseback while filming a scene, Laxmi Narayan Addya, a Daltonganj native who was running a jewellery shop, said, “Soumitra Babu fell from the horse and suffered an injury in his back. He was in pain and was unable to walk. I and a few other locals, who had gone to watch the shoot, rushed him to Daltonganj in a car and got his X-ray done at a friend’s clinic. He did not suffer a fracture, but had to take medicines.” Addya, now 85-year-old and living in Ranchi’s Doranda area, said the scene was shot in a forest of Ranka under Garhwa district of the Palamu region. The film, based on a novel by late writer Mahashweta Devi put Palamu at the top tourist destinations for the Bengali populace. “There were tourists from West Bengal coming in good numbers to Palamu and Betla before the movie was released in 1970. After the movie, the footfall increased further. The tourists began arriving in buses and we had to arrange for their stay at Durga Bari and other places,” Addya recalled fondly. The Kechki forest house in Garu’s Chhipadohar, in which a young Soumitra barged in with his friends on-screen after paying off the caretaker, still stands today. Every year, hundreds of tourists visit the guest house to click pictures. Today, a major chunk of the tourists visiting Palamu Tiger Reserve and Betla National Park is from West Bengal. Addya recalls how Soumitra and his co-actors paid him a visit to thank for his help. “He was a true gentleman,” he said. Before ‘Aranyer Dinratri’, Chatterjee shot in Betla and Palamu fort in 1967 for another Bengali movie ‘Padma Golap’ starring Aparna Sen. The Dadasaheb Phalke winning actor was also no stranger to Ranchi. In 2005, Chatterjee arrived at the Jharkhand capital to take part in Bangla Mela, which was held at the ground of Mahendra Prasad Inter College in Lalpur. “He put up at Hotel Ashoka. In the evening, he recited three poems and swept the audience off its feet. He had an aura around himself,” recalled Supriyo Bhattacharya, the organizer of the annual cultural fest. “I had a brief interaction with him backstage. He was well acquainted with Jharkhand and its popular tourist destinations,” Bhattacharya said. Chief minister Hemant Soren was also among those who condoled Soumitra. “My deepest condolences to family members & friends of #SoumitraChatterjee. One of Bengal's finest actors, synonymous with Satyajit Ray's masterpieces — we will remember 'Apu' through his phenomenal contribution to Indian Cinema. May his soul rest in peace,” Soren tweeted. in on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/soumitra-made-palamu-popular/articleshow/79238064.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||H’bag-based NGO bags nat’l prize for water conservation||Hazaribag: A Hazaribag-based NGO bagged this year’s National Water Award by the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti in the ‘water warriors’ category for its effective water harvesting measures which helped conserve over 800 crore litres of water across six districts of Jharkhand. The award was presented by Union water resources minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat in New Delhi on November 11. The outfit’s conserved water was fed to 800 acres of farmland across Ranchi, Koderma, Hazaribag, Bokaro, Dhanbad and Khunti through irrigation canals, which, in turn, benefitted nearly 28,000 farmers, the Union ministry said. Sanjay Kumar Singh, the secretary of Jan Jagran Kendra, said, “Since 2018, we have constructed 125 ponds, 94 dobhas (small ponds), 63 shallow wells and eight irrigation wells. This helped mitigate the water crisis faced by farmers every year between April and May. Besides that, the groundwater level has risen and drinking water woes have also been alleviated up to an extent.” The outfit was picked from 3,875 applications for the first prize.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hbag-based-ngo-bags-natl-prize-for-water-conservation/articleshow/79238123.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand turns 21, Prez, PM extend wishes amid low-key celebrations||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren and Governor Droupadi Murmu paid their respects to tribal revolutionary Birsa Munda in Ranchi on Sunday as the Jharkhand government observed a low-key Statehood Day owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The Statehood Day, which is observed on the birth anniversary of Birsa Munda every year, lacked its usual pomp and splendour as the Jharkhand government withheld the customary grand celebrations at Morhabadi during the day and the cultural fest after sundown as a measure to prevent a spurt in Covid-19 cases. President Ram Nath Kovind greeted Jharkhand’s people in a tweet in the morning. “Jharkhand is a land of abundant natural resources and rich culture, of which we all are proud of. I hope that with the blessings of Bhagwan Birsa Munda, the state makes continuous progress in years to come,” Kovind tweeted. Prime Minister Narendra Modi posted a photograph of himself paying tributes to Birsa Munda’s statue in Ranchi’s Birsa Chowk in early 2019 and wrote on Twitter: “He was a messiah of the poor and exploited and fought for their rights. His contribution to the Independence movement and efforts to restore social equality will be remembered by the people of India always.” Soren, who offered tributes to Birsa’s tomb in Kokar and at the statue in Birsa Chowk, said: “Jharkhand has produced many bravehearts such as Bhagwan Birsa Munda, Sidho-Kanho, Nilamber-Pitamber, who laid down their lives for India’s independence. Their sacrifices will be forever remembered.” Soren later attended the commemoration parade of Jharkhand Police at JAP-1 ground in Doranda and handed medals to 80 policemen and women for their gallantry and exemplary service. He also honoured the families of six police personnel who died in the line of duty and praised the forces for their service during the lockdown. Former chief minister Babulal Marandi and BJP’s state chief Deepak Prakash offered their tributes to Birsa’s photograph at the party’s state headquarters in Harmu in the afternoon. Amid the low-key celebrations, activists of a separate statehood movement staged a four-hour dharna in Ranchi and district headquarters demanding perks and amendment of pension rules. Birendra Kumar Mahto, the media-in-charge of Jharkhand Andolankari Sangharsh Morcha, said: “Around 11,000 Jharkhand movement activists staged dharna across the state to press for a 14-point charter of demands.” The demands include abolishing of jail term as the eligibility criteria for pension, travel perks, free housings for activists, among others. In an order dated June 1, 2018, the former government under Raghubar Das had provisioned Rs 3,000 and Rs 5,000 monthly pensions for statehood movement activists who served jail terms of six months and more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-turns-21-prez-pm-extend-wishes-amid-low-key-celebrations/articleshow/79238118.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi’s pollution level severe: JSPCB||Ranchi: Noise pollution levels across the state shot up beyond the permissible limits on Diwali night with Dhanbad topping the chart in the city category and a Hazaribag area was placed first in the locality category, the Jharkhand State Pollution Control Board (JSPCB) said on Sunday. The air quality index (AQI) in Ranchi also deteriorated severely, the JSPCP data said. The JSPCB had installed 28 devices to record the noise pollution levels between 6 pm and midnight on Saturday in four major cities — Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad and Hazaribag. While Gandhinagar area of Hazaribag recorded the highest noise level, a few locations in Ranchi and Jamshedpur recorded lesser levels, signalling adherence to the guidelines issued by the state government in only a few areas. The JSPCP data said Gandhinagar recorded up to 122.5 dB between 7 and 8 pm followed by Bank More area at 102.7 dB between 6 pm and midnight. Hirapur area of Dhanbad also recorded 101.8 dB. In the city category, Dhanbad topped the chart at 101.6 dB followed by Hazaribag at 85.38 dB. Ranchi with 73.17 dB came third and Jamshedpur was placed fourth with 69.20 dB. All areas in Ranchi, Dhanbad and Hazaribag also reported an increase from the ambient noise levels. In Jamshepur, only the Tata Memorial Hospital reported a lesser level at 57.01 dB. In the state capital, the worst noise levels were reported from Albert Ekka Chowk (79.25 dB), Kutchery Chowk (74.04 dB), Ashok Nagar (71.28 dB) and areas near the high court (67.75 dB). The board also tracked air pollution levels across Ranchi from its pre-installed devices. The air quality index (AQI) in the city went up to 484 micrograms per cubic metre which was 128 on November 9 and remained below 133 till Diwali day. Elderly residents said they had faced difficulty and did not expect people to burst so many firecrackers during the Covid times. Sharda Devi (84), a resident of Morhabadi, said, “Even though I was indoors, the sound of firecrackers could be heard past midnight and it was a for me as I am a heart patient. It increases my anxiety attacks and breathlessness.” Dr Jitendra Kumar, a doctor who stays in Bariatu, said he was in shock after people continued to burst firecrackers even in enclosed spaces. “People need to exercise restraint as bursting crackers will also harm them. During the pandemic time, we need to ensure that the air around us is without pollutants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchis-pollution-level-severe-jspcb/articleshow/79238052.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 16, 2020||Ranchi||283 new Cov cases, 3 deaths, below 3k active cases in state||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported only 283 fresh Covid cases and 619 recoveries in the last 48 hours, bringing down the active cases to 2,952 on Sunday. Three deaths were also reported during the period from East Singhbhum and Ranchi. The casualty rate in the state has also come down to 0.87%. The cumulative caseload in the state now stands at 1,06,064 pof which 1,02,188 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 96.34%. The state's seven-day growth rate is 0.19% against the national average of 0.43%. The doubling rate is also better at 371.57 days against the national figure of 161.35 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/283-new-cov-cases-3-deaths-below-3k-active-cases-in-state/articleshow/79238434.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||VMRDA evicts restaurant, reclaims land in Siripuram||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) evicted Fusion Foods, a restaurant being operated out of a land pocket belonging to the VMRDA in Siripuram, on Sunday morning. The VMRDA, which started the operation early in the morning with the support of police, completed it around 9 am. The VMRDA claimed that the restaurant’s lease was from 2015 to 2024 without following due procedure, causing the development body major financial loss. However, T Harshavardhana Prasad, owner of the restaurant, claimed he had not received any notice from the VMRDA regarding the eviction. Speaking to TOI, VMRDA officials who took part in the eviction said, “As per a government order dated February 5, 2011, the renewal of a lease beyond three years shall be done only with the prior sanction of the government. Furthermore, the lease was extended at a nominal rent, without going for public auction and without obtaining any sanction from the government. This has caused a financial loss to the authority. The metropolitan commissioner requested to cancel the lease and take action for fresh auction, which could help realise maximum revenue.” T Harshavardhana Prasad said he had invested about Rs 5 crore on the restaurant as the lease tenure was to end only in 2024. “I couldn’t understand why the VMRDA forcibly evicted us from the place without issuing any notices or providing any information. I was not on the wrong side of the law in any aspect pertaining to the restaurant lease or operation,” said Harshavardhana Prasad. TDP leaders, including state president K Atchannaidu, on Sunday alleged that political revenge was behind the eviction. It will be recalled that the accused in the knife attack on chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy at Vizag airport in 2018 was working at the airport canteen operated by T Harshavardhana Prasad. YSRC leaders had then alleged the role of Prasad in the attack.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vmrda-evicts-restaurant-reclaims-land-in-siripuram/articleshow/79237119.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Pharma firm worker faints on duty, dies||Vijayawada: A 26-year-old man working at a pharmaceutical company died while on duty at Muktyala of Jaggaiahpet mandal in Krishna district on Saturday night. The deceased has been identified as Epuri Prem Kumar, a resident of Ramapuram village of Nalagonda district in Telangana. Prem Kumar, along with seven others, was attending the night shift at Ra Chem Pharma Limited, a pharmaceutical company in the business of active pharma ingredient (API) used to make paracetamol. While working, Prem Kumar suddenly fainted. He was rushed to a hospital but died while receiving treatment. His family members have cast doubts over the cause of death and alleged that he was exposed to harmful chemicals. Jaggaiahpet police inspector said that the cause of death is yet to be ascertained. The body has been sent for post mortem and a chemical examination is also being done. “As of now, we have booked a case under section 174 of CrPC. Further investigation is still underway,” police inspector Chandra Sekhar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/pharma-firm-worker-faints-on-duty-dies/articleshow/79237129.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Gaja Vahanam held at Tiruchanoor temple||Tirupati: The Gaja Vahanam fete was held on Sunday in connection with the annual Brahmotsavams at Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple at Tiruchanoor. While the Garuda Seva of Lord Venkateswara usually draws large crowds, devotees also attach a great deal of sentiment to the Gaja Vahanam procession held at the Tiruchanoor temple during the auspicious annual Brahmotsavams every year. With festivities associated with the annual Brahmotsavams held in Ekantham due to Covid-19 safety protocols, all rituals related to the Gaja Vahanam procession were restricted to the main temple complex on Sunday. The festivities began with the procession of the Lakshmi Kasula Haram at Tirumala earlier in the day. TTD executive officer (EO) KS Jawahar Reddy carried the Lakshmi Kasula Haram—an item of precious jewellery with which Lord Venkateswara is adorned at Tirumala—to the Tiruchanoor temple. Meanwhile, government whip and TTD trust board ex-officio member Dr Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy presented ‘pattu vastrams’ to the Goddess Padmavathi on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/gaja-vahanam-held-at-tiruchanoor-temple/articleshow/79237141.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 16, 2020||India||Now, govt geo-tags all de-addiction centres||NEW DELHI: To enable those seeking treatment for drug addiction to access information on existing facilities, the Centre has geo-tagged all institutional treatment centres, drop-in and community-based peer led facilities supported by the social justice ministry. There are around 560 such centres across the country and their location, address, photograph and contact details of the person in-charge are now available at the click of a mouse on the ministry’s website. An ministry official told TOI that geo-tagging of institutions would help people to find the nearest treatment, counselling and rehabilitation facility and seek information. This move will also help people stay away from fake centres. To weed out fake NGOs or those not working in compliance with norms set by the ministry for centres, an inspection process is on and teams have assessed nearly 400 of the integrated rehabilitation centres for addicts supported by the ministry. Some centres’ registration have been cancelled, sources said. The government has written to states to identify hospitals in vulnerable districts where AIIMS can help in setting up dedicated addiction treatment facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/now-govt-geo-tags-all-de-addiction-centres/articleshow/79239562.cms||Ambika Pandit
November 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Irrigation minister rules out reducing height of Polavaram||AMARAVATI: The state government has said it would not reduce the height of Polavaram project. “Polavaram project height will not be reduced even an inch. TDP president Chandrababu Naidu is spreading lies,” said irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav. He dared Naidu for a debate on the Union cabinet resolution of 2017 through which Naidu agreed for 2013-14 prices for Polavaram. “The project designs have been approved by Polavaram Project Authority (PPA) and CWC. It is not possible for the state government to reduce the height on its own,” said Siva Racharla, an irrigation expert. Taking the government’s plans to rehabilitate people from areas which are likely to be inundated if water is stored till 41 meters into consideration, former irrigation minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao alleged that the government has reduced the dam height from 45 meters to cut down rehabilitation costs. “It is ridiculous charge because no government can store water in any new project to Full Reservoir Level (FRL) in the first year of completion. We could not store full capacity in Chitravati, Gandikota, Kandaleru projects even 10 years after their completion as the authorities would go for gradual increase of levels in the new projects,” said Siva. He said it took a decade to store 45tmc in Pulichintala project after its launch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/irrigation-minister-rules-out-reducing-height-of-polavaram/articleshow/79237164.cms||Samdani MN
November 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Jumbo kills two farmers in VZM, search op launched||Visakhapatnam: A male elephant, reported to be undergoing musth, killed two farmers at Komarada mandal in Vizianagaram district and is said to have forayed into border areas of Srikakulam district. Forest officials have launched a search. The elephant got separated from the herd a few days ago. Rising testosterone levels in the male elephant due to musth is believed to have made the elephant aggressive and violent, as is common among elephants, raising concerns regarding potential violent episodes. With human-animal conflict having become a major concern in the area, the forest department is planning to construct an emergency elephant holding facility close to a perennial water stream. Forest officials have visited five locations to identify suitable land for setting up the facility. Speaking to TOI, Vizianagaram divisional forest officer (DFO) Sachin Gupta and Srikakulam DFO Sandeep Kurpakar G said that Chandalingi in Vizianagaram district seems to be the best location for the holding facility. However, a final decision on this will take a few more days considering the holding centre will need 3-4 acres land. Once the location is finalised, an elephant ‘kral’ would be built and mahouts would be deployed to train the rescued elephants. A herd of four elephants is moving in Srikakulam district. Another herd of five is moving in Vizianagaram district. Among the nine elephants, two are male – one around 13 years old and another five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/jumbo-kills-two-farmers-in-vzm-search-op-launched/articleshow/79237182.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 16, 2020||Vijayawada||12-yr-old’s hands blown away||Tirupati: A 12-year-old boy’s hands were blown away in a blast triggered by a country-made bomb at Chennampalli village in Kurnool district on Sunday. The boy has been identified as Vara Kumar. Five cattle too were injured in the blast and the cattle shed was destroyed completely. A case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/12-yr-olds-hands-blown-away/articleshow/79237198.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Red sanders smuggler arrested||Tirupati: Police arrested an alleged red sanders smuggler and seized four logs and a vehicle near Railway Kodur in Kadapa district on Sunday. According to Rajampet DSP Narayana Swamy Reddy, the vehicle was caught during a check near Surapurajupuram bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/red-sanders-smuggler-arrested/articleshow/79237219.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||MSMEs participate in ENC webinar||Visakhapatam: As part of Navy Week celebrations, Naval Dockyard-Visakhapatnam organised a webinar on ‘Atmanirbhar ENC: Exploring opportunities for MSMEs and start-ups in ENC’ recently. Over 270 participants from MSMEs, start-ups, CII and FICCI participated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/msmes-participate-in-enc-webinar/articleshow/79237225.cms||---
November 16, 2020||India||‘NMC founder stopped from flying to UAE’||MUMBAI: NMC Health founder BR Shetty was prevented from departing to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) early on Saturday by immigration officials at Bengaluru airport, a source said on Sunday. Shetty had said in a statement on Saturday he planned to return to the UAE and denied reports he had fled the country after the hospital group’s implosion under a mountain of previously undisclosed debt. Shetty’s wife was allowed to fly to Abu Dhabi, the source said. “He was told that we have some kind of intimation that you cannot travel at this point in time,” the source said, adding Shetty was not detained. Shetty could not be reached for comment. His spokesman declined to comment beyond the statement issued by Shetty on Saturday. Immigration officials in Bengaluru could not immediately be reached for a comment. NMCis $6.6 billion in debt, well above earlier estimates. Shetty is also facing a legal challenge in India, where Bank of Baroda is suing him for backing away from an agreement it says was decided at a March meeting to give the bank 16 properties as collateral for debts and to secure additional guarantees. Shetty has said the agreement was a “fraudulent document”, according to a statement of objection filed to an Indian court||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nmc-founder-stopped-from-flying-to-uae/articleshow/79239580.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Goa||‘Prove coal handling charges against Kamat’||Panaji: Refuting chief minister Pramod Sawant’s claims that the Digambar Kamat-led Congress government was to blame for increasing coal transportation in Goa, Congress on Sunday challenged Sawant to produce documentary evidence to back the claims. Congress said that BJP has developed a habit of diverting attention and blaming others for its own faults. “We dare the CM to produce evidence that former CM Digambar Kamat had any role to play in granting those permissions,” state Congress president Girish Chodankar said.  He asked if Sawant accepts responsibility for the permission granted by the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) on February 28 to South West Port Ltd and Adani Mormugoa Goa Port Pvt Ltd to enhance coal handling. Chodankar said that MPT’s board of trustees met on April 21 and congratulated the ministry of shipping for its initiative to increase the capacity of coal handling. “We will produce copies of these documents at the right time. Let the CM prove that Congress government allowed MPT to increase its coal handling capacity,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/prove-coal-handling-charges-against-kamat/articleshow/79238939.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Rain promises to offer some relief in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The spell of rain on Sunday thanks to a western disturbance could improve air quality over the next few days, pushing the air quality in Delhi to 'poor' category, say agencies. Track the pollution level in your cityNot only has a change in wind direction to easterlies now reduced the share of stubble-burning related intrusion, the western disturbance also led to an increase in wind speed, which could continue on Monday. Meanwhile, the city's minimum temperature could fall below the 10-degree mark by November 18 due to the rain, IMD forecasts. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) in Delhi, said that even before the showers hit the capital, wind speed had already increased due to the western disturbance. "This, coupled with light rain, has helped bring down pollutants on Sunday. As a western disturbance starts to move away, wind speeds also remain strong during that period and Monday could see good wind speed as well," said Srivastava. SAFAR, a body under the Union ministry of earth sciences, said three factors are going to influence Delhi's air positively now - better ventilation and dispersion, reduced impact of stubble burning and pollutants settling down after the rain. "There are three very positive developments to follow now and a quick recovery from the current scenario is expected," said SAFAR on Sunday, stating the boundary layer winds had picked up and changed its direction to easterly, which would reduce the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's air. "The AQI is likely to start improving from Sunday afternoon and take AQI in the lower end of 'very poor' on Monday. The AQI is forecast to stay in the middle-end of the 'very Poor' category on November 17 and 18," it said, warning that only drizzle at some locations may, however, have the opposite effect, triggering secondary particulate formation through an introduction of moisture. The Early Warning System for Delhi says the AQI could touch 'poor' and fall below the 300 mark by November 17. Watch Air quality likely to improve as rain lashes Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rain-promises-to-offer-some-relief-in-delhi/articleshow/79239585.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 16, 2020||Goa||Parra roads won’t be widened: Lobo||Calangute: Minister for ports Michael Lobo has said there are no plans to widen the scenic village roads of Parra. He said some vested interests have started a signature campaign to oppose widening of the interior village roads, including the scenic roads lined with coconut trees leading to the Parra church. “These roads have become an international tourism destination and have been featured in many Bollywood movies. Tourists from all over come here to take selfies and videos. We are not going to cut any of the coconut trees or widen the road. In fact, when a tree had fallen down some years ago, we had planted a new tree which has now grown,” said Lobo, a resident of Parra, while adding that the “the roads are going to remain the way they are”. A couple of years ago, the Parra panchayat had started charging a fee of Rs500 from people who were visiting the spot to take selfies and videos. However the panchayat reversed the decision following negative reactions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parra-roads-wont-be-widened-lobo/articleshow/79238943.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Goa||Light rain expected on Nov 17, 18||Panaji: The India meteorological department (IMD) has forecast a possibility of light rain or thundershowers on November 17 and 18. They have attributed the reason for the same to the formation of a trough causing accumulation of moisture and cloud formation. “It is nothing severe as of now. But one or two locations in the state may experience rain. It will not be much widely distributed,” IMD scientist Rahul M said. These showers fall under the bracket of post-monsoon rainfall, IMD said. “From November 19 or 20, there is slight indication that the minimum temperature may drop by one or two degrees for three to four days. But it will have to be observed.” Rahul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/light-rain-expected-on-nov-17-18/articleshow/79238948.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Falling Covid-19 fatalities in November offer hope for Karnataka||BENGALURU: The number of Covid-19 deaths in Karnataka has been reducing consistently for a month, with November recording the lowest since the toll first crossed the 250 mark about five months ago. The state recorded 11,508 deaths as of November 14. Experts say heightened awareness that led to early hospital admission to a dipping positivity rate which increased availability of beds and good treatment protocol are reasons for the declining trend. It’s the first time since June last week and July first week the state has seen so few deaths ever since the pandemic began to peak. This has raised hope of bringing the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) below 1% from the current 1.3%. In November, Karnataka reported 340 deaths with the past seven days seeing only 139 deaths. The number of deaths last week (Nov 8-14) is the lowest after the last nine days of June which saw 109 deaths. The state ended June with 246 deaths, and since then, all weeks have more than 400 deaths with some weeks reporting over 900. The only other week after that saw less than 200 deaths is July first week (171). Covid-19: Karnataka’s overall fatality rate better than India’sAt 1.3%, Karnataka’s overall CFR is better than India’s (1.5%) and 17 other states. Topping the table is Punjab (3.1%) and barring Andhra Pradesh and Odisha, all other states ranked among the top ten in terms of caseload compare poorly with Karnataka. The state’s CFR in the last fortnight is 0.9% with 11 of 30 districts reporting even better than the state average. In the last week, 16 districts reported a CFR better than 0.9%. “We now have a better treatment protocol compared to say June or July. We’ve learnt lessons and the strategy is streamlined even in semi-urban and rural hospitals. Remdesivir is easily available, and using it along with steroids and blood thinners has helped in reduction of deaths,” Dr CN Manjunath, chairperson, state Covid-19 expert committee, told TOI. In terms of terms of deaths per million, five states are worse than Karnataka, whose performance is poor when compared to the national average. The state has 187.4 deaths per million compared to the 107.4 national average.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/falling-covid-19-fatalities-in-november-offer-hope-for-karnataka/articleshow/79239589.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 16, 2020||Goa||Benaulim locals threaten to intensify agitation for western bypass on stilts||Colva: Residents of Benaulim on Sunday threatened to intensify protests against the western bypass through low-lying fields and catchment areas and demanded to know how the government could waive off more than Rs200 crore due to the state by casino owners, while refusing to sanction a similar amount to construct the bypass on stilts through the village. Villagers said that if the government does not pay heed to their demand they will take legal recourse. Panch members, along with former sarpanch and ex-AAP assembly candidate Royla Fernandes and ex-MLA Caetano Silva, under the banner of ‘Bannalkaracho Ekvott’ to oppose the western bypass. Silva said that when he was an MLA he had demanded for the bypass to be built on stilts. Silva also said that water storage capacity in Benaulim has reached its saturation and the project would prove disastrous. Royla, who has been spearheading the protest since last year, said that they are not against the bypass but want it on stilts to avoid flooding of the village. She said that last November they appealed to minister of environment Nilesh Cabral and that he had directed the Goa State Biodiversity board to conduct an inspection along with TCP, water resources, agriculture and survey departments. She said that through RTI they received the inspection reports from the three departments and the TCP, but the reply to the RTI applications to the biodiversity board states that the reports are “not on record”. The reports of the departments and TCP to the biodiversity board states that stilts is the only option to save the environment, Royla said. She also said that “the survey department has clearly identified the water bodies and fields which are going to be affected if the bypass is not constructed on stilts, but the government seems to be adamant.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/benaulim-locals-threaten-to-intensify-agitation-for-western-bypass-on-stilts/articleshow/79238955.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Book online for darshan in temples; decision on mass after Wednesday||MUMBAI: Post-lockdown guidelines will be firmly in place Monday as the state permits religious places to reopen to the public. Shirdi Sai temple and Siddhivinayak trust have instructed devotees to book online darshan before visiting. Churches will not resume public attendance at mass as yet, although devotees can visit for personal prayer from 10am to noon, and 4-7pm. In a letter to parish priests on Sunday, the Archbishop of Bombay Oswald Cardinal Gracias advised a watch-and-wait approach. He will evaluate the situation on Wednesday and then take a call. Till then, he has urged priests to enforce the use of masks, sanitiser and social distancing every step of the way. For the last eight months, devotees keen to enter places of worship were thwarted by locked gates. They often halted outside, said a silent prayer and went on their way. Monday will bring an end to this separation. The post-lockdown protocol calls upon devotees to arm themselves with masks, prayer mats and avoid physical contact with the idol and one another. Universally, children below 10 years and the elderly and sick patients will be turned back. The Shri Sai Baba Sansthan Trust in Shirdi has mandated visitors to make online bookings and obtain a time slot for darshan. People will have to show their booking receipts at the entrance. Up to 6,000 people will be allowed daily, in contrast to the average footfall of 20,000-30,000. While 50% will be paid darshan, the remainder will be free. There will be no distribution of sweets, although devotees will receive prasad in the halls built for the purpose. Mumbai’s nodal Siddhivinayak shrine has instructed devotees to download its app to book darshan, or get a QR code. Here, 100 people will be allowed every hour, and a maximum of 1,000 per day. Wadala’s Ram Mandir, which wore a forlorn look through Ram Navami and Dussehra, will reopen with ‘kakad aarti’ at 6am, said trust general secretary Ulhas Kamat. After eight months, the muezzin will call Muslims to prayer from the local mosque. On Sunday, the long prayer carpet was removed from the Andheri Muslim Qabrastan Masjid at Four Bungalows. Trustee Atik Babar Kashmiri said, “We will follow all government guidelines and request namazis to bring their own prayer mats. We have requisitioned a foot-operated sanitiser dispenser as well.” The Archdiocese of Bombay is treading cautiously under its shepherd, Cardinal Gracias. “He has said that people can pay a visit to the blessed sacrament or come for personal prayer but not attend mass just yet. He will evaluate the situation on Wednesday. Masses are in any case being streamed live,” said Fr Vincent Vaz, parish priest of Holy Family Church, Chakala. Nasha R Jassawalla, managing trustee of the Rustomfaramna Agiary or fire temple at Dadar Parsi Colony, cautioned behdins (worshippers) against bringing flowers and offerings, maintain physical distance at celebrations or ceremonies, and use masks and sanitisers. The agiary has removed its prayer books for the public. (Inputs by Ranjan Dasgupta from Nashik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-book-online-for-darshan-in-temples-decision-on-mass-after-wednesday/articleshow/79239595.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
November 16, 2020||Thane||Maharashtra: Book online for darshan in temples; decision on mass after Wednesday||MUMBAI: Post-lockdown guidelines will be firmly in place Monday as the state permits religious places to reopen to the public. Shirdi Sai temple and Siddhivinayak trust have instructed devotees to book online darshan before visiting. Churches will not resume public attendance at mass as yet, although devotees can visit for personal prayer from 10am to noon, and 4-7pm. In a letter to parish priests on Sunday, the Archbishop of Bombay Oswald Cardinal Gracias advised a watch-and-wait approach. He will evaluate the situation on Wednesday and then take a call. Till then, he has urged priests to enforce the use of masks, sanitiser and social distancing every step of the way. For the last eight months, devotees keen to enter places of worship were thwarted by locked gates. They often halted outside, said a silent prayer and went on their way. Monday will bring an end to this separation. The post-lockdown protocol calls upon devotees to arm themselves with masks, prayer mats and avoid physical contact with the idol and one another. Universally, children below 10 years and the elderly and sick patients will be turned back. The Shri Sai Baba Sansthan Trust in Shirdi has mandated visitors to make online bookings and obtain a time slot for darshan. People will have to show their booking receipts at the entrance. Up to 6,000 people will be allowed daily, in contrast to the average footfall of 20,000-30,000. While 50% will be paid darshan, the remainder will be free. There will be no distribution of sweets, although devotees will receive prasad in the halls built for the purpose. Mumbai’s nodal Siddhivinayak shrine has instructed devotees to download its app to book darshan, or get a QR code. Here, 100 people will be allowed every hour, and a maximum of 1,000 per day. Wadala’s Ram Mandir, which wore a forlorn look through Ram Navami and Dussehra, will reopen with ‘kakad aarti’ at 6am, said trust general secretary Ulhas Kamat. After eight months, the muezzin will call Muslims to prayer from the local mosque. On Sunday, the long prayer carpet was removed from the Andheri Muslim Qabrastan Masjid at Four Bungalows. Trustee Atik Babar Kashmiri said, “We will follow all government guidelines and request namazis to bring their own prayer mats. We have requisitioned a foot-operated sanitiser dispenser as well.” The Archdiocese of Bombay is treading cautiously under its shepherd, Cardinal Gracias. “He has said that people can pay a visit to the blessed sacrament or come for personal prayer but not attend mass just yet. He will evaluate the situation on Wednesday. Masses are in any case being streamed live,” said Fr Vincent Vaz, parish priest of Holy Family Church, Chakala. Nasha R Jassawalla, managing trustee of the Rustomfaramna Agiary or fire temple at Dadar Parsi Colony, cautioned behdins (worshippers) against bringing flowers and offerings, maintain physical distance at celebrations or ceremonies, and use masks and sanitisers. The agiary has removed its prayer books for the public. (Inputs by Ranjan Dasgupta from Nashik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-book-online-for-darshan-in-temples-decision-on-mass-after-wednesday/articleshow/79239594.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Book online for darshan in temples; decision on mass after Wednesday||MUMBAI: Post-lockdown guidelines will be firmly in place Monday as the state permits religious places to reopen to the public. Shirdi Sai temple and Siddhivinayak trust have instructed devotees to book online darshan before visiting. Churches will not resume public attendance at mass as yet, although devotees can visit for personal prayer from 10am to noon, and 4-7pm. In a letter to parish priests on Sunday, the Archbishop of Bombay Oswald Cardinal Gracias advised a watch-and-wait approach. He will evaluate the situation on Wednesday and then take a call. Till then, he has urged priests to enforce the use of masks, sanitiser and social distancing every step of the way. For the last eight months, devotees keen to enter places of worship were thwarted by locked gates. They often halted outside, said a silent prayer and went on their way. Monday will bring an end to this separation. The post-lockdown protocol calls upon devotees to arm themselves with masks, prayer mats and avoid physical contact with the idol and one another. Universally, children below 10 years and the elderly and sick patients will be turned back. The Shri Sai Baba Sansthan Trust in Shirdi has mandated visitors to make online bookings and obtain a time slot for darshan. People will have to show their booking receipts at the entrance. Up to 6,000 people will be allowed daily, in contrast to the average footfall of 20,000-30,000. While 50% will be paid darshan, the remainder will be free. There will be no distribution of sweets, although devotees will receive prasad in the halls built for the purpose. Mumbai’s nodal Siddhivinayak shrine has instructed devotees to download its app to book darshan, or get a QR code. Here, 100 people will be allowed every hour, and a maximum of 1,000 per day. Wadala’s Ram Mandir, which wore a forlorn look through Ram Navami and Dussehra, will reopen with ‘kakad aarti’ at 6am, said trust general secretary Ulhas Kamat. After eight months, the muezzin will call Muslims to prayer from the local mosque. On Sunday, the long prayer carpet was removed from the Andheri Muslim Qabrastan Masjid at Four Bungalows. Trustee Atik Babar Kashmiri said, “We will follow all government guidelines and request namazis to bring their own prayer mats. We have requisitioned a foot-operated sanitiser dispenser as well.” The Archdiocese of Bombay is treading cautiously under its shepherd, Cardinal Gracias. “He has said that people can pay a visit to the blessed sacrament or come for personal prayer but not attend mass just yet. He will evaluate the situation on Wednesday. Masses are in any case being streamed live,” said Fr Vincent Vaz, parish priest of Holy Family Church, Chakala. Nasha R Jassawalla, managing trustee of the Rustomfaramna Agiary or fire temple at Dadar Parsi Colony, cautioned behdins (worshippers) against bringing flowers and offerings, maintain physical distance at celebrations or ceremonies, and use masks and sanitisers. The agiary has removed its prayer books for the public. (Inputs by Ranjan Dasgupta from Nashik)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-book-online-for-darshan-in-temples-decision-on-mass-after-wednesday/articleshow/79239593.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
November 16, 2020||India||15 nations seal RCEP deal, India stays out||SINGAPORE: Fifteen Asia-Pacific nations, including China, on Sunday signed the world’s biggest trade agreement, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), sans India with hopes that it will help recover from the shocks of Covid-19. The RCEP was signed after eight years of negotiations at the conclusion of annual summit of Southeast Asian leaders and their regional partners. The agreement, which covers almost a third of the world economy, will progressively lower tariffs across many areas in the coming years, according to reports. After the signing, all countries would have to ratify the RCEP within two years before it becomes effective. India, one of the leading consumer-driven market in the region, pulled out of talks last year, concerned that the elimination of tariffs would open its markets to a flood of imports that could harm local producers. But other nations have said in the past that the door remains open for India’s participation in the RCEP, influenced by China. The RCEP was first proposed in 2012 and loops in 10 Asean economies — Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar and Cambodia — along with China, Japan, South Korea, New Zealand and Australia. Host country Vietnam’s PM Nguyen Xuan Phuc said the Covid-19 pandemic has harmed global and regional trade and investment flows, including the countries participating in the RCEP talks. The global and regional economies are facing huge obstacles and challenges caused by not only Covid-19 but also decreased global trade, he was quoted as saying by the Vietnam News Agency . Singapore prime minister Lee Hsien Loong said he joins fellow RCEP countries “in hoping that India too, will be able to come on board at some point so that the participation in the RCEP will fully reflect the emerging patterns of integration and regional cooperation in Asia.” India makes up nearly a third of the world’s population and account for 29% of global gross domestic product, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/15-nations-seal-rcep-deal-india-stays-out/articleshow/79239591.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Goa||Panaji court grants man permission to meet kids for Diwali||PANAJI: Stating that two children would be deprived of their father’s love and affection if they are not allowed to meet their father for Diwali, a Panaji court permitted him to meet them for two hours during the festival. The court directed their mother to take the children aged 9 and 5 to her husband’s house and bring them back home. “Though, it has been pointed out that the children are terrorised by the presence of the father, I do not find so after interacting with them,” the court stated. The children also have a right to be loved by their grandparents who live with the father, the court further added. “The children are of tender age and thus, have a right to have the love, affection and company of both their parents. It is required to ensure that the children do not lose social, physical and psychological contact with their father,” the court stated. The father filed an application for temporary custody of the children for one day under the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act stating that his wife has refused to allow him to meet the children even on birthdays despite several requests. The mother stated that she fears that it is not safe for the children to visit the temple or to be in any locality or meet their father. “The wishes of these children are noted and taken into account. So also, the welfare of the children is of prime importance. There must be a balance between these wishes and the welfare, which should be kept foremost,” the court stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/court-grants-man-permission-to-meet-kids-for-diwali/articleshow/79238973.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Goa||When women burst out in songs of gratitude in festive times||Pic: Rajendra P Kerkar (SINGING-GEET-Kerkar) Keri: Most festivals are a time for cultural reconnection and in the villages of Goa ancient traditions continue to be observed despite the overarching reach of consumerist celebrations. In Surla, Sattari, women still pay homage to their eco-feminist traditions through folk songs during the festive period beginning with Dussehra right up to the third day of Diwali — Balipratipada. The songs are called ‘Geeti’ and are an expression of gratitude to folk and village deities for their blessings of a good crop and happiness. In the past, these women were involved in slash-burn agriculture, locally known as Kumeri, and grew finger millet and other food grains. The crop would be ready for reaping during the Dussehra to Diwali period. The harvesting would be done in the day and by night the tired women would croon their Geeti in gratitude. “No one knows who composed the Geeti. It was handed down to us by our mothers and other women folk artists. No instruments accompany our singing. The songs teach us cultural and human values. During the day we are busy with our agricultural work and singing the Geeti is a way of unwinding from the hard work and gaining new vigour,” Parvati Shankar Gawade, 65, from Parwad, said. Besides Surla, which is situated in the Western Ghats bordering Karnataka, the villages of Parwad, Chigule, Chorla and Chapoli on the other side of the border also followed the tradition. The songs also describe their linkages to socio-religious traditions, like their deep connection with the holy basil or ‘tulsi’. For these women, the basil plant was like a friend and folk deity to whom they could express their emotions. It was also a representation of Mother Earth and Sita. A deeper study of the cultural roots of the songs shows an influence of the Bhakti cult that laid emphasis on devotion to Lord Vitthal of Pandharpur. Sarojini Bhiva Gaonkar, a folklorist from Surla says, “In the past, women of the hilly areas lacked any medium to express their feelings. The tradition of Geeti did not merely serve to entertain them, but to also informally educate them about the ethos, values and customs that keep the community intact. There is a need to ensure that this folk tradition does not die out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/when-women-burst-out-in-songs-of-gratitude-in-festive-times/articleshow/79238989.cms||Rajendra P Kerkar
November 16, 2020||India||China on mind, India warns of actions in SCS that ‘erode trust’||NEW DELHI: India continues to turn the heat on China to act responsibly in the South China Sea (SCS) waters, with the government expressing concern at the East Asia Summit about actions and incidents that “erode trust in the region”. Participating in the summit, foreign minister S Jaishankar reiterated India’s position that the Code of Conduct negotiations should not be prejudicial to legitimate interests of third parties and should be fully consistent with UNCLOS (UN Convention on the Law of the Sea). The SCS security situation had come up earlier in the India-Asean summit too where PM Modi and all Asean leaders noted the importance of promoting a rules-based order in the region, including through upholding adherence to international law, especially the UNCLOS. According to a statement by India, Jaishankar noted the growing interest in the Indo-Pacific as an integrated and organic maritime space, with Asean at its centre. “He appreciated the synergy between the Asean Outlook and India’s Indo-Pacific Oceans Initiative. India was equally positive about the Indo-Pacific policies announced recently by other nations. Harmonising various perspectives would never be a challenge if there is commitment to international cooperation,” the statement said. “He also underlined the need for greater international cooperation in the post-Covid world to tackle the challenges cutting across national boundaries such as terrorism, climate change and pandemics,” it added. The government said leaders underlined the importance of cooperation in ensuring safe and affordable access to Covid-19 vaccines. The summit was chaired by Vietnamese PM Nguyen Xuan Phuc. Watch India stresses on respecting territorial integrity at virtual East Asia Summit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-on-mind-india-warns-of-actions-in-scs-that-erode-trust/articleshow/79239615.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: 90% of BEST buses to stations once trains open for all||MUMBAI: BEST will reduce its long-distance bus routes and have 90% services on feeder routes to and fro railway stations once local trains are opened for general passengers. The BEST undertaking decided this on Sunday. “We have several bus services now catering to long distance routes which run parallel to Western Railway and Central Railway. Like, Borivli/Dahisar to Bandra/ Dadar which run full capacity during peak hours as local trains are not available for everyone. Once local trains resume operations for general passengers, we will discontinue the long routes,” a senior BEST official said. He added that BEST earned good revenue from these long routes, but if they were converted to feeder routes outside railway stations, the earnings would go up further. “In fact, we plan to deploy more conductor-less mini buses outside some railway stations and will announce circular bus routes which will ensure continuous flow of red buses and less wait at the stops,” he said. Transport expert Sudhir Badami said that he recently came across packed mini buses in Andheri. “It is risky to have so many passengers standing close to each other in the bus... BEST should increase its fleet size and have more buses. Passenger safety should be more important than earnings,’‘ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-90-of-best-buses-to-stations-once-trains-open-for-all/articleshow/79239616.cms||Somit Sen
November 16, 2020||India||On wildlife week, India de-notifies 1,000 sq km of its ‘protected areas’||NEW DELHI: In an ironical development, the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) — the apex body which approves projects keeping in view legal sanctity of wildlife sanctuaries and national parks — during ‘wildlife week’ last month, recommended de-notification and diversion of more than 1,000 sq km of ‘protected areas’ and allowed activities which could easily be located outside such green zones. ‘Wildlife week’ is celebrated every year between October 2 and 8 to promote conservation efforts of flora and fauna in the country. The board’s decision on denotification and diversion within ‘protected areas’, taken in the meeting of its standing committee on October 5, involved Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary in Uttar Pradesh, Mukundra National Park in Rajasthan and Bahu Conservation Reserve in Jammu district. An analysis by Legal Initiative for Forest and Environment (LIFE) showed that the move was among the single largest denotification of ‘protected areas’ in the country in recent times. Simply put, the ‘de-notified’ areas cannot be protected with legally defined dos and don’ts like ‘notified’ areas and thus turned out to be quite vulnerable for wildlife. The board, in order to rationalise the boundary of Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary, approved exclusion of nearly 47% of its area (978 sq km) from its originally notified 2,073 sq km area from both the left and right banks of the Ganga river in UP. For scale, this is more than the entire area of Kanha Tiger Reserve (over 917 sq. km). Referring to the decision of the Standing Committee of the NBWL, environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta said, “The exclusion of this magnitude will have significant impact on the entire riverine ecosystem of the sanctuary. It is sad that even in the week when wildlife conservation is supposed to be a priority the standing committee approved de-notification of such large areas of PA.” Underlining the irony of such decision, Dutta said, “If the NBWL is unable to stop the destruction of wildlife during the ‘wildlife week’, it is time to either do away with the sham of ‘wildlife week’ or do away with the Standing Committee of the Board.” The Standing Committee, headed by the Union environment minister, currently comprises of only two non-official members – H S Singh, former principal chief conservator of forest, Gujarat and R Sukumar from the Indian Institute of Science. Asked about the decision to de-notify large area of the HWS, member of the Committee H S Singh, said, “The area recommended for de-notification is mainly non-forest land. It’s being used for agriculture and habitation for years. The idea is to rationalise the boundaries of the sanctuary so that it can be protected under law. Forest area within the sanctuary has not been recommended for de-notification. The forest areas will continue to be part of the HWS.” Though the Committee has said that the UP government would take action for addition of 187 sq. km area to the sanctuary or notify it as ‘eco-sensitive zone’ (ESZ), the ESZ declaration means a much lower level of protection as activities which are detrimental for wildlife are permitted within such zones. The LIFE in its analysis flagged that the decision to de-notify is in violation of the Supreme Court orders which had in 2000 prohibited de-notification of any national park, forest and sanctuary. The other decisions of the Board include diversion of PA land (Mukundra National Park) for development of eight lanes of national highways in Rajasthan. Besides, one of the proposals considered by the Committee on October 5 was for developing judicial infrastructure for the High Court of Jammu and Kashmir. The proposed location of this project is in the Bahu Conservation Reserve of Jammu district. “The problem is that if we lose ‘protected areas’ for even infrastructure of High Courts, there is no purpose in terming them as PA,” said Dutta. Watch During wildlife week, India de-notifies 1,000 sq km of its protected ‘green areas’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-wildlife-week-india-de-notifies-1000-sq-km-of-its-protected-areas/articleshow/79239640.cms||Vishwa Mohan
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Rowdies chase TOI reporter’s cab in Gurugram||A ride back home after a Diwali dinner at a family friend’s place turned into a nightmare for  TOI  reporter  Shubhra Pant, her parents and a friend. Three men in an SUV chased their cab on the Nirvana Central road, yelling at the driver repeatedly and asking him to roll down the windows. Panicked calls to the police helpline number kept redirecting her to another line. There was not a single PCR van between Mayfield Garden, from where the family was returning, and Sector 55, a 6km stretch that passes through the heart of the city. It was quick thinking on the part of the driver, who steered the car into a village, which helped stave off the stalkers. Pant recounts her ordeal My parents, a friend and I were coming back from Mayfield Garden after hailing a cab around 11.40pm. Moments after we had settled in the car, we saw an SUV following us. As the cab driver hit the main road and was about to take a turn towards Gurugram University, the white SUV came next to our car and signalled the driver to roll down the windows. Although our cabbie had a hunch that the three men were up to some mischief, he rolled down the windows thinking something was wrong with his car. The men kept saying something, which was indecipherable. Soon, we all realised that the men were following us and trying to create trouble. The cab driver stepped on the accelerator, but the men in the SUV kept chasing us and yelling. They then switched sides from the right to the left. At this point, I remember feeling scared and helpless. I reached for my phone and dialled 100 as that was the only thing that came to my mind. The phone kept ringing and the automated voice asked me to press 1 for police help, which I did. However, it asked for 1 to be pressed again but the phone kept ringing and there was no response. I thought of calling a senior police officer, but realised it would still take too long for help to arrive. All of us were scared that the SUV might crash into our car anytime. Fortunately, the cab driver thought on his feet and took a sharp turn towards Tigra village. The SUV stopped, turned around and went back. We kept looking back to make sure they weren’t following us. We could not see the SUV number because both the vehicles were at high speed. While the entire stretch was well-lit, it was rather desolate because most people stayed indoors to celebrate Diwali. But surprisingly, there was not even a single police patrol van stationed between Mayfield Garden and Sector 55.  When I lodged a complaint, a police spokesperson said, “We have received the complaint in the matter. We will investigate it and take appropriate action.” This is not the first time I felt unsafe in the city, where I have been living for five years now. I have been extremely cautious while stepping out in the dark. Once in 2017, I had gone out for dinner with my parents when some miscreants had yelled at our car. But I, however, feel that the city has received more flak than it deserves. On most days, PCR vans are stationed at usual places and cops are usually responsive. But I do believe that better policing and more streetlights can make this city a much safer place to live.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/on-way-home-with-family-toi-reporter-chased-by-men-in-suv/articleshow/79239072.cms||Shubhra Pant
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||‘MGNREGA jobs fell far short in needy districts’||MUMBAI: As millions of migrants returned to their villages during the Covid lockdown, jobs created by the rural employment guarantee scheme shot up to a 14-year high. Now, a new paper finds that the rise in jobs was still very short of demand. Districts with the highest number of migrants did not see a proportionate rise in MGNREGA work. Instead, it was districts with a better past record of implementing the scheme that generated more employment. The paper found that districts that accounted for 72% of the country’s out-migrants—those who leave their home state — accounted for only 54.8% of person-days generated between May and August. It also found that in these districts, the unmet demand for work was higher than elsewhere. Such districts with the highest share of out-migrants also accounted for 59.8% of the poor in the country. They were, therefore, the “neediest” for MNREGA work during the lockdown. MNREGA: Neediest districts see unmet demand of 26%A recently written paper has found that districts that had the most need for MNREGA works in the lockdown failed to meet the demand from the jobless. “It is apparent that there has been no substantial expansion in person-days generated per rural household in the districts that need it most. This does not portend well for the poorer districts that have seen a large number of returning migrants,” concludes the paper titled ‘Employment Guarantee during times of Covid-19: Pro-poor and Proreturn-migrant?’ It is written by economists Sudha Narayanan from the Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research (IGIDR), Christian Oldiges from the University of Oxford and Shree Saha from Cornell University. Overall, between May and August 2020, MGNREGA provided 31 days of work per working household countrywide. This is equivalent to just 13.5 days per rural household and is significantly lower in districts that need it most, found the paper. It said that states that performed better during the lockdown were those that had implemented the scheme better in the past, even though these states were not necessarily the neediest. Since MGNREGA is a demand-driven programme, the measure of unmet demand points to those who asked for work, but did not get it. The paper found that districts with the highest outmigrant share nationally reported an unmet demand of 26%. This was higher than the districts with a medium out-migrant share, which had an unmet demand of 22%, or low out-migrant share, which had an unmet demand of 20%. To measure the extent of rise in person-days in states during the lockdown, the paper compared May 2019 and May 2020. Uttar Pradesh, which has a high share of migrants, saw a four-fold increase in the number of person-days per rural household during this period. The rise did not translate into much in real terms since the base in 2019 was low. The number of person-days per rural household rose from 0.67 in May 2019 to 2.75 in May 2020. By contrast, in Telangana and Chhattisgarh (which have a low proportion of outmigrants), the number of person-days per rural household increased to a larger extent. They rose from 7 to 11 in Telangana and from 6 to 11 in Chhattisgarh. The paper points out that given the economic crisis brought on by the lockdown, MNREGA will continue to be a lifeline for many daily wagers, especially migrants. It advocates increasing the funding to the programme to meet the rise in demand. While the Centre announced additional allocations, much of this went into settling the arrears of the past, not into generating new employment. “As per the administrative data we accessed, most districts have already exhausted the funds allocated to them for the entire financial year, others are close to doing so. Funding to enable the programme is hence a looming concern,” the paper said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mgnrega-jobs-fell-far-short-in-needy-districts/articleshow/79239643.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Kannada groups attack govt over Maratha board||BELAGAVI: The Karnataka government’s decision to form a Maratha development authority (MDA) with an outlay of Rs 50 crore has raised the hackles of Kannada organisations as the move comes ahead of byelections in the Belgaum-Bidar region, reports Shreyas HS. The order issued by the CM on Friday has stoked a fierce debate on social media. Byelections to the Belagavi Lok Saha seat and Basavakalyan assembly constituency (Bidar district) will be announced soon. Sources said Marathas constitute 39% of the total population in Belagavi. Timing of govt order raises eyebrowsMarathas are the second-largest voting segment in Bidar. The Yediyurappa government’s move mimics its own successful decision – of creating Kadu Golla development authority – that was announced ahead of the recentl Sira bypoll in Tumakuru district. Sources claimed the decision helped the BJP reap 35,000 votes of that community and win the seat. Activist Ashok Chandargi said Kannada organisations are not against creation of the Maratha authority, but the “timing of the order raises suspicions. The government says it has no money for flood victims, but has funds for this authority. ” A demand of pro-Kannada organisations – that the Border Protection Commission be shifted from Bengaluru to Belagavi – has not been accepted by the government despite many reminders to the administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kannada-groups-attack-govt-over-maratha-board/articleshow/79239642.cms||Shreyas HS
November 16, 2020||India||BJP appoints party seniors to oversee local body polls||NEW DELHI: In a first, BJP on Sunday appointed national office-bearers and Union ministers to oversee local body polls in different states, in what is seen as the party’s bid to outsmart rivals and take control of local bodies to expand its base at the grassroots level. General secretary Bhupender Yadav was appointed election in-charge for the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation polls. In a statement, the party said its president J P Nadda had also appointed Union minister Anurag Thakur as the election in-charge for the upcoming local polls in the Union Territory of Jammu & Kashmir. K Sudhakar, a minister in Karnataka; Ashish Shelar, BJP’s chief whip in Maharashtra assembly; Gujarat BJP leader Pradip Singh Vaghela and Karnataka BJP MLA Sathish Reddy will be coincharges with Yadav for the GHMC polls, the statement said. Party spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain and its MP from Madhya Pradesh Sanjay Bhatia will be co-incharges for the J&K polls. With the BJP making big gains in Telangana, first seen in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and then emphasised by its surprise win over the TRS in a recent assembly bypoll, the party is looking at the GHMC polls to make a political statement in the state. It is likely to aggressively target the ruling TRS and its ally AIMIM, which has strong support in Muslim areas of the state capital, to emerge as a force in the GMCH. The appointment of a national general secretary to mind the city polls underscores the importance the saffron party has attached to the polls. Yadav, who played a crucial role in BJP’s victory in Bihar, has been retained as general secretary in-charge for Gujarat and Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bjp-appoints-party-seniors-to-oversee-local-body-polls/articleshow/79239661.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Festive time sees dip in Covid tests, experts worried||MUMBAI: Testing numbers dropped by 50% in the city due to a weekend of festivities, raising concerns about cases going undetected or picked up late in the infection. While the slide in daily testing numbers started from last Tuesday, it dropped to almost half of the daily average on Saturday. Merely 5,399 tests were carried out on Saturday, according to the BMC dashboard. A civic official told TOI that the city was clocking an average of 13,000-14,000 tests in November which dipped to 10,000 since Monday. TimesViewA drop in testing numbers is worrying and indicative of fewer people coming out to get tested. Doctors strongly caution against any delay in testing as it could put members of the family, neighbours at risk. It could also delay initiation of treatment. Testing is one of the most effective strategies to prevent the spread of infection and to ensure safer and quicker return to schools, colleges and work.“It started to drop since the Diwali week started. It will be worrying if people have symptoms but are not coming forward to get tested,” said the officer, adding that ward officials have been given targets to increase the testing numbers. The city’s daily positivity rate has dropped to 8% now. A municipal ward official said that owing to the decline in number of cases, the corresponding number of contacts traced too has dropped. The city on Sunday detected 577 positive cases. “Testing usually drops by 20%-30% every weekend. However, due to Diwali, it dipped further,” said the official. At the state level too, tests have dropped in the range of 45,000-50,000 per day from a high of nearly 90,000 tests in September and early October. The state’s Covid-19 task force has particularly asked the local authorities to increase daily testing figures. Dr Sanjay Oak, head of the taskforce, had previously told TOI that the state must increase testing numbers so that cases are picked up early and the transmission chain is broken. Another member of the state task force, Dr Kedar Toraskar, also a critical care expert, said that a complacency has set in with testing and the volumes need to be urgently ramped up. “We are not even using 50% of our testing capacity. Early detection and treatment is the key to reduce complications and death,” he said. While a positivity rate of less than 10% is considered a good sign, the WHO had in May said that a positivity rate of 5% should be achieved before authorities think of resuming all routine activities. Dr Pradeep Awate, state’s surveillance officer, said that while most districts are recording a positivity rate of less than 10%, there are a handful in which it continues to be higher than 15%. A positivity rate which is that high means that the disease load is still high in the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-festive-time-sees-dip-in-covid-tests-experts-worried/articleshow/79239665.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Pandemic changes footfall dynamics at Metro stations||BENGALURU: Namma Metro’s average daily ridership has fallen from just under 5.2 lakh in January this year to a mere 30,390 in September mainly due to fear over contracting the virus and the work-from home option, an RTI response has revealed. Pradeep KB, a techie and Whitefield resident, filed the RTI application seeking information on footfall and in a reply dated October 22, Bengaluru Metro Rail Corporation Ltd (BMRCL) stated Kempegowda Majestic interchange station was the busiest station in September – a position it held even before the nationwide lockdown was imposed. Byappanahalli, a terminal station, was the second busiest. However, stations like Sir M Visvesvaraya and Vidhana Soudha saw relatively more passengers mainly because of its proximity to government establishments. Metro stops near Bengaluru City and Yeshwantpur railway stations saw patronage drop in September since most train services were suspended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-pandemic-changes-footfall-dynamics-at-metro-stations/articleshow/79239645.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Agency can’t retain accused’s social media credentials: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Pending inquiry, an investigating agency cannot retain an accused’s user name and password on social media platforms like Facebook and YouTube. The high court made this observation while deciding the petition filed by Rakesh Shetty, managing director as well as editor of a private Kannada news channel. Justice Suraj Govindaraj said the investigating agency, City Crime Branch (CCB) in this case, can download data required from such an account and thereafter give back the changed credentials to the person who owns it. The judge, however, declined to quash the FIR saying it cannot be said that the offences alleged are not committed. The agency has been told to provide him new login credentials and also return seized equipments such as server, hard disks and laptop. Shetty has to file a necessary application in this regard before the trial court. The petitioner had challenged the FIR registered by KP Agrahara police against him. It was registered by a contractor on charges of extortion and other offences after the news channel aired a series of episodes in September, wherein corruption allegations/illegal financial dealings were made against some individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/agency-cant-retain-accuseds-social-media-credentials-karnataka-hc/articleshow/79239672.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Goa||MPT extendsconcessionson port duestill June 2021||Panaji: Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) has announced concessional port dues for iron ore handling for the ongoing shipping season till June 2021, MPT announced in a trade notice. The concessional tariff is applicable for vessels involved in import and export of iron ore through MPT. Though an administrative matter, Goa Mineral Ore Exporters had asked MPT to extend the concessions as had been done in 2018 and 2019. MPT’s traffic department issued the notice last week, informing vessel agents and exporters that the concessions in port dues, anchorage charges and transhipper charges offered to iron ore exporters are being extended till June 2021. “This is a flexibility given to MPT to offer concessions by the tariff authority,” said a stakeholder. MPT’s board of trustees met on October 29 and passed a resolution to extend the concessions for handling iron ore west of the breakwater. The concessional tariff is applicable from October 1 and will be applicable till the arrival of the last vessel during the 2020-21 export season. Though along expected lines, the concessionary tariff will benefit iron ore exporters as it will reduce the overall cost for the sector. On October 13, the Supreme Court allowed mining firms to transport and export royalty paid iron ore till January. The relief was granted on the grounds that the nationwide lockdown, imposed due to the covid-19 pandemic, had prevented mining firms from exporting ore for which royalty had been paid for before March 2018. The state government has also decided to e-auction around 2.5 million tonne of iron ore lying at jetties and plots. Recently chief minister Pramod Sawant flew to Delhi to meet ministers in the Union government where he urged the centre to restart mining in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mpt-extendsconcessionson-port-duestill-june-2021/articleshow/79238832.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Quieter Diwali sees firecracker sales drop, traders request space to stock||VIJAYAWADA: Diwali may have been a quieter affair this year due to restrictions on bursting firecrackers, but cracker traders across the city, hit by poor sales, suffered large-scale losses. Vijayawada is an important market in the state for cracker sales with around 200 traders selling fireworks ahead of Diwali every year. Sales worth Rs 45 crore take place in the city during the season, but this year, sales were down by 60%, said traders. However, with Covid-19 cases in the city increasing every day, authorities of the health wing warned that the city is witnessing a second wave of the virus and doctors recommended that Covid-19 active and recovered patients stay away from the smoke and pollution emitted from crackers as they cause respiratory problems. Cracker traders said the poor financial situation of the public due to the pandemic is also one of the major reasons for subdued sales and have requested the government to grant licences for storing their stocks in safe locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/quieter-diwali-sees-firecracker-sales-drop-traders-request-space-to-stock/articleshow/79237079.cms||Venu Lanka
November 16, 2020||Goa||1st time in 4 mnths, only 58 new cases||Panaji: New Covid-19 cases dropped to 58 on Sunday, the lowest count seen in four months. The last time fresh cases were reported in this range was way back on July 6 when 52 new ones were detected. The Diwali weekend also saw testing drop drastically to 719, less than half of the samples tested the previous day. Three Covid-related deaths were also reported over the past 24 hours taking the death toll to 663. Two of the deaths took place at GMC and one at ESI. All the deceased were males. A 65-year-old from Davorlim with comorbidities developed bilateral Covid pneumonia. He was admitted at the ESI hospital and died after 26 days of treatment. A 73-year-old from Vasco, also with diabetes and hypertension, passed away after developing Covid pneumonia. The patient spent ten days at GMC. A third patient aged 64, also with diabetes and hypertension, developed Covid pneumonia and wet gangrene and died of sepsis. The patient died after 36 days of treatment. Thirty seven new patients were hospitalised over the past 24 hours and 33 opted for home isolation. Active cases in the state stand at 1,585. Only Margao, Ponda and Panaji health centres have more than 100 active cases each. Active cases in all other health centres continue to be in double digits. A total of 123 persons recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/1st-time-in-4-mnths-only-58-new-cases/articleshow/79238846.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||KGH reports 4 burn cases this Diwali||Visakhapatnam: The number of cases of burn injuries due to Diwali-linked festivities in and around Vizag city has been far lower this year. Only four burn cases were reported at the state-run King George Hospital (KGH) between Saturday night to Sunday, of which three cases had 30% burns and one had 5% burns. However, the condition of one of the victims, a three-year-old, is critical. In previous years, over a dozen burn cases were reported on average. Dr P V Sudhakar, head of the department of burns and plastic surgery at KGH and principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC) said, “The number of cases are at least 60% less compared to other years.” “There have been three cases of 30% burns, including that of a 13-year-old from Annavaram, another case of a 68-year-old woman from Vizianagaram whose saree caught fire from diyas, the third case is of a three-year-old boy from Anakapalle and another case of five per cent minor burns of a 45-year-old male from Gopalapatnam. However, the case of the three-year-old, who received 30% burns is worrying considering the age of the boy,” Dr Sudhakar added||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/kgh-reports-4-burn-cases-this-diwali/articleshow/79237084.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cracker curbs flouted in some parts of Vizag||Visakhapatnam: Despite muted Diwali celebrations this year and restrictions on bursting firecrackers beyond the stipulated hours, violations of the noise and time limits were reported from several areas in Vizag city. Kirlampudi, some localities under Seethamadhara and MVP Colony and the outskirts of Madhurawada and Gajuwaka reported instances of rampant bursting of crackers. Residents said considering the number of deaths and financial stress caused with the outbreak of the pandemic, people were expected to refrain from bursting crackers this year. “Although, that wasn’t the case,” said 70-year-old Sushil Choudhury. On Sunday evening as well, there were reports of crackers being burst in some areas, especially in new localities in the city. City police claimed the situation on Saturday was better than in other years. “There have been a few sporadic incidents. We have booked the offenders,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cracker-curbs-flouted-in-some-parts-of-vizag/articleshow/79237091.cms||Arpit Basu
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai's 2nd cleanest Diwali since 2015, AQI moderate at 107||MUMBAI: Despite firecrackers being burst across the city on Saturday evening, the city’s overall air quality index (AQI) on Sunday was moderate at 107 as against the predicted 309 (very poor). This was the city’s second cleanest Diwali since System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) began monitoring air pollution in 2015. Track the pollution level in your cityAn AQI between 101 and 200 is considered moderate and doesn’t pose any health problems to the general public. SAFAR had originally forecast an AQI of 338 on Sunday if there were 50% cracker emissions, the worst since 2015. However, the forecast was later revised to 309. An AQI between 301 and 400 is considered ‘very poor’ and could pose a health risk to everyone. Without any firecrackers, the AQI was predicted to be 227 (poor). The highest levels of PM10 and PM2.5 were recorded between 11 pm and 4am on the night of November 14-15. The PM 2.5 concentration was 62 µg/m3 (microgram per cubic metre), only marginally higher than the 24-hour safe limit for concentration of 60 µg/m3. The most polluted among the 10 stations monitored by SAFAR was Chembur and the least was Bhandup (see box). “The observed data of Mumbai air quality a day after Diwali is found to be lower than the forecast made with 50% of average firecracker emissions of past years (2016-2018) and the AQI is in the moderate category. The sudden change in the weather conditions (winds from ocean side and relatively faster speed) also worked to keep air quality in check,” said SAFAR’s report. Minimum temperatures too helped keep the air pollution low. On Sunday, the Santacruz and Colaba observatories recorded a minimum of 23.5 degree Celsius and 25 degree Celsius. The maximum of 34.6 degree Celsius, though lower than the past two days, was higher than normal. Mumbai-based research group, Respirer Living Sciences, which monitored air quality at 14 locations, found fireworks reaching peak levels (worst air quality) around 10 pm. It said the most polluted location was Kalyan, while the cleanest was Borivali. With the BMC’s diktat to burst crackers only between 8 pm and 10 pm and not in public places, anti-noise crusaders said it was difficult to record noise levels on Saturday. According to noise levels recorded by city NGO, Awaaz Foundation peak noise of 105.5 decibels (dB) was recorded at Shivaji Park, Dadar, just before the deadline. “I received complaints from citizens in Borivali, Worli, Dahisar, Thane and Juhu/Versova. In spite of violations, use of crackers was significantly lower than previous years,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convenor of the foundation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-2nd-cleanest-diwali-since-2015-aqi-moderate-at-107/articleshow/79239681.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Martyred Army jawan’s body reaches Nadia home||TEGATTA (NADIA): As the coffin-covered body of Army jawan Subodh Ghosh (24) arrived at his home at Tehatta’s Raghunathpur village in Nadia after 11.15pm on Sunday, a wave of villagers rushed to it as wails rent the air. The body was brought to Panagarh air base by an Army flight around 4pm. After a guard of honour, Army personnel moved with it towards Raghunathpur. Since afternoon, villagers had been gathering outside Subodh’s house and along the pucca road leading to it. They had also erected a stage near his home and decorated it with Subodh’s photograph and flowers. Family sources said Subodh’s body would be taken to Palasy burning ghat, about 35km away. As Subodh’s mother wept inconsolably, his wife Anindita said: “He had assured me that he would come home during the ‘annaprasan’ of our 3-month-old daughter.” The family and residents demanded a local road be renamed after Subodh. His father Gouranga sought economic help for the family. TMC MP Mahua Moitra and Ranaghat’s BJP MP Jagannath Sarkar separately went to meet the family. Sarkar said the demands of the family would be looked into. Subodh, a jawan of 59 Medium Regiment, was killed in Pakistani firing in J&K’s Baramulla on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/martyred-army-jawans-body-reaches-nadia-home/articleshow/79239122.cms||Ashis Poddar
November 16, 2020||Noida||Ghaziabad, Noida pollution spikes, but air still better compared with last year||NOIDA: A day after Diwali, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad saw smog almost all through the day but the pollution levels were almost the same as last year’s festivities. Track the pollution level in your cityLast year, on October 29, a day after Diwali, Ghaziabad’s Air Quality Index (AQI) was at 446, Greater Noida was at 428 and Noida was at 439. On Sunday, Ghaziabad’s AQI was at 448, Greater Noida was at 417 and Noida was at 441. In fact, Greater Noida’s air quality was marginally better than last year’s. On Friday, November 13, the AQI in Ghaziabad was 382, Greater Noida was at 336 and Noida recorded an AQI of 337. On the day of Diwali, the AQI in the three cities was 456, 394 and 425, respectively. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicts AQI between “poor” and “very poor” range till November 17. The temperature is also likely to drop in the next few days. This time, the slight improvement in air quality after Diwali is because of favourable meteorological conditions. Inbound winds from Delhi with a speed of 16-30kmph that eventually picked up to 30-40 kmph helped in dispersal of pollutants. The weather department said the region is likely to see fog for a few days. “A combination of pollution, humidity and drop in temperature leads to increased density in pollution during the post-Diwali period. Usually, the pollution levels start increasing 48 hours after the Diwali day, as air-borne pollutants start coming closer to the land surface. But because there was good wind speed on Sunday, the pollution levels were better,” an official at the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said. The official added that the air quality might worsen in the next few days. “Rainfall in winter months usually does not help in clearing the sky. It adds to humidity and that combined with pollutants cause smog. One can expect early morning fog for the next few days,” said the official. In Delhi, the AQI touched “severe” on Diwali day with a reading of 414, it was recorded at 435 on Sunday. This was Delhi’s worst Diwali since 2016, when a reading of 431 was recorded and 445 the day after, data from both CPCB and SAFAR showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/a-day-after-diwali-pollution-sees-a-spike-air-almost-as-bad-as-last-year/articleshow/79238982.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
November 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad, Noida pollution spikes, but air still better compared with last year||NOIDA: A day after Diwali, Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad saw smog almost all through the day but the pollution levels were almost the same as last year’s festivities. Track the pollution level in your cityLast year, on October 29, a day after Diwali, Ghaziabad’s Air Quality Index (AQI) was at 446, Greater Noida was at 428 and Noida was at 439. On Sunday, Ghaziabad’s AQI was at 448, Greater Noida was at 417 and Noida was at 441. In fact, Greater Noida’s air quality was marginally better than last year’s. On Friday, November 13, the AQI in Ghaziabad was 382, Greater Noida was at 336 and Noida recorded an AQI of 337. On the day of Diwali, the AQI in the three cities was 456, 394 and 425, respectively. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicts AQI between “poor” and “very poor” range till November 17. The temperature is also likely to drop in the next few days. This time, the slight improvement in air quality after Diwali is because of favourable meteorological conditions. Inbound winds from Delhi with a speed of 16-30kmph that eventually picked up to 30-40 kmph helped in dispersal of pollutants. The weather department said the region is likely to see fog for a few days. “A combination of pollution, humidity and drop in temperature leads to increased density in pollution during the post-Diwali period. Usually, the pollution levels start increasing 48 hours after the Diwali day, as air-borne pollutants start coming closer to the land surface. But because there was good wind speed on Sunday, the pollution levels were better,” an official at the Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB) said. The official added that the air quality might worsen in the next few days. “Rainfall in winter months usually does not help in clearing the sky. It adds to humidity and that combined with pollutants cause smog. One can expect early morning fog for the next few days,” said the official. In Delhi, the AQI touched “severe” on Diwali day with a reading of 414, it was recorded at 435 on Sunday. This was Delhi’s worst Diwali since 2016, when a reading of 431 was recorded and 445 the day after, data from both CPCB and SAFAR showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/a-day-after-diwali-pollution-sees-a-spike-air-almost-as-bad-as-last-year/articleshow/79239956.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Apu bids adieu to sansar, world loses a touch of ray||KOLKATA: Soumitra Chatterjee, who straddled the world of Bengali cinema like a colossus from 1959, passed away at a private hospital in Kolkata at 12.15 on Sunday afternoon. He was 85. Chatterjee, who was admitted to Belle Vue Clinic on October 6, was suffering from Covid-induced encephalopathy that had been steadily affecting his consciousness and eventually led to multi-organ failure, said Belle Vue critical care head Arindam Kar. “We know that everyone is grieving today. But let us celebrate his life and achievements, for that is how he would have wanted us to remember him,” Chatterjee’s daughter, Poulomi Bose, said. “Baba will always be there with us in spirit and through his work.” Chief minister Mamata Banerjee was one of the first to reach out to the bereaved family. "We have lost a part of our history today. Soumitra Chatterjee was a multi-faceted personality who excelled not only as an actor, but also as a poet, elocutionist and as an active participant in people’s movements," she said. Condolences poured in from the rest of the country, too. PM Narendra Modi said it was a "colossal loss to the world of cinema". Another screen legend, Amitabh Bachchan, tweeted late in the night that "one of the mightiest pillars of the Film Industry, .. has fallen". Chatterjee, who made his first screen appearance in Satyajit Ray’s ‘Apur Sansar’ in 1959 and worked with the director in 14 of his masterpieces, had become, by the 1960s, the face of middle-of-the-road Bengali cinema, which pulled in the middle-class crowd to Kolkata theatres. Quite appropriately, he became the mascot for a much younger generation of Bengali film directors when the medium witnessed a commercial revival while returning to middle-of-the-road cinema that was popular in the 1960s and the 1970s, appealing to the urban base. A man of many parts with varied interests and achievements, Chatterjee acted on stage, was a poet, essayist, editor of a literary magazine, painter, reciter and a recipient of the Dadasaheb Phalke award. He is survived by wife Deepa, son Sougato and daughter Poulami. His condition suffered a sharp deterioration on Friday, with his consciousness level — that had been low — dipping further and his cardiac condition worsening. Even as his breathing distress intensified, requiring greater oxygen support, his kidneys malfunctioned. By Saturday, doctors had almost given up all hope of a revival and said only a miracle could save him. For millions of his admirers across the globe, their legend for more than several decades now becomes immortal. For someone who would happily confess that death made the small joys of living more meaningful, and whose “dream” was “to pass away while acting”, it was quite a coincidence that he shot for a docu-series, titled ‘Aami Chatterjee’, just days before being hospitalized. Known for his seamless acting and ability to withstand the vagaries of time, straddle genres with his ability to reinvent his art and craft, and for being an engaging adda companion who could talk about various subjects — from the standard of acting in Hollywood to cricket — Chatterjee always wore his star status very casually. Director Sandip Ray, with whom he discussed Satyajit Ray at the shooting of this docu-series on September 30, described him as “a storehouse of dedication for cinema”, who even willingly pushed trolleys on the sets of ‘Ashani Sanket’ just to ensure that the shooting went undisturbed. His ‘Apur Sansar’ and ‘Aranyer Din Ratri’ co-star Sharmila Tagore described him as a “banyan tree” that grew over the years and continued to reinvent. Aparna Sen, with whom he shared the screen in ‘Samapti’, called him “forever contemporary” and her “guardian”. He should have got many more acting awards: Sandip RayFilmmaker Buddhadeb Dasgupta, who was the jury chairman when Chatterjee had received the sole National Award in his acting career for Suman Ghosh’s “Podokkhep”, could compare him only to Balraj Sahni. Chatterjee got introduced to acting at a very early age, when he would take part in children’s plays at his ancestral home at Krishnagar. His popularity as a child actor in his backyard increased so much that he would often end up getting on-the-spot prizes from neighbours in recognition of his talent. This on-the-spot recognition, Chatterjee would often recall, was the primary trigger for his wanting to be an actor. However, he didn’t embark on an acting career right away. He had even faced rejection at a screen test and concluded he wasn’t photogenic. Few know that he had initially taken up a job as a radio announcer and worked as an LIC agent. Thankfully, he wasn’t a success there and could manage to get only one client a year. Had he managed more, Indian cinema would have lost out on some stellar performances as Ray’s Apu, the Charminar-smoking Feluda in “Sonar Kella” and “Joi Baba Felunath”, the grim taxi driver Narsingh in “Abhijan”, the effervescent Amal in “Charulata”, the teacher unable to feed his family during the Bengal famine in “Ashani Sanket”, the freedom fighter in “Ghare Baire” and the frustrated rationalist battling superstition in “Ganashatru”. The Ray-Chatterjee relationship that developed over 14 films have left admirers spoilt for choice. The actor-director combination was so terrific that many even compared it with that of Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune in Japanese cinema and Federico Fellini and Marcello Mastroianni in Italian cinema. Despite such a rich body of work, a Dadasaheb Phalke, Order of Arts and Letters and with the Legion of Honour, international awards for his acting surprisingly didn’t come by. Even his only National Award for Best Actor came only in 2008. In a way, he was much, much more than what the official awards seem to suggest. “He is an actor who is known worldwide. I definitely think he should have got many more acting awards, at least for the films that he did with my father. To some extent, this is an injustice to his acting talent,” Sandip Ray summed up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/apu-bids-adieu-to-sansar-world-loses-a-touch-of-ray/articleshow/79239104.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kolkata||Seven-year-old girl dies in Malda after cracker explodes||MALDA: A seven-year-old girl died of burn injuries after a cracker exploded and her dress caught fire on Diwali night at Kadamtala village under Kalichak police station. Jayanti Rabidas, a Class-I student, succumbed to injuries on way to Malda Medical College and Hospital. Jatan and Tulsi’s elder daughter, Jayanti was playing with other children when suddenly a cracker went off and the fire spread to her dress. On hearing her cries, elders rushed in and tried to tear her frock to save her, but a large portion of her body was burnt by then. Ratan, the girl’s uncle, admitted that he had bought firecrackers from the market like previous years for the children. “We never thought such a mishap was in store for us on the night of Kali Puja.” A police officer said: “We have started a probe and the postmortem report will confirm the cause of death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/7-yr-old-girl-dies-in-malda-after-cracker-explodes/articleshow/79239130.cms||Subhro Maitra
November 16, 2020||Business||Bengal Inc mourns Soumitra death||Kolkata: The Bengal Inc on Sunday condoled the demise of film maestro Soumitra Chattopadhyay, calling him one of the greatest actors of all time. The actor passed away in Kolkata on Sunday at the age of 85. Sanjiv Goenka, chairman of RP Sanjiv Goenka Group that owns Saregama India, feels that Bengal has lost a great son, Mother India has lost a great artist and the world of cinema has lost a star. “With the demise of Soumitra Chatterjee also comes the end of Satyajit Ray era which gave us a priceless place in the world of cinema. Twenty twenty has been an year of devastating losses, which will be difficult to fill up,” he added. Music in Satyajit Ray films was primarily launched under Saregama India (the then HMV), including the Feluda series - - where chatterjee played the iconic sleuth. Harsh Neotia, the chairman of Ambuja Neotia group, said, “Soumitro babu was not just a thespian par excellence but a very affable and caring human being. I have had the privilege of knowing him for more than three decades and all through, even though he was much feted and awarded, continued to remain ever so humble and unaffected. In his passing away, we have lost a legend.” Echoing him, Sanjay Budhia, the managing director of Patton, said people have lost a living legend whose outstanding contribution to the growth of Bengali Cinema is unparalleled. “This void can never be filled up. We shared a very close relationship,” he added. Recalling his personal experience with the legendary actor, he said, “From CII, we used to organise Film Mart alongside film festival at Nandan where producers, directors, distributors and TV channels put up their stalls to showcase their new launches and releases. We were honoured to have Soumitrada to inaugurate the Film Mart. I also had the proud privilege of felicitating Soumitrada for his lifetime contribution to Indian cinema. A doyen of Bengali cinema and theatre, and the Dada Saheb Phalke and Padma Bhushan Award winner, Soumitrada, will always reside in our hearts. I will miss him. May his soul rest in eternal peace.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bengal-inc-mourns-soumitra-death/articleshow/79238901.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Unpaid bills of MSEDCL rise to over Rs 7,000 crore||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co Ltd (MSEDCL) has unpaid electricity bills since June to the tune of Rs 7,154 crore, sources disclosed on Sunday. The consumers found the bills to be “hefty” and are awaiting a relief package from the state. The arrears from residential and low-end consumers amount to around Rs 5,089 crore. The high-end consumers need to pay Rs 947 crore. Officials will have to explain why the bills were so high during the lockdown months. MSEDCL will organise camps and offer instalment facilities to those with huge arrears.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unpaid-bills-of-msedcl-rise-to-over-rs-7000-crore/articleshow/79239695.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Foreign-educated doctors demand percentile-based qualifying exam||BENGALURU: Thousands of Indians who have studied medicine abroad and are mandated to pass Foreign Medical Graduates Examination (FMGE) to gain eligibility to work as doctors in their home country, are demanding their scores be put out in percentile form. According to the Association of MD Physicians (AMD), which is spearheading these medicos’ cause, percentile scoring would help more of the eligible to work in India, which is required given the pandemic scenario. AMD estimates the number of foreign medical graduates awaiting recognition in the country runs up to 30,000. FMGE is held twice a year and not more than a couple of thousand candidates end up clearing it. According to AMD, 17,789 doctors appeared for the exam in August 2020, and 1,197 passed. The minimum score to qualify is 150 out of 300. “We have candidates writing FMGE since 2008. Many miss qualifying by 2-3 marks,” a foreign medical graduate said. Successful candidates have to intern for one year at any general hospital and then apply for medical council registration in respective states. Foreign medical graduates see a deliberate design in making it impossible for many of them to pass FMGE. They point to Opaque practices like absence of revaluation, lack of provision to see answerscript and unavailability of previous question papers. They also point out that FMGE sticks to percentagebased evaluation, even though most other exams in the country are evaluated through percentile method. Most of these doctors have passed courses equivalent to MBBS in Russia, the US, Philippines, Kyrgyzstan, Ukraine, China, Germany, Nepal, Bangladesh and other countries. A top Indian physician said FMGE mirrors the state of medical education in India. “Over 15 lakh students take undergraduate NEET for only 80,000 medical seats. Many of the rest end up going to countries like China, Mauritius and Russia, where medical education is cheaper. This entire process is only leading to projection of artificial shortage of doctors, which in turn is aiding medical colleges to increase their fee,” he explained. “Results of so many candidates are withheld every year. If percentile is considered as qualifying criteria, a minimum of 7,000 doctors will get through the exam,” Dr Rajesh Rajan, president, AMD, said. According to the website of National Board of Examinations (NBE), which conducts FMGE, 15,663 candidates wrote FMGE in December 2019 and results of 1,606 were withheld. Results of 535 candidates were announced later and 170 were declared ‘pass’. AMD wrote to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, National Medical Commission, and also the NBE about its demand. NBE said changing qualifying criteria is beyond its purview. Earlier this week, AMD approached the Delhi high court seeking a stay on the upcoming exam scheduled for December 4. “When there are plenty of doctors trained in modern medicine around, the government is depending on medical students, ayurveda and homeopathy doctors to work in Covid wards. Isn’t this a joke?” said Dr Rajan. Dr Devi Shetty, chairman, Narayana Health, said foreign medical graduates must be made to take up the final exit exam of Indian medical colleges. “FMGE candidates must be allowed to write the same final exam which students enrolled in Indian medical colleges are writing and the universities concerned can assess them,” said Dr Shetty. Responding to TOI, NBE executive director Dr Pawanidra Lal said FMGE exam is equivalent to MBBS. “The passing criteria for MBBS students, appearing in first, second, third and fourth year exams, is to secure 50% marks separately in theory and practicals for each subject. Hence, it is only justifiable that any equivalent exam shall also have the same level.” “Percentiles are for ranking exams like NEET, postgraduation in medicine or super-speciality courses, where the candidates appearing have already secured 50% marks in the qualifying examination like MBBS or FMGE. The two are therefore not comparable,” he added. On the allegation of results being withheld, Dr Lal said: “Result is withheld in case of those students, who fail to submit the required certificates prior to the examination. Once those are submitted, their results are declared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-foreign-educated-doctors-demand-percentile-based-qualifying-exam/articleshow/79239684.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Whitefield industrial park roads put drivers’ skills to test||BENGALURU: Commuting on potholed roads with debris, sand and silt lined up on either side at EPIP (Export Promotion Industrial Park) zone in Whitefield is nothing short of a nightmare. While potholes teem with gravel that can throw riders off balance, motorists have to be on guard against crashing into stretches dug up for various works without barricades. EPIP is one of the earliest and fastest-growing tech parks in the city, housing more than 125 different industries from 10 countries. The roads have fallen prey to constant digging by OFC (optical-fiber cable) companies. To add to woes, BWSSB and Namma Metro sites in the area are not barricaded properly. Road users fear these work sites could be the reason for a major accident soon. With multiple parties involved, citizens are perplexed about whom to approach. Rajan Batra, joint secretary of WEPPIA (Whitefield Export Promotion Park Industrial Association), said, “Things could definitely get better if citizens, BBMP and EPIP members sit together and discuss how to improve this place. Our biggest battle is against constant digging to lay OFC cables. We have companies from all around the world working out of EPIP; the infrastructure here should be on point. We cannot let them think this is how India is.” “However, post lockdown, Namma Metro has stepped up pace of work. They have not only asphalted roads in a few places, but also widened some stretches,” added Rajan. Murali Govindrajulu, committee member of Hagadur ward, Whitefield, said: “This is a huge ward, which is why I recently requested BBMP to assign two engineers. Apparently, that’s not how they work and have 198 engineers for as many wards. It’s impossible for one person to take care of it all and also check on enforcement. There should be a separate official for enforcement.” Zibi Jamal, a resident in EPIP zone, said, “Metro work has really damaged roads. In some areas, where work is over, roads have been asphalted. Places where stations are still being built, roads are in pathetic shape. Neither have barricades been placed around construction sites, nor lanes marked. Vehicles from both directions often end up using the same lanes.” Pavements in the area are either covered with utility cables or heaps of mud/gravel. In some other places, footpaths are missing or completely broken, exposing pedestrians to huge risks. Surajit Singha, a resident, said, “The stretch from Inorbit mall towards Vydehi Hospital is bad. I had even raised a complaint on Sahaya app. After a month or so, they sent me a message saying the issue has been resolved. But I don’t see any change.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/whitefield-industrial-park-roads-put-drivers-skills-to-test/articleshow/79239738.cms||Mrinalini Bhat
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Nine youngsters out for picnics drown in 3 separate incidents in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Nine youngsters, including three girls trying to take a selfie at a water body, drowned in different incidents across the state since Saturday. On Sunday evening, Yedapally police of Nizamabad district received an alert about three girls drowning in Ali Sagar lake. Police rushed to the spot and with the help of expert swimmers, who operate boats in the water body, fished out the bodies of Zumaira, 10, Mashera, 14 and Miraj Begum, 16, all native of Rakasipet in Bodhan town. According to Bodhan Rural CI Ravinder Naik, the three cousins along with five of their family members had gone on a picnic to Ali Sagar on Sunday. Three youths drowned during b’day celebrationsWhile elders were a little away, the three girls went close to the water to take a selfie. One of the girls slipped and fell in the water. While trying to rescue her, other two girls also drowned. While trying to rescue the girls, another cousin, Mutavali, also fell in the water but a family member, Sultana Begum, raised an alarm and boatmen who were nearby pulled the boy out. He was resuscitated,” the CI said. Police said that the victims were relatives of Bodhan councillor Aswaq. In another incident, four youngsters —T Karthik, 19, S Srikanth, K Anvesh, 20, and R Prakash, 19, of Rangarajapuram village in Venkatapuram mandal — drowned in the Godavari river near Marikala in Mulugu district on Saturday. According to police, 16 youngsters from Rangarajapuram and neighbouring places went to the river bank to celebrate the birthday of a friend. During the celebration, the four victims entered the water and the strong current swept them away, Venkatapuram police said. The bodies were fished out and handed over to the families. The third incident happened at Nizam Sagar project in Kamareddy district on Saturday. Nizam Sagar police said five teenagers from Kalher village in Medak went to Nizam Sagar dam on Saturday. Two of them, K Shiva, 19, a private worker, and Syed Sameer, 19, an engineering student, drowned when they ventured deep into the water body. The bodies were fished out on Saturday evening. In all the three incidents police have registered separate cases under Section 174 of the CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nine-youngsters-out-for-picnics-drown-in-3-separate-incidents-in-telangana/articleshow/79239756.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Three die as wall collapses following cylinder blast in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: Three people, including a 38-year-old woman and her eight-year-old son, were killed and four others injured when a wall collapsed after a cylinder exploded at Arni town in Tiruvannamalai district. The deceased were identified as Kamatchi, 38, her son Hemanath, and their neighbour Chandra, 59. Kamatchi's husband Janakiraman and their elder son Suresh, 15, were injured. Their house owner Muktha Bhai is critical while her daughter Meena, 15, was injured. They have been admitted to government hospitals. While Chandra was killed instantly, the woman and her son died in the Arni Government Hospital. Muktha Bhai, who suffered more than 90% burns, and her daughter, have been admitted to the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital. According to preliminary inquiries, Muktha, not realizing there was a gas leak, lit the gas stove to make tea, causing the cylinder to explode. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of 1 lakh to each of the kin of the deceased and 50,000 to the injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/three-die-as-wall-collapses-following-cylinder-blast-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79239757.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Amit Shah to visit Chennai on November 21, interact with party||CHENNAI: Amid the ongoing tussle with ally AIADMK over the BJP's religious rally 'vetrivel yatra' in Tamil Nadu, home minister Amit Shah will visit Chennai on November 21 to take part in collaborative programmes organised by the Centre and state. Shah is also scheduled to chair a meeting of the state unit's core committee members and senior functionaries to assess the party's election preparedness, state BJP chief L Murugan said. Shah's visit to Chennai is expected to spice up further the political drama over the yatra that began on November 6 despite the Edappadi K Palaniswami government refusing permission for the yatra. Sources confirmed Shah's main agenda was to pep up the state unit ahead of the 2021 TN assembly election and finetune the party's election strategy. The state unit has planned a grand reception at the Chennai airport. "Shah will participate in a government programme. His visit will boost the morale of the state unit," state BJP president L Murugan told reporters. He, however, clarified that Shah would not take part in the vetrivel yatra. Before attending the government programme, he would meet the state unit's core committee and state and district leaders. "Shah's visit will include an interaction with important leaders regarding the forthcoming assembly election, to give an impetus to election work and strategy," said a leader privy to the development. While Murugan detailed the schedule of a few Union ministers who may participate in the yatra on different days, BJP vice-president and yatra in-charge K S Narendran expressed doubts about their participation. "It depends on TN's decision to grant permission. We are hoping the government will reconsider its decision. If not, ministers are unlikely to participate," he told TOI. When contacted, state law minister C Ve Shanmugam said, "I am not aware of it (Union ministers' visits). Whatever it may be, we have issued a ban against the yatra and there is no going back on our decision."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/amit-shah-to-visit-chennai-on-november-21-interact-with-party/articleshow/79239759.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Five youngsters drown in sea at Kasimedu||CHENNAI: Five teens from three families drowned in the sea at Kasimedu late on Sunday. The deceased were identified as S Arulraj, 19, his sister Durga, 13; J Margaret, 14, and her twin brother Martin, 14; and a friend B Vishnu, 14. The five, who were neighbours from Old Washermenpet, had come to the beach along with Arulraj's parents. Four of them entered the water while Arulraj stood on the shore. Seeing them drowning, he jumped in to save them but was also washed away. While Arulraj was declared brought dead by doctors at Stanley GH, search is on to trace other victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-five-youngsters-drown-in-sea-at-kasimedu/articleshow/79239770.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Salem||Tamil Nadu: Five youngsters drown in sea at Kasimedu||CHENNAI: Five teens from three families drowned in the sea at Kasimedu late on Sunday. The deceased were identified as S Arulraj, 19, his sister Durga, 13; J Margaret, 14, and her twin brother Martin, 14; and a friend B Vishnu, 14. The five, who were neighbours from Old Washermenpet, had come to the beach along with Arulraj's parents. Four of them entered the water while Arulraj stood on the shore. Seeing them drowning, he jumped in to save them but was also washed away. While Arulraj was declared brought dead by doctors at Stanley GH, search is on to trace other victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/tamil-nadu-five-youngsters-drown-in-sea-at-kasimedu/articleshow/79241252.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Booze beats milk as tipplers in Tamil Nadu raise a toast to Diwali||CHENNAI: As tipplers raised a toast to the festival of lights, more than 50 lakh litres of liquor flew off the shelves at Tasmac shops across the state on Friday and Saturday, while sale of Aavin milk dropped by nearly one lakh litres on Diwali day on Saturday. The spike in alcohol demand swelled the kitty of the state-owned marketing corporation by 465 crore. The sale exceeding more than 200 crore each day was the highest per-day collection this year. It surpassed the 2019 revenue when the total collection during the three-day Diwali sale was around 455 crore. While Madurai zone topped with more than 100-crore sale on Friday and Saturday, Chennai zone comprising Chennai, Chengalpet, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts, and Trichy zone encompassing central districts raked in 95 crore each. Western zones such as Salem and Coimbatore recorded 87 crore and 84 crore sale, respectively. Compared to last Sat, 97,000 litres less Aavin milk sold on DiwaliOn the flip side, demand for state-owned Aavin milk on Diwali day (Saturday) plunged by 97,000 litres compared to the previous Saturday, as most of the institutions were closed on account of holiday. The daily average sale of milk in the state is 24.15 lakh litres per day (LLPD). “At 24.28 LLPD, the sale on Friday, the day before the festival, was 1,000 litres more than the corresponding period last week,” a senior Aavin official said. Meanwhile, Tasmac sources said the sale on Sunday was also expected to cross the ₹200-crore mark. “This Diwali happens to be the first big festival where friends and relatives may have met since the outbreak of the pandemic in March,” a Tasmac official said giving out his reason for the record figures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/booze-beats-milk-as-tipplers-in-tamil-nadu-raise-a-toast-to-diwali/articleshow/79239771.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
November 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||In a week, 40 flout firecracker ban in Ghaziabad, arrested||GHAZIABAD: The district police claimed to have seized firecrackers worth Rs 5 crore from November 9 to November 15 for which over 20 cases have been registered and 40 people have been arrested for violating the government and the National Green Tribunal (NGT)’s ban on the sale and use of all kinds of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR till November 30. Police said about half of the people were arrested from November 13 to November 14. Around 70% crackers were seized from the city area.  NGT had imposed a ban on sale and use of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR on November 9 because of pollution. On November 9, Ghaziabad police came up with an action plan to implement the ban, including, the suspension of cracker sale licences, teams to intensify patrolling and asking schools to encourage children not to burst crackers. SSP Kalanidhi Naithani had alerted all police stations and deployed cops in civil clothes across the city. “We had prepared a list of history-sheeters of those prisoners who used to sell crackers and then conducted a check on them. Our teams were also deployed at all the suspected points and kept an eye on sale or bursting of crackers. We also conducted several meetings with RWA and AOA and asked the residents not to burst firecrackers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/in-a-week-40-flout-firecracker-ban-in-ghaziabad-arrested/articleshow/79239001.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Non-agriculture land registration set to resume from November 23||HYDERABAD: In a major relief to people awaiting registration of non-agriculture properties to resume, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided that it will commence on Dharani portal from November 23. Dharani, a one-stop portal of the government for all matters pertaining to land transactions, was launched on October 29, marking resumption of registration of agriculture properties. The resumption of registrations of non-agriculture properties would be launched by chief secretary Somesh Kumar. During a review meeting with officials on Sunday, the chief minister said the process of registration of agriculture land through the Dharani portal has become popular among people. “In the state, people are of the view that a new era has begun in land registration. The feedback from the field was quite satisfactory. Dharani has overcome the initial teething problems. In another three to four days, it will overcome all initial problems. We have decided to commence registration of non-agriculture land only after resolving all issues pertaining to Dharani,” KCR added. The state government had earlier informed the high court that there was no time frame or deadline to upload data of nonagricultural properties on Dharani. Another related case pertaining to security of Aadhaar and other personal details of property owners sought by the state in connection with uploading it on Dharani portal is pending and its hearing has been posted to November 20. The state government has been asked to submit to the court the safety mechanism it has put in place for security of personal details of property owners by November 17. Registration of properties was halted on September 8 after which the new Revenue Act, 2020, was brought into force. Though the registration of agriculture land was started on October 29, the registration of nonagriculture properties remained suspended as the process of uploading records pertaining to non-agriculture properties was not completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-non-agriculture-land-registration-set-to-resume-from-november-23/articleshow/79239768.cms||Roushan Ali
November 16, 2020||---||BJP minister Choubey backs Chirag’s entry in Union Cabinet||PATNA: LJP got support from an unexpected quarter on Sunday when Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey backed representation of the Chirag Paswan-led party into the government at the Centre in the next cabinet expansion. Chirag’s father Ram Vilas Paswan, who founded LJP, was a Union minister at the time of his death last month. Choubey, the BJP MP from Buxar, said Chirag, who had fielded candidates against JD-U in the elections and campaigned against Nitish Kumar, should be given an opportunity to ‘rectify’ his mistake. “Galti sudharne ka mauka milna chahiye,” he told mediapersons in Patna. He, however, hastened to add that this was his personal view. “It’s the PM’s prerogative who to induct in the next expansion of his cabinet,” the Union minister said. When asked about LJP’s decision to go solo in the assembly polls, Choubey said every political party wants to gain more and more seats in elections, and Chirag’s case was no exception. On Saturday, LJP spokesperson Asaraf Ansari had said his party was hopeful of getting a berth in the next expansion of the Union Cabinet. However, JD-U has strong reservations against retaining LJP in NDA at the Centre. “LJP is not a part of NDA in the state. It contested the assembly elections on its own. It is evident that LJP caused huge damage to NDA, especially to our party,” a senior JD-U leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-minister-choubey-backs-chirags-entry-in-union-cabinet/articleshow/79239766.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Clerical mistake delays modern education in madrassas||BENGALURU: A project meant to impart modern education in madrassas in Karnataka has been delayed due to a clerical error. Sources in the government said a letter seeking a change in the spelling of four of the eight maulanas on the 11-member supervisory committee commissioned to identify madrassas — which can provide modern education — was sent last month by the directorate of minorities. “As this was being processed, previous secretary of the department AB Ibrahim retired and additional chief secretary Mahendra Jain was given concurrent charge. As the ACS is preoccupied with other departments, the minority welfare department has taken a back seat,” said an official. Over the past month, despite repeated reminders, the government has not been able to issue a fresh order to incorporate board members. According to officials, identification of madrassas with requisite infrastructure to provide modern education is the mandate of the committee. He added that the committee is crucial as it involves spiritual leaders from all prominent sub-sects of the Muslim community. Once the committee identifies madrassas and convinces the local community to allow science and mathematics to be taught to the children, the list will be sent to the Centre for accrediting them with the National Institute of Open Schooling and funding will be released to hire local teachers. The minorities directorate said the government is releasing funds for modernisation. “The modernisation is proceeding with Rs 5 crore being released towards pending files of those who want to teach modern education and Rs 5 crore for fresh applicants could be approved this week,” said director Mahaboob Sab. He said he wasn’t aware of a supervisory committee or NIOS accreditation. Minority welfare minister Shrimant Patil was also unaware about the clerical error and not sure why the scheme is being delayed. In September, the Karnataka government revived a 12-year-old central government project to modernise teaching in madrassas. It’s supposed to assist 30,000 children in 100 madrassas to learn science, mathematics and other subjects along with religious studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-clerical-mistake-delays-modern-education-in-madrassas/articleshow/79239776.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
November 16, 2020||India||Congress G-23 denies writing another letter after debacle in Bihar||NEW DELHI: The Bihar setback has triggered speculation of another letter from Congress dissidents to the leadership seeking introspection, the buzz being so strong that the ‘G23’ officially denied sending another missive to Sonia Gandhi. Senior Congress leader and head of the dissenting group Ghulam Nabi Azad told TOI, “There has been no meeting of the group in the recent past and no letter has been considered for sending to the leadership. No letter has been sent.” The categorical comment sought to put a lid on speculation swirling since the Bihar results showed that Congress performed below par and dragged down the opposition alliance led by RJD. Serious questions have been raised about the way the poll management was done by close confidants of Rahul Gandhi, with some Bihar Congressmen even making public remarks about “internal sabotage”. A letter in August by the bloc of 23 leaders touched off a major controversy as it slammed “absentee leadership” in the party and demanded visible and effective leadership besides introspection on the direction and strategy choices. It resulted in a stormy meeting of the CWC in which the party closed ranks to slam the letter writers while putting in place the process for election of a new party president which was a key demand of the dissenting group. It is felt Rahul may contest the polls to take back the reins of the party, and the dissidents will have the choice to challenge him in the internal elections. After Bihar, the G23 members are again restive, with at least three saying off the record that the results had vindicated the earlier letter. They, however, said writing another one may not be the answer though it is not ruled out. A senior leader said the party will have to do “introspection” so that change of course could be effected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/g-23-denies-writing-another-letter-after-debacle-in-bihar/articleshow/79239807.cms||---
November 16, 2020||India||Govt seeks views on draft labour code||NEW DELHI: The freshly notified draft rules for the Code on Social Security, one of the four labour laws approved by Parliament this year that aim to expand social security benefits to all categories of workers in India, say workers can self-register via Aadhaar to avail benefits of various social security schemes. The rules, which will remain open to discussion for 45 days with effect from November 13, direct states to create policies to provide social security benefits to gig and informal sector workers on a self-registration basis. They also lay down the processes by which governments will set up the National Social Security Board for Unorganised Workers, Gig and Platform Workers, and the Building Workers Welfare Board. “The eligible unorganised worker, or any category or sub-category of unorganised worker, shall submit application form, electronically, with Aadhaar on self-declaration basis for registration to such authority on the specified portal of central government. On completion of registration, such worker shall be issued an acknowledgement, electronically or otherwise, bearing his unique registration number,” the draft rules say. While work on the portal for self-registration of workers has begun, the draft rules also say migrant building workers will be entitled to receive benefits in the state where they work and that the Building Workers Welfare Board of the state concerned will be responsible for extending the benefits. The rules also provide for gratuity to employees on fixedterm employment and have also decided to spend up to Rs 1,000 crore for “promotion of measures for improvement of health and welfare of insured persons and for the rehabilitation and re-employment of insured persons who have been disabled or injured” under the Employees’ State Insurance Fund.Apart from listing out how companies may exit the EPFO and ESIC coverage, the rules also list provisions for a single electronic registration of an establishment including cancellation of the registration in case of closure of business activities. The rules further explain the procedure for self-assessment and payment of cess in respect of building and other construction workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-seeks-views-on-draft-labour-code/articleshow/79239816.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||50% tax rebate for residential property owners across Telangana||HYDERABAD: With an eye on Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, the Telangana government has announced 50% rebate in property tax for residential property owners in the state. The rebate will be applicable for the current financial year (2020-2021) as a one-time relief to owners. Property owners, who have been paying property tax up to Rs 15,000 annually in GHMC limits and up to Rs 10,000 in other municipalities and corporations, would be eligible to avail the benefit. The decision would benefit nearly 13.81 lakh property owners in Greater Hyderabad limits. Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao announced tax relief as a Diwali gift on Saturday. “Property owners who have already paid their property tax this year, their amount (50% balance) will be adjusted in the next financial year i.e 2021-2022 automatically,” KT Rama Rao said. The municipal administration department in it is order (GO No. 611) on property tax waiver said Covid-19 pandemic and consequent nationwide lockdown from March to July has resulted in overall slowdown of economy, which has impacted everyone in some way or the other. “The situation got aggravated during the recent heavy rains and inundation in parts of Hyderabad and nearby municipalities. Families belonging to low and middle-income strata have been particularly affected,” the government said in the GO. The amount of residential property tax waived would be reimbursed to urban local bodies and GHMC by the state. The tax rebate was announced at a time elections might be announced to GHMC soon. The State Election Commission (SEC) has already started arrangements for polls and the notification is expected in a week. Govt raised sanitation staff’s wagesDuring the last GHMC elections held in 2016 too the Telangana government had announced property tax relief to residential property owners. For those who had been paying up to Rs 1,000 tax a year were asked to pay just nominal tax of Rs 101. This rebate is being availed by 1.33 lakh property owners in Greater Hyderabad. The government has also enhanced salaries to sanitation workers from Rs 14,500 to Rs 17,500. It said the salaries were increased recognising their services during pandemic. With the government decision, as many as 18,550 workers get the benefit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-tax-rebate-for-residential-property-owners-across-telangana/articleshow/79239812.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 16, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Mom flings infant from flat over feud with hubby||HYDERABAD: A couple’s running feud cost a newborn his life after the mother allegedly threw the baby out of her parents’ third-floor flat at Fatehnagar. The incident happened on Friday but came to light on Sunday. The baby was 14 days old. The woman, Lavanya (27), has been booked for murder under IPC Section 302 but is yet to be arrested as she is still recovering after delivery. She had attempted suicide by consuming rat poison on October 29. She survived as her parents rushed her to a hospital and later gave birth to the boy on October 30. Her family members had then lodged a complaint against her husband Venu Gopal (32), a software professional, at the Sanathnagar police station. A case of domestic violence and abetment to suicide was registered against Venu. Sanathnagar police said Venu had married Lavanya in 2016 but the marriage was stormy and despite several counselling sessions the couple failed to reconcile their differences. The couple’s first son is three years old. After discharge from the hospital, Lavanya went to her parents house. Baby was thrown from the 3rd floorOn Friday, she threw the baby from the third floor of her parents’ house. The baby died on the spot. Later, her brother told Venu the baby died. Venu lodged a plaint against his wife, accusing her of killing the child due to disputes with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hyderabad-mom-flings-infant-from-flat-over-feud-with-hubby/articleshow/79239842.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Covid caution up in smoke, Diwali pollution gets worse||BHOPAL: “Khub patakhe chalayen (light plenty of firecrackers),” this was Madhya Pradesh home minister Narottam Mishra’s advice to people on Diwali-eve when daily Covid reports showed grim indications of a rebound. Track the pollution level in your cityBhopal — and all major cities in MP — seemed to have taken his advice and celebrated Diwali with such abandon that the air quality turned worse than what it was last year. Health experts’ warning that winter and Diwali pollution may lead to a Corona disaster went up in smoke. AQI in Bhopal on the morning of Diwali was 158. The next morning, as the haze of fireworks hung over the city, the AQI needle hovered at 209. Last year, the day after Diwali, the AQI was 164. Winter was just setting in then (October 28-29). It was the same story in Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur. The air was not fit for breathing on Sunday, and yet people began bursting crackers again in the evening. Air quality of Gwalior was 338 around noon on Sunday — the worst in MP and in the ‘very poor’ category, putting residents at risk of respiratory illness upon prolonged exposure. It was comparable with some areas of Delhi. Indore and Jabalpur’s AQI the day after Diwali stood at 237 and 206. Compared to pollution levels of Diwali 2019, the Central Pollution Control Board data suggests that air pollution was nearly twice as bad this year, officials said, adding that appeals to people to avoid crackers went unheeded. MPPCB had issued advisory on cracker ‘ban’The state pollution control board had issued repeated advisories to people not to burst crackers this Diwali. On November 9, Bhopal collector Avinash Lavania appealed to citizens to burst crackers only between 8pm and 10pm. But home minister Mishra — who was also health minister during the early days of the pandemic — said there is no such restriction. Asked about the collector’s statement, Mishra had told reporters on Friday: “He must have said it on the basis of some NGT order. Celebrate Diwali with gusto. Light plenty of crackers. There’s no time limit. It’s our festival, celebrate with joy and enthusiasm (khub dhoom dham se manaye. Khub patakhe chalayen. Koi samay seema nahin hai).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-caution-up-in-smoke-diwali-pollution-gets-worse/articleshow/79239837.cms||Ankur Sirothia
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru City University vice-chancellor and syndicate fight over upkeep plans||BENGALURU: The Bengaluru City University vice-chancellor’s plan to lay a foundation stone for redevelopment work of the university has run into rough weather, with some syndicate members saying they have not approved the agency or the proposal. According to the syndicate members, it was decided to set aside Rs 155 crore for construction, renovation and development activities of the campus. As the university does not have an engineering department, it was decided to entrust it to either the public works department, central PWD or any other PSU after the syndicate approves the masterplan. On October 23, vice-chancellor S Japhet wrote to the government seeking approval to prepare a masterplan and said the health and family welfare department’s engineering division had quoted Rs 155 crore. The VC had planned a foundation stone-laying ceremony for the works on November 18. The syndicate, however, objected saying no agency was entrusted with the work or approved by the syndicate. Six members wrote to the governor on Sunday seeking the VC’s suspension for alleged misrepresentation of the syndicate and misuse of his official powers, among other charges. In his reply to syndicate members, Japhet said, “The syndicate’s decision has been communicated to the government ... the agency’s proposal was forwarded to the government for according administrative approval since the matter was required to be placed before the state cabinet. The government has decided to hold a ground-breaking ceremony for the development work on November 18, and the chief minister is expected to participate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-city-university-vice-chancellor-and-syndicate-fight-over-upkeep-plans/articleshow/79239832.cms||---
November 16, 2020||World||SpaceX rocket carrying four astronauts successfully takes off||SpaceX, the rocket company of high-tech entrepreneur Elon Musk, launched four astronauts on a flight to the International Space Station on Sunday. It is NASA's first full-fledged mission sending a crew into orbit aboard a privately owned spacecraft. SpaceX's newly designed Crew Dragon capsule, which the crew has dubbed Resilience, lifted off atop a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket at 7:27 p.m. Eastern time (0027 GMT on Monday) from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, Florida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/spacex-rocket-carrying-four-astronauts-successfully-takes-off/articleshow/79239849.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Nakul Nath tests positive for Covid-19||BHOPAL: Congress Lok Sabha MP Nakul Nath, the son of former CM Kamal Nath, has tested positive for Covid-19. “I was feeling mild symptoms of Coronavirus infection for the past couple of days. I got myself tested and it came positive. I have isolated myself at home and am resting. I request everyone who came in contact with me recently to get themselves tested,” he tweeted on Sunday. Kamal Nath then tweeted: “There is information that Nakul Nath is indisposed. We all pray to God that he recovers soon.” Nakul, the Chhindwara MP, is Congress’s lone Lok Sabha member from Madhya Pradesh. A host of top politicians in Madhya Pradesh have been infected by Covid-19 — from CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan and BJP Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia to a quarter of the MP cabinet, including the health minister, and a clutch of Congress MLAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-nakul-nath-tests-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79239858.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Why Karnataka politicians are in demand for national roles||BENGALURU: The BJP and Congress have partly overhauled its national team of office-bearers by including several political figures from Karnataka. While the assembly elections are still two-and-half years away, many are surprised as to why politicians, especially second-rung forerunners from the state, are being given important roles at the national level. After elevating Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya as the BJP’s youth wing president, CT Ravi, former minister and national general secretary, on Friday was given charge of three important states — Goa, Maharashtra, and the poll-bound Tamil Nadu. The BJP has been aggressively promoting Surya and Ravi. Surya recently campaigned in states like West Bengal and Bihar with which he has little connection and is now a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology. In September, Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrasekhar was included in the team of national spokespersons. In 2018, senior party functionary BL Santhosh was appointed national general secretary in charge of organisation, the second-most important position after national BJP chief JP Nadda. In the Congress, senior MLAs HK Patil, Dinesh Gundu Rao and Krishna Byre Gowda have also been given important positions. Patil now oversees party affairs in Maharashtra where the Congress is a partner in the ruling coalition, while Rao, a former KPCC president, will take care of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Goa. Gowda is part of the party’s central election authority. The Indian Youth Congress is currently headed by BV Srinivas, who hails from Bhadravati in Shivamogga district. In July 2019, he was appointed in place of Keshav Chand Yadav who resigned from the post after the Lok Sabha polls. “These appointments show the parties are carefully crafting their strategies, both to deepen their footprint in Karnataka and replicate the template in other southern states ahead of the 2024 Lok sabha polls. Karnataka figures are rising in both parties because it is the only state in the south where both the BJP and Congress are strong,” said a political observer. Political analyst Sandeep Shastri said: “The reasons why they are picking talent from Karnataka are different in the case of the BJP and Congress. For BJP, the state is their gateway to the south and where they have leaders of some stature with a support base and background of active participation in frontal organisations. Most of those appointed to scentral organisations are people who fit this bill. For Congress, Karnataka has been a major base and a lot of functionaries from here have always been part of the national organisation and in government. Also, one way of dealing with functionalism is to accommodate leaders in the national organisation to get them away from state politics.” Interestingly, none from Karnataka has made it to the top (national president) except S Nijalingappa who briefly headed the All India Congress Committee in 1968.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/why-karnataka-politicians-are-in-demand-for-national-roles/articleshow/79239859.cms||Manu Aiyappa
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||MP sits on order to bring back translocated tigress from Odisha||BHOPAL: Eleven months after NTCA directed the Madhya Pradesh government to take home translocated tigress ‘Sundari’ from Odisha, the state is yet to comply with the order. Translocated from MP's Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve to Odisha’s Satkosia in June 2018 amid much fanfare, Sundari soon became the tigress no state wanted after killing two humans. Putting an end to the standoff between MP and Odisha, NTCA DIG Sunder Mehra had issued a letter on December 19, 2019, asking the MP forest department to take her back to the place of her origin. Nothing happened. “We will bring it as per our convenience,” MP chief wildlife warden Alok Kumar said, when asked about Sundari’ fate. “The tigress will be kept under observation to study its behaviour. This will take some time. Nothing can be said as of now,” he said. Sources in the department say no step has been initiated so far. The Odisha forest department had sent reminders to MP, but officers here are said to be reluctant. Sundari was released in the wild in Satkosia Tiger Reserve of Odisha’s Angul district on July 6, 2018. She had been moved to Odisha a week after tiger MB2 was translocated there from Kanha. This pair was part of the country's first inter-state tiger translocation project. Sundari was captured in Nov 2018 by Odisha forestersSundari was captured by Odisha forest officials on November 6, 2018, after it killed two people in the STR core area. MB2 suffered a worse fate, it was killed by poachers a week later. Since then, the tigress is in a soft enclosure at Raigoda range, and NTCA suspended the translocation project. NTCA had initially okayed the translocation of six tigers from MP to Odisha, but only two were shifted. The Rs 26 crore project — cost shared between the Centre and state governments — remains suspended. Sundari is accused of killing two people including a woman named Kailashi Sai in Hatibari village on September 12. Angry villagers had ransacked a forest beat house and set ablaze the Tikarpada forest range office. Activist Sangeeta Dongra had filed a petition in Jabalpur high court, alleging that the project was ‘mishandled’, and sought a judicial inquiry. Environmentalist and RTI activist Ajay Dubey had opposed the translocation from the very beginning. It was alleged that a central minister had a personal interest behind the translocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-sits-on-order-to-bring-back-translocated-tigress-from-odisha/articleshow/79239882.cms||P Naveen
November 16, 2020||Indore||CRPF commando on leave goes missing from train in Madhya Pradesh||INDORE: Police in MP's Ratlam are investigating if a body found on the railway tracks in Alot on Saturday morning is that of a CRPF commando reported missing while travelling by train from Delhi to Vadodara. The CoBRA personnel, Ajit Parmar, of 205 Battalion was engaged to be married, says an SOS from the family to the commandant of the unit based in Bihar. On leave, he boarded the New Delhi-Mumbai Central superfast express last Thursday evening and was expected to reach Vadodara the next day. The letter says his fiance spoke with her at 11pm on Thursday and said he would call her again when the train reached Vadodara at 4am the next morning. When the call didn't come, she dialled his number but got no response. The commando's luggage was found at Mumbai station and railway police called his fiance after finding his mobile phone. Cops still trying to identify the bodyOn Saturday morning, villagers in Alot, about 150km from Indore, saw a body lying next to the tracks and called police. The head was smashed, making it difficult to identify him. There was no ID on him, and the only personal effects were a pack of cigarettes, a lighter, mask and a comb, said Alot police station SI Pratap Singh Chandel. The victim was clad in a T-shirt and black trousers and seemed to be in his early 30s. “We are yet to confirm the identity of the victim. But we are receiving queries about a missing CRPF jawan and are in the process of getting facts straight, We did not get any document to prove the identity of the victim,” SI Chandel. Police believe he fell off the train at a sharp bend. The railway tracks turn sharply between Thuria and Chomela railway stations near an under-bridge, Chandel pointed out. “He may have been standing near the open gate of the coach when he fell off,” the investigation officer said. The body was sent for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/crpf-commando-on-leave-goes-missing-from-train-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/79239892.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||Teacher murdered in Madhya Pradesh on Diwali, colleague held||BHOPAL: A teacher was stabbed to death in his home on Diwali night in MP’s Shahdol district, triggering protests by villagers. On Sunday evening, police arrested a colleague of the victim and three others for the murder. The victim, Naval Kishore Patel, 39, and accused Vinod Kol teach at Government Primary School, Khadda, in Beohari region, about 550km from Bhopal. A petty dispute led to the murder, said SP Avdesh Goswami. “Preliminary probe has revealed that they were together for festivities when a dispute broke out,” Goswami said, adding that police are finding out what triggered the murder. Four held in the murder caseFour persons have been arrested in connection with the murder, with Kol being treated as the main accused, said the SP. The incident sparked anger among villagers who gathered outside the local police station, demanding immediate action. They also want a government job for a family member of the victim on compassionate grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/teacher-murdered-in-madhya-pradesh-on-diwali-colleague-held/articleshow/79239869.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||10 accident-prone sections identified along Karnataka’s national highways||BENGALURU: There are 10 accident-prone sections on national highways in Karnataka, says the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). Two of them are located along Hosur Road in Bengaluru. MoRTH has identified the most-vulnerable sections based on the number of fatalities occurred between 2016 and 2018. One such spot is Agara Cross in Ramanagara district (NH-209) where 37 accident deaths were reported. It is followed by Devalapura Cross (NH-50) in Bagalkot where 35 deaths were witnessed in three years. The Hulimavu to Singasandra stretch (23 deaths) and Hebbagodi bus stop near Electronics City along Hosur Road (23 deaths) are most vulnerable. The other sections are: Mayaganahalli (NH-275) in Ramanagara (30 deaths), Base Power to MPCL (NH-167) in Raichur (29); JG Halli (NH-4) in Chitradurga (28); in front of East PS Cross (NH-275) in Mandya (27); Santhekellur (NH-167) in Raichur (24); and Lakshmipura temple near Kaggalipura (NH-209) in Ramanagara district (23). As many as 5,583 blackspots have been identified across the country, of which 551 are in Karnataka. The worst of the 551 blackspots figure in the 10 accident-prone zones. “Identification of these blackspots has helped MoRTH plan rectification efforts. The matter is being reviewed in a systematic manner with a portal being prepared for it and the progress being reviewed at the highest level periodically,” said Giridhar Aramane, secretary, MoRTH. Short-term measures like rumble strips, lighting or signages and crash barriers need to be installed or long term steps like road design/ elevation, road widening, building of road-over-bridge, bypass, flyover, cattle underpass etc have to be taken. In 2019, MoRTH had delegated powers to regional officers for sanction up to Rs 50 crore per blackspot. Waseem Memon of Drive Without Borders, an NGO which campaigned for ‘one nation one road tax’, said: “You can’t call a road a highway unless the government ensures basic facilities. It’s a crime not to make streetlights functional along them. Normally, local bodies turn a blind eye to these problems and blame NHAI for not putting lights. Some miscreants also damage streetlights for mugging and other crimes.” He said there should be a trauma-care facilities for every 50km of highways. “Facilities like recovery vehicle and other roadside assistance should be provided to motorists in need. Most speed breakers along the highways don’t have signage. Our highways lack basic facilities when compared to that of foreign cities,” Waseem Memon added. Pawan Gowda, who regularly travels between Bengaluru and Mysuru, said: “There are hardly any streetlights particularly in places like Ramanagara and Bidadi. It’s unsafe especially for two wheeler riders to travel at night. Now, Bengaluru-Mysuru highway is being upgraded to 10 lanes, but there are not enough signages for motorists and this often cause accidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/10-accident-prone-sections-identified-along-karnatakas-nhs/articleshow/79239887.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Ahead of bypoll, govt OKs modernisation of Maski Nala||RAICHUR: Ahead of the bypoll to Maski assembly constituency, the government has given administrative approval for the detailed project report (DPR) for modernisation of the right and left bank canals of Maski Nala. The move is being seen in political circles as a bid to woo the electorate. At the insistence of Pratapgouda Patil, a possible BJP candidate for Maski, the government has given nod to the DPR that was readied in 2018-19. Patil thinks the move would help galvanise support from farmers. The length of the right and left bank canals of Maski Nala, that was built in 2006, are 11.5km and 10km, respectively. The canal was constructed to irrigate 7,416 acre of agricultural lands in the taluk. However due to poor maintenance at many places, the main and distributary canals were damaged, causing leakage of water. This also resulted in poor reach of water to the 404 hectare land falling in the tail-end. For many years, tail-enders were unable to irrigate their land for lack of water, prompting farmers to demand modernisation of canals. Political analysts say farmers were upset with Patil for his alleged failure to heed their demand. Venkatesh from Maski said Patil thinks the project could help him do damage control in the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ahead-of-bypoll-govt-oks-modernisation-of-maski-nala/articleshow/79239913.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Panna tigress run over on highway||BHOPAL: An 11-month-old tiger cub was run over on Saturday morning on a highway that cuts through the buffer area of Panna Tiger Reserve (PTR) in Madhya Pradesh. It has been identified as P234-33, a female, born to tigress P234 in its third litter. Tiger cubs usually stay with their mother till around two years. PTR field director Uttam Sharma told TOI that the incident was reported to him around 6.15am. “A truck driver saw the tigress' carcass around 5.30am and informed a dhaba owner who alerted our team,” Sharma said. The accident site is around 15km from the district headquarters, and 400km from Bhopal. Sharma said the tigress must have been hit between 4am and 5am as a patrol unit had crossed the area around 3.30am and there was nothing at that time. PTR officers have collected a list of all the vehicles that passed through this stretch from 1am to 6am and will check each of them. “It’s a long list to be examined. This might take some time. But initially it seems that the tigress got killed in road accident,” officer added. Panna has lost five of its tigers in the last few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-panna-tigress-run-over-on-highway/articleshow/79239904.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Faridabad||To safeguard wildlife on Gurugram-Faridabad road, PWD needs proof it exists||GURUGRAM: As many as three leopards have been killed while crossing the Gurugram-Faridabad road in the past six years. The public works department (PWD), however, is still not convinced that the road and adjoining areas are hotspots for wildlife. The wildlife department has sent proposals for the installation of speed barriers and thermoplastic rumble strips at accident-prone areas on highways around Gurugram, including Gurugram-Faridabad road and Ballabgarh-Sohna road, several times to PWD. The proposal is lying in limbo even after repeated reminders to PWD for action, forest officials said. In its reply to the forest department, PWD stated in a letter on Thursday that as no animal has lost its life in road accidents in these stretches in the last two years and it has observed that these stretches are not hotspots for wildlife, putting thermoplastic rumble strips is not necessary. A Wildlife Institute of India (WII) report in 2017, however, had categorically pointed out that the belt is a rich leopard habitat and that this region of the Aravalis has an abundance of wildlife. The forest department installed signage along the Pali stretch last week, alerting commuters about the presence of wildlife in the area and advising them to drive slowly. PWD officials said the department still needs proof of presence of wildlife before it starts any action on these stretches. “We have checked with the concessionaire about putting thermoplastic rumble strips on Gurugram-Faridabad road and Ballabhgarh-Sohna road. We were told that as per the concessionaire agreement, there is no provision of thermoplastic rumble strips on those roads. Also, we have observed that in the last two years no wild animal has lost its life on Bandhwari and Pali police chowks,” said a senior PWD official. The official added, “It has been observed by the safety officer that no hotspot or known paths were taken by wild animals for crossing the road. We do not have any data on wildlife deaths, nor do we have got any information regarding removal of carcasses from these stretches in the last two years.” Forest officials, meanwhile, said they had informed PWD about deaths of wildlife on the stretches. “We have already installed signage on the stretches to alert commuters about the movement of wildlife in the area. We have also sent a proposal to PWD for setting up speed barriers and thermoplastic rumble strips,” said R Dangi, district forest officer (wildlife), Gurugram. Environmental activists were incensed as they pointed out incidents of wildlife deaths on that particular stretch. “A nine-year-old male leopard was killed on October 1 this year. Prior to this, on the same road at Pali, one more leopard was crushed to death in January 2019. How can PWD not have data about these deaths? The lack of coordination between departments is the cause of lack of safety for wildlife in the region,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based activist. She also pointed out that it is high time that the Haryana government imposes speed restrictions of 40-50km per hour on roads in the way of leopard and wildlife habitats to avoid any further deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/to-safeguard-wildlife-on-gurgaon-faridabad-road-pwd-needs-proof-it-exists/articleshow/79240027.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||To safeguard wildlife on Gurugram-Faridabad road, PWD needs proof it exists||GURUGRAM: As many as three leopards have been killed while crossing the Gurugram-Faridabad road in the past six years. The public works department (PWD), however, is still not convinced that the road and adjoining areas are hotspots for wildlife. The wildlife department has sent proposals for the installation of speed barriers and thermoplastic rumble strips at accident-prone areas on highways around Gurugram, including Gurugram-Faridabad road and Ballabgarh-Sohna road, several times to PWD. The proposal is lying in limbo even after repeated reminders to PWD for action, forest officials said. In its reply to the forest department, PWD stated in a letter on Thursday that as no animal has lost its life in road accidents in these stretches in the last two years and it has observed that these stretches are not hotspots for wildlife, putting thermoplastic rumble strips is not necessary. A Wildlife Institute of India (WII) report in 2017, however, had categorically pointed out that the belt is a rich leopard habitat and that this region of the Aravalis has an abundance of wildlife. The forest department installed signage along the Pali stretch last week, alerting commuters about the presence of wildlife in the area and advising them to drive slowly. PWD officials said the department still needs proof of presence of wildlife before it starts any action on these stretches. “We have checked with the concessionaire about putting thermoplastic rumble strips on Gurugram-Faridabad road and Ballabhgarh-Sohna road. We were told that as per the concessionaire agreement, there is no provision of thermoplastic rumble strips on those roads. Also, we have observed that in the last two years no wild animal has lost its life on Bandhwari and Pali police chowks,” said a senior PWD official. The official added, “It has been observed by the safety officer that no hotspot or known paths were taken by wild animals for crossing the road. We do not have any data on wildlife deaths, nor do we have got any information regarding removal of carcasses from these stretches in the last two years.” Forest officials, meanwhile, said they had informed PWD about deaths of wildlife on the stretches. “We have already installed signage on the stretches to alert commuters about the movement of wildlife in the area. We have also sent a proposal to PWD for setting up speed barriers and thermoplastic rumble strips,” said R Dangi, district forest officer (wildlife), Gurugram. Environmental activists were incensed as they pointed out incidents of wildlife deaths on that particular stretch. “A nine-year-old male leopard was killed on October 1 this year. Prior to this, on the same road at Pali, one more leopard was crushed to death in January 2019. How can PWD not have data about these deaths? The lack of coordination between departments is the cause of lack of safety for wildlife in the region,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, a city-based activist. She also pointed out that it is high time that the Haryana government imposes speed restrictions of 40-50km per hour on roads in the way of leopard and wildlife habitats to avoid any further deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/to-safeguard-wildlife-on-gurgaon-faridabad-road-pwd-needs-proof-it-exists/articleshow/79239209.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: After NEET, student runs from pillar to post to get disability certificate||BENGALURU: If cracking NEET (National Eligibility cum Entrance Test) was tough, those opting for person with disability (PWD) quota have another equally daunting challenge to overcome — getting a disability certificate. The Medical Counselling Committee, which oversees admissions at the national level, has identified only 12 hospitals in the country that can issue disability certificate for all-India quota candidates, and none of them is in Karnataka. For Karnataka students, the closest are Madras Medical College, Chennai; Goa Medical College, Goa; Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram and Grant Government Medical College, JJ Hospital compound, Mumbai. The other centres are in New Delhi, Kolkata, Jaipur, Chandigarh, Agartala and Varanasi. The All India Institute of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation in Mumbai is available for students with locomotor disability only. Students also complain of repeat disability certification, making them run from pillar to post, in times of a pandemic. Exhausting experienceFor Divya (name changed on request), a student suffering from thalassemia, the last one week has been hectic. “I travelled to Chennai to get a disability certificate for the all-India quota. However, the hematologist wasn’t available on the first day. We had to stay overnight in a hotel, which we weren’t prepared for. The second day, the blood test was done, but the report was unavailable. Finally, we received the certificate on the third day. Even for the blood test, I had to go to three different labs for each of the test, as there was no uniform collection centre,” says Divya. For Divya, the ordeal didn’t end there. While she got into a medical college through the all-India quota, she wants to attend the state counselling in order to try for a college of her preference. However, the committee at Karnataka Examinations Authority did not accept the disability certificate from Madras Medical College and she was asked to get a certificate from Bangalore Medical College (BMC), the designated authority in the state. Despite permanent docuOn Friday, she was at BMC and took an entire day to complete the process before submitting the document. “Just to get a certificate, we had to make rounds of different hospitals and offices, even in different states, and that too for days. Adding to that was the anxiety that we could be disqualified. This is despite me having a permanent disability certificate. The process has been exhausting and unnecessary,” she said, adding the sentiments are similar among other candidates like her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-after-neet-student-runs-from-pillar-to-post-to-get-disability-certificate/articleshow/79239940.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: RWA charges extra, Suncity residents file police complaint||GURUGRAM: The residents of Suncity, a residential township located on Golf Course Road, have alleged that they are being harassed by the RWA of the colony. They have filed a police complaint demanding action after the Suncity RWA raised Value Added Services (VAS) invoice to the residents. “We completely oppose this move. It is unlawful and arbitrary in nature,” said one of the residents. The residents pointed out that all the services have been handed over to the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) in March 2019 for which they are paying taxes to the civic body in the form of house tax, sewerage and water bills. Deepak Hans, one of the residents of Suncity, said, “All the statutory services, including roads, water, parks, sewerage, streetlights, have been maintained by the MCG since March last year. Although the VAS are optional, the charge is being imposed upon us by the RWA without any discussion. There is no Act stated by the Haryana government which empowers the RWA to collect VAS charges in the plotted township wherein the ownership lies with the government authorities which is MCG in our case.” The residents alleged that they are receiving notices and phone calls harassing them to pay VAS charges to the RWA, failing which all the services will be withdrawn. Meanwhile, the RWA maintained that they are not doing anything illegal and have acted within the law. “We are providing added services, including security, quick response team, emergency call services for senior citizens, and cleanliness of vacant plots which incurred cost. We have acted within the law and are allowed by the office of district registrar to charge for added services.” said Kuldeep Rana, Suncity RWA president.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rwa-charges-extra-suncity-residents-file-police-complaint/articleshow/79239174.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Two years after takeover order, builders yet to finish infra work||GURUGRAM: The developers of licenced colonies, whose takeover by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) was announced two years ago, have neither completed their pending infrastructure work nor paid the civic body to do it on their behalf. The department of town and country planning had in 2018 approved the takeover of Palam Vlhar, Sushant Lok l and DLF phases 1, 2 and 3 by the MCG. According to the detailed project report that was prepared then, the developers of these colonies were supposed to complete all infrastructure work before the takeover. In case, the builders were not in a position to complete the pending infrastructure, they were supposed to pay the MCG to get the work done. In DLF areas, the civic body has already started undertaking development work like road re-carpeting and water supply. Here, residents had for long been complaining about the lack of basic amenities to their respective councillors. After these colonies are taken over, MCG will be responsible for the maintenance of roads, water and sewerage systems, parks, as well as other infrastructure work. The colonies are maintained by their developers at present. Councillor RS Rathi, a resident of DLF 1, said, “It’s been close to two years since the order to take over DLF 1, 2 and 3 was issued. However, more than 50% of the work is still incomplete. As a result, all of us are suffering.” According to Rathi, these colonies should be taken over immediately by the civic authority without any delay. Rahul Chandola, another resident of DLF 1, said, “For long, we have been demanding the takeover of DLF areas. Lack of basic amenities has become a major concern for residents here.” Repeated calls and messages to the developers failed to elicit any response. Meanwhile, the municipal commissioner has directed for formation of ward committees for assisting the councillors in managing civic issues. “To attend day-to-day complaints and grievances in a satisfactory manner, ward managers need to be provided to ward committees,” Rathi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/2-years-after-takeover-order-builders-yet-to-finish-infra-work/articleshow/79239116.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||515 test +ve, tally nears 40,000 mark in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The city’s Covid-19 tally is inching closer to the 40,000 mark after it reported 515 new cases on Sunday. Gurugram has a total of 39,387 cases now. The health department said 667 people recovered on Sunday, bringing the total number of recoveries to 33,156. An official said one person succumbed to the infection in the past 24 hours. Till date, 242 people have died of Covid in the city, of whom 186 had comorbidities. Gurugram has been witnessing a rise in Covid cases again since October 21. The daily positivity rate is around 15% as the number of fresh cases has been rising daily. The health department will be increasing the capacity of hospital beds dedicated for Covid patients, as the city is likely to get more than 1,000 cases daily after Diwali, officials said. On Sunday, 58 people were sent to institutional quarantine facilities. Gurugram has a total of 5,990 active cases, of which 5,575 are in home isolation. The health authorities have collected 2,524 samples in the past 24 hours for antigen and RT-PCR tests. So far, 4,11,297 people have been put under surveillance in the city. The health department has sent 4,07,981 samples for testing, of which 3,66,070 returned negative. Cong’s Ahmed Patel in ICU at Medanta Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, who tested positive for Covid-19 a few weeks ago, has now been admitted to the ICU of Medanta — The Medicity for further treatment. He is on ventilator and inotropic support. His lungs are not improving, leading to multiple organ dysfunction, doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/515-test-ve-tally-nears-40k-mark/articleshow/79239181.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Accused in Citibank fraud held||GURUGRAM: A man allegedly involved in a Rs 400 crore Citibank fraud of 2010 has been arrested from Dehradun. Shivraj Puri, who had been arrested earlier too, was declared an offender after he didn’t appear for a hearing in court. Police said he had committed several frauds after being released on bail and was declared a proclaimed offender. “He had committed a fraud of Rs 400 crore in 2010 and an FIR in the matter had been registered at DLF phase 2 police station,” ACP Preet Pal Sangwan said in a statement on Sunday. Shivraj, who was out on bail, continued to cheat people on the pretext of high returns even after his release and several cases have been registered against him at different police stations. Three cases of fraud have been filed against Shivraj in Gurugram. Sangwan said the Sikanderpur crime branch had received a tip-off about Shivraj’s whereabouts on Friday and nabbed him from Dehradun. “The accused was produced in court on Saturday and was remanded in police custody,” the officer added. In custody, Shivraj would be questioned about his involvement in other fraud cases and his accomplices, he added. In 2010, the Citibank fraud had hit several headlines across the country. Apart from Gurugram police, a team of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) had also conducted separate investigations in connection with the huge fraud.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/accused-in-citibank-fraud-held/articleshow/79239211.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Rod pierces man, taken out after 2-hour surgery||GHAZIABAD: A 22-year-old man, who fell off his bike on an under-construction road after being hit by a truck and got pierced by a 16cm long iron rod, was saved after a two-hour-long surgery. Doctors at Yashoda Hospital in Nehru Nagar, where the man was taken to after the accident, used the thoracotomy technique to save him. On November 8, Prashant Kumar, a resident of Muradnagar, was riding his motorcycle on Jalalpur Road when a truck hit him. The collision was so severe that he was thrown off the bike and fell on the side of the road that was still being laid. Several iron rods and bars were lying there and Prashant fell on one of them. The rod had pierced the young man's chest and reached the lungs, wounding it critically. He was first taken to a private hospital in Muradnagar, but doctors there referred him to Yashoda seeing his condition. Senior laparoscopic and trauma surgeon Dr Ashish Gautam said, "The man had a deep wound in the right chest and several of his ribs were broken. The thick rod had damaged the lungs as well. By the time he reached the hospital, the patient had lost so much blood that we would have lost him had we not done the surgery immediately. We adopted the thoracotomy technique, which helped stop the bleeding from the lungs." Under thoracotomy procedure, an incision is made between the ribs in the chest wall to operate on the lungs. Doctors said such injuries are extremely dangerous and excessive bleeding can lead to death if the patient is not taken to a hospital immediately. "Now, the patient is healthy and he would be discharged in a couple of days," Dr Gautam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-rod-pierces-man-taken-out-after-2-hour-surgery/articleshow/79239972.cms||Aditya Dev
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Businesswoman accuses Bengaluru cop of rape||BENGALURU: A 27-year-old sub-inspector attached with Chamarajpet police station is in trouble after a 30-year-old woman filed a rape complaint against him at Dharmasthala police station recently. The officer, however, alleged that the woman tried to blackmail him to extort Rs 10 lakh. The police officer is Vishwanatha Biradar of CAR Police Quarters at Sirsi Circle, Mysuru Road, while the complainant is a businesswoman from south Bengaluru. The woman, in her complaint, said she had approached Chamarajpet police three months ago to register a laptop-theft case. At that time, the PSI and the woman struck a friendship, became close and reportedly decided to marry. However, things went wrong after the duo reached Dharmasthala in Dakshina Kannada on November 10 to tie the knot. According to Dharmsthala police, the two stayed in a guest house, where Biradar allegedly sexually assaulted the woman. “After I filed the theft case, we exchanged phone numbers. Later, he started telling me that he loves me and demanded Rs 12 lakh. He asked me to meet him to discuss something personal, but I declined. Later, he asked me to meet him to share something related to the laptop case and took me to the CID office. He repeatedly kept telling me that he was in love with me. I agreed to marry him on October 8 and we decided to tie the knot in Dharmasthala. We took a room in a guest house, where he sexually assaulted me against my wish. He bit me all over my body. Later, on November 11, he declined to marry me,” the woman alleged in her complaint. Police registered a case under IPC sections 376 (rape) and 323 (assault) against Biradar. Meanwhile, Biradar filed a counter-complaint with Dharmasthala police, alleging the woman had threatened to lodge a false complaint of rape against him if he failed to pay her Rs 10 lakh. “After filing the theft case in August, she would unnecessarily call me daily. She asked me to meet her at Basavanagudi on November 8 and demanded that I marry her. I declined saying I was engaged. But a few minutes later, she threatened to kill herself and leave behind a suicide note accusing me of pushing her to take the extreme step. The next day, she took me to Dharmasthala, where she demanded Rs 10 lakh and threatened to file a rape complaint and ruin my life and reputatoin if I did not do so,” Biradar alleged. Dharmasthala police said the woman had filed similar cases against at least three other persons earlier in various police stations in Bengaluru. Considering Biradar’s complaint and the fact that the previous cases she had registered were also of similar nature, police have taken up a criminal case against her too. The woman has been booked her under IPC section 389 (putting a person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/businesswoman-accuses-bengaluru-cop-of-rape/articleshow/79239963.cms||Santosh kumar.B
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Fake cops rob goldsmith of yellow metal worth Rs 30 lakh||BENGALURU: A gang disguised as police personnel fled with gold worth Rs 30 lakh from a goldsmith’s workshop in Tigalarapet, Nagarathpet Cross on Wednesday. Goldsmith Karthik, who is from West Bengal and a resident of Tigalarapet, has been running a workshop out of his house for 10 years. According to Karthik’s complaint, around 3pm on Wednesday, four persons in police attire came to his house in a car. He, however, was not at home at that time. About nine workers at the workshop had a shock when the ‘cops’ told them they were running the business illegally and ‘seized’ gold ornaments. Before leaving the spot, they told the employees that their owner should come to Halasuru Gate police station. Karthik later went to the police station to find that none from there had visited his workplace. After analysing CCTV footage, police confirmed the men were fake cops. Halasuru Gate police said that about 300gm of gold had gone missing, but as per Karthik’s estimate, the quantity was 825gm worth Rs 30 lakh. Karthik said all his workers are from West Bengal. “Recently, there was a fight with the building owner’s son, who lives on the ground floor and I suspect his involvement in this,” he added. Neighbours alleged Karthik was running the place illegally and was causing a lot of noise. Police said they have picked up four people in connection with the robbery but stopped short of giving details, citing investigations are under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-fake-cops-rob-goldsmith-of-yellow-metal-worth-rs-30-lakh/articleshow/79239987.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Missed trip; airline told to refund tennis player, father’s fare||BENGALURU: A teenage tennis player from the city and her father have sued a private airline for failing to make alternative arrangements for her travel to Indore for a tournament. The consumer forum, while not ordering for compensation, has directed the airline to refund the duo’s ticket fare, reimburse their hotel accommodation charges and pay their litigation expenses for the inconvenience caused. Chitali Narde, who claimed to be a player in the International Tennis Federation (ITF) junior circuit, had booked tickets (via Mumbai) for January 22, 2016 to take part in an Indore tournament. Adinath Narde was meant to accompany his daughter. However, the Vistara flight was delayed on the day and airline representatives failed to provide a clear reason. Following a delay in the aircraft reaching Bengaluru from Delhi due to bad weather, Narde couldn’t fly out in time for her match. Adinath contacted the airline but it refused to refund the ticket fare. In July 2016, he lodged a complaint with Bangalore Urban 2nd Additional Disputes Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission against Tata SIA Airlines Ltd, which operates Vistara, on behalf on his minor daughter, demanding refund and suitable compensation. While Narde’s attorney presented the case, the airline’s lawyer argued that flight delay due to weather conditions is unavoidable in the aviation sector and can’t be considered deficiency of service. After proceedings which lasted four years and four months, judges of the forum said Narde’s side had failed to furnish necessary documents to prove she had missed a crucial tennis tournament in Indore and thus the need for compensation doesn’t arise. However, the court noted the airline had not refunded the money for the trip the teenager and her father failed to take due to delay in operations. In a verdict pronounced on October 21, 2020, the judges ordered Tata SIA Airlines Ltd to refund Rs 17,316 towards air tickets and Rs 2,242 towards hotel bookings of the teenager and her father. The airline was also told to pay Rs 5,000 towards litigation expenses. All payments have to be made within 60 days of the order date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/missed-trip-airline-told-to-refund-tennis-player-fathers-fare/articleshow/79240011.cms||Petlee Peter
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Inspector, two others named as accused in extortion case||BENGALURU: The inspector of APMC/ Navanagar police station has been named as an accused in the FIR filed in connection with an extortion case in Hubballi. Inspector Prabhu Surin has been named in the FIR, along with Shivlila Patil and Santosh Kumar Guddapurmath, both of whom are residents of Bengaluru. As per the complaint filed by 74-year-old Omkargouda Patil, a retired officer, the trio extorted 2kg of gold worth Rs 1 crore from him. However, Surin claimed it was an issue concerning Omkargouda's family. Son died in England“The complainant’s son died in England, and an investigation into that is under way there. However, Omkargouda asked us to register a case against his daughter-in-law Shivalila and her brother Santosh Kumar, blaming them for the his son’s death. We refused to file the complaint, saying the death had occurred in England,” Surin told TOI.The inspector added that the complainant had himself handed over the gold to Shivalila, and was now claiming that he had been threatened to do so. “All the allegations levelled against the three of us are baseless,” Surin said. Assistant commissioner of police SM Ragi, who is investigating the case, said an FIR had been registered following directions issued by the court in Hubballi to file a case based on the said complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-inspector-two-others-named-as-accused-in-extortion-case/articleshow/79240030.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||New civic body for Manesar will propel investment, say industries||GURUGRAM: The state government’s decision to form a separate municipal corporation for Manesar has been welcomed by industry owners as well as local residents as it brings along a hope for better infrastructure and amenities in the industrial area and nearby villages. However, the development comes at a time when the township is losing sheen among investors as an industrial destination due to higher costs and fewer benefits. According to industry bodies, the move will definitely help make Manesar more lucrative to the investors. “The new municipal corporation will ensure better infrastructure development in Manesar and the surrounding areas, which will be a big advantage for the industry,” said PK Yadav, president of IMT Manesar Industrial Association. Along with the improvement in infrastructure and the amenities, industries will also have a huge cost benefit with a new corporation being formed. “Right now, we pay around Rs 24 per sq ft for maintenance to HSIIDC. But with the formation of a corporation, this cost will go down more than twice as maintenance charges will be replaced by property taxes,” said Manmohan Gaind of Manesar Industrial Welfare Association. However, having been disappointed by the state government on several earlier occasions, industries are now wary of premature celebrations. “We welcome the CM’s announcement but it will only benefit us if the plan is actually implemented and not just left on paper,” said Pankaj Gupta, who runs an export unit in Manesar. The residents living in the areas surrounding Manesar are also seeing this as a substantial move towards the development of basic services such as internal roads and drains in their sectors. As of now, these sectors do not come under MCG and hence no government body is answerable for the lack of these services. Amit Gupta, a resident of Microtek Greenburg in Sector 86, said: “The government’s initiative to create a new municipal body for the new Gurugram area is a step in the right direction. This will propel the development of this area, which seems to be overlooked for a long time. Even after paying so much taxes, we have been deprived of basic amenities like water, sewer and roads for many years now.” However, many residents believe that an extension of MCG rather than a new civic body might be more beneficial for them. Praveen Malik, vice-president of United Association of New Gurugram, said: “The new corporation is the best option, but it should be considered as MCG-2 not a separate civic body for Manesar. Otherwise, it will not be viable and become a mere eyewash. We have been demanding the expansion plan of MCG for years, which is easy to implement along the new sectors from 58-115, and Manesar can also be a part of it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/new-civic-body-for-manesar-will-propel-investment-say-industries/articleshow/79239118.cms||Shubhra Pant
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Hospitals see fewer cracker injuries||BENGALURU: Between the pandemic and the ban on non-green crackers, city hospitals saw very few patients walk in with cracker related injuries till Sunday evening. Minto eye hospital reported only three such cases, which include a 12-year-old from Vijayananda Nagar, who sustained defects in the corneal epithelium and superficial facial burns on the nose and upper lid, and another related to a 13-year-old boy. Last year, Minto had seen 48 cracker-related injury cases. Narayana Nethralaya got four cases on Saturday night, of which three were of children below 10 years and the fourth, a 17 year old. None were severe. Shankara Eye Hospital received five cases — two children and three adults. A 14-year-old boy had a blood clot and required immediate intervention; others weren’t severe cases, the hospital informed. Of these, four were bystanders. The hospitals pointed out that the number of cases that have come to them is less when compared to last year. “In 2019, we had seen around 35 cases. We are hoping to witness less cases this time as not many crackers are being burst because of the ban and as well as the pandemic,” said Dr Kaushik Murali, Shankara Eye Hospital. Hospitals are hoping the numbers would remain low in the coming days too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-hospitals-see-fewer-cracker-injuries/articleshow/79240049.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kozhikode||Plant a tree, forget me: One-time ward member’s vote of thanks||KOZHIKODE: Gifts and promises, though unfair, had been part of elections for long but this grama panchayat member in Malappuram has completed his tenure by distributing two banana suckers (rhizome planting material) each to 480 households in his ward, reminding them of the need for agricultural self-reliance. K Manoj, CPI member of Bhumikuth ward of Karulayi grama panchayat, has also included a ‘thank you’ card to all residents, most of them farmers. “The current times call for enhanced grassroot-level focus on agriculture. It has been reinforced all the more by the Covid-19 pandemic, which has made governments focus on food security through projects like Subiksha Keralam. There is renewed interest among people in agriculture and the panchayat had taken up several activities during the last five years. I am not contesting in the upcoming elections and I thought I will end my tenure in a productive way that helps in making every household take a small step in agricultural self-reliance,” Manoj said. ‘People were enthusiastic to get the planting material’The banana suckers, including one of a Nendran variety which will flower in the fifth month and one belonging to the poovan variety, were delivered to all households by volunteers of three arts and sports clubs in the ward. Around 1,000 banana suckers were procured from Mukkam in Kozhikode for the purpose. “People were very enthusiastic to receive the planting material and have said that they will be tending to them properly. At least a few of them will expand the cultivation next year using the banana suckers they get from the plant after the harvest,” Manoj said. His interest in farming was evident earlier too when he formed a farmer self-help group in the ward along with five others and cultivated upland rice in one hectare of land this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/plant-a-tree-forget-me-one-time-ward-members-vote-of-thanks/articleshow/79240050.cms||K R Rajeev
November 16, 2020||Business||BPCL bids close today, eyes on RIL||NEW DELHI: Initial bids for privatisation of Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) will close on Monday amid indications that UK’s BP, Total of France and Saudi Aramco are unlikely to bid. The government, which is selling its entire — nearly 53% — stake in the company, had on four occasions extended the date of putting in the preliminary expression of interest. The acquisition makes sense for companies which can double the profit by growing the business as well as through operational efficiencies and synergies with existing business in half that timeframe. RIL, which operates the world’s largest single location oil refining complex and has ambitions to retail fuel, can be one such company, but it has remained tightlipped about its intentions. Sources said BPCL annually makes a profit of about Rs 8,000 crore and at this pace it would take 8-9 years for the investor to recover the bid amount of over Rs 70,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bpcl-bids-close-today-eyes-on-ril/articleshow/79240057.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Noida||Noida: Waste agency asks for dues, locals unwilling to pay up||NOIDA: The agency roped in by Noida Authority for door-to-door waste collection has initiated a special drive to recover dues from individual households and commercial establishment owners. But the process to recover the dues is meeting with stiff resistance since a lot of families are refraining from making the payments. Vehicles mounted with public address systems are going around in the residential sectors, urging defaulters to pay up. Engaged for door-to-door waste collection, AG Enviro Infra Projects Pvt Ltd covers about 2.35 lakh units, of which 2.06 lakh are residential. The agency levies between Rs 25 and Rs 100 on individual households as per the size of the plots. It began the collection work in December last year. The process to collect user charges was hit during the Covid lockdown though waste collection was taking place. From September, the agency started collecting money from the waste generators. “We began work in December last year. Hence we are calculating the user charges from December. We have got the money from highrise buildings. But 40% of families staying in residential colonies are unwilling to pay the dues,” said a senior official from the agency, who oversees the operations in Noida. Explaining the reason, a resident of A block in Sector 61, Dharmendra Singh, said, “The agency is asking us to pay charges for the past one year. Though the amount is nominal, I still do not approve of this demand. I am unable to recollect the exact date or month when the waste collection process had begun in my colony. I am ready to pay from March since I remember waste was being collected during the lockdown.” Senior project engineer (public health) at Noida Authority, SC Mishra, said, “The agency has been asked to levy charges from December. Those who do not have cash on them can pay digitally too.” Officers of the agency, meanwhile, are saying that they will furnish a list containing the addresses of the defaulters to Noida Authority for further action. The agency collects waste from 1.53 lakh flats, 53,000 houses and 28,000 commercial establishments in a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/waste-agency-asks-for-dues-locals-unwilling-to-pay-up/articleshow/79239036.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Senior citizen loses Rs 9 lakh in bid to collect lottery prize||BENGALURU: A 62-year-old woman from Vidyaranyapura has lost Rs 9.3 lakh to cybercriminals who approached her as representatives of a television game show, claiming she had won Rs 25 lakh as prize. Believing them, Sudha (name changed) paid Rs 9.3 lakh in multiple transactions to them between October 21 and November 6. On October 28, Sudha received a call from a person who informed her that she had won Rs 25 lakh from a popular show. Later, he told her that the prize money had been increased to Rs 1 crore and she needed to pay some charges, including advance income tax to claim the amount. “She transferred Rs 9.25 lakh to the conmen but later spoke to her friends and relatives and realised she had been cheated. We have taken up a case,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-senior-citizen-loses-rs-9-lakh-in-bid-to-collect-lottery-prize/articleshow/79240063.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Inconsistency at the helm affected projects at Maradu||KOCHI: Maradu municipality witnessed five chairpersons and four vice-chairpersons running the council in the past five years, a rare honour which no local body can take credit in Ernakulam. The inconsistency, due to thin margin for both UDF and LDF, in governance has also affected development projects. Maradu fared poorly in utilization of plan fund during the past few years of the council. Despite witnessing mushrooming of high-rises, many violating coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms, ordinary people find it difficult to get approval for constructing houses, citing the same coastal norms. The local body was in the news after the Supreme Court ordered demolition of four apartment complexes constructed in violation of CRZ norms. After the demolition in January this year, four or five families, whose applications for constructing houses were entangled in the coastal rules, got approval. The opposition blames the UDF, which was in power for nearly four years, for poor waste management, delay in beginning works under Life Mission and other public works in the local body limit. While admitting that the inconsistency at the helm resulted in underutilization of plan fund in final years, UDF said they could manage to take forward development activities. “The demolition order of the SC came unexpectedly. Though the development works were delayed owing to the activities related to demolition procedures, the local body could overcome all that. The inconsistency at the helm affected the works in the final years. The local body utilized full amount in the early years and won award from the then local body minister K T Jaleel. We also initiated some other projects, including plastic shredding unit,” said former chairperson of the municipality Suneela Sibi. LDF is hopeful of winning majority of the divisions in the local body in the upcoming election, though it faces some dissidents in some divisions. Both LDF and UDF have not finalized the list of candidates. “We have suggested using poramboke land for constructing houses for homeless under the Life Mission. But no initiative has been taken so far. Though a shredding unit has been set up, it is not fully functional. No concrete steps were taken for the treatment of solid waste. But they are on an inauguration spree,” said LDF councillor M V Ullas. The major highlight of the upcoming election is that K A Devassy of the LDF will not be contesting from Maradu municipality. It was during his tenure as Maradu panchayat president that the demolished apartment complexes secured permission for construction. Though he was questioned by the vigilance, there is no headway after that.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-inconsistency-at-the-helm-affected-projects-at-maradu/articleshow/79240072.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Business||Akshaya Patra’s audit committee had raised serious issues||BENGALURU: All’s not well in God’s own kitchen. The resignation of four high-profile independent trustees of the Akshaya Patra Foundation (APF) this year, about which TOI reported on Sunday, is said to be the result of serious differences between those who resigned on the one hand, and the chairman and vice-chairman of APF on the other. The differences were around the close relationship between APF and certain temple trusts, and the failure of efforts to ensure an arms-length relationship between the two to ensure good and transparent governance. The four who resigned include former Infosys CFOs Mohandas Pai and V Balakrishnan, Raj Kondur, who co-founded Chrys Capital, and Abhay Jain, advisor to Manipal Education & Medical Group. The four were closely involved in APF’s founding 20 years ago, and had been instrumental, as independent trustees, in building APF into the massive organisation it is today – one that feeds 1.8 million children in 19,039 government and government-aided schools across 12 states and two union territories. The budget it handles now is humongous. In 2019-20, it received Rs 248 crore as grants and cash subsidy, and Rs 352 crore as public donations. Sources told TOI that several rounds of deliberations to address issues hit a stalemate. When TOI asked APF vice-chairman Chanchalapathi Dasa on the governance issues that led to the resignations, he said, “Resignations are not related to governance issues or related-party transaction.” However, TOI has accessed a seven-page communication written by one of APF’s audit committee members to the board that highlights several lapses, including lack of basic internal financial control and financial discipline, absence of arm’s length relationship between APF and temple trusts, conflicts of interest, lack of records/audit trail, and a chain of command outside the foundation. The fundamental charge is that key functionaries of temple trusts such as Hare Krishna Foundation, Iskcon, Bangalore, and Touchstone Foundation – which played important roles in APF’s founding – are also key functionaries in APF at the board level and at unit levels, leading to serious accountability issues. The audit note points out, for instance, that APF meal costs are far higher than for similar meals offered by other similar organisations. “Any amount of questioning/review didn’t yield any result because the individual kitchens are run by missionary unit presidents who never demonstrated their accountability to the AP (Akshaya Patra) organisation,” the note said. Suresh Senapaty (left) and Raj KondurKondur, who was a member of the audit committee till he stepped down, confirmed some of the issues found during TOI’s investigation. “We got multiple whistle-blower complaints highlighting serious issues at several Akshaya Patra locations. Some complaints were investigated and found to be accurate, and others were under investigation. Rather than address these with the urgency they deserved, we instead got resistance, and urgency around a witch-hunt from the Iskcon-affiliated trustees which ignored the findings of the audit committee. The previous members of the audit committee have forwarded their findings and recommendations to the appropriate forums. We hope a thorough and credible investigation is conducted on these matters,” he said. APF’s Chanchalapathi Dasa acknowledged to TOI the receipt of whistleblower complaints. He said, “The matter was investigated under the supervision of the audit committee, recoveries made and action taken on persons involved.” He said the newly appointed chairman of the audit committee will review related-party transactions for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, and advise the organisation for any required remedial actions. Asked about Chanchalapathi Dasa’s responses to TOI’s questions, Suresh Senapaty, former Wipro CFO and former member of APF's audit committee, said, "Responses contained in these questions are selective and do not completely reflect the truth. While it is the prerogative of the Foundation and its responsible office bearers to be transparent or choose not to comment, silence on my part to this mail can be misconstrued as my endorsement of these responses which may not be appropriate. I am unable to comment anything more, nor am I seeking to encourage any media trial on these matters which are very serious and require immediate attention on the part of the office bearers." The audit note to the board said that that the “conflicting position of trusteeship of temple trusts held by the chairman (Madhu Pandit Dasa) and vice-chairman of the Foundation including their reluctance to recuse themselves from such (related-party) investigation proceedings is a serious bottleneck in ensuring a fair investigation including any credible follow-up/corrective action resulting from such investigation."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/akshaya-patras-audit-panel-had-raised-questions/articleshow/79240083.cms||Shilpa Phadnis
November 16, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Techie ends life||BENGALURU: A 26-year-old software professional hanged herself from the ceiling of her flat in Ramamurthy Nagar on Saturday night, allegedly due to harassment by her husband and in-laws. Bhuvana’s body was found by her husband, Rakesh. The couple from Kodagu had married five months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-techie-ends-life/articleshow/79240087.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Major fronts yet to fix candidates in some seats||KOCHI: With the announcement of local body polls, all the major fronts have started measures to improve their strength in the Ernakulam district panchayat. With UDF is trying to retain power, the LDF attempt will be to wrest the district panchayat. While LDF is yet to announce the candidate for the Karukutty division from where CPM candidate is to contest, Congress hasn’t announced the names of candidates in three out of the total 20 wards from where the party candidates will be contesting. Though all the fronts have started poll-related activities, the campaign is yet to gain full steam. “We are sure that UDF will be able to retain the panchayat for a third consecutive term. We have done a lot of projects which have been beneficial to the public. Moreover, the corruption and antipeople rule of the LDF government will be an additional reason for the public to vote for us,” a UDF leader said. At the same time, LDF leaders express confidence that the front will wrest the power this time. “The UDF, which had been in power for a decade, has done nothing for the public. Another reason for our victory this time is the pro-people projects being implemented by the state government. There won’t be a single family without at least one member getting welfare pensions or benefits of other schemes implemented by the government. So, we are confident that LDF will come to power this time,” a CPM leader said. The elections in the eastern wards of the district will be a litmus test for Jose K Mani’s Kerala Congress(M), the new entrant in LDF. KC(M) candidates will be contesting from Varappetti and Kodanad wards. “LDF expects to win an additional five seats in the eastern parts of the district with KC(M) joining us,” said a source. The BJP-led NDA also has announced its candidates except in a few seats. “BJP candidates will be contesting from 23 seats and 19 of the names have been announced,” a BJP leader said. Pampakkuda, Edathala, Bhoothathankettu and Udayamperoor are the four seats where the party is yet to announce the candidates. At the same time, Congress leadership is holding reconciliation talks with leaders of A and I factions prior to announcing the names of candidates for Valakom, Moothakunnam and Nedumbassery wards. Former vice president of Ernakulam district panchayat Abdul Muthalib of A faction of Congress had wanted Nedumbassery ward. He is supposed to head the local body if UDF wins. The Nedumbassery seat is currently with the I faction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-major-fronts-yet-to-fix-candidates-in-some-seats/articleshow/79240099.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
November 16, 2020||Business||‘Banks will offer more doorstep services soon’||Union Bank of India (UBI) MD & CEO Rajkiran Rai has just completed the merger of Corporation Bank and Andhra Bank with UBI. Despite the lockdown, Rai managed to see through the amalgamation with full integration of Corporation Bank expected in November and that of Andhra Bank by March 2021. As the newly appointed chairman of Indian Banks’ Association (IBA), he also has the responsibility of representing the industry... What are IBA’s priority areas?IBA is coordinating the government’s initiative to provide doorstep banking as a chargeable, outsourced service. This is particularly relevant to senior citizens, who should not be out during Covid. We started with non-financial services and are planning to collect life certificates of pensioners and offer cash delivery and collection soon. We are also preparing the industry for the transition from Libor (London inter-bank offered rate) as a benchmark. What is the thinking on a ‘bad bank’?It has not gained traction. The thinking was that a public sector entity would enable the transfer of bad loans without a bidding process and be able to pool the loans. Professional managers would complete the resolution and return the money to banks. There is a need to change the perception that it is a ‘bad’ bank. I would rather call it a stressed asset management bank. Every country goes through economic cycles and such a concept will work, as there are many international investors for stressed assets. What is the stance on neo-banks?There is fintech and there is big tech. These are people coming close to banking activities. IBA will be on the forefront to take up issues pertaining to their regulation with the RBI. Will lenders require any capital relief from the central bank?The RBI has already extended the deadline (for raising capital requirements) to March 2021. They have also given relief on capital on home and other loans. We do not see the need to ask for any more relief.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/banks-will-offer-more-doorstep-services-soon/articleshow/79240114.cms||Mayur Shetty
November 16, 2020||Patna||Rahul Gandhi’s priority was picnic, not Bihar polls: RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari||PATNA: RJD attacked its ally Congress for the first time after the Bihar election results with the former’s vice-president Shivanand Tiwari on Sunday holding Rahul Gandhi responsible for the dismal performance of his party in the polls. “When polls were in full swing here, Rahul Gandhi was having a picnic at (his sister and Congress general secretary) Priyanka ji's house in Shimla. This shows how seriously he took the Bihar election which was being watched by the entire nation with a hope of emergence of a new political force in the opposition. Is this the way to run a party?” Tiwari told TOI. “Rahul Gandhi came for electioneering, but he campaigned only for three days in Bihar. He addressed only two election meetings per day (total six meetings in the state). PM Narendra Modi is very senior to him (Rahul) in age. But he had been addressing three to four meetings per day. Moreover, Rahul Gandhi left Bihar after campaigning for three days. He went to Shimla for a picnic at his sister’s house,” Tiwari, who is considered close to RJD boss Lalu Prasad said. “Earlier, I had asked at a coordination committee meeting of the Mahagathbandhan why Rahul Gandhi will address only two election meetings in a day,” Tiwari recalled. Accusing Congress of not giving adequate time for electioneering, Tiwari said: “They had fielded candidates in 70 constituencies. But they (Congress leaders) did not hold even 70 election meetings. This again shows how serious they were about the Bihar polls.” Tiwari also questioned Priyanka Gandhi’s absence in the Bihar campaign. “Even Priyanka Gandhi did not come for campaigning in Bihar election which was being watched by the entire nation with a hope,” he said. Tiwari’s attack on Rahul comes just three days after the admission by two Congress functionaries that the Mahagathbandhan had failed to reach the magic figure of 123 assembly seats because of the poor performance by the grand old party. Watch Congress restricted Mahagathbandhan from winning Bihar election: RJD’s Shivanand Tiwari||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rahul-gandhis-priority-was-picnic-not-bihar-polls-shivanand-tiwari/articleshow/79240127.cms||Madan Kumar
November 16, 2020||Delhi||HC seeks Delhi govt reply on path labs||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has sought AAP government's reply on a plea for contempt proceedings against its officials for failure to regulate online pathology labs. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva asked the counsel for Delhi government to take instructions and listed the matter for further hearing on January 29. The court was hearing a plea seeking contempt of court against Delhi chief secretary, secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, directors general of health service and ICMR for allegedly failing to comply with the court's August 6 order to take action against illegal online health service aggregators operating in the city and to regulate online pathological labs. The plea submitted that the online aggregators such as "healthian" and "1mg"' are operating illegally in Delhi, playing with the lives of the common people and must be banned. It said the government has completely failed to take appropriate legal action against them despite the direction. The court had earlier this year directed authorities to initiate action in accordance with law against any illegal online health service aggregators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-delhi-govt-reply-on-path-labs/articleshow/79240145.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Covid +ve man with rare condition treated||NEW DELHI: A 47-year-old man who had tested Covid-positive and later was diagnosed with Guillain-Barre syndrome, a rare condition in which the immune system attacks the nerves, has been successfully treated, hospital authorities said on Saturday. Guillain-Barre syndrome or GBS may be triggered by acute bacterial or viral infection in which the body loses its power to move. As GBS progresses, the muscles weaken which can evolve into paralysis if not detected early, they said. The team of doctors at Fortis hospital, Vasant Kunj, led by Gauri Shankar Sharma, head, critical care and Abhilekh Srivastava, consultant, neurology "determined that the condition was Covid-induced," the hospital claimed. There is no known cure for GBS, but treatment can ease symptoms and reduce the duration of illness, doctors said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-covid-ve-man-with-rare-condition-treated/articleshow/79240147.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Merely 15 fire calls on Diwali day this year, 10% of 2019’s||MUMBAI: The fire brigade received only 15 calls for fires that occurred due to bursting firecrackers on Saturday, Diwali. This was 10% of the number of calls it received on the day of Diwali last year. Fire officials said that the fewer number of fire-calls was an indication that this year the city had a low-key celebration and bursted less firecrackers. Officials said that they received 150 fire-calls on Diwali day last year, 200 in 2018, and 223 in 2017. They said that most of these calls were for fires due to bursting of firecrackers. Chief fire officer Shashikant Kale said, “We have created awareness among people to avoid bursting firecrackers, and there was a ban on certain crackers. We warned people not to burst firecrackers on building terraces.” As a precautionary measure, double the regular number of fire brigade staff had been deployed to reduce response time. Around 2,500 firemen (including officers) were deployed across the city to handle an emergency call on Saturday. Officials said most of the 15 fire-calls were minor and timely action ensured that they did not spread. A minor fire at Agripada on Saturday night was doused using two fire engines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-merely-15-fire-calls-on-diwali-day-this-year-10-of-2019s/articleshow/79240155.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 16, 2020||World||SpaceX launches 2nd crew, regular station crew flights begin||CAPE CANAVERAL: SpaceX launched four astronauts to the International Space Station on Sunday on the first full-fledged taxi flight for NASA by a private company. The Falcon rocket thundered into the night from Kennedy Space Center with three Americans and one Japanese, the second crew to be launched by SpaceX. The Dragon capsule on top named Resilience by its crew in light of this year's many challenges, most notably Covid-19 reached orbit nine minutes later. It is due to reach the space station late Monday and remain there until spring. ``By working together through these difficult times, you've inspired the nation, the world, and in no small part the name of this incredible vehicle, Resilience,'' Commander Mike Hopkins said right before liftoff. Once reaching orbit, he radioed: ``That was one heck of a ride.`` Sidelined by the coronavirus himself, SpaceX founder and chief executive Elon Musk was forced to monitor the action from afar. He tweeted that he ``most likely'' had a moderate case of Covid-19. NASA policy at Kennedy Space Center requires anyone testing positive for coronavirus to quarantine and remain isolated. Sunday's launch follows by just a few months SpaceX's two-pilot test flight. It kicks off what NASA hopes will be a long series of crew rotations between the U.S. and the space station, after years of delay. More people means more science research at the orbiting lab, according to officials. Cheers and applause erupted at SpaceX Mission Control in Hawthorne, California, after the capsule reached orbit and the first-stage booster landed on a floating platform in the Atlantic. Musk tweeted a single red heart. The flight to the space station 27 1/2 hours door to door should be entirely automated, although the crew can take control if needed. SpaceX had to deal with pressure pump spikes once the capsule reached orbit, but resolved the issue. With Covid-19 still surging, NASA continued the safety precautions put in place for SpaceX's crew launch in May. The astronauts went into quarantine with their families in October. All launch personnel wore masks, and the number of guests at Kennedy was limited. Even the two astronauts on the first SpaceX crew flight stayed behind at Johnson Space Center in Houston. Vice President Mike Pence, chairman of the National Space Council, traveled from Washington and joined NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine to watch the launch. ``I didn't start breathing until about a minute after it took off,'' Pence said during a stop at SpaceX Launch Control to congratulate the workers. Outside the space center gates, spectators crowded into nearby beaches and towns. NASA worried a weekend liftoff coupled with a dramatic nighttime launch could lead to a superspreader event. They urged the crowds to wear masks and maintain safe distances. Similar pleas for SpaceX's first crew launch on May 30 went unheeded. The three-men, one-woman crew led by Hopkins, an Air Force colonel, named their capsule Resilience in a nod not only to the pandemic, but also racial injustice and contentious politics. It's about as diverse as space crews come, including physicist Shannon Walker, Navy Cmdr. Victor Glover, the first Black astronaut on a long-term space station mission, and Japan's Soichi Noguchi, who became the first person in almost 40 years to launch on three types of spacecraft. They rode out to the launch pad in Teslas another Musk company after exchanging high-fives and hand embraces with their children and spouses, who huddled at the open car windows. Musk was replaced by SpaceX President Gwynne Shotwell in bidding the astronauts farewell. Besides its sleek design and high-tech features, the Dragon capsule is quite spacious it can carry up to seven people. Previous space capsules have launched with no more than three. The extra room in the capsule was used for science experiments and supplies. The four astronauts will be joining two Russians and one American who flew to the space station last month from Kazakhstan. The space station soared over the launch site a mere half-minute before liftoff. The first-stage booster is expected to be recycled by SpaceX for the next crew launch. That's currently targeted for the end of March, which would set up the newly launched astronauts for a return to Earth in April. SpaceX would launch yet another crew in late summer or early fall. SpaceX and NASA wanted the booster recovered so badly that they delayed the launch attempt by a day, to give the floating platform time to reach its position in the Atlantic over the weekend following rough seas. Boeing, NASA's other contracted crew transporter, is trailing by a year. A repeat of last December's software-plagued test flight without a crew is off until sometime early next year, with the first astronaut flight of the Starliner capsule not expected before summer. NASA turned to private companies to haul cargo and crew to the space station, after the shuttle fleet retired in 2011. SpaceX qualified for both. With Kennedy back in astronaut-launching action, NASA can stop buying seats on Russian Soyuz rockets. The last one cost $90 million. The commander of SpaceX's first crew, Doug Hurley, noted it's not just about saving money or easing the training burdens for crews. ``Bottom line: I think it's just better for us to be flying from the United States if we can do that,'' he told The Associated Press last week. Watch SpaceX launches four astronauts to ISS||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/spacex-launches-2nd-crew-regular-station-crew-flights-begin/articleshow/79240157.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Spot admission for undergrad courses in Delhi University deferred||NEW DELHI: Delhi University on Sunday deferred spot admission for entrance-based undergraduate courses in view of many university departments and officials being affected by Covid-19. The university has also deferred till further notice the announcement of special cut-off for undergraduate courses for seats that are still vacant after admissions under five cut-off lists. "Many of the university departments and officials have been affected by Covid-19. Due to this, the spot admission to UG Entrance Based Courses and special cut-off for UG Merit Based Courses have been deferred till further notice," university registrar Vikas Gupta said. More than 67,000 seats have been filled in various undergraduate courses in Delhi University so far. "However, as announced earlier, the University of Delhi shall display coursewise and categorywise vacant seats in each college on November 18," the registrar further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spot-admission-for-undergrad-courses-in-delhi-university-deferred/articleshow/79240183.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Patna||Air quality in Patna turns ‘poor’ hours after Diwali celebrations||PATNA: Hours after Diwali celebrations, the air quality in Patna deteriorated to ‘poor’ category on Sunday, as people continued to burst firecrackers after 10pm on Saturday. The maximum noise level was recorded near Planetarium and in Patliputra Industrial area from 10pm on Saturday to 6am on Sunday while it was the minimum around Boring Road, areas near Beltron Bhawan and Parivesh Bhawan during the same period, as per the information provided by the Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB). The overall air quality index (AQI) of Patna plunged from 215 on Saturday to 275 at 4pm on Sunday. The air pollution level was 190 on Friday, 137 on Thursday and 129 on November 11, as per the CPCB. The prominent pollutant here was PM2.5 (particulate matter less than 2.5 micron), PM10 (particulate matter 10 microns) and O3. BSPCB public relations officer Birendra Kumar said in a press release that the noise and air pollution level increased after 10pm on Saturday. “The PM10 was recorded at 424 to 522 micrograms per cubic metre while PM2.5 was registered between 503 and 356 micrograms per cubic metre at different stations in the city,” he said. The BSPCB official claimed that the overall AQI of 217 was the average of AQI level of six air monitoring stations at BIT- Mesra, Patna (264), Eco Park (334), SK Memorial Hall (286), DRM office, Khagaul (108), Planetarium (372) and Patna City (288). A “poor” AQI essentially means that people may suffer from breathing discomfort on prolonged exposure to such air. Board chairman Ashok Ghosh said air pollution level increases after Diwali and Chhath, as people burst crackers which contain several harmful chemicals. “In several areas, the pollution level was in ‘very poor’ category, including near Planetarium and Eco Park. The increase in pollution level was mainly due to bursting of crackers. Geographical formation, climatic condition and anthropogenic are the main reasons behind the poor air quality,” he said. “The air quality in the city, however, was still better than previous year’s Diwali time. In 2019, the overall AQI level was in very poor category even ahead of Diwali,” he said. “Vehicle emission from the outdated automobiles, dust particles in the air, open construction, burning of waste and fuel are some of the reasons behind the haze during the winter season. Most of the brick kiln owners have adopted new technology that causes less air pollution,” Ghosh said. Pradhan Parth Sarthi, professor at Department of Environmental Science of Central University of South Bihar (CUSB), said the pollution level shot up during daytime due to calm winds leading to accumulation of pollutants. “Improvement in the air quality depends on climatic conditions, including cloud free sky, wind velocity and high outgoing long-wave radiation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/air-quality-in-patna-turns-poor-hours-after-diwali-celebrations/articleshow/79240198.cms||Faryal Rumi
November 16, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Fewer fire crackers burst, air quality on Diwali improves||VIJAYAWADA: With restrictions on bursting firecrackers, sound and air pollution levels on Diwali registered a significant fall this year compared to that of previous years, said Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB). Real-time monitoring systems of APPCB located in Vishakapatnam, Tirumala, Amaravati, and Vijayawada registered comparatively low Air Quality Index (AQI) levels on Diwali this year. The AQI level at Vishakapatnam touched the 298-mark at 9 pm on Saturday, compared to 610 during Diwali in 2019. Meters installed at Amaravati registered an AQI of 255 on Saturday evening against 450 in Diwali 2019. Dr BV Prasad, junior scientific officer at APPCB, who analysed pollution levels on Diwali, said, “The readings registered show significant change. Major cities registered high AQI levels for two hours when the government permitted crackers. Visakhapatnam registered an average AQI of 100 on Saturday. PM 10 levels and PM 2.5 levels were also very low when compared to Diwali last year. Bursting fewer fireworks is believed to be the prime reason for improvement in AQI this year." Prasad added that the levels are very low and they comply with the guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). “We are manually analysing data from Rajamahendravaram, Nellore, Chittoor, Kadapa, Guntur, and other cities. The data will be made available within three days,” he said. Meanwhile, the health department expressed happiness over the AQI levels on Diwali. Large-scale awareness campaigns run by the department on the harmful impacts of pollution on Covid-19 patients have yielded positive results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/andhra-pradesh-fewer-fire-crackers-burst-air-quality-on-diwali-improves/articleshow/79240228.cms||Venu Lanka
November 16, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Firecracker ban gives a breather to birds, strays||GURUGRAM: While the city’s air quality post-Diwali is only marginally better than last year, the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) ban on the sale of firecrackers in Delhi-NCR has proven to be a boon for stray animals and birds. At Bird Charitable hospital, situated at Sadar Bazar, there has been a considerable decline in the number of cases of injured birds this Diwali compared to last year. Raj Kumar, veterinary doctor of the charity hospital, said, “Every year, we get about 50-60 wounded birds due to firecrackers, which leave them either breathless or burn their wings. This year, however, only 17 cases have been reported so far. On Diwali night, we only got seven injured pigeon.” Ravi Dubey, president of People for Animals (Faridabad), said, “This year has been easier due to the NGT’s ban. We rescued only a calf in Faridabad that was injured by crackers. Last year, we had recused eight injured baby monkeys and dogs.” Agreeing that many animals are affected by pollution post Diwali, a member of Wildlife SOS said, “Last year, we rescued a peacock that was injured after it bumped into something due to the smog. We have no cases so far this year, but we should wait another day or two to get a right picture.” Dr Satish Kumar said that so far their Sector-38 based clinic has not received any wounded or burnt animals this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/firecracker-ban-gives-a-breather-to-birds-strays/articleshow/79239169.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Researchers from Delhi University and JNU point to PM1.0 threat||NEW DELHI: From November 6 to 11, the city saw high levels of pollution and a visible haze. Researchers at Delhi University and Jawaharlal Nehru University have pointed out that the haze, caused by the winter and moisture in the air, also had a high concentration of PM1.0. This kind of particulate matter is harmful but there are not enough mechanisms available in Delhi-NCR to study it. SK Dhaka of Delhi University's Rajdhani College and AP Dimri of the School of Environmental Science at Jawaharlal Nehru University found that the PM1.0 particles emerged to be in high density, ranging up to 250-280 micro gm/m3 during the six-day period. "Such observations are not made with the routine measurement of Delhi Pollution Control Committee and CPCB. High values of PM1.0 are a serious issue as it may penetrate in the bloodstream through the lungs and would be dangerous for health. We need fine-scale data to be analysed to provide accurate information about the seasonal variability especially on sub-micron order," Dhaka told TOI. The researchers accessed data at the Dwarka location and investigated through the use of Purple air sensors - compact and smart instruments, which provide data with high accuracy and on finer-scale in the range of 1 micron. "We also used optical smart sensor popularly known as CUPI (Compact and Useful PM2.5 Instrument) developed by Nagoya University, Japan and Panasonic. Both sensors have shown quite high values of PM2.5 touching 1,000 micron gm/m3," Dhaka added. The researchers, however, insist that it is the high values of PM1.0 observed during November 6-11 should make many worried from a medical point of view. "Such information is not available in Delhi-NCR, and we need more observations to assist the medical doctors for their studies," said Dhaka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/researchers-from-delhi-university-and-jnu-point-to-pm1-0-threat/articleshow/79240239.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 16, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Man ends life after losing money in online card games||VISAKHAPATNAM: A 33-year-old man allegedly committed suicide by placing his head on a railway track near Meghadrigedda area in Vizag city after he lost a few lakhs of rupees in online card games. Though the incident took place on Saturday, it came to light on Sunday. The deceased was identified as M Sateesh Kumar, resident of Kothapalem under Gopalapatnam limits in Vizag city. He was working as a fitter with Naval Dockyard in Vizag city. Preliminary investigation revealed that Kumar was addicted to online rummy during the lockdown and had borrowed over Rs 15 lakh from his friends and relatives to fuel his gambling addiction. Kumar began playing online rummy games a few months ago and he was addicted to online gambling. He started borrowing money from friends and relatives to gamble and thus make quick money. But, he lost most of the games. Kumar’s parents and his wife repaid Kumar’s debts by selling their gold ornaments. It is not clear whether Kumar had borrowed money again and lost in the games. It may be recalled that the Andhra Pradesh government amended the AP Gaming Act, 1974, prohibiting playing and organising of all online games. It has banned online card games and betting in September, 2020. SI GRP Visakhapatnam, T Kamesh, said that they are yet to ascertain the exact reasons for the extreme step. The body was shifted to a morgue for autopsy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/visakhapatnam-man-ends-life-after-losing-money-in-online-card-games/articleshow/79240249.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Guwahati||Two Tripura girls gangraped in Assam; 6 arrested||SILCHAR: Six people have been arrested after two tribal girls from Tripura were allegedly gang-raped in Assam’s Karimganj district late on Friday night. Sources said the two girls were gang-raped and left on the roadside at the Nilambazar area of Karimganj late on Friday night. The girls were returning home after visiting their mother, who is a cancer patient and is undergoing treatment at a hospital. Sources said the girls took a rented car, which had one more person other than the driver, to return to Tripura on Friday evening. Around 11pm, they had dinner at a dhaba in Cheragi, and resumed their journey. The driver told the girls that he would take a shortcut to reach Dharmanagar in Tripura. However, he took the car to an under-construction building at Nilambazar, around 73km from Silchar, where four other men were already present. One of the girls was forcibly taken to the building’s first floor and allegedly raped, while the other girl was allegedly raped on the ground floor. On the wee hours of Saturday, the men took away the girls’ mobile phones and forced them to leave the place. The girls then reached Patharkandi on a truck and went to the police station, where they lodged an FIR against six men. A team of police took the girls to Nilambazar to identify the building where they were allegedly raped. After reaching the building, which is located near a governmentrecognised skill development centre, the cops arrested Abdul Ahad, who worked as a mason there. Initial investigation has indicated it is a case of gang rape. A gamocha, which was presumably used in the crime, along with few plyboards, were recovered by police from the building. The five other accused have been identified as Abu Bakkar, Amir Ali, Sumon Ali, Samsul Uddin and Anowar Hussain. While two were arrested on Saturday, four of them have been rounded up on Sunday, a police officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/two-tripura-girls-gangraped-in-assam-6-arrested/articleshow/79240322.cms||BB Goswami
November 16, 2020||Agartala||Two Tripura girls gangraped in Assam; 6 arrested||SILCHAR: Six people have been arrested after two tribal girls from Tripura were allegedly gang-raped in Assam’s Karimganj district late on Friday night. Sources said the two girls were gang-raped and left on the roadside at the Nilambazar area of Karimganj late on Friday night. The girls were returning home after visiting their mother, who is a cancer patient and is undergoing treatment at a hospital. Sources said the girls took a rented car, which had one more person other than the driver, to return to Tripura on Friday evening. Around 11pm, they had dinner at a dhaba in Cheragi, and resumed their journey. The driver told the girls that he would take a shortcut to reach Dharmanagar in Tripura. However, he took the car to an under-construction building at Nilambazar, around 73km from Silchar, where four other men were already present. One of the girls was forcibly taken to the building’s first floor and allegedly raped, while the other girl was allegedly raped on the ground floor. On the wee hours of Saturday, the men took away the girls’ mobile phones and forced them to leave the place. The girls then reached Patharkandi on a truck and went to the police station, where they lodged an FIR against six men. A team of police took the girls to Nilambazar to identify the building where they were allegedly raped. After reaching the building, which is located near a governmentrecognised skill development centre, the cops arrested Abdul Ahad, who worked as a mason there. Initial investigation has indicated it is a case of gang rape. A gamocha, which was presumably used in the crime, along with few plyboards, were recovered by police from the building. The five other accused have been identified as Abu Bakkar, Amir Ali, Sumon Ali, Samsul Uddin and Anowar Hussain. While two were arrested on Saturday, four of them have been rounded up on Sunday, a police officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agartala/two-tripura-girls-gangraped-in-assam-6-arrested/articleshow/79240324.cms||BB Goswami
November 16, 2020||Bhopal||Missing Madhya Pradesh cop found begging after 15 years||GWALIOR: Like any movie scene, two Madhya Pradesh policemen found their former colleague begging on the footpath, who had disappeared around 15 years ago. He was found to be mentally disturbed. According to the information received here, deputy superintendent of police Ratnesh Singh Tomar and his colleague Vijay Bhadoriya were on bypolls duty for the last few days. On the day of vote counting on November 10, when both of them were passing through Jhansi Road, they noticed a middle-aged beggar shivering in cold on the footpath. Both the officers stopped their vehicles with the intent to help. Ratnesh gave his shoes to the beggar while Vijay offered him his jacket. They also held some conversations with the beggar. After the chat, things changed dramatically. While talking to the beggar, the officers realised that he was their former colleague Manish Mishra. Mishra was a police officer and a good shooter. He had joined the police service in 1999 and had also served as the station in-charge in many parts of the state. During his service in 2005, Mishra lost his mental balance and suddenly disappeared. Some people who know Mishra told that despite many efforts, he could not be traced. Moreover, his wife had also left him. As per the information received, Mishra was spending his life on the footpath for around 15 years, meeting his ends by begging. But founding him reluctant to come with them, they handed over Mishra to a social welfare organisation, where he is being taken care of.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/missing-madhya-pradesh-cop-found-begging-after-15-years/articleshow/79240327.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath announces Rs 5 lakh assistance for family of minor murdered in Kanpur||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday said that the culprits involved in the murder of a minor girl in Kanpur will not be spared and announced financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh to the family of the deceased. "The culprits in the Kanpur incident will not be spared. My sympathies are with the aggrieved family members (of the murdered minor girl)," Adityanath tweeted. कानपुर नगर में हुई दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण घटना के अपराधी किसी भी कीमत पर बख्शे नहीं जाएंगे।मेरी संवेदनाएं शोक संतप्त परिज… https://t.co/nEgNBecAHC— Yogi Adityanath (@myogiadityanath) 1605454906000"The government will provide financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh to the family. The guilty will be punished by getting the matter heard in a fast track court," he added. A minor girl was allegedly murdered by unidentified people in Bhadtras village of Ghatampur in Kanpur on Saturday night, the police said. Internal body parts of the minor were missing after the body was recovered by the police on Sunday. A complaint was registered by the family members of the six-year-old girl after her sudden disappearance on Diwali night. "Last night, a missing complaint was registered regarding a six-year-old girl from Bhadras village. On Sunday morning, the minor's body was found lying in the fields," Preetinder Singh, deputy inspector general Kanpur said. Agitated villagers were present at the spot from where the girl's body was recovered. "We have detained a few suspects named by the family and their interrogation is going on. We're looking at this case from every possible angle," Singh said. The forensic team collected the samples and sent them for investigation. A dog squad was also present at the location. The police said that further investigation in the matter was underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-announces-rs-5-lakh-assistance-for-family-of-minor-murdered-in-kanpur/articleshow/79240360.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath, Trivendra Singh Rawat arrive at Kedarnath temple to offer prayers||RUDRAPRAYAG: Chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Yogi Adityanath and Trivendra Singh Rawat, arrived at the Kedarnath temple to offer prayers and participate in the portal closing ceremony of the shrine in the early hours of Monday. Adityanath and Rawat witnessed snowfall in the Kedarnath temple area as they entered the shrine here. Uttarakhand: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath attend a ceremony to mark the closing of… https://t.co/J825ZQcgC8— ANI (@ANI) 1605480260000Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Yogi Adityanath will offer prayers at the Kedarnath temple, after which they will visit the Badrinath temple and perform prayers there. The foundation stone of a 40-room tourist guest house at Badrinath to be operated by the Uttar Pradesh tourism department will be laid today. The cost of the guest house will be Rs 11 crores and it will be built in two years' time. "The Kedarnath temple is going to be closed tomorrow. I am coming after a long time today and offering prayers here after 11-12 years here. After the 2013 floods, the renovation of the Kedarnath temple has been possible under the guidance of PM Narendra Modi," Adityanath had told the reporters on Saturday. "I was thinking for a long time to come here. Two days back, Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat called me here. We have to conduct the construction work of a tourist residence centre to be made by the Uttar Pradesh government," he added. State ministers Madan Kaushik, Dhan Singh Rawat, chief secretary Om Prakash had welcomed Yogi Adityanath here on his arrival in Uttarakhand. Notably, the portals of Gangotri Temple in Uttarkashi were closed for the winter season on Sunday and the portals of Kedarnath, Yamunotri will be closed on Monday, followed by that of Badrinath on November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-adityanath-trivendra-singh-rawat-arrive-at-kedarnath-temple-to-offer-prayers/articleshow/79240404.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Yogi Adityanath, Trivendra Singh Rawat arrive at Kedarnath temple to offer prayers||RUDRAPRAYAG: Chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Yogi Adityanath and Trivendra Singh Rawat, arrived at the Kedarnath temple to offer prayers and participate in the portal closing ceremony of the shrine in the early hours of Monday. Adityanath and Rawat witnessed snowfall in the Kedarnath temple area as they entered the shrine here. Uttarakhand: CM Trivendra Singh Rawat and Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath attend a ceremony to mark the closing of… https://t.co/J825ZQcgC8— ANI (@ANI) 1605480260000Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and Yogi Adityanath will offer prayers at the Kedarnath temple, after which they will visit the Badrinath temple and perform prayers there. The foundation stone of a 40-room tourist guest house at Badrinath to be operated by the Uttar Pradesh tourism department will be laid today. The cost of the guest house will be Rs 11 crores and it will be built in two years' time. "The Kedarnath temple is going to be closed tomorrow. I am coming after a long time today and offering prayers here after 11-12 years here. After the 2013 floods, the renovation of the Kedarnath temple has been possible under the guidance of PM Narendra Modi," Adityanath had told the reporters on Saturday. "I was thinking for a long time to come here. Two days back, Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat called me here. We have to conduct the construction work of a tourist residence centre to be made by the Uttar Pradesh government," he added. State ministers Madan Kaushik, Dhan Singh Rawat, chief secretary Om Prakash had welcomed Yogi Adityanath here on his arrival in Uttarakhand. Notably, the portals of Gangotri Temple in Uttarkashi were closed for the winter season on Sunday and the portals of Kedarnath, Yamunotri will be closed on Monday, followed by that of Badrinath on November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/yogi-adityanath-trivendra-singh-rawat-arrive-at-kedarnath-temple-to-offer-prayers/articleshow/79240336.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chandigarh||Harder to breathe in Haryana: Air quality of six cities ‘severe’||KARNAL: The air quality index (AQI) of Haryana’s in six cities again reached ‘severe’ category a day after Diwali on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityAccording to the Central Pollution Control Board’s app Sameer, in Jind district, the AQI was recorded at 457— highest among the state. It was followed by Fatehabad 446, Hisar 441, Gurugram 435, Faridabad 414 and Sonipat 410. The Air Quality of nine cities including Panipat 400, Rohtak 397, Manesar 384, Bahadurgarh 378, Kurukshetra 372, Kaithal 367, Sirsa 360, Dharuhera 339, Karnal 303, was categorsied as “Very Poor”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/harder-to-breathe-in-haryana-air-quality-of-six-cities-severe/articleshow/79240376.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||From Japanese forestry to murals, Delhi's Ghazipur landfill to get makeover||NEW DELHI: With the annual survey for cleanliness, hygiene and sanitation in cities expected to start from January, East Delhi Municipal Corporation has intensified efforts to beautify the area around Ghazipur landfill. The civic agency has paved roadside berms leading to the entrance of the landfill after laying interlocking tiles. The work was followed by drawing murals on walls surrounding the complex. These paintings — completed in around 15 days — aims to draw public attention towards the process for segregation of waste at source, management of plastic waste, composting, etc. “While we are making all efforts to improve our performance in annual Swachh Survekshan 2021 survey, it is important to change residents’ behaviour too. Painted on walls at the main road connecting Delhi Meerut highway, these murals will surely grab people’s attention. We have got around 200m of wall painted on one side and 100m on other side of Ghazipur landfill. The changes have helped give a clean look to the area,” said an official. To create a dense mini forest near the landfill and minimise foul smell emitted from the place, EDMC has already started plantation drive using the Japanese method of Miyawaki urban forestry. “Work has been completed at a 150 metre patch (2-3 metre above ground level) next to the entrance of the landfill, while base has been created before starting plantation drive at another 300 metre portion (5-6 metre above ground level) next to the fish market. The manmade patch is not only expected to improve the ambient air quality in the area, but also serve as a test for using the same approach to turn the infamous garbage mountain into a biodiversity park,” said the official. The afforestation technique uses native plant species along with components such as perforators, water retainer, organic manure and mulch. The method guarantees high survival and the growth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-japanese-forestry-to-murals-delhis-ghazipur-landfill-to-get-makeover/articleshow/79240372.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 16, 2020||Goa||Spinster sisters in 70s murdered in Siolim home||PANAJI: Two sisters in their 70s were found murdered at their residence in Marna-Siolim Sunday night. Anjuna police said that they got the information at around 10.30pm and the panchanama was on till past midnight. The women, who were spinsters, were alone in the house when the incident took place, sources said. Police are looking into all angles in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spinster-sisters-in-70s-murdered-in-siolim-home/articleshow/79240421.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Delhi||850 held, 1,200 cases filed for flouting cracker ban in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Over 850 people were arrested and around 1,200 cases registered in Delhi on Diwali in connection with sale and bursting of crackers, both banned in the national capital region now. Delhi Police also seized 1,314 kilogram crackers on Saturday. Giving a break-up of prosecutions, officials said the highest number of cases - 165 - was registered in Outer-North district, followed by 146 at North, 127 at Northwest and 99 at Outer. The maximum amount of firecrackers was seized in Outer at 286.2kg, followed by 260.7kg at Southwest and 118.1kg at Outer-North. At least 139 calls were received from Rohini district, and 65 FIRs were registered against violators and two cases for illegal sale of firecrackers. Dwarka registered 73 cases for bursting of firecrackers. Officials said Delhi Police had got less than a week to enforce the cracker ban, which came after licences were issued to shopkeepers and traders. "Before the National Green Tribunal ruling came out, people had already bought crackers. Around 250 people applied for licences, out of which 138 temporary fireworks licences were issued," an official said. The sale and bursting of crackers have been imposed till November 30 midnight in view of the air pollution situation amid rising Covid-19 cases in the capital. All licences were cancelled soon after the ban and the shop owners were also informed in writing about the ban and the cancellation of licence. Though the ban was in place, Delhi Police claimed, crackers were being sold in many regions sharing borders with Delhi, such as Gurgaon, Ghaziabad and Noida, and crackers were available within walking distance of the city borders. The police control room received around 2,100 calls on bursting of crackers, said an officer. Most of these calls were received from southwest, Dwarka and northwest parts of Delhi between 8.30pm and 10.30pm, he added. Action was taken in every case where violation was detected, police said. In some cases, people informed late and no one was found at the location but police made a record of all calls and registered cases. In some cases, even burnt leftover crackers were recovered from locations. As soon as the ban was notified, special teams were formed at all police stations to check violations in compliance with orders/directions issued by National Green Tribunal and Delhi Pollution Control Committee, an officer said. "Information was developed from members of eyes and ears scheme, secret informers in the guise of decoy customers were made to talk as well as meet perpetrators and raids were conducted accordingly," a senior cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/850-held-1200-cases-filed-for-flouting-cracker-ban-in-delhi/articleshow/79240426.cms||---
November 16, 2020||World||British PM Boris Johnson self-isolating after contact tests positive for coronavirus||LONDON: British Prime Minister Boris Johnson is self-isolating after someone he was in contact with tested positive for the coronavirus, a spokesman said Sunday. "He will carry on working from Downing Street, including on leading the Government's response to the coronavirus pandemic," the Downing Street spokesman added. His confinement comes as negotiations with the European Union over Brexit enter a decisive final sprint, with critical announcements being trailed -- ahead of Johnson's isolation -- by Downing Street to tackle the virus. The prime minister was informed that he should self-isolate after being contacted by the country's Test and Trace scheme. Johnson was hospitalised with the coronavirus in April. This time around, "the PM is well and does not have any symptoms of Covid-19", the spokesman said. A source added that Johnson, who was severely affected during the earlier bout, feels "good" and that the PM would continue to work, "in particular to lead the government's response to the coronavirus pandemic". Downing Street has not said how long Johnson will be in isolation for. However, the UK National Health Service rules state individuals should isolate for 14 days. The PM intends to address the country during his confinement, Downing Street said. The announcement came after Johnson met a small group of MPs at Downing Street on Thursday for around 35 minutes, including one who subsequently developed symptoms of Covid-19 and has now tested positive. Johnson's self-isolation risks upsetting a busy week as the UK enters its third week of reimposed restrictions and the PM was due to chair a series of key Covid-19 meetings. The renewed stay-at-home restrictions and business closures came into force earlier this month and have been met with scepticism that they can halt the worst death toll from the virus in Europe. The UK is supposed to be returning to a regionalised approach -- lifting the sweeping lockdown currently in place -- from December 2. But the country remains hard hit, recording more than 50,000 deaths linked to the coronavirus from over 1.3 million positive cases. Johnson, 56, spent three nights in intensive care when he got Covid-19, later crediting hospital staff with saving his life. The British leader has said that his coronavirus case was seriously worsened by being overweight, but that he had since lost 26 pounds (12 kilograms). "I am going to continue that diet, because you've got to search for the hero inside of yourself, in the hope that that individual is considerably slimmer," he joked last month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/british-pm-boris-johnson-self-isolating-after-contact-tests-positive-for-coronavirus/articleshow/79240429.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Onions, carrots to be cheaper by Rs 10/kg this week||CHENNAI: Prices of onion and carrot are likely to drop by Rs 10 a kilogram in the wholesale market this week. The reopening of semiwholesale shops at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC), closed in April at the peak of the pandemic, is expected to bring down rates. Onion, which was sold at Rs50 to Rs60 last week, will be available between Rs40 and Rs50. Price of carrot will decrease by Rs10 to Rs15 a kilogram. But the rates of other vegetables are likely to remain the same. V R Soundararajan, former member of market management committee of KWMC and a wholesale trader, said increase in arrivals was the key reason for prices of selected vegetables going down. “Also, this is the usual trend in vegetable prices for a fortnight post Diwali,” he said. On an average, the wholesale market at Koyambedu receives around 400 trucks of vegetables. About 800 semi-wholesale shops will reopen on Monday. S S Muthukumar, president of Koyambedu Semi Wholesale Vegetable Traders Association, said prices will come down by 10-20%. “The semi-wholesale traders were badly affected and reopening of shops will be a boost for our livelihood. But it will take us at least two months to normalise our trade to pre-Covid levels,” he said. These shops were shut after Koyambedu emerged as a hotspot for the coronavirus in April.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-onions-carrots-to-be-cheaper-by-rs-10/kg-this-week/articleshow/79240477.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab air’s Diwali vitals: ‘Poor’ last year, ‘very poor’ this time||PATIALA: The air quality in Punjab on Diwali day this year slipped to ‘very poor’ category, whereas last year it was in ‘poor’ zone, officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) said on Sunday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe officials, however, said Asia’s iron and steel town—Mandi Gobindgarh in Fatehgarh Sahib—witnessed less pollution than last Diwali. In line with the instructions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), this time the state government has imposed a complete ban on the sale and use of crackers in Mandi Gobindgarh. In 2019, when the festival was celebrated on October 27, the air quality of Punjab was poor at 293 level on the Air Quality Index (AQI), while this year it was recorded at 328, which falls under the very poor zone. In Mandi Gobindgarh town, the AQI level was lower at 262 compared to 311 in 2019. “This year the temperature was around 19 degrees Celsius, which resulted in reduced dispersion of pollutants, whereas last year, the temperature was around 23 degrees Celsius. The firecracker ban should have been imposed five to six months ahead of Diwali. After the ban on crackers in neighbouring states, those found their way to Punjab. However, Mandi Gobindgarh town, which witnessed a total ban on crackers, recorded a low level of pollution,” said an official. On Sunday, a day after the Diwali celebrations, the PPCB monitoring stations recorded an average of 386 AQI level in Amritsar, while it was 328 in Jalandhar, 281 in Khanna, 376 in Ludhiana and 334 in Patiala. The pollution level in Mandi Gobindgarh was recorded at 262 on the index. The private monitoring station in Bathinda recorded 358 AQI level on Sunday morning. The minimum presence of PM10 in the air last year was around 90 micrograms per cubic meter (ug/m3) and PM2.5 43ug/m3, but this year, these values went up to 118ug/m3 and 90ug/m3, respectively. Notably, on Dussehra this year, Punjab had recorded 6% less noise pollution than last year, but the state has seen a rise in terms of air pollution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/punjab-airs-diwali-vitals-poor-last-year-very-poor-this-time/articleshow/79240455.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 16, 2020||India||Delhi sets off self-destruct bomb, worst Diwali in 4 years||NEW DELHI: The firecracker ban in Delhi-NCR went up in smoke on Saturday with people flouting it with impunity. While the sound of crackers could be heard during the day, its intensity rose after 6pm and continued well past midnight at some locations. Track the pollution level in your cityThe average hourly PM2.5 concentration in Delhi touched 910 micrograms per cubic metre (g/m3) at midnight, over 15 times the safe standard, before falling due to an increase in wind speed. While the overall Air Quality Index (AQI) touched "severe" on Diwali day with a reading of 414, it was recorded at 435 on Sunday. In terms of AQI, this was Delhi's worst Diwali since 2016, when a reading of 431 was recorded and 445 the day after, data from both Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) showed. Last year, an AQI of 337 (very poor) was recorded on Diwali day, which marginally rose to 368 (very poor) the next day. A bigger spike was seen in 2018 when AQI rose from 281 (poor) on Diwali day to 390 (very poor) the next day owing to firecrackers. SAFAR had forecast pollution to touch the "severe" level the day after Diwali even if no firecrackers were burst. It said additional emissions through firecrackers and crop stubble led to hourly PM2.5 concentration crossing more than 1,000 g/m3 at several locations across Delhi. CPCB data showed that pollution peaked between midnight and 1am. AQI rose gradually from 414 (severe) at 4pm to 446 by 8pm and 460 by 1am. "This year, Diwali was celebrated in mid-November with unfavourable meteorological conditions for dispersal of pollutants compared with 2019 when the festival was in the last week of October," added CPCB. "The surface temperature was the lowest in the past five years, which might have contributed to more inversion conditions and lowest average mixing height, which limits vertical dispersion. Wind speed on both pre-Diwali and Diwali day were similar. Overall, this Diwali witnessed higher background levels of pollutants and further addition of particulates during night from firecrackers," CPCB stated. Read AlsoHow effective was the firecracker ban in fighting Delhi’s pollution?Air pollution has many forms and is caused by several factors. That’s what confounds the battle to contain it. For at least a decade now India’s capital witnesses a frenzy of promises and pronouncements—interspersed with several rushed and half-baked measures—during the winter months to controlHowever, a spell of rain through a western disturbance not only helped in settling pollutants, but also increased wind speed in the region allowing air quality to improve on Sunday morning. Delhi's base station, Safdarjung, recorded 0.4mm of rainfall till 5.30pm, while Palam received 1.8mm. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, "Easterly winds with speed ranging from 18 to 24 kmph were recorded, which helped in dispersal of pollutants. The rain also helped in settling some pollutants." LS Kurinji, research analyst at Council on Energy, Environment and Water, said, normally, the impact from firecrackers could hang in the air for several days, but the spell of rain controlled it within hours. "Air quality stations observed a sharp jump in PM2.5 levels, which rose from 250 g/m3 to over 600 g/m3 on Diwali night. However, on the evening of November 15, light rain accompanied by gusty winds washed out the pollutants and improved the air quality, bringing PM2.5 levels down to 100 g/m3," added Kurinji. Watch Diwali: People flout firecracker ban, worst air quality in 4 years in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-sets-off-self-destruct-bomb-worst-diwali-in-4-years/articleshow/79239581.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Gold worth Rs 41 lakh, $10K seized at Chennai airport||CHENNAI: In three separate incidents, customs officials at the Chennai international airport on Saturday seized $10,000 in cash and recovered 799 grams of gold worth ₹41.5 lakh from passengers. Officials said a passenger who was supposed to travel to Dubai in an Emirates flight was intercepted at the departure terminal on suspicion that he might be carrying foreign currency. On examination, it was found that the passenger Nagoor Meeran had concealed $10,000 in denomination of $100 in an envelope. The currency notes, equivalent to ₹7.4 lakh, were seized. Officials said three bundles of gold past weighing 656 grams were recovered from the rectum of a passenger from Dubai who had arrived in an Air India flight. On extraction it yielded 596 grams of gold while a 49 gram gold cut bit was also recovered from his pocket. Another passenger from Dubai who arrived by a Fly Dubai flight was found to be carrying 172 grams of gold paste. On extraction, 154 grams of gold valued at ₹7.9 lakh was recovered. Two passengers were arrested. “Further investigation is under progress,” customs said in a release.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/gold-worth-rs-41-lakh-10k-seized-at-chennai-airport/articleshow/79240512.cms||---
November 16, 2020||---||Nitish Kumar may get 2 BJP deputy CMs, Sushil a slot in Delhi||PATNA/ NEW DELHI: Bihar, which baffled many last Tuesday by re-electing the NDA in defiance of predictions of psephologists and consensus on a possible setback, has not stopped springing surprises. On Sunday, BJP dropped Sushil Modi as leader of its legislature group in Patna, in a move which was seen as reflecting the leadership’s anxiety to prepare the party for the 2025 polls by taking it out of the long shadows of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Sushil Modi, who played a huge role in building the party into a force in the state and who served as leader of the legislature group since 1990, barring two small interludes, was seen to have enjoyed a very close rapport with Nitish — a bond which, many in BJP felt, could come in the way of the party leveraging its superior numbers and just-acquired status as the senior NDA partner. The response of JD(U) could be worth watching. A section of the party is already resentful of what it sees as BJP leadership’s unwillingness to toss Chirag Paswan out of NDA at the national level. It is also having to contend with the prospect of loss of departments it had held because of its poor returns. BJP sources said Tarkishore Prasad, four-term MLA from Katihar who represents the OBC Vaishyas, and Renu Devi, a known EBC woman face and third-term MLA from Bettiah, could be made deputy chief ministers. Prasad and Devi were elected the leader and deputy leader of the party’s legislature group in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis and general secretary in-charge of Bihar Bhupender Yadav. Singh’s presence was meant to convey the leadership’s intent, sources said. There was no official announcement of the big change, but sources confirmed that Sushil Modi will not get another, his fourth, term as deputy CM. His own tweets suggested that he was reconciled to the possible change in his responsibilities, with one of his tweets, “none can take away my position as a party worker”, appearing to have been inspired by the speculation that he was dropped. Singh told reporters in Patna, “The decision about deputy chief minister will be taken in party meetings… you will get to know at the appropriate time.” Asked who would be his deputy after he met governor Fagu Chauhan to stake claim, Nitish said, “You will get to know soon.” Nitish and his deputies will be sworn in at 4.30 pm on Monday. There were enough indications pointing to the likely change. Tarkishore Prasad was elected leader of the BJP legislature party, a position held by Sushil Modi, who is a member of the legislative council. The BJP legislature party consists of the party’s members in both the assembly and the council. With Vaishyas Prasad and state party chief Sanjay Jaiswal heading the legislature group and the organisation respectively, the possibility of Sushil Modi being retained as deputy CM looked slim. The decision to send Rajnath Singh to Patna was another indication about a surprise as selection of the legislature party leader could have been handled by Bhupender Yadav and Fadnavis, the two leaders who looked after the Bihar campaign. Speculation was rife that Sushil Modi, widely seen as a competent person who, having served as finance minister of Bihar for 17 years and on the GST Council, would be brought to the Centre. He can be accommodated against the Rajya Sabha vacancy caused by the death of LJP leader Ramvilas Paswan, so went the speculation. The Narendra Modi government may soon have to fill vacancies in important departments like agriculture/rural development, and food and civil supplies. Jyotiraditya Scindia, who crossed over to BJP and has since been elected to Rajya Sabha, has also been waiting in the wings. The choice of Renu Devi, an EBC from the Nonia caste, as deputy leader of BJP legislature party is significant in view of the appeal PM Modi has acquired among extremely backward castes and women — two constituencies widely seen to have ensured NDA's win. In his thanksgiving speech, Modi had acknowledged them as BJP’s “silent voters”, who had supported the party unflinchingly. Prasad is from Seemanchal where the entry of Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM has made the region’s already complicated politics more complex by winning five seats. Watch Bihar to get two Deputy Chief Ministers, both from BJP||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-may-get-2-bjp-deputy-cms-sushil-a-slot-in-delhi/articleshow/79239380.cms||Madan Kumar
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Aspirants asked to write AIIMS entrance in Covid-hit Chittoor||CHENNAI: Many medical aspirants in the city who have applied for the combined entrance test conducted by All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) were surprised on Saturday as many of them were allotted exam centres in Covid-hit Chittoor in Andhra Pradesh, some 160km from Chennai. AIIMS is conducting Institute of National Importance Combined Entrance Test (INICET) for admission to PG courses (MD/MS/MCh/DM/ MDS)in AIIMS-NewDelhi and other new AIIMS, Jipmer, PGIMER Chandigarh, NIMHANS-Bengaluru. For January 2021 intake, a computerbased test is being conducted on November 20 across the country. Hundreds of MBBS doctors apply for the exam to join these prestigious medical institutions. “The admit cards were released on Saturday for the online exam. Most doctors from Chennai had been allotted various centres at Chittoor. Chittoor has recorded a greater number of Covid cases recently and it would be a big risk for parents and candidates,” said Shameem, a parent in the city. More than 10 cities in Tamil Nadu including Chennai, Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Dindigul are conducting the exam this year. “There is no bus or train transport from Chennai to Chittoor. Doctors are advising us to stay at Chittoor. We are not sure whether to write the exam or skip it,” said Kaleemudeen, another parent. He said the parents of PG aspirants are mostly senior citizens and cannot afford to travel during the pandemic. “Usually, students from smaller towns used to come and write the exams in bigger cities. But this time it is reversed. Chennai has several colleges in and around the city which can host the exam. AIIMS should change the venue for PG medical aspirants and allotthem tothecitiesin which they preferred,” he said. Another parent, Lakshmi, said her daughter registered on the first day and gave option as Chennai city. But she got an exam centre in Chittoor. “During the pandemic, the exam centres have been allotted in faraway places for the students. A candidate from Cuddalore got an exam centre in Dindigul and another candidate from Ariyalur got an exam centre in Thiruvannamalai,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aspirants-asked-to-write-aiims-entrance-in-covid-hit-chittoor/articleshow/79240545.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Cargo movement in Chennai gains ground as giant planes get right of way||CHENNAI: As flights and trains have begun to resume, cargo movement seems to be rebounding faster than passenger traffic. Chennai airport handled around 29,132 tonnes of cargo in October which is only around 800 tonnes less than the corresponding period last year. The volume has also increased compared to last month. With passenger aircraft traffic thin, giant cargo planes like Antonovs can land and taxi without a hassle. The revival of cargo handling to the post-Covid-19 level shows resumption of business. Railways has also experienced a faster revival of cargo movement than passengers which has encouraged Southern Railway to systematize movement of parcels by introducing scheduled parcel trains. When there were restrictions in movement of passengers, airlines and railways began by moving essential commodities and medical supplies including masks, PPEs and other equipment to combat Covid-19. Cargo was tied to seats of passenger planes while multiple freight trains were operated irrespective of the risks employees faced in contracting Covid-19. An airport official said that fewer passenger flights meant that cargo flights could have quicker turnaround. “There was no hindrance for cargo as freighters kept coming. Resumption of business led to an increase in import and export cargo at the airport.” Chennai airport handled 11,371 tonnes of export cargo and 11,897 tonnes of import cargo in October, the highest handled this year after the pandemic curtailed flights and businesses. Domestic cargo too has resumed considerably with the airport handling 5,596 tonnes of domestic cargo, 268 tonnes of courier parcels. When it comes to railways, a good percentage of freight moved from road to trains in the last couple of months because of restrictions in interstate road traffic and also because of quicker movement of goods trains in the absence of passenger trains. The average speed of goods trains increased from 28kmph to 46kmph. Southern Railway moved a record number of cars, harvesters, grains by trains. Trains have carried more freight in the first seven months of the financial year when compared to the previous year in spite of the Covid-19 restrictions. Railways moved 56 trains carrying cars, which is the highest loading of automobiles. Four trains carried harvesters and trains also carried the highest quantity of rice and paddy in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cargo-movement-in-chennai-gains-ground-as-giant-planes-get-right-of-way/articleshow/79240593.cms||---
November 16, 2020||World||US cases cross 11 million, with 1 million cases in last week alone||NEW YORK: The United States is now home to more than 11 million coronavirus cases, with the latest one million cases coming at breakneck speed in the last week alone, according to Johns Hopkins Covid-19 data. The US death toll has gone past 2,46,000 on November 15. More than 45 states are seeing record spikes during the pandemic's winter surge. Hospitals are at capacity in several states and doctors are pleading with Americans to hunker down because the "vaccines are coming, it's just a matter of a couple of months." North Dakota is in such dire straits that hospitals there are allowing infected but asymptomatic nurses to treat Covid-19 patients. But outside, in malls and grocery stores, Americans are out in full force - a stark contrast to the grim public health crisis that continues to hammer the country. The seven-day rolling average for daily new deaths was more than 1,000 this weekend, ticking higher than in preceding weeks. Based on current trajectory, America is hurtling towards an ominous coronavirus toll of more than 4,00,000 by next Spring, according to new projections from a predictive model used often by data crunchers in Donald Trump's White House coronavirus task force. The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington is predicting a total of 438,941 deaths in America by March 1, 2021. Dr. Anthony Fauci, who serves on the Trump coronavirus task force, and President-elect Biden are pleading with Americans to wear masks and socially distance until the vaccines arrive - very soon. Roughly 20 million people could be vaccinated against the coronavirus in December, the chief of the Donald Trump administration's vaccine coordination program has indicated. Anywhere from 25 to 30 million people could be vaccinated each month afterward. The US is working with a portfolio of six vaccines, using three different platform technologies and two candidates from each platform: messenger RNA, live viral vectors and recombinant protein. Pfizer and Moderna's vaccines use the messenger RNA platform, Johnson and Johnson and AstraZeneca in partnership with Oxford University are on the live vector path while Novavax and Sanofi/ GlaxoSmithKline are building out their vaccine candidates on the recombinant protein platform. One of them - Pfizer - announced that it has achieved 90 per cent efficacy. The company hopes to file for emergency use authorisation as soon as its final efficacy results arrive in the third week of November.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-cases-cross-11-million-with-1-million-cases-in-last-week-alone/articleshow/79240495.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Elderly couple from Chennai plan to take collection of artefacts online||CHENNAI: Amateur archaeologists C Veeraraghavan and his wife N Mangai have conducted more than 100 exhibitions of their private collection of fossils, megalithic potteries and paleolithic tools at schools and colleges across Tamil Nadu. Stuck in Chennai at their children’s house since lockdown, the couple now plan to conduct a virtual tour of their collection to create awareness among people about history and heritage. They have been shuttling between the houses of their son and daughter in Chennai since the lockdown. “Our children don’t want us to stay at our native place Villupuram mainly due to our age. I am 73 and my wife is 67. We are happy to stay here but we are missing our activities that we have been doing for the past 20 years. We are planning to launch a virtual show of our artefacts soon,” said Veeraraghavan, a retired teacher. Veeraraghavan started collecting fossils, megalithic potteries and paleolithic tools since he was 40. Mangai soon joined him. It has been more than 30 years, and today the couple maintain more than 400 rare collection of artefacts, all collected from above the ground. “We have been creating awareness among students about our history and heritage through these artefacts. We had a lot of interesting experience when we visited schools and colleges. But now we are a bit disappointed and we don’t know when we can resume our journey after the pandemic,” said the couple. As uncertainty prevails, the couple are in search of a good cameraman to document their collections aesthetically. “A mere virtual tour doesn’t make sense. We need to display each artefact with the importance it deserves. We need a good cameraman with basic knowledge about the subject to document it. We hope we will find one soon,” said Mangai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/elderly-couple-from-chennai-plan-to-take-collection-of-artefacts-online/articleshow/79240627.cms||M T Saju
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Young adults born in Mumbai's red-light district turn their lives around||MUMBAI: Through the coronavirus-induced lockdown when teenagers her age were fretting over not being able to meet their friends, Salama* was busy focusing on turning her life around. At a shelter for children of sex workers at Kamathipura, the 18-year-old spent three hours every day for three months doing an online course that would help her find a job. Around Diwali, Salama joined a hospital in Navi Mumbai as a bedcare assistant, something her mother is proud of. For young adults born or raised in Mumbai's red-light district, growing up was never easy. But with the support of teachers and civil society groups, some of them have managed to thrive against all odds. Salama lived with her mother at Kamathipura till she was six. But as her mother wanted her to grow up outside the community and study, the Child Welfare Committee at Dongri sent her to a home for children. Just a few days short of turning 18, Salama came down to visit her mother at Kamathipura. After her arrival, the national lockdown was announced and she could not get out of the area. “I was not comfortable living there (in the brothel), so my mother rented another place for me in the vicinity, but I was still not at ease,” she said. Salama then moved into a shelter run by nonprofit Prerana, which functioned 24x7 during the lockdown for a select group of teenaged girls who were vulnerable and at high risk. “We ensured that social distancing was maintained at the shelter,” said Priti Patkar, founder of the NGO. The teenagers were given access to livelihood training courses conducted by educational institutions online. “Salama, who has studied till class XII, opted for a course on bedcare assistance, that also covered soft skills, personality development and spoken English,” added Patkar. Salama intends to save up for a year and then resume her studies to fulfil her mother’s dream of seeing her graduate. Like Salama, Rohit* can’t wait to graduate either. Currently, in the second year of degree college, Rohit, 21, aims to become an IPS officer. “It’s a childhood dream,” said Rohit, who has juggled a job at a pest control firm along with night college. Rohit’s mother, a sex worker at Kamathipura, had succumbed to tuberculosis when he was 12. After a brief stint with the pest control firm, he worked for an NGO that sponsors children’s education. During the lockdown, he took up a job with a healthcare company for a project on epilepsy patients. Rohit believes that his background will give him the empathy that police officers often lack. Aisha*, a masters student of social work, also believes her background will help her relate to children better, once she completes her postgraduation and joins an NGO that helps underprivileged kids. She came to Mumbai from Kolkata with her sister when she was just six. Her mother was a sex worker at Falkland Road and died in 2006. With the support of civil society groups, she completed her graduation. “I want to ensure that every sex worker’s child gets an opportunity to access education and a better life,” Aisha (25) said. To celebrate the achievements of such young adults born or raised in Mumbai's red-light district, NGO Prerana plans to honour them at an event next month. (*Names changed to protect their identity)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sex-workers-kids-in-mumbai-aim-to-be-agents-of-social-change/articleshow/79240619.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 16, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's air quality continues to be in 'severe' category||NEW DELHI: A day after light spells of rain yesterday, Delhi's air quality continues to remain in "severe" category on Monday, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Track the pollution level in your city The overall air quality index (AQI) was recorded at 490. An AQI between 0-50 is marked good, 51-100 is satisfactory, 101- 200 is moderate, 201- 300 is poor, 301-400 is very poor and 401-500 is considered severe.  Experts have said that the severe category affects the health of people and seriously impacts those with existing diseases.  RK Jenamani, scientist, India Meteorological Department (IMD) said that the temperature will start falling in Delhi due to the impact of western disturbances & it may fall by 3-4 degrees Celsius from Monday.  Locals said that they got a sigh of relief after rain as it has improved visibility and bring down pollution levels.  "I used to go out for cycling in the morning on a daily basis. We were experiencing issues like itchy throat and watering eyes earlier. After rain yesterday, we got some relief today and we are facing no irritation in the eyes. Visibility has also improved today," Mannu Pratap Singh, who was riding a bicycle near Signature Bridge, said.  In a bid to prevent the Covid-19 pandemic from worsening owing to poor air quality, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) imposed a total ban on the sale and use of firecrackers in the National Capital Region from midnight of November 9 to midnight of November 30.  According to the India Meteorological Department (IMD), light rain would occur over and adjoining areas of Deoband, Saharanpur, Yamunanagar, and Roorkee during the next 2 hour. Watch Delhi's air quality improves slightly after light spells of rain||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-air-quality-continues-to-be-in-severe-category/articleshow/79240680.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: A walk in the park with iguanas for company||CHENNAI: The country’s first walkthrough reptile garden was thrown open to the public and shutterbugs at the Chennai snake park in Guindy on Sunday. Visitors to the walkthrough garden enjoyed clicking iguanas from close quarters and fed them. A lush green garden spread over 500 sq ft has been created within the snake park where five iguanas have been released for public viewing. According to park authorities, the new facility is the first of its kind in Indian zoos. Iguanas prefer to stay on top of tree branches and are herbivorous. Authorities have created facilities for visitors to feed the reptiles. In some days, authorities said they will release a few exotic redeared slider turtles for public viewing in the same area. The garden has small waterfalls and a variety of native species of herbs and shrubs to create a real time forest ambience for the reptiles. Though iguanas are native to South American forests, they are among the most sought after species in the pet trade business owing to their calm nature. They are used as pets in many countries. Authorities, however, have a word of caution for people visiting the walkthrough as Iguanas are known to use their tails as a whip to protect themselves from predators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-a-walk-in-the-park-with-iguanas-for-company/articleshow/79240695.cms||---
November 16, 2020||World||Our Constitution was badly shattered and violated: Trump continues to allege election fraud||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Saturday (local time) reiterated his allegations on voter fraud, claiming that the US Constitution was 'badly shattered and violated' during the recent presidential elections, and accused the Democrats of altering millions of votes. Taking to Twitter, Trump lambasted the 'Fake news media' and alleged that the Republican side was attacked like never before. "Why does the Fake News Media continuously assume that Joe Biden will ascend to the Presidency, not even allowing our side to show, which we are just getting ready to do, how badly shattered and violated our great Constitution has been in the 2020 Election. It was attacked,......perhaps like never before! From large numbers of Poll Watchers that were thrown out of vote counting rooms in many of our States, to millions of ballots that have been altered by Democrats, only for Democrats, to voting after the Election was over, to using Radical Left," he tweeted. He also targeted Dominion Voting Systems and stated that people responsible for safeguarding the Constitution cannot allow the 'fake' results of the election to stand. "....owned Dominion Voting Systems, turned down by Texas and many others because it was not good or secure, those responsible for the safeguarding of our Constitution cannot allow the Fake results of the 2020 Mail-In Election to stand. The World is watching!" he said in another tweet. Earlier, Trump had appeared to acknowledge in public for the first time that President-elect Joe Biden had "won" the election but kept up his assertion that the election was "rigged." "He won because the Election was Rigged. NO VOTE WATCHERS OR OBSERVERS allowed, vote tabulated by a Radical Left privately owned company, Dominion, with a bad reputation & bum equipment that couldn't even qualify for Texas (which I won by a lot!), the Fake & Silent Media, & more!" Trump tweeted. Since Biden was projected the winner of the presidential elections, Trump has refused to concede defeat, saying that the election was "far from over", and has also promised legal challenges by his re-election campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/our-constitution-was-badly-shattered-and-violated-trump-continues-to-allege-election-fraud/articleshow/79240703.cms||---
November 16, 2020||World||Our Constitution was badly shattered and violated: Trump continues to allege election fraud||WASHINGTON: US President Donald Trump on Saturday (local time) reiterated his allegations on voter fraud, claiming that the US Constitution was 'badly shattered and violated' during the recent presidential elections, and accused the Democrats of altering millions of votes. Taking to Twitter, Trump lambasted the 'Fake news media' and alleged that the Republican side was attacked like never before. "Why does the Fake News Media continuously assume that Joe Biden will ascend to the Presidency, not even allowing our side to show, which we are just getting ready to do, how badly shattered and violated our great Constitution has been in the 2020 Election. It was attacked,......perhaps like never before! From large numbers of Poll Watchers that were thrown out of vote counting rooms in many of our States, to millions of ballots that have been altered by Democrats, only for Democrats, to voting after the Election was over, to using Radical Left," he tweeted. He also targeted Dominion Voting Systems and stated that people responsible for safeguarding the Constitution cannot allow the 'fake' results of the election to stand. "....owned Dominion Voting Systems, turned down by Texas and many others because it was not good or secure, those responsible for the safeguarding of our Constitution cannot allow the Fake results of the 2020 Mail-In Election to stand. The World is watching!" he said in another tweet. Earlier, Trump had appeared to acknowledge in public for the first time that President-elect Joe Biden had "won" the election but kept up his assertion that the election was "rigged." "He won because the Election was Rigged. NO VOTE WATCHERS OR OBSERVERS allowed, vote tabulated by a Radical Left privately owned company, Dominion, with a bad reputation & bum equipment that couldn't even qualify for Texas (which I won by a lot!), the Fake & Silent Media, & more!" Trump tweeted. Since Biden was projected the winner of the presidential elections, Trump has refused to concede defeat, saying that the election was "far from over", and has also promised legal challenges by his re-election campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/our-constitution-was-badly-shattered-and-violated-trump-continues-to-allege-election-fraud/articleshow/79240705.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Raipur||Judge found hanging in Chhattisgarh||RAIPUR: A judge was found hanging at her residence in Chhattisgarh’s Mungeli district on Sunday morning. Police suspect it’s death by suicide. The victim, 55-year-old Kanta Martin, lived alone after her husband died a year ago. Her two sons live in other cities. “The body of district and sessions judge Kanta Martin was found hanging from a saree tied to a ceiling fan,” Mungeli SP Arvind Kujur said. The judge’s cook alerted neighbours when the judge didn’t respond to her knocks. Police were called. Senior officers led a team there and tried to contact the judge. When she didn’t respond to calls or the doorbell, police broke down the door and found her body. Police said no suicide note was found but they suspect it’s suicide as Judge Martin was apparently under depression since the death of her husband.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/raipur/judge-found-hanging-in-chhattisgarh/articleshow/79240657.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Covid-19: Active cases in Mumbai below 10,000, first time since May||MUMBAI: Active cases in the city dropped below 10,000 for the first time since May. On Sunday, Mumbai had 9,956 active cases, a 52% decline from 20,922 cases seen on October 15. The city now accounts for merely 12% of the state’s active cases (84,918). Civic officials said it was an indicator of reduced transmission but cautioned that a surge could be seen in the days to come due to Diwali festivities. BMC’s count of active cases, however, differed from the state numbers which stated Mumbai had 13,532 active cases. The civic report said that due to data reconciliation, 3,171 duplicate cases were removed from the active cases tally. Maharashtra also saw one of its lowest daily additions in cases in the past 159 days. On Sunday, the state recorded 2,544 positive cases, taking the overall tally to 17,47,242. The last time the state had fewer than 2,544 cases was on June 9 when 2,259 cases were recorded. State officials said that the dip could be partly attributed to reduced testing on the weekend. The state had recorded an average of 4,000 cases daily last week. The count of positive cases in Mumbai remained under 1,000 for the fourth day in a row. On Sunday, the city added 577 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 2,69,710. KEM dean Dr Hemant Deshmukh said they had only 50 hospitalised patients, which was 10% of the patients admitted in July. Deaths too were the lowest in the last 12 days. There were 15 casualties reported on Sunday, which took the city's Covid toll to 10,573. A civic official said that of the 15 deaths, 11 patients had comorbidities. As many as 13 were above the age of 60 years, the agebracket that has seen the highest number of Covid deaths. The state also saw less than 100 deaths (60), taking the overall mortality count to 45,974. Maharashtra has been adding an average of 110 deaths in November and at least on four occasions there have been less than 100 deaths in a day. State officials said that out of the 60 deaths, 35 occurred within 48 hours while three took place in the last week. The remaining 22 were from the period before last week. In MMR the count of new cases in Thane city dropped to double digits for the first time in months. The positivity rate has shrunk to 1.2%. The recovery rate is stable at 94.9%, with only 1,359 active cases left. Kalyan-Dombivli on Sunday reported 82 new cases and one death, taking the tally to 51,780 and the toll to 1,028. The state’s discharge rate has touched 92% with 3,065 patients getting discharged on Sunday. The overall number of recovered patients has touched 16,15,379. (Inputs by Pradeep Gupta)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-19-active-cases-in-mumbai-below-10000-first-time-since-may/articleshow/79240759.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 16, 2020||World||Hurricane Iota heads for already battered Central America||MANAGUA: Iota rapidly gained strength after becoming the 13th hurricane of the Atlantic season Sunday, threatening to bring dangerous winds and rains to Nicaragua and Honduras _ countries recently clobbered by Category 4 Hurricane Eta. The governments of Nicaragua and Honduras said authorities were evacuating some people in the areas near their shared border, a region that forecasts said likely would be in Iota's path. Iota became a Category 2 hurricane late Sunday afternoon, and the U.S. National Hurricane Center warned it would likely be an extremely dangerous Category 4 storm when it approached the Central America mainland late Monday. It was already a record-breaking system, being the 30th named storm of this year's extraordinarily busy Atlantic hurricane season. Such activity has focused attention on climate change, which scientists say is causing wetter, stronger and more destructive storms. The hurricane center said Iota had maximum sustained winds of 105 mph (165 kph) early Sunday evening. It was centered about 80 miles (130 kilometers) east of Isla de Providencia, Colombia, and was moving westward at 10 mph (17 kph). Forecasters said Iota was expected to pass or cross over Providencia late Sunday or early Monday and then approach the coasts of Nicaragua and Honduras on Monday night. In Honduras, compulsory evacuations began before the weekend and by Sunday evening 63,500 people were reported to be in 379 shelters just in the northern region, while the whole country was on high alert. Nicaraguan officials said that by late Sunday afternoon about 1.500 people, nearly half of them children, had been evacuated from low-lying areas in the country's northeast, including all the inhabitants of Cayo Misquitos. Authorities said 83.000 people in that region were in danger. Wind and rain were beginning to be felt Sunday night in Bilwi, a coastal Nicaraguan city where people crowded markets and hardware stores during the day in search of plastic sheeting, nails and other materials to reinforce their homes, just as they did when Hurricane Eta hit on Nov. 3. Several residents of Bilwi expressed concern that their homes would not stand up to Iota, so soon after Eta. Local television showed people being evacuated in wooden boats, carrying young children as well as dogs and chickens. Authorities warned that the risk was high because Iota would probably come ashore over areas where Eta's torrential rains left the soil saturated with water and more prone to new landslides and floods. Eta already wreaked havoc. It hit Nicaragua as a Category 4 hurricane, killing at least 120 people as torrential rains caused flash floods and mudslides in parts of Central America and Mexico. Then it meandered across Cuba, the Florida Keys and around the Gulf of Mexico before slogging ashore again near Cedar Key, Florida, and dashing across Florida and the Carolinas. Iota was forecast to drop 8 to 16 inches (200-400 millimeters) of rain in northern Nicaragua, Honduras, Guatemala and southern Belize, with as much as 30 inches (750 millimeters) in isolated spots. Costa Rica and Panama could also experience heavy rain and possible flooding, the hurricane center said. Eta was the 28th named storm of this year's hurricane season, tying the 2005 record for named storms. Theta, the 29th, was far out in the eastern Atlantic Ocean, and became a remnant low Sunday. The official end of hurricane season is Nov. 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/hurricane-iota-heads-for-already-battered-central-america/articleshow/79240768.cms||---
November 16, 2020||World||Brazil tilts right in local polls, but Bolsonaro stymied||SAO PAULO: Traditional center-right and right-wing parties emerged as winners Sunday in the first round of local elections in Brazil, though far-right President Jair Bolsonaro's favorite candidates took a beating in the country's biggest cities. In the first elections since the man dubbed the "Tropical Trump" won the presidency in 2018, upending Brazil's political gameboard, voters continued to punish the divided and weakened left wing, tainted by corruption scandals during 13 years of rule (2003-2016). But the pandemic-rattled vote was notably not a victory for the far-right president, who currently has no political party and whose candidates mostly lost to competitors from traditional centrist and conservative parties. "The elections were bad for Bolsonaro," said Mauricio Santoro, a political science professor at Rio de Janeiro State University. "They show the president is no longer the kingmaker he was in 2018, when his support was enough to get even unknown candidates elected," he told AFP. "The general theme of this election is a more cautious voter, tending toward more experienced and moderate politicians than in the anti-establishment election of 2018, which was all about rage and revolt. In 2020, it was more about the pandemic and the economic crisis." Bolsonaro remains broadly popular, with approval ratings of more than 40 percent in recent polls, and he still excels at whipping his hardline base into a frenzy with his social media diatribes. But he faces sharp criticism over his minimalist management of Covid-19, which he has compared to a "little flu" even as it has killed more than 165,000 people in Brazil -- the second-highest death toll worldwide, after the United States. The resulting economic crisis is battering his administration, which could preside over a record recession this year. The recent election loss in the United States for his political role model, Donald Trump, has only heightened the sense of Bolsonaro's vulnerability. In Sao Paulo, Brazil's biggest city and economic capital, Bolsonaro acolyte Celso Russomanno took a thrashing and failed to reach the November 29 runoff, finishing far behind center-right Mayor Bruno Covas and left-wing candidate Guilherme Boulos, according to early official results. In Rio de Janeiro, Mayor Marcelo Crivella, an Evangelical pastor and Bolsonaro ally, reached the second round but trailed ex-mayor Eduardo Paes 37 percent to 22 percent with nearly all the ballots counted, election officials said. It was a good night for Paes's center-right party, the Democrats (DEM), which looked on track to win a string of mayorships in cities including Curitiba and Florianopolis. Bolsonaro-backed candidates scored well in a comparatively small number of cities, including Belem and Fortaleza. "Bolsonaro will have to cede more to the traditional centrist parties if he wants to advance his agenda in the second half of his term," said political scientist Oswaldo Amaral of the University of Campinas. "It's still early to talk about 2022 (when Bolsonaro faces reelection), but his government will now face more demands to negotiate to get its measures through." The Brazilian left, meanwhile, remains weakened and divided after the impeachment of president Dilma Rousseff in 2016 and the jailing of her predecessor, Workers' Party founder Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, on corruption charges. The few bright spots for the left included Sao Paulo, with Boulos's survival for the runoff, and the southern city of Porto Alegre -- though it was a disappointing second-place finish there for Communist Party of Brazil candidate and rising political star Manuela D'Avila, who will face centrist candidate Sebastiao Melo in the second round. Postponed by six weeks because of the pandemic, the elections bore the indelible imprint of Covid-19. The authorities urged Brazil's 148 million voters to bring their own pens, respect social distancing guidelines and disinfect their hands multiple times as they chose the South American giant's 5,569 mayors and city councils. Turnout was expected to be low because of Covid-19 fears. Voting is mandatory in Brazil, but the authorities granted exemptions online this year because of the pandemic, and the fine for not complying costs less than a bus ride. The Supreme Electoral Tribunal said around 560,000 voters had filed for exemptions from mandatory voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/brazil-tilts-right-in-local-polls-but-bolsonaro-stymied/articleshow/79240778.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Odisha collector, three others booked in ex-assistant murder case||KORAPUT: Acting on a court directive, police have registered a case of murder against Malkangiri district collector Manish Agarwal for the death of his former personal assistant Deb Narayan Panda. Besides Agarwal, two staffers of the collectorate and a retired employee were also booked. They were identified as V Venu (data-entry operator), Prakash Swain (stenographer) and Bhagawan Panigrahi (former Odisha Revenue Service officer), police said on Sunday. The case was registered on the basis of a directive by the court of the sub-divisional judicial magistrate (SDJM), Malkangiri. Panda’s body was found near Satiguda dam, on the outskirts of Malkangiri town, on December 28, 2019. Banaja Panda, wife of the deceased, had approached the court of the SDJM on November 2 with the claim that her husband had been murdered by the accused persons as he had turned down the collector’s offer to collect bribes on his behalf. In her FIR she had claimed that “attempts were made to drive out Panda from the post through the serving of a showcause notice on him” and that Venu was entrusted the job of taking care of the ‘funds’ collection drive. “A special investigation team (SIT) has been formed to inquire into the matter,” said Ram Prasad Nag, inspector in charge of Malkangiri police station. The officer said the accused had been booked under Sections 302 (punishment for murder), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), 201 (causing disappear of evidence of offence), 204 (destruction of document to prevent its production as evidence), 120 (B) (punishment of criminal conspiracy) and 34 (34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. “We are hopeful of getting justice,” said Bibek Panda, son of the deceased. The district collector could not be reached for his comment on the case in spite of repeated attempts by TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/odisha-collector-three-others-booked-in-ex-assistant-murder-case/articleshow/79240785.cms||Satyanarayan Pattnaik
November 16, 2020||Guwahati||Assam’s Baghjan gas well fire put out after almost 6 months||DIBRUGARH: The fire at the Oil India Limited (OIL) gas well in Baghjan was extinguished on Sunday, close to six months after the May 27 blowout. A snubbing unit from Canada, which arrived at Baghjan in Tinsukia on November 4 with 59 tonnes of equipment, “killed” the Baghjan well using the “snubbing” technology. The team began the presnubbing activities from November 6, while the actual operation began two days later. Snubbing technology is primarily designed to control fire in gas wells where conventional well killing methods cannot be used. Unlike conventional operations, snubbing can be performed with the well still under pressure. “The Baghjan blowout well has been killed with brine solution and is under control. The fire has been doused completely. There is no pressure in the well and it will be observed for 24 hours to check if there is any amount of gas migration and pressure build-up. Further operation to abandon the well is in progress,” OIL spokesperson Tridiv Hazarika said. After multiple attempts to kill the well turned out to be unsuccessful, a team of experts was roped in from Calgary, Canada, to work with Singapore-based Alert Disaster Control experts to bring the situation under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/guwahati/assams-baghjan-gas-well-fire-put-out-after-almost-6-months/articleshow/79240808.cms||Rajib Dutta
November 16, 2020||Mumbai||Shiv Sena-BJP row over move to reopen places of worship||MUMBAI: A day after the state government announced its decision to re-open religious places from Monday, a war of words broke out between former allies Shiv Sena and BJP. BJP leader and leader of opposition in the legislative council, Pravin Darekar, said the state government should have opened all religious places earlier itself. He said the government finally took a decision because they put pressure. “We don’t want credit for this, let the government keep it. But it is true the government took this decision only after Hindu religious groups along with the BJP protested,” said Darekar on Sunday after meeting the Governor at Raj Bhavan. Sena MP Sanjay Raut said the decision was neither a victory nor defeat for anybody and that religious places were closed after PM Narendra Modi ordered a lockdown. “The SOPs drafted by the government need to be followed strictly. There is no need to take credit. It was god’s will that people stay at home, and now it is god’s will that places of worship reopen with precautions,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shiv-sena-bjp-row-over-move-to-reopen-places-of-worship/articleshow/79240804.cms||---
November 16, 2020||India||PM Modi greets nation on 'Bhai Dooj'||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi greeted the nation on the occasion of Bhai Dooj today. He took to Twitter and said, "Best wishes to all of you on the holy occasion of Bhai Dooj." Bhai Dooj, the festival of a symbol of brother-sister love is being celebrated all over the country today. On this day, sisters pray for their brothers to have long and happy lives by performing Tika ceremony and brothers offer gifts to their sisters. भाई दूज के पावन अवसर पर आप सभी को बहुत-बहुत शुभकामनाएं।— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605494112000Bhaiya Dooj is also known as Bhau Beej and Bhathru Dwithiya. As per Hindu traditions. it is believed that Goddess Yamuna fed her brother Yamraj on Kartik Dwitiya at her own home. Since then this day is known as Yama Dwitiya. (With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-greets-nation-on-bhai-dooj/articleshow/79240837.cms||---
November 16, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Kedarnath shrine wrapped in blanket of snow on closing day ceremony, temperature dip in hills||KEDARNATH: The shrine of Kedarnath is covered in a layer of snow on Monday as the valley and the surrounding hills received fresh spells of snowfall, causing a significant dip in the temperature levels of the hills. The revered shrine is located in the Garhwal Himalayan range near the Mandakini river at about 22 kilometres uphill trek from Gaurikund. People visit Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district amid light snowfall#KedarnathSnowfall https://t.co/NqLsggFv78— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1605492978000Trees and houses were seen covered in white sparkling snow making the place magnificent for tourists for the winters. People visited Kedarnath in Rudraprayag district amid a light snowfall. Kedarnath in Uttarakhand receives fresh snowfall#UttarakhandSnowfall#KedarnathSnowfall https://t.co/IjUIdGN8FV— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1605486535000According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), Uttarakhand forecast, the state will witness very light to light rainfall/snowfall at a few places in Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Bageshwar and Pithoragarh districts and at isolated places in Tehri, Dehradun and Almora districts here. Moreover, dry weather likely to prevail in the remaining districts of the state. Snowfall is likely to occur at isolated places with height 3,000m and above. Watch: #Snowfall at Uttarakhand's Kedarnath on the ocassion of portal closing ceremony https://t.co/CYLboQuDn4— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1605502222000Chief ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, Yogi Adityanath and Trivendra Singh Rawat had arrived at the Kedarnath temple to offer prayers and participate in the portal closing ceremony of the shrine in the early hours of Monday. Adityanath and Rawat witnessed snowfall in the Kedarnath temple area as they entered the shrine here. Watch: #Kedarnath receives snowfall on the ocassion of portal closing ceremony https://t.co/bqU659d90v— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1605502181000Watch: Snowfall at #Kedarnath on the ocassion of portal closing ceremony https://t.co/qtqtWUQdlO— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1605502099000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-kedarnath-shrine-wrapped-in-blanket-of-snow-on-closing-day-ceremony-temperature-dip-in-hills/articleshow/79240836.cms||---
