November 17, 2020||---||Despite a perfect 'caste' balancing exercise, no Muslim could find place in Nitish Kumar's new cabinet in Bihar||PATNA: Though the NDA allies did perfect balancing act to please all social groups among Hindus while picking up ministers for the new government, no member from Muslim community could find place in the Nitish Kumar’s latest cabinet. Besides the CM Nitish Kumar, altogether 14 leaders from the four NDA allies- JD(U), BJP, HAM-S and the VIP- were on Monday sworn in as the cabinet minister by governor Phagu Chauhan. Of total 14 ministers, four each hail from the upper castes and the backward castes, three each from the extremely backward castes (EBCs) and the scheduled castes (SCs). Among the four upper caste ministers, three—Mangal Pandey (Brahmin), Amarendra Pratap Singh (Rajpurt), Jiwesh Kumar (Bhumihar)-- hail from the BJP while the rest one Vijay Kumar Choudhary (Bhumihar) from the JD(U). Amarendra is the grandson of former Bihar CM Sardar Harihar Singh. Among the four backward caste ministers, two –Bijendra Prasad Yadav (Ahir) and Mewalal Choudhary (Koeri) hail from the JD(U), while the rest two – Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad (Kalwar) and Ram Surat Kumar (Ahir) are the BJP legislators. Among the three EBC ministers, the deputy CM Renu Devi (Nonia) hails from the BJP, Sheela Kumari (Dhanuk) from JD(U) and Mukesh Sahni (Mallah) from the VIP party. In fact, Sahni is the president of Vikas-sheel Insaan Party. Among the three SC ministers, JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary (Pasi) hails from the JD(U), Satosh Kumar Suman (Mushahar, rat catchers) from the HAM-S and Ramprit Paswan (Dusadh) from the BJP. “The caste break-up of ministers shows that the all four NDA allies did enough exercise to include all important social groups in the new ministry,” says a senior JD(U) leader. As per the constitutional provision, a CM in Bihar can include a maximum 35 ministers in the cabinet. As only 14 ministers took oath of the office on Monday, 21 more ministers could be included in the present cabinet. “The party leadership will take care of Muslim community in the next expansion,” said the JD(U) leader who did not want to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/despite-a-perfect-caste-balancing-exercise-no-muslim-could-find-place-in-nitish-kumars-new-cabinet-in-bihar/articleshow/79251650.cms||Madan Kumar
November 17, 2020||Business||Gold edges up as virus surge overshadows vaccine optimism||NEW DELHI: Gold recovered from a more than 1% dip on Monday as investors weighed immediate concerns over rising coronavirus cases and bets on further economic support even as Moderna became the second drugmaker to declare effective vaccine test results. Spot gold rose 0.2% to $1,892.01 per ounce at 11:31 a.m. ET (1631 GMT). US gold futures rose 0.3% to $1,891.60. Bullion dropped as much as 1.3% after Moderna said its experimental vaccine was 94.5% effective, but this was less than the more than 5% slump after Pfizer last Monday announced its vaccine was over 90% effective. “Vaccine is very very good news, but the problem is it’s going to take quite a while to deploy it even in the developed countries,” said Bart Melek, head of commodity strategies at TD Securities, adding the market had already adjusted positioning last week on the Pfizer news. “Vaccine or no vaccine we’re going to continue to have a hard time economically well into the third quarter of next year, we’re going to need massive amounts of monetary stimulus and we’re very likely to get fiscal stimulus, which ultimately should help move inflation closer to target.” Gold, considered a hedge against inflation and currency debasement, has gained over 24% this year, mainly benefiting from global stimulus measures to cushion the effect of the pandemic. Coronavirus cases crossed the 11-million mark in the United States on Sunday. While markets anticipate a return to normal in the second half of 2021, that “still leaves a massive gap in some of the economies globally that needs to be filled by governments and central banks”, said Saxo Bank analyst Ole Hansen. Investors are now awaiting US Federal Reserve Vice Chair Richard Clarida’s speech at 1900 GMT. Silver eased 0.1% to $24.61 per ounce. Platinum rose 3.2% to $916.98, while palladium climbed 0.2% to $2,327.44.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/gold-edges-up-as-virus-surge-overshadows-vaccine-optimism/articleshow/79251769.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Snehal continues to knock on doors of national archery team||Panaji: Goa's ace archer Snehal Divakar has been pushing for a place in the Indian team for a long time now. It started with her quest for a place at the Olympics in 2016, and with each attempt, the Ponda resident is inching closer. The 25-year-old has now received a shot in the arm when she was selected to appear for trials to select top-12 archers for India camp, preparing for the Tokyo Olympics. The trials will be held at the Tata Archery Academy ground, Jamshedpur, starting November 23. The top-eight archers will not take part in the trials, leaving only four spots up for grabs. Snehal, who studies master's in sports management from Gujarat University in Vadodara, returned to Goa just a month ago. "I had cleared my first and second trials for the Rio camp, but I couldn’t go beyond that. This time I have done better and finished fourth in the second trials held at Pune in January," Snehal told TOI. Snehal is aware of the challenges she will face. "Due to Covid-19, I could hardly train and now, there are very few days left for me. Earlier I was training indoors. I have got permission now to train at the Ponda Sports complex, so I am getting back to my best with coach Priyalaxmi Devi," said Snehal. "The trials are for top 18 archers. First, they will go through the top four rounds of 70-metre target. Then eight archers will be eliminated to keep top 12 in the next round. On the third day, the top eight will clash in the round robin and subsequently on the fourth day, the top four will be finalised.” There will be a fresh selection trial for the India squad once the camp concludes. It needs no reminding that recurve in archery is the toughest and the most unpredictable event. “Olympian Laxmi Majirani will also take part in the trials. She is fighting for her place. A lot of factors play important roles like weather, air, equipment. I am ready for any challenge that comes my way,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/snehal-continues-to-knock-on-doors-of-national-archery-team/articleshow/79252176.cms||Paresh Mokani
November 17, 2020||India||Doctors and para-medical staff to visit Delhi's pvt hospitals to make up for manpower shortage||NEW DELHI: Doctors and para-medical staff from Central paramilitary forces started arriving in the national Capital on Monday to make up for manpower shortage being faced by Delhi’s hospitals in treatment of rising Covid-19 cases, while 10,000 additional RT-PCR tests are set to augment the daily testing capacity starting Tuesday. In a prompt follow-up of decisions taken at a meeting chaired by home minister Amit Shahon Sunday evening to review the spike in Covid-19 infections in Delhi with Delhi LG and chief minister and suggest remedial measures, the home ministry on Monday held consultations with DRDO and others to add ICU beds to the DRDO Covid hospital and create more beds with oxygen facility at the 10,000-bed Covid facility manned by ITBP at Chhattarpur. “We hope to add 250 beds at DRDO hospital and augment oxygen capacity at Chattarpur facility, as directed by the home minister, in around four days’ time,” a senior home ministry official told TOI. Meanwhile, the guidelines or standard protocol on plasma therapy and plasma administration for treatment of Covid-19 patients, based on recommendations of a committee headed by NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul, will be issued on Tuesday, sources told TOI. While 10,000 additional RT-PCR tests will ramp up testing starting Tuesday — taking the nearly 18,000-19,000 such tests up to around 28,000-29,000 a day — more will be added in a phased manner over the next few days. As per the direction issued by Shah, RT-PCR tests in Delhi are to be doubled. Around 75 Central para-military doctors and 250 paramedics are being flown from various states — Assam, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan etc — to Delhi and some have already arrived, said a home ministry official. “All the decisions announced as part of the 12-point action plan are being implemented on a fast-track basis,” said a source. Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, authorities of the Indian Council of Medical Research, DRDO, the Delhi government and the city's municipal corporations held separate meetings through Monday for smooth implementation of the 12 directives given by the home minister to fight the recent spike of Covid-19 cases in the capital. Shah, as part of his second intervention to arrest the worsening Covid situation in the national Capital — the first being in June — had on Sunday announced a multi-point action plan aimed at stepping up testing, augmenting capacity of city’s hospitals and medical infrastructure currently under strain due to rising Covid infections, revisiting containment strategies and strictly enforcing Covid-appropriate behaviour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/doctors-and-para-medical-staff-to-visit-delhis-pvt-hospitals-to-make-up-for-manpower-shortage/articleshow/79252849.cms||Bharti Jain
November 17, 2020||India||Delhi situation ‘unprecedented’, new cases could hit 500/million: Niti Aayog||NEW DELHI: An "unprecedented situation" has emerged in Delhi, which could worsen in coming weeks with Covid-19 cases rising to 500 cases per million population from around 361 currently, according to a Niti Aayog assessment highlighting violation of Covid norms during the festive season. In view of a possible surge, the Centre has suggested urgently increasing bed capacity in Delhi, particularly ICU beds to around 6,431, to handle the rise to 500 cases per million. Currently, Delhi has 3,491 ICU beds of which 88% are occupied. The assessment was presented to a meeting convened by home minister Amit Shah and attended by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and senior central and state officials on Sunday. Some of the 12 decisions taken have begun to roll out. Doctors and paramedical staff started arriving in Delhi on Monday to boost manpower at city hospitals treating Covid-19 cases, while 10,000 additional RT-PCR tests are set to augment the daily testing capacity starting Tuesday. More on Covid-19 Coronavirus pandemic: Complete Coverage It's time to mask up and stay safe: Join TOI's #MaskIndia campaign MHA's guidelines for home isolation Trust the newspaper for your daily verified news The home ministry on Monday held consultations with DRDO and others to add ICU beds and create more beds with oxygen facility at the 10,000-bed Covid facility manned by ITBP in Chhatarpur. “We hope to add 250 beds at the DRDO hospital in around four days,” a senior home ministry official told TOI. Guidelines on plasma therapy for treatment of Covid-19 patients, based on recommendations of a committee headed by Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, will be issued on Tuesday, sources told TOI. While 10,000 additional RT-PCR tests will take testing to around 28,000-29,000 a day, more will be added in a phased manner over the next few days as these tests are to be doubled. “An unprecedented situation has emerged in Delhi and this is likely to become worse in the coming weeks,” Dr Paul said in the presentation. The estimates show there are around 9,839 isolation beds in Delhi with oxygen support. The Centre has suggested increasing this capacity to at least 10,630 to be able to tackle the current surge. Around 75 central paramilitary doctors and 250 paramedics are being flown in from various states — Assam, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Rajasthan — to Delhi and some have already arrived, the home ministry official said. Interestingly, the presentation said trends in Haryana NCR districts were similar to Delhi, whereas those in Uttar Pradesh such as Ghaziabad and Gautam Buddh Nagar were encouraging because of high level of testing. Gurgaon and Faridabad – both in Haryana – are witnessing a significant rise in cases with positivity rates of around 20% and tests conducted per positive case being five. On the contrary, UP NCR districts have positivity below 5% and are conducting more than 30 tests per positive case. “This indicates high level of testing rates, coupled with contact tracing measures in UP NCR,” Paul said in his presentation. Officials said gross violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour during the last few weeks while most people in Delhi are still susceptible to the viral infection and the deteriorating air quality, which is likely to continue like this till early March, are factors that could result in more cases in the coming weeks. Delhi’s surge at 361 cases per million population has been bigger than other metros like Chennai (214), Mumbai (140) and Kolkata (63), the Niti Aayog assessment showed. Commensurate with the rising number of cases, the Centre has recommended at least 1-1.5 lakh tests per day in the Capital. Home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, authorities of the Indian Council of Medical Research, DRDO, the Delhi government and the city's municipal corporations held separate meetings through Monday for smooth implementation of the directives. Watch Delhi covid-19 cases could hit 500/million mark: Niti Aayog||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/delhi-situation-unprecedented-new-cases-could-hit-500/million-niti-aayog/articleshow/79252931.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 17, 2020||India||Modi & Xi to again come face to face at Brics summit today||NEW DELHI: PM Narendra Modi will come face to face virtually on Tuesday for the second time this month with President Xi Jinping at the 12th Brics summit that will be hosted by Russian President Vladimir Putin. The government said in a statement that the leaders will discuss intra-Brics cooperation and key issues in the global context, including reform of the multilateral system, measures to mitigate the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic, cooperation in counter-terrorism, trade, health, energy and people to people exchanges. Ahead of the summit, Russian authorities ruled out any possibility of the forum being used to address any bilateral issue but said both India and China could benefit from their participation in Brics. While focusing on economic issues, especially the need to shore up cooperation in the service sector, Modi is expected to drive home the point that terrorism, terror financing, drug trafficking and organised crime adversely impact the business environment. Modi had described terrorism at the last summit in Brazil as the biggest threat to development. This will be the second time that Modi and Xi will share some face time in the middle of the military standoff in Ladakh. At the SCO summit last week, in the presence of Xi and Pakistani PM Imran Khan, Modi had underlined the significance of respecting sovereignty and territorial integrity while pursuing connectivity initiatives. India will take over as the chair of Brics which will be the third Brics presidency for India since its inception (after 2012 and 2016) and will host the 13th summit in 2021. The summit is taking place at a time India and China remain locked in a bitter border standoff in eastern Ladakh. While Russia has repeatedly said the dispute should be addressed bilaterally, it has also maintained that multilateral fora like SCO and Brics can be used by member-states to reduce any trust deficit between them. Modi will, in fact, again join Xi for the G20 summit later this week. Watch Brics Summit: PM Narendra Modi, Xi Jinping to meet virtually for the first time since standoff||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/modi-xi-to-again-come-face-to-face-at-brics-summit-today/articleshow/79253275.cms||---
November 17, 2020||---||Special AICC panel may discuss Bihar debacle, internal rumblings||NEW DELHI: The special AICC committee to assist Congress President Sonia Gandhi is likely to meet on Tuesday in the wake of the fresh setback in the Bihar elections and renewed rumblings from members of the G-23 and state leaders about the trajectory and political path of the party post the second successive Lok Sabha defeat in 2019. Sources said the committee is likely to discuss the Bihar elections and the sub-par performance of Congress, where it won 19 of the 70 seats it contested, as part of the opposition alliance led by RJD, among other issues. The panel, assigned to deliberate on day-to-day affairs of the party to help the chief, was formed as part of the AICC reshuffle done in September after a stormy CWC meeting which discussed the controversial letter by 23 senior leaders questioning drift in the organisation and demanding elections to the post of the party president besides advocating collective leadership. After a brief lull, former telecom minister Kapil Sibal again attacked the leadership for being in denial and demanded that the party accept that it is in decline and take help of experienced leaders to devise a strategy for revival. The ranks of discontented leaders appear to be growing from August when the G-23 missive was sent. On Monday, Karti Chidambaram, son of P Chidambaram and a Lok Sabha MP, backed Sibal’s comments by tweeting that it was time for Congress to “introspect, ideate, consult and act”. A member of G-23 and Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha, too, backed Sibal by saying it was an attempt to “save democracy” by saving Congress. “Time to act is now or tomorrow may be too late,” Tankha said. However, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot slammed Sibal, saying, “There was no need for Sibal to mention our internal issue in media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country.” Though held to his personal views, RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari’s comments on Rahul Gandhi’s slack campaign and Congress’s propensity to seek more seats than it can deliver were reminders that allies may well see the party as a drag rather than a force multiplier. Sibal said the Bihar elections as well as bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh show that Congress as an alternative was rejected by voters. He said time for introspection was over and solutions were known and the leadership should call a discussion with experienced leaders to put in place correctives for revival. He chided the party for sticking to business as usual and warned that the decline will continue if not addressed. Sibal said the letter by G-23 was not liked by the leadership, which instead of taking it as constructive criticism and call a discussion, used it to attack the letter writers. A member of the dissident group said senior leaders from Madhya Pradesh were miffed with the way things were being run in the party as also some from Punjab. “More and more people are contacting us,” he said. If their ranks swell, a vocal call, if not another letter, for a CWC meeting or for a special discussion to address their concerns can be heard in the coming weeks. “Introspection and discussion with us is a must,” a former UPA minister said. The AICC refused to react to Sibal’s remarks. However, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said it was not proper to blame the leadership for every defeat and the dissident leaders should forward constructive suggestions in the party fora. “It would have been better if they had tried to go and help candidates or the party in states where elections were held,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/special-aicc-panel-may-discuss-bihar-debacle-internal-rumblings/articleshow/79253382.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Special AICC panel may discuss Bihar debacle, internal rumblings||NEW DELHI: The special AICC committee to assist Congress President Sonia Gandhi is likely to meet on Tuesday in the wake of the fresh setback in the Bihar elections and renewed rumblings from members of the G-23 and state leaders about the trajectory and political path of the party post the second successive Lok Sabha defeat in 2019. Sources said the committee is likely to discuss the Bihar elections and the sub-par performance of Congress, where it won 19 of the 70 seats it contested, as part of the opposition alliance led by RJD, among other issues. The panel, assigned to deliberate on day-to-day affairs of the party to help the chief, was formed as part of the AICC reshuffle done in September after a stormy CWC meeting which discussed the controversial letter by 23 senior leaders questioning drift in the organisation and demanding elections to the post of the party president besides advocating collective leadership. After a brief lull, former telecom minister Kapil Sibal again attacked the leadership for being in denial and demanded that the party accept that it is in decline and take help of experienced leaders to devise a strategy for revival. The ranks of discontented leaders appear to be growing from August when the G-23 missive was sent. On Monday, Karti Chidambaram, son of P Chidambaram and a Lok Sabha MP, backed Sibal’s comments by tweeting that it was time for Congress to “introspect, ideate, consult and act”. A member of G-23 and Rajya Sabha MP Vivek Tankha, too, backed Sibal by saying it was an attempt to “save democracy” by saving Congress. “Time to act is now or tomorrow may be too late,” Tankha said. However, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot slammed Sibal, saying, “There was no need for Sibal to mention our internal issue in media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country.” Though held to his personal views, RJD leader Shivanand Tiwari’s comments on Rahul Gandhi’s slack campaign and Congress’s propensity to seek more seats than it can deliver were reminders that allies may well see the party as a drag rather than a force multiplier. Sibal said the Bihar elections as well as bypolls in Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh show that Congress as an alternative was rejected by voters. He said time for introspection was over and solutions were known and the leadership should call a discussion with experienced leaders to put in place correctives for revival. He chided the party for sticking to business as usual and warned that the decline will continue if not addressed. Sibal said the letter by G-23 was not liked by the leadership, which instead of taking it as constructive criticism and call a discussion, used it to attack the letter writers. A member of the dissident group said senior leaders from Madhya Pradesh were miffed with the way things were being run in the party as also some from Punjab. “More and more people are contacting us,” he said. If their ranks swell, a vocal call, if not another letter, for a CWC meeting or for a special discussion to address their concerns can be heard in the coming weeks. “Introspection and discussion with us is a must,” a former UPA minister said. The AICC refused to react to Sibal’s remarks. However, Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury said it was not proper to blame the leadership for every defeat and the dissident leaders should forward constructive suggestions in the party fora. “It would have been better if they had tried to go and help candidates or the party in states where elections were held,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/special-aicc-panel-may-discuss-bihar-debacle-internal-rumblings/articleshow/79253379.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||'More people may die,' Biden says, if Trump blocks cooperation on virus planning||WILMINGTON, Del./WASHINGTON: - P resident-elect Joe Biden said on Monday "more people may die" if outgoing President Donald Trump continues to block efforts to plan for a US transition of power as the coronavirus pandemic worsens, and added that he would not hesitate to get vaccinated. Biden also said business and labor leaders had signaled willingness to cooperate to fix the pandemic-battered US economy but stressed Covid-19 first must be brought under control and urged Congress to pass relief legislation. The Democratic president-elect delivered a speech and took questions from journalists in Wilmington, Delaware, after consulting with the CEOs of top US companies and labor leaders on Monday. He welcomed further progress in Covid-19 vaccine development. Biden said the CEOs and labor leaders were "ready to come together" and that "the unity was astounding." Biden will inherit an economy that has suffered millions of job losses during a pandemic that has killed more than 246,000 people in the United States. US Covid-19 cases are surging as Biden prepares to take office on Jan. 20. "We're going into a very dark winter. Things are going to get much tougher before they get easier," Biden said of the pandemic. In response to a question about the consequences of the Trump administration not cooperating with the Biden transition team on fighting the pandemic, he said, "More people may die if we don't coordinate." "As you battle Covid, we have to make sure that businesses and workers have the tools, the resources and the national guidance and health and safety standards to operate safely," Biden added. Biden said it would be a lot easier for the presidential transition if Trump were to cooperate but said of the incumbent's refusal to concede: "I find this more embarrassing for the country than debilitating for my ability to get started." He called for bipartisan cooperation against the pandemic and urged Congress to pass pandemic relief legislation. Talks on such legislation stalled for months before the Nov. 3 election. Biden said the coronavirus continues to spread "almost unabated" and that it was state governors who were stepping up. On other economic matters, Biden said he plans to pursue "a fairer tax structure" with corporations paying their fair share and added that he wanted to see a $15 hourly minimum wage nationwide. Biden said no government contracts will be given to companies that do not make products in the United States. Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris held a midday video conference with several chief executives including General Motors Co's Mary Barra, Microsoft Corp's Satya Nadella, Target Corp's Brian Cornell and Gap Inc's Sonia Syngal. Also taking part were AFL-CIO president Richard Trumka and the heads of the Service Employees International Union, the United Auto Workers and two other large unions. Biden told reporters that he made it clear to corporations on the video conference that he is a "union guy." 'READY FOR PRIME TIME' Biden earlier on Monday said Moderna Inc's announcement that its experimental Covid-19 vaccine was 94.5% effective based on interim data from a late-stage trial provided fresh hope for beating the coronavirus. Coupled with positive results last week on a rival Pfizer Inc shot, Moderna's news added to optimism that widespread vaccination in the coming months could help tame the pandemic. Asked whether he personally would be willing to get vaccinated with one of the newly developed shots, Biden said, "I wouldn't hesitate to get the vaccine." "They appear to be ready for prime time, ready to be used," Biden said of the two vaccine candidates. Biden also urged Americans to limit the number of people at gatherings for next week's Thanksgiving holiday, with social distancing and masks encouraged. Unlike in 2008, when the country elected Democrat Barack Obama and his running mate Biden as the global economy teetered from the sub-prime mortgage crisis, the worst of the current economic downturn may have passed. Unemployment has come down sharply from its April peak of 14.7% to 6.9% and is projected to fall further throughout next year. TRUMP DIGS IN Biden moved ahead with economic planning even as the Republican Trump on Monday again refused to accept his election loss. Trump's national security adviser, Robert O'Brien, said on Monday he was prepared to ensure a professional transition to Biden's team. "If the Biden-Harris ticket is determined to be the winner, and obviously things look like that now, we'll have a very professional transition from the National Security Council, there's no question about it," O'Brien said. Biden beat Trump by the same 306-232 margin in the state-by-state Electoral College that prompted Trump to proclaim a "landslide" victory in 2016. Biden also won the national popular vote by at least 5.5 million votes, or 3.6 percentage points, with some ballots still being counted. Trump has made no headway with legal challenges in multiple states so far. "I won the Election!" Trump wrote on Monday on Twitter, again falsely claiming victory. Twitter posted a disclaimer saying, "Official sources called this election differently." Election officials from both parties have said there is no evidence of major irregularities. Federal election security officials have decried "unfounded claims" and expressed "utmost confidence" in the election's integrity. Trump suffered another setback when James Bopp, a conservative attorney, on Monday voluntarily withdrew lawsuits filed in federal courts seeking to block the states of Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin from certifying their election results. The lawsuits made unsubstantiated claims of illegal voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/more-people-may-die-biden-says-if-trump-blocks-cooperation-on-virus-planning/articleshow/79253418.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||‘28% child care homes not registered with state govts’||NEW DELHI: Out of 7,163 child care institutions in the country, as many as 2,039 or 28.5% were still not registered with the state governments as mandated by the Juvenile Justice Act, 2015 when a social audit exercise made an assessment of all institutions between 2018 and March 2020. The audit, commissioned by the National Commission for Protection for Child Rights, also found that 2,764 (38%) CCIs did not have adequate measures to prevent any form of physical and emotional abuse of children. The report, which focussed on assessing the compliance by institutions to the JJ Act and rules on registration, funding, child protection measures and infrastructure, found a severe shortage of staff in CCIs. Only 52% CCIs have adequate number of counsellors, just 49% were steered by enough critical first line of care-givers — the house mother and house father. Just 26% (1,883) CCIs had adequate number of child welfare officers, probation officers, case workers and 45.5% (3,256) had a medical officer or physician including the ‘on call’ doctor. In terms of infrastructure, while 6,094 CCIs (85%) were able to provide one bed per child, 1,069 did not have provision for the same. Of the total CCIs, 95% had dormitories, 88% had bathrooms and 82% had toilets. As per the JJ rules, every CCI must have bathrooms in the proportion of at least one bath room for 10 children. However, the audit states that 1,062 (15%) CCIs did not meet the criteria. Similarly, norms stipulate at least one toilet for seven children. Here too as many as 1,504 (21%) did not have adequate facilities. Times ViewChildcare homes are expected to take care of vulnerable kids. But what if those very homes lack decent infrastructure? And what if those working in them are financially vulnerable? The NCPC audit clearly shows the need to invest more in the maintenance of these homes without which childcare will also suffer.The audit was carried out by Lucknow-based Academy of Management Studies that collected all data through on ground visits and facts gathered from CCIs through questionnaires. According to the JJ Act, all CCIs have to register as per law and at the time of registration, the state government must determine and record capacity and purpose of each institution. This applies to children’s home, open shelter, specialised adoption agency, observation home for juveniles in conflict with law and special home (place of safety) also for juveniles. Overall the audit found 5,124 (72%) CCIs across categories registered under JJ Act and 2,039 (29%) out of the loop despite Supreme Court directives for compliance with the law. State-wise data shows that 89% homes in Maharashtra, 62% in Himachal Pradesh, 52% in Tripura, 47% in Delhi, 42% in Kerala, 40% in Telangana and 40% in Madhya Pradesh were not registered under the JJ Act. Only in Chhattisgarh, Chandigarh and Andamans & Nicobar Islands, all homes were registered under the JJ Act. The audit found that random visits by state inspection committees were not carried out in 2,837 (39.6%) CCIs. Also 28.4% CCIs were not inspected by the Child Welfare Committee/JJ Board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/28-child-care-homes-not-registered-with-state-govts/articleshow/79253513.cms||Ambika Pandit
November 17, 2020||---||BJP gets 2 deputy CMs as diminished Nitish takes oath||NEW DELHI/ PATNA: A new-look NDA government, led by Nitish Kumar but in which BJP will have more clout, took office on Monday with the 69 year-old JD(U) chief being sworn in along with BJP’s Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi who are set to be designated deputy CMs. Twelve others, five each from BJP and JD(U) and one each from smaller NDA partners HAM and VIP, took oath to mark the beginning of a record-breaking sixth term for Nitish who has displayed remarkable tenacity but will begin his latest CM innings seemingly diminished because of his party’s poor returns from the polls. The ceremony, attended by home minister Amit Shah, BJP chief JP Nadda and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis, was boycotted by RJD and other parties in the Mahagathbandhan, which lost the nail-biter last Tuesday.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); Nitish, who insisted on his leveraging his higher numbers in previous terms to secure bigger share of departments and the post of Speaker, has seen BJP playing by the same playbook to demand bigger share in the government. The saffron party has kept its commitment to make Nitish the CM despite BJP winning more seats, but has also been firm on getting a share which is commensurate with its new-found muscle. While BJP has 74 members, JD(U) is 30 short of them with current strength. In the previous government, JD(U) with 71 members, had 18 ministers other than Nitish as CM. BJP, with 52 legislators, had 13 ministers, including deputy CM Sushil Modi. While Prasad and Renu Devi are set to be designated as deputy CMs, the party has staked its claim for the post of Speaker, with Nand Kishore Yadav being seen as the likely choice. Name of Yadav, who has been part of every NDA government in Bihar since 2005, was conspicuously missing from the list of ministers who took oath.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); With BJP flexing its muscle and demonstrating its intent to rework the terms of trade with JD(U) by dropping its biggest face in Bihar Sushil Modi as deputy CM because of his perceived proximity to Nitish, the ceremony had an air of uneasiness hanging on it. The audience at Raj Bhavan closely looked at the “body language”, that ever-popular yet undefined index for gauging emotions in inscrutable situations, of the dramatis personae and many eyebrows were raised when Nitish did not get up to receive Prasad and Renu Devi when they greeted him with folded hands after having been appointed ministers. BJP also tried to soften the buzz about Sushil Modi’s unhappiness. “Sushil Modi Ji is not at all upset. He is an asset to us. Party will think about him, a new responsibility will be given to him,” Fadnavis said at the oath-taking ceremony. Prasad and Renu Devi took oath as ministers because the Constitution does not recognise the position of deputy CM. But their being designated as deputy CMs, as reported by TOI on Monday, looked highly probable. In fact, in his congratulatory message to Nitish, defence minister Rajnath Singh referred to Prasad and Devi as deputy CMs. Their upgradation will mark the first instance of Bihar having two deputy CMs. JD(U) ministers included old hands like Bijendra Prasad Yadav, Vijay Kumar Chaudhary and Ashok Chaudhary, besides new faces Mewa Lal Chaudhary and Sheela Kumari Mandal. Other than the two deputy CM-designates, those from BJP included Mangal Pandey, who held the health portfolio in the previous government, Amarendra Pratap Singh, Ramprit Paswan, Jibesh Kumar and Ram Surat Rai. HAM MLC Santosh Kumar Suman, son of Jitin Ram Manjhi, also took oath, besides Mukesh Sahni, the founder of VIP. Sahni, who lost, is likely to be nominated to the Legislative Council from BJP quota. After taking oath, Nitish said, “Based on the public’s decision, the NDA has once again formed the government in the state. We will work together and serve the people.” On Sushil Modi not returning as his deputy, Nitish said, “It is the decision of BJP to not field Sushil Modi as deputy CM. They should be asked about this.” Watch Bihar govt formation: 14 ministers likely to take oath along with CM Nitish Kumar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/bjp-gets-2-deputy-cms-as-diminished-nitish-takes-oath/articleshow/79253537.cms||Akhilesh Singh
November 17, 2020||India||SC seeks UP’s response on plea for release of Kerala journalist||NEW DELHI: Within a week of putting a premium on the right to free speech while granting bail to TV anchor Arnab Goswami, the Supreme Court on Monday entertained a plea for the release of a Kerala journalist who was arrested while proceeding to Hathras for his alleged links with the Popular Front of India (PFI), but asked a citizen arrested for tweeting against the Maharashtra CM to move the Bombay high court. A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian did ask the Kerala Union of Working Journalists, which petitioned for the release of Siddique Kappan who was arrested on October 5, why it could not approach the Allahabad HC. Appearing for the journalists’ body, senior advocate Kapil Sibal said the petitioner was unable to meet the arrested journalist and hence the difficulty in going before the HC. "There is nothing in the FIR which accused the arrested journalist of committing any crime," Sibal said. The bench said, "We are not on merit. We are aware of our powers under Article 32 of the Constitution but are discouraging people from rushing to the Supreme Court without approaching the HC, which is equally empowered to protect the fundamental rights of citizens." However, Sibal's persistence persuaded the SC to seek a response from the UP government on the petition. Kappan was arrested along with three others when they were on way to the Hathras rape victim's village. Police invoked the UAPA against them, accusing them of being members of the PFI who were allegedly proceeding to the village for inciting riots and unrest. Just 15 minutes later, the bench took up for hearing a similar petition by Sameet Thakkar, who has been arrested three times since October 25 for allegedly tweeting against Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya. Appearing for Thakkar, senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani said the tweets did not amount to even a cognisable offence and, yet, the petitioner was arrested thrice — first by Nagpur police for which he remained in judicial custody for nine days and later by VP Road police and then by Mumbai BKC Cyber police. "As many as three FIRs have been lodged for the tweets. He was arrested sequentially for the three FIRs to send a chilling message by keeping him in custody for three weeks," Jethmalani said. Maharashtra counsel Rahul Chitnis said Thakkar's custodial interrogation was complete and that police would not seek fresh remand. The bench told Jethmalani that the petitioner needed to move the Bombay HC for relief. Last week, a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud had strongly criticised Maharashtra police for arresting TV anchor Goswami and had ordered his release from jail. Goswami was arrested on November 4 and was released on bail on November 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-seeks-ups-response-on-plea-for-release-of-kerala-journalist/articleshow/79253584.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 17, 2020||Patna||NDA ‘balances’ castes, but no Muslim in cabinet||PATNA: Though the NDA allies did perfect balancing act to please all social and caste groups among Hindus while selecting ministers for the new government but no member from the Muslim community could find a place in the new Nitish Kumar cabinet. Apart from the CM, 14 ministers from the four NDA allies— JD(U), BJP, HAM-S and VIP — were on Monday sworn in by governor Phagu Chauhan. Of the new ministers, four each are from the upper castes and backward castes, three each from the EBC and SC communities. Among the four upper-caste ministers, three—Mangal Pandey (Brahmin), Amarendra Pratap Singh (Rajput), Jiwesh Kumar (Bhumihar)—are from BJP while Vijay Kumar Choudhary (Bhumihar) is from JD(U). Amarendra is the grandson of former Bihar CM Sardar Harihar Singh. Among the four backward ministers, two –Bijendra Prasad Yadav (Ahir) and Mewalal Choudhary (Koeri) — are from JD(U), while the other two – deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad (Kalwar) and Ram Surat Kumar (Ahir) are BJP legislators. The three EBC ministers are deputy CM Renu Devi (Nonia) from BJP, Sheela Kumari (Dhanuk) from JD(U) and Mukesh Sahni (Mallah), the VIP chief. Among the three SC ministers are JD(U) state working president Ashok Choudhary (Pasi), Santosh Kumar Suman (Mushhar) from HAM-S and Ramprit Paswan (Dusadh) of BJP. “The caste break-up of ministers shows that the four allies included all the important social groups in the new ministry,” says a senior JD(U) leader. As per constitutional provisions, Bihar can have a maximum of 35 ministers in the cabinet. “The party leadership will take care of Muslim community in the next expansion,” said a JD(U) leader, who did not want to be identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-balances-castes-but-no-muslim-in-cabinet/articleshow/79252083.cms||Madan Kumar
November 17, 2020||Business||EY India acquires AI skilling platform||Chennai: Professional services firm EY India has acquired Gurugram-based Spotmentor Technologies, an AI powered skilling platform to help businesses identify skills required for the future of work and upskill and and reskill talent at scale.The financial details of the deal remain undisclosed.The acquisition is expected to strengthen EY’s People Advisory portfolio to support businesses in their skilling and learning needs, EY said. The deal with Spotmentor will help EY leverage emerging technologies such as AI (artificial intelligence) and machine learning to help organizations, the company added. Spotmentor Technologies was co-founded by Deepak Singh, Arpit Goyal, Shekhar Suman and Yash Pl Mittal in 2016. The company focused on large enterprises, government and industry bodies, helping them identify required skill and competency gaps. Over the past year, EY has already collaborated with Spotmentor Technologies team to equip their clients with the right skill sets.EY Spotmentor — the software-as-a-service based skills, learning and careers platform — can help provide a 360-degree skills industry benchmarking to help create success profiles and real time identification and closure of skill gaps. It is also designed to provide easy access to quality content, curated learning plans and offers a real-time skill inventory health index, EY said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ey-india-acquires-ai-skilling-platform/articleshow/79251823.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Nitish Kumar set to tread a path he didn’t plan||PATNA: Nitish Kumar is at the helm of Bihar again, but with a radically changed script and team. His “sisters” may have “crushed all his enemies”, as Usha Devi said on ‘Bhai Dooj’ on Monday before his swearing-in, but Nitish has new challenges and so has the BJP — now the big brother in Bihar NDA with 74 MLAs compared to JD(U)’s 43. Also, half of the 14 ministers sworn-in are from BJP, including the two deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, who are deeply rooted in the ‘Sangh’ ideology and likely to keep the organization above alliance interests. The NDA government has a wafer-thin majority in the House with 126 MLAs, including four each from Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM(S) and Mukesh Sahani’s VIP as well as one Independent MLA against the opposition strength of 110 members in the 243-member House. The body language of Nitish indicates the kind of predicament he is facing and might not have imagined before. As reported in the media on Sunday, Nitish told the NDA legislators at their meeting that he wanted someone from BJP to be the chief minister, but was accepting the post on the insistence of saffron party leaders. He reportedly made this remark in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, who had come as the BJP observer to facilitate the government formation exercise and name two leaders for the deputy CM’s post. A strong opposition bench will ensure that the road ahead for Nitish will be rocky in the assembly. “Best wishes to respected Shri Nitish Kumar Ji on being nominated as the chief minister. I hope that instead of the ambition of the chair, you will make the 19 lakh jobs and positive issues like education, medicine, earning and irrigation as government’s priority,” tweeted the leader of RJD and the opposition Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who emerged as a strong leader outside the shadow of his father Lalu Prasad. Though Nitish, after taking oath as the CM for the 7th time, said he would deliver on the responsibility bestowed by the people of the state and dismissed the challenges as nothing new. “Har bar kuch nayapan rahta hin hai (every time there is something new),” he said when asked about his former deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and the new BJP leaders by his side. Former Assembly Speaker and one of the five JD(U) ministers sworn in on Monday, Vijay Choudhary was confident of handling new challenges. “Under the leadership of Nitish, we will overcome all challenges and take the state development work forward in Bihar,” he told media persons at the Raj Bhavan. But the electoral verdict has put Nitish’s JD(U) and BJP on a crossroads to take the future political course as both the parties will need to groom leadership to handle the challenges posed by Tejashwi and LJP chief Chirag Paswan in the next elections. BJP lacks a leader with mass appeal in Bihar as it cannot bank on PM Narendra Modi all the time to romp home. Only time will tell whether Nitish remains as much comfortable with the two BJP deputy CMs as he was with Sushil Modi but one thing is for sure that the saffron party, as well as the JD(U), needs second-rung leaders to fight the future political battle in Bihar against the formidable opponents with a solid vote base. That BJP will push its agenda and widen its base is evident from the fact that the party made a man from OBC and a woman from EBC as deputy CMs besides ministers from Dalit and Mahadalit communities, which were so far considered the support base of Nitish and his party. Since BJP has achieved the first target of scoring more than JD(U), the Bihar verdict will boost the party morale in other states like West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala where elections are due before May next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-set-to-tread-a-path-he-didnt-plan/articleshow/79254305.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 17, 2020||Patna||Nand Kishore in race for Bihar assembly speaker post||PATNA: Former minister and seven-time BJP MLA from the Patna Saheb assembly constituency, Nand Kishore Yadav, has emerged as the frontrunner for the post of the Bihar assembly speaker along with another BJP veteran Prem Kumar, an eight-time MLA from Gaya Town. Yadav has been the state president of BJP and was also the leader of the opposition in the assembly after the fall of the NDA government in June 2013. Further, he has been a minister in the NDA government headed by Nitish Kumar four times. He has been elected to the assembly seven times from Patna Saheb (earlier called Patna East) — in 1995, 2000, February 2005, November 2005, 2010, 2015 and 2020. On Monday, when mediapersons asked Yadav about his being the most likely candidate from BJP for the post of speaker, he repeatedly denied having information on the matter. Interestingly, the eight-time MLA from Gaya Town Prem Kumar’s name is missing from the council of ministers. He hails from the extremely backward caste (EBC) category, while Yadav is an OBC. Earlier, BJP’s Ara MLA, Amarendra Pratap Singh, had been touted to be the most likely candidate for the speaker’s post, a source said, adding that Singh had, however, declined the offer. Singh was sworn in as a minister in the Nitish government on Monday. The day saw Nitish, seven ministers from BJP, five from JD(U) and one each from Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) take the oath of office. The NDA, which has been in power in the state since November 2005, has had two speakers, both from JD(U) – Uday Narayan Choudhary and Vijay Kumar Choudhary. This was because JD(U) had had more MLAs in the House than BJP. This time, BJP has 74 MLAs against JD(U)’s 43. With Vijay Kumar Choudhary being made a minister, JD(U) is unlikely to get the chance to claim the speaker’s post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nand-kishore-in-race-for-speaker-post/articleshow/79254332.cms||Abhay Singh
November 17, 2020||Patna||Amit Shah, JP Nadda get rousing welcome in Bihar||PATNA: The mood was upbeat in the BJP office where Union home minister Amit Shah along with party national president J P Nadda reached on Monday to congratulate the newly elected party MLAs. They had come from Delhi to attend the swearing-in ceremony of the NDA government at Raj Bhavan where JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar took the oath as Bihar’s chief minister for the seventh time. BJP workers welcomed Shah and Nadda by showering the two leaders with rose petals. Nitish, who took the oath, was clad in a white kurta pyjama and a grey coloured bundi, which he often wears. However, unlike 2015 when the oath ceremony was held in the spacious Gandhi Maidan with two big stages and several national leaders present, this year’s ceremony was a low-key affair. Besides Shah and Nadda, several national BJP leaders like party’s Bihar incharge Bhupendra Yadav and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis also graced the occasion. All BJP and JD(U) legislators were also present during the event. Officials at the Raj Bhavan said the ceremony was kept a simple one to ensure the safety of people keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. “The event was held at Rajendra Mandap which has a capacity to accommodate around 350 people. It was full to its capacity,” said Raj Bhavan public relations officer SK Pathak. He further said all the guests were instructed to come with masks and were allowed to enter only after getting their temperature checked. “Before the event, we had sanitized all the chairs,” added Pathak. Nitish and 12 others took oath in Hindi while Ramprit Paswan and Jiwesh Kumar took oath in Maithili. Soon after the ceremony got over, greetings poured in for Nitish. Some of the national leaders who took to social media included union ministers Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Harsh Vardhan and Hardeep Singh Puri, Karnataka CM Yediyurappa and Odisha CM Navin Patnaik. PM Modi also extended his greetings to Nitish and all others who took oath. “I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar,” read a part of his tweet. SuMo also took to twitter and congratulated Nitish for taking oath as the CM for the seventh time. “Under your leadership, Bihar will further progress. Bihar will continue to get the support from Shri Narendra Modi,” his tweet read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/shah-nadda-get-rousing-welcome/articleshow/79254737.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||---||Amit Shah, JP Nadda get rousing welcome in Bihar||PATNA: The mood was upbeat in the BJP office where Union home minister Amit Shah along with party national president J P Nadda reached on Monday to congratulate the newly elected party MLAs. They had come from Delhi to attend the swearing-in ceremony of the NDA government at Raj Bhavan where JD(U) national president Nitish Kumar took the oath as Bihar’s chief minister for the seventh time. BJP workers welcomed Shah and Nadda by showering the two leaders with rose petals. Nitish, who took the oath, was clad in a white kurta pyjama and a grey coloured bundi, which he often wears. However, unlike 2015 when the oath ceremony was held in the spacious Gandhi Maidan with two big stages and several national leaders present, this year’s ceremony was a low-key affair. Besides Shah and Nadda, several national BJP leaders like party’s Bihar incharge Bhupendra Yadav and former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadnavis also graced the occasion. All BJP and JD(U) legislators were also present during the event. Officials at the Raj Bhavan said the ceremony was kept a simple one to ensure the safety of people keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic. “The event was held at Rajendra Mandap which has a capacity to accommodate around 350 people. It was full to its capacity,” said Raj Bhavan public relations officer SK Pathak. He further said all the guests were instructed to come with masks and were allowed to enter only after getting their temperature checked. “Before the event, we had sanitized all the chairs,” added Pathak. Nitish and 12 others took oath in Hindi while Ramprit Paswan and Jiwesh Kumar took oath in Maithili. Soon after the ceremony got over, greetings poured in for Nitish. Some of the national leaders who took to social media included union ministers Rajnath Singh, Nirmala Sitharaman, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Harsh Vardhan and Hardeep Singh Puri, Karnataka CM Yediyurappa and Odisha CM Navin Patnaik. PM Modi also extended his greetings to Nitish and all others who took oath. “I assure all possible support from the Centre for the welfare of Bihar,” read a part of his tweet. SuMo also took to twitter and congratulated Nitish for taking oath as the CM for the seventh time. “Under your leadership, Bihar will further progress. Bihar will continue to get the support from Shri Narendra Modi,” his tweet read.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/shah-nadda-get-rousing-welcome/articleshow/79252031.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||Patna||MGB mocks decision to appoint two Bihar deputy CMs||PATNA: Mahagatbandhan (Garnd Allaince) leaders mocked the NDA’s decision to have two deputy chief ministers in the state and cited it as BJP’s well-planned strategy to put pressure on chief minister Nitish Kumar. The GA leaders also said that following the decision to have two deputy CMs there is internal dispute within the NDA. While Nitish Kumar on Monday took oath as the chief minister for the fourth consecutive term, for the first time in the state there will be two deputy CMs. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said, “The BJP has proved that Nitish is just a puppet in their hands. They have made him sit on the driving seat, but they will control the steering. The reason behind two deputy CMs is to ensure proper check on Nitish Kumar.” He alleged, the decision to remove Sushil Modi from this post has created an uproar in both the BJP and the RJD. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre also cited similar reasons. “Two deputy CMs are nothing but two guards kept by the BJP to keep an eye on Nitish. Earlier, BJP had provided Nitish with a munshi (Sushil Kumar Modi), but that munshi became Nitish’s stepney and hence he has been removed,” said Rathorre. Another Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha said, “BJP’s decision to not to make SuMo the next deputy CM was a part of strategy. He even alleged several scams during SuMO’s tenure as a reason for not giving him this coveted post and said the newly-formed government will not continue for long.” However, JD (U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan hit back at the opposition for raising issues which were baseless. Ranjan said it was BJP’s decision to have two deputy CMs and they did this from their own quota. “We have no problem with it. In fact, chief minister Nitish Kumar is an able administrator and knows how to lead his cabinet well. Two deputy CMs will further help in smooth functioning of the government and provide extra hand to the CM and help me realise the goal of development,” said Ranjan, adding, “Nitish Ji has not formed this government for providing benefit to his family. He works for the people of Bihar, unlike opposition which had the sole purpose of personal benefit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mgb-mocks-decision-to-appoint-two-deputy-cms/articleshow/79255234.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Congress flays Shivanand Tiwari, RJD distances from his statement||PATNA: A day after RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari blamed Congress for the Mahagatbandhan’s loss and attacked Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for showing no interest in Bihar elections, RJD’s national spokesperson Manoj Jha said it was Tiwari’s personal view and not the party’s official statement. Jha said all the Mahagathbandhan partners — RJD, three Left parties and Congress — fought with better synergy and coordination and only after proper analysis they could come to any conclusion. “We (RJD and Congress) have a long relation and we will continue to strengthen this foundation,” said Jha. Tiwari’s statement angered Congress, particularly about Rahul. Tiwari on Sunday questioned Rahul’s seriousness in Bihar elections and said the Congress leader was picnicking at his sister’s (Priyanka Gandhi) house when the Bihar election was at its peak. Congress Rajya Sabha member and Bihar incharge Shaktisnh Gohil on Monday flayed Tiwari for trying to create fissure in the Mahagatbandhan and indirectly help the NDA government. “Shivanand Tiwari ji does not want the week JDU-BJP government to fall apart to pave way for the formation of a Mahagatbandhan government. He is giving such unrestrained statement on instruction of the JD(U) and BJP and trying to support them,” said Gohil, who also called Tiwari ‘aastin ka saanp’. He further said Tiwari had changed political parties so many times that he could not remember himself. “He had even been a JD(U) parliamentarian. His favour to JD(U) is not surprising. Is he not aware of the political history of Bihar that whenever RJD fought without Congress, be it Lok Sabha or Vidhan Sabha elections, what were the outcome?” Gohil asked. He said Congress always honour the alliance and accepted those seats which the Mahagatbandhan had not won for the past 30 years. “We also left the seats where Congress had strong claims,” he said. He further said Rahul Gandhi participated in the number of rallies which state Congress had requested him to and gave full time to campaigning in Bihar. “From the Mahagatbandhan side, our star campaigners went wherever they were asked to,” Gohil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/congress-flays-shivanand-rjd-distances-from-his-statement/articleshow/79254993.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||Business||Tractor exports dip 5.5% as companies focus on booming domestic market||Chennai: With robust domestic demand for tractors, manufacturers have deprioritised exports and are focussing production on home demand instead. As a result tractor exports are down 5.5% YoY in the April-October period from 44,946 units last year to 42,496 units this year, data from Tractor Manufacturers Association (TMA) showed. Tractor marketers say export focus will return from January-February 2021 onwards once the festival demand at home has already been adequately met.“Right now there is too much domestic order backlog to cover leading into the festival season. We have not seen this kind of domestic demand in 10 years so we have no choice but to move every tractor we produce into the domestic market. So we have deprioritised exports for the moment and we will refocus on exports once Diwali is over,” said Rajesh Jejurikar, executive director-auto & farm sector, M&M. M&M’s tractor plants are at record production right now, he added, but the company is ‘building stock’ right now.Dittoed TR Kesavan, president, TMA, “The big volume players are currently focussing on the domestic market because of the unusually buoyant demand. This comes on the back of the Covid disruption which meant tractor companies had to ramp up quickly to build stock. Once the festival rush is over, the export focus should return in January-February 2021 because global tractor season is dormant in winter.”While April was a zero sales month due to the lockdown, cumulative May-October tractor retails were up 20% this year at 3,20,988 units compared to 2,56,696 units last May-October. Tractor retails went up 55.5% in October, 80% in September, 28% in August, 37% in July and 11% in June after crashing 75.6% in May due to the Covid lockdown.“We have strengthened our leadership position in the export markets month after month in FY’21 despite the pandemic. We are growing very fast in Europe and with 100% presence across all European countries and our Solis tractor is among top 5 tractor brands in the compact segment in France, Germany, UK, Portugal, Slovenia & Spain,” said Deepak Mittal, MD, Sonalika Group. The company has opened a spare parts centre in Germany to cater to nearby countries, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tractor-exports-dip-5-5-as-companies-focus-on-booming-domestic-market/articleshow/79251860.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 17, 2020||Patna||Addl RPF personnel deployed at Patna Jn||PATNA: Railways has deployed additional railway protection force (RPF) personnel at Patna Junction, Rajendra Nagar Terminal, Patliputra Junction and Danapur station to deal with huge passengers’ rush during the festive season, said Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said on Monday. Kumar said a senior woman RPF inspector has been deputed at Patna Junction to coordinate with other women RPF squads deployed at these stations to help women and children board trains safely as well as escort them out of railway premises for their safe return to their respective homes. Besides, RPF’s women personnel will be available at each ‘May I Help You’ booth at these stations to help the women travelling alone with their children, he said . Though passengers with only confirmed tickets are being allowed to enter railway premises due to Covid-19 protocol, RPF has been keeping a close watch on the passengers through CCTV cameras at these four stations from where most of the trains either originate or pass, the DRM said. Railways has also set up medical facility kiosks at these major stations of the division to provide instant assistance to passengers in emergency. This facility is available 24X7 at Patna Junction where an ambulance has been kept in readiness to rush any passenger to hospitals in case of emergency. Railway hospitals at Karbighaiya side of Patna Junction and at Danapur have been put on alert to attend any emergency case, Kumar said, adding railways had recently provided medical assistance to a woman passenger at Mokama at odd hours. In addition to it, railways has already installed baggage screening and wrapping facilities at Patna Junction for those who intend to carry their luggage sanitized and wrapped after getting down from trains at Patna Junction. Railways is charging nominal rate for the purpose, he said, adding that ‘ready-to-cook’ food materials were being provided to passengers on trains as catering services are yet to be restored. GRP said GRP personnel were coordinating with RPF at Patna Junction to carry out security check at the entrance points. Besides, train escort duty in night trains is being carried out on the mainline route of the division to check illegal activities during festive season, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/addl-rpf-personnel-deployed-at-patna-jn/articleshow/79251909.cms||Kumod Verma
November 17, 2020||Patna||517 new Covid cases reported in state||PATNA: Altogether 517 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Monday, taking the tally to 2,27,433. Officially five deaths were reported after which the toll reached 1,189. However, with 2,20,461 recoveries, there are 5,781 active cases in the state. As per the data shared by the health department, one death each was reported from Patna, Araria, Bhojpur, Vaishli and Kaimur. AIIMS-Patna reported four deaths, including a 75-year-old man who resided near Dak Bungalow in Patna. Other deceased include a 53-year-old male of Jehanabad, a 65-year-old male of Supaul and a 76-year-old male of Saharsa. As per the information shared by the hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, 28 patients were admitted and seven were discharged and as on Monday there were 152 patients in the hospital. Those admitted were also from different localities of Patna like Vivekanand Marg, Buddha Colony, Nala Road, Milan Lane and Rajeev Nagar. Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) reported one death and the deceased was a 47-year-old male from Munger. One patient was admitted and one was discharged and as on Monday there were 16 patients in the hospital. Of the total 517 new Covid-19 cases, 181 were from Patna, taking the tally to 3,9,361. However, with 299 deaths and 37,410 recoveries, there are 1,652 active cases here. Covid-19 cases reported from some other districts include Saharsa (35), Muzaffarpur (26), Gaya (26), Jehanabad (18) and Katihar (18). The health department further stated that 108096 samples were tested in a 24 hour time span. With a total 2,20,461 recoveries, the state's recovery rate was 96.93%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/517-new-covid-cases-reported-in-state/articleshow/79251920.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||Patna||PWC gets new biz incubation centre||PATNA: To mark the death anniversary of Mother Veronica, foundress of the Apostolic Carmel, an incubation centre was inaugurated at Patna Women’s College (PWC) by former principal Dr Sister Doris D’Souza AC on Monday. It will help promote business start-ups and entrepreneurship among the students. Sister Doris, who is the provincial superior of the Apostolic Carmel’s northern province, also opened a rooftop student reading hall and a new block of the department of education on the occasion. Meanwhile, rations, blankets, bicycles and sewing machines were distributed among the needy to commemorate 150 years of the Apostolic Carmel, the congregation to which PWC belongs. All the programmes were conducted under the supervision of PWC principal Sister M Rashmi AC and vice-principal Sister M Tanisha AC. Sisters, teachers and college staff attended the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pwc-gets-new-biz-incubation-centre/articleshow/79251962.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||---||Nand Kishore in race for Bihar assembly speaker post||PATNA: Former minister and seven-time BJP MLA from the Patna Saheb assembly constituency, Nand Kishore Yadav, has emerged as the frontrunner for the post of the Bihar assembly speaker along with another BJP veteran Prem Kumar, an eight-time MLA from Gaya Town. Yadav has been the state president of BJP and was also the leader of the opposition in the assembly after the fall of the NDA government in June 2013. Further, he has been a minister in the NDA government headed by Nitish Kumar four times. He has been elected to the assembly seven times from Patna Saheb (earlier called Patna East) — in 1995, 2000, February 2005, November 2005, 2010, 2015 and 2020. On Monday, when mediapersons asked Yadav about his being the most likely candidate from BJP for the post of speaker, he repeatedly denied having information on the matter. Interestingly, the eight-time MLA from Gaya Town Prem Kumar’s name is missing from the council of ministers. He hails from the extremely backward caste (EBC) category, while Yadav is an OBC. Earlier, BJP’s Ara MLA, Amarendra Pratap Singh, had been touted to be the most likely candidate for the speaker’s post, a source said, adding that Singh had, however, declined the offer. Singh was sworn in as a minister in the Nitish government on Monday. The day saw Nitish, seven ministers from BJP, five from JD(U) and one each from Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP) take the oath of office. The NDA, which has been in power in the state since November 2005, has had two speakers, both from JD(U) – Uday Narayan Choudhary and Vijay Kumar Choudhary. This was because JD(U) had had more MLAs in the House than BJP. This time, BJP has 74 MLAs against JD(U)’s 43. With Vijay Kumar Choudhary being made a minister, JD(U) is unlikely to get the chance to claim the speaker’s post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nand-kishore-in-race-for-speaker-post/articleshow/79251999.cms||Abhay Singh
November 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Will Sushil Kumar Modi emerge as a big survivor in future?||PATNA: It is a measure of his long-felt utility, clout, strength, and his innate quality of resilience in the face of adverse circumstances that Sushil Kumar Modi, BJP leader and former deputy CM, may yet emerge as a big survivor in the not so distant future, even though he may appear sidelined at present, observers say. “The party’s central leadership might decide to rehabilitate Sushil Kumar Modi in ways that it thinks proper. He could be made a central minister, even head of the GST council. There are several options before the central leadership,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said. “But his experience, control over various kinds of information, including about the state’s economy and the party’s affairs, and his ability to spot talent in the party even in the districts and to access them will be missed,” Patel added. That notwithstanding, the most important topic of discussion after CM Nitish Kumar was the removal of the deputy CM tag from SuMo. Indeed, on Sunday afternoon, the question being asked around in whispers was whether PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were in any way instrumental in the fall of SuMo? For, it was certain that SuMo will not figure in the council of ministers, and, in the circumstances, as per his admission, he will be happy to carry the tag of BJP’s “party worker,” something no one could “take away” from him. Back in August 2012, a month after CM Nitish Kumar had told in an interview to an English daily from Delhi that he had reservations about then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi becoming the BJP’s “prime ministerial candidate”, SuMo had told another English daily that Nitish was “PM material.” Soon, a group of Bihar BJP leaders like Dr C P Thakur, Giriraj Singh, Rameshwar Chaurasia and Ashwini Kumar Choubey emerged on the scene as hardcore followers of NaMo and started rooting for him in Bihar as the party’s “PM candidate”. Curiously, two years earlier in 2010, both Nitish and SuMo had maintained that campaigning by NaMo was not needed during the Bihar assembly election that year as his presence would not be in the interests of the NDA. However, with PM Modi and Shah at the helms of affairs of both the country and in BJP, SuMo’s skill and utility were mustered in April 2017 to launch a campaign against RJD chief Lalu Prasad, his wife Rabri Devi, and their children, especially then deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and health minister Tej Pratap Yadav, pointing to omissions and commissions on their part. To put it laconically, it amounted to muckraking by SuMo to tarnish the image of the “Lalu family” further as ED raids followed. In between, what is called the Srijan scam surfaced, but it was turned into a side issue, virtually buried. Suddenly, in July 2017, Nitish walked out of the grand alliance and formed NDA government with the BJP in the state, and SuMo also got rehabilitated as deputy CM after the BJP’s debacle in the 2015 assembly polls. Attempts were made to clip the wings of SuMo in BJP from 2016. Then state BJP president Nityanand Rai ignored SuMo supporters in the party’s structure. SuMo was virtually isolated in Bihar BJP, as upper caste functionaries of the party were also opposed to him. The situation for Nitish and SuMo became critical after the death of then Union finance minister Arun Jaitley last year, as the latter was their important voice even in the new dispensation. The rest, as they say, is history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/will-sumo-emerge-as-a-big-survivor/articleshow/79254346.cms||Abhay Singh
November 17, 2020||---||Bihar: Congress flays Shivanand Tiwari, RJD distances from his statement||PATNA: A day after RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari blamed Congress for the Mahagatbandhan’s loss and attacked Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi for showing no interest in Bihar elections, RJD’s national spokesperson Manoj Jha said it was Tiwari’s personal view and not the party’s official statement. Jha said all the Mahagathbandhan partners — RJD, three Left parties and Congress — fought with better synergy and coordination and only after proper analysis they could come to any conclusion. “We (RJD and Congress) have a long relation and we will continue to strengthen this foundation,” said Jha. Tiwari’s statement angered Congress, particularly about Rahul. Tiwari on Sunday questioned Rahul’s seriousness in Bihar elections and said the Congress leader was picnicking at his sister’s (Priyanka Gandhi) house when the Bihar election was at its peak. Congress Rajya Sabha member and Bihar incharge Shaktisnh Gohil on Monday flayed Tiwari for trying to create fissure in the Mahagatbandhan and indirectly help the NDA government. “Shivanand Tiwari ji does not want the week JDU-BJP government to fall apart to pave way for the formation of a Mahagatbandhan government. He is giving such unrestrained statement on instruction of the JD(U) and BJP and trying to support them,” said Gohil, who also called Tiwari ‘aastin ka saanp’. He further said Tiwari had changed political parties so many times that he could not remember himself. “He had even been a JD(U) parliamentarian. His favour to JD(U) is not surprising. Is he not aware of the political history of Bihar that whenever RJD fought without Congress, be it Lok Sabha or Vidhan Sabha elections, what were the outcome?” Gohil asked. He said Congress always honour the alliance and accepted those seats which the Mahagatbandhan had not won for the past 30 years. “We also left the seats where Congress had strong claims,” he said. He further said Rahul Gandhi participated in the number of rallies which state Congress had requested him to and gave full time to campaigning in Bihar. “From the Mahagatbandhan side, our star campaigners went wherever they were asked to,” Gohil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/congress-flays-shivanand-rjd-distances-from-his-statement/articleshow/79252061.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||---||Nine debutant ministers in Bihar cabinet||PATNA: The NDA government took shape in Bihar on Monday with the swearing in of CM Nitish Kumar and 14 other ministers, including seven from BJP, five from JD(U) and one each from Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party. Vijay Kumar Choudhary: A JD(U) MLA from Sarairanjan in Samastipur district, Vijay Kumar Choudhary was sworn in as a cabinet minister in Nitish Kumar’s new cabinet. Considered close to Nitish, Choudhary had served as Speaker in the last state assembly. He has been a member of the state assembly since 1982. He is also a member of the JD(U)'s core team. Bijendra Prasad Yadav: A senior JD(U) leader, Bijendra Prasad Yadav had served as energy minister in the last cabinet of Nitish Kumar. After being re-elected from the Supaul assembly constituency, he was sworn in as a cabinet minister on Monday. He has been representing the Supaul assembly seat since 1990. A product of JP Students’ Movement, Yadav has a fair image. He has never been involved in any controversy. Ashok Choudhary: A former member of the state legislative council, Ashok Choudhary had earlier served as building construction minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. He is at present working president of JD(U). Considered to be a close aide of CM Nitish, Ashok joined JD(U) after snapping his ties with the Congress which he once headed in the state. Coming from a family having political background, he took oath as a cabinet minister on Monday. Mewalal Choudhary: A JD(U) MLA from Tarapur in Munger district, Mewalal Choudhary is the former vice-chancellor of Sabour Agriculture University. He lost his wife and former MLA Neeta Choudhary in a gas cylinder explosion last year. Mewalal was elected to the legislative assembly for the first time in 2015 by defeating veteran leader Shakuni Choudhary in 2015. Neeta was elected from the seat in the 2010 assembly polls. Sheela Kumari: She has made her bebut in electoral politics and won from Phulparas in Madhubani district. A greenhorn in politics, she has been elected as MLA for the first time. A postgraduate degree holder, Sheela has mentioned her profession and source of income as agriculture in her affidavit submitted to the election commission. No criminal case is pending against her. Mangal Pandey: A former BJP state president, Mangal had served as health minister in the last Nitish cabinet. He took the oath as cabinet minister on Monday. A resident of Siwan district, he is a member of the legislative council since 2012 and has good influence in the rank and file of the party. A young leader, Mangal is considered close to the top leadership of the party. It was due to his leadership quality that he was made election incharge in Himachal Pradesh and Jharkhand earlier. He is credited with strengthening the party during his tenure as state president in 2013. Ram Surat Rai: A BJP MLA from Aurai in Muzaffarpur district, Rai has been inducted as a minister in the new government for the first time. A two-time MLA, Rai comes from a family having political background. Earlier, he was with Nitish- led JD(U) but switched side and contested election on a BJP ticket in 2010 and emerged victorious. In 2015 elections, he lost to Surendra Kumar of RJD. Amrendra Pratap Singh: A BJP MLA from Ara, Amrendra has been inducted in the Nitish cabinet for the first time. Earlier, he was made deputy speaker of the state assembly from 2012-15. The son of former CM late Harihar Singh, he is a four term MLA. He was a member of ‘Jansangh’ in united Bihar. His brother late Mrigendra Pratap Singh had earlier served as Speaker of Jharkhand assembly. Jibesh Mishra: A BJP MLA from Jale in Darbhanga, Jibesh took oath as a minister for the first time. In 2015, he was elected from the seat by defeating Rishi Mishra of JD(U). A law degree holder, Jibesh won the crucial Jale seat by defeating former Aligarh Muslim University Students’ Union president Maskoor Usmani, who contested the election on a Congress ticket. Ram Preet Paswan: A BJP MLA from Rajnagar in Madhubani district, Ram Preet was elected on a BJP ticket in 2015. Earlier, he had represented the Khajauli (SC) assembly seat twice in February 2005 and October-November 2005 elections. He was a government teacher before joining politics. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2000 elections from Khajauli. Mukesh Sahani: Popularly called the ‘Son of Mallah’, Mukesh is a greenhorn in politics. He has become a minister for the first time. The president of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), Mukesh lost the assembly election from Simri Bakhtiarpur in Begusarai. He had switched over from the opposition Mahagathbandhan to NDA just before the assembly polls. His party won four seats in the 2020 election. Santosh Kumar Suman: The son of former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, Suman is an MLC and has been made a minister from the quota of HAM(S). He is also the chairman of the HAM(S) parliamentary board. He had played an important role in ensuring the victory of HAM(S) candidates in the recently concluded assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nine-debutant-ministers-in-nitish-cabinet/articleshow/79251732.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Patna||Nine debutant ministers in Bihar cabinet||PATNA: The NDA government took shape in Bihar on Monday with the swearing in of CM Nitish Kumar and 14 other ministers, including seven from BJP, five from JD(U) and one each from Hindustani Awam Morcha (Secular) and Vikassheel Insaan Party. Vijay Kumar Choudhary: A JD(U) MLA from Sarairanjan in Samastipur district, Vijay Kumar Choudhary was sworn in as a cabinet minister in Nitish Kumar’s new cabinet. Considered close to Nitish, Choudhary had served as Speaker in the last state assembly. He has been a member of the state assembly since 1982. He is also a member of the JD(U)'s core team. Bijendra Prasad Yadav: A senior JD(U) leader, Bijendra Prasad Yadav had served as energy minister in the last cabinet of Nitish Kumar. After being re-elected from the Supaul assembly constituency, he was sworn in as a cabinet minister on Monday. He has been representing the Supaul assembly seat since 1990. A product of JP Students’ Movement, Yadav has a fair image. He has never been involved in any controversy. Ashok Choudhary: A former member of the state legislative council, Ashok Choudhary had earlier served as building construction minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. He is at present working president of JD(U). Considered to be a close aide of CM Nitish, Ashok joined JD(U) after snapping his ties with the Congress which he once headed in the state. Coming from a family having political background, he took oath as a cabinet minister on Monday. Mewalal Choudhary: A JD(U) MLA from Tarapur in Munger district, Mewalal Choudhary is the former vice-chancellor of Sabour Agriculture University. He lost his wife and former MLA Neeta Choudhary in a gas cylinder explosion last year. Mewalal was elected to the legislative assembly for the first time in 2015 by defeating veteran leader Shakuni Choudhary in 2015. Neeta was elected from the seat in the 2010 assembly polls. Sheela Kumari: She has made her bebut in electoral politics and won from Phulparas in Madhubani district. A greenhorn in politics, she has been elected as MLA for the first time. A postgraduate degree holder, Sheela has mentioned her profession and source of income as agriculture in her affidavit submitted to the election commission. No criminal case is pending against her. Mangal Pandey: A former BJP state president, Mangal had served as health minister in the last Nitish cabinet. He took the oath as cabinet minister on Monday. A resident of Siwan district, he is a member of the legislative council since 2012 and has good influence in the rank and file of the party. A young leader, Mangal is considered close to the top leadership of the party. It was due to his leadership quality that he was made election incharge in Himachal Pradesh and Jharkhand earlier. He is credited with strengthening the party during his tenure as state president in 2013. Ram Surat Rai: A BJP MLA from Aurai in Muzaffarpur district, Rai has been inducted as a minister in the new government for the first time. A two-time MLA, Rai comes from a family having political background. Earlier, he was with Nitish- led JD(U) but switched side and contested election on a BJP ticket in 2010 and emerged victorious. In 2015 elections, he lost to Surendra Kumar of RJD. Amrendra Pratap Singh: A BJP MLA from Ara, Amrendra has been inducted in the Nitish cabinet for the first time. Earlier, he was made deputy speaker of the state assembly from 2012-15. The son of former CM late Harihar Singh, he is a four term MLA. He was a member of ‘Jansangh’ in united Bihar. His brother late Mrigendra Pratap Singh had earlier served as Speaker of Jharkhand assembly. Jibesh Mishra: A BJP MLA from Jale in Darbhanga, Jibesh took oath as a minister for the first time. In 2015, he was elected from the seat by defeating Rishi Mishra of JD(U). A law degree holder, Jibesh won the crucial Jale seat by defeating former Aligarh Muslim University Students’ Union president Maskoor Usmani, who contested the election on a Congress ticket. Ram Preet Paswan: A BJP MLA from Rajnagar in Madhubani district, Ram Preet was elected on a BJP ticket in 2015. Earlier, he had represented the Khajauli (SC) assembly seat twice in February 2005 and October-November 2005 elections. He was a government teacher before joining politics. He had unsuccessfully contested the 2000 elections from Khajauli. Mukesh Sahani: Popularly called the ‘Son of Mallah’, Mukesh is a greenhorn in politics. He has become a minister for the first time. The president of Vikassheel Insaan Party (VIP), Mukesh lost the assembly election from Simri Bakhtiarpur in Begusarai. He had switched over from the opposition Mahagathbandhan to NDA just before the assembly polls. His party won four seats in the 2020 election. Santosh Kumar Suman: The son of former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, Suman is an MLC and has been made a minister from the quota of HAM(S). He is also the chairman of the HAM(S) parliamentary board. He had played an important role in ensuring the victory of HAM(S) candidates in the recently concluded assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nine-debutant-ministers-in-nitish-cabinet/articleshow/79255104.cms||---
November 17, 2020||---||Rise of Renu Devi from a widowed insurance agent to Bihar deputy CM||BETTIAH: Trailing her during the 2000 Bihar polls, TOI had profiled Renu Devi as someone destined to rise on the political horizon of Bihar. Locally described as a ‘Lambi race ki ghodi’, she has galloped to her victorious destiny from her canter 20 years ago. Meet the new deputy chief minister of the state. Her father Krishna Prasad— a junior engineer in the state irrigation department—married her off young to Durga Prasad, an inspector with the Peerless Insurance Company in Howrah. Widowed in 1988, Renu, who had studied up to intermediate level, returned to her paternal home in Bettiah with her two young children, a boy and a girl. With support from her well to do family, Renu started as an insurance agent with her late husband’s company. In 1991, around the time L K Advani’s Rath yatra was stopped by the Lalu Prasad government at Samastipur, a young Renu was drawn to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. A year later, she was made the district president of Durga Vahini, the VHP’s women wing, just months before the Babri Masjid was demolished on December 6, 1992. As a successful Durga Vahini activist, Renu soon joined the BJP. In the 1995 Bihar polls, she was fielded from Nautan. Her political fortunes looked up when BJP shifted her to Bettiah in 2000. The old city area of Bettiah that has had a long history of the Hindu Mahasabha and the RSS provided her with a core organizational support that helped her politically. And, she had the blessings of the Late Madan Prasad Jaiswal, then Bettiah MP, who Renu affectionately called ‘Chacha’, just as she called-and still calls- everyone ‘Bhaiya’. And Bettiah, in turn, has known Renu as ‘Didi’. Renu’s entry into the BJP coincided not only with the ascendance of Hindutva, but it also overlapped with the rise of Mandal politics. And in time, social engineering became the mantra of electoral politics. It helped that she was a Nonia- the traditional saltpetre mining caste— an EBC, which further propelled her on the political racecourse. In 2005, Renu became a minister in the Nitish Kumar government. She retained the Bettiah seat in 2010 but a cabinet berth eluded her. When she lost the 2015 polls, Sushil Kumar Modi, who is among her mentors, asked this reporter in surprise: “How did Renu lose out?” Today, the giant wheel has turned in such a way that Renu has replaced her mentor as the deputy CM, albeit together with Katihar MLA Tarkishore Prasad- also a leader with RSS moorings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/rise-of-renu-from-a-widowed-insurance-agent-to-deputy-cm/articleshow/79251739.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
November 17, 2020||---||MGB mocks decision to appoint two Bihar deputy CMs||PATNA: Mahagatbandhan (Garnd Allaince) leaders mocked the NDA’s decision to have two deputy chief ministers in the state and cited it as BJP’s well-planned strategy to put pressure on chief minister Nitish Kumar. The GA leaders also said that following the decision to have two deputy CMs there is internal dispute within the NDA. While Nitish Kumar on Monday took oath as the chief minister for the fourth consecutive term, for the first time in the state there will be two deputy CMs. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said, “The BJP has proved that Nitish is just a puppet in their hands. They have made him sit on the driving seat, but they will control the steering. The reason behind two deputy CMs is to ensure proper check on Nitish Kumar.” He alleged, the decision to remove Sushil Modi from this post has created an uproar in both the BJP and the RJD. Congress state spokesperson Rajesh Rathorre also cited similar reasons. “Two deputy CMs are nothing but two guards kept by the BJP to keep an eye on Nitish. Earlier, BJP had provided Nitish with a munshi (Sushil Kumar Modi), but that munshi became Nitish’s stepney and hence he has been removed,” said Rathorre. Another Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha said, “BJP’s decision to not to make SuMo the next deputy CM was a part of strategy. He even alleged several scams during SuMO’s tenure as a reason for not giving him this coveted post and said the newly-formed government will not continue for long.” However, JD (U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan hit back at the opposition for raising issues which were baseless. Ranjan said it was BJP’s decision to have two deputy CMs and they did this from their own quota. “We have no problem with it. In fact, chief minister Nitish Kumar is an able administrator and knows how to lead his cabinet well. Two deputy CMs will further help in smooth functioning of the government and provide extra hand to the CM and help me realise the goal of development,” said Ranjan, adding, “Nitish Ji has not formed this government for providing benefit to his family. He works for the people of Bihar, unlike opposition which had the sole purpose of personal benefit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/mgb-mocks-decision-to-appoint-two-deputy-cms/articleshow/79251766.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Bizmen rue govt inaction over steep hike in prices of raw material||LUDHIANA: Facing huge problems due to steep rise in the rate of raw material, city businessmen are furious with the state and central governments for their inaction with regard to this problem. According to industrialists, the rate of raw material like pig iron has shot by more than Rs 5,000-Rs 6,000 per tonne during the last one month and the suppliers are blaming non-movement of trains to be the reason for the hike. But businessmen are of the view that due to non-movement of trains only fractional cost has risen while middlemen and black marketeers are responsible for the incessant price hike in steel raw material. They are demanding that the government should overhaul the system and instruct the steel manufacturing companies to bring more transparency in the rates of their products and deal directly with the businessmen or business associations. Speaking on the issue, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of the Sewing Machine Development Club said, “Industry’s backbone has been broken due to the coronavirus and lockdown and we still haven’t recovered from the losses, and as if this was not enough, now raw material was being sold on the black market under the garb of the disruption of the train services. Pig iron, which is the most consumed raw material by the sewing machine industry, was available for around Rs 27,000-Rs 28,000 per tonne during August and September and was now being quoted at Rs 38,000-Rs 39,000 per tonne. Non-movement of the trains is being blamed by some suppliers for the hike in the rates and it is being stated that the cost of transportation has also risen. But reality is the other way round as even if we add the cost of road transportation in the raw material cost, then it should be ideally priced at Rs 33,000-Rs 34,000 per tonne.” Sokhi also added, “This is purely black marketeering being done by some people who are taking advantage of the situation. As a result of this, several manufacturing units have suspended production as they are waiting for the raw material cost to get reduced and only then they will resume their operations. It is our appeal to the both state and central governments to take urgent notice of this issue and get us uninterrupted supply of raw material directly from the steel manufacturing plants, or else our factories will be permanently shut down due to the shortage of raw material or if we buy it at such high rates.” Rajesh Bansal, president of All India Tiny and Small Manufacturers Association, said, “The rate of ingot and other similar material has shot up by more than Rs 5,000 per tonne in recent times. Some persons are creating artificial shortage of several types of raw material, especially for cycle, sewing machine and auto-parts industry just to take advantage of the current situation of non-movement of trains and mint money. We are feeling very helpless as we are having orders of our customers but we still cannot process them because if we buy the raw material at such high costs, we will have to hike the cost of our finished products and if we do that our customers will cancel their orders. So, the only way out is action by both state and central governments to find a permanent solution to the problem of this malpractice of hiking rates without any logic or taking advantage of the situation like non-movement of trains by some elements. We are even ready to make bulk purchases directly from the steel plants if the government makes such an arrangement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-rue-govt-inaction-over-steep-hike-in-prices-of-raw-material/articleshow/79251734.cms||Mohit Behl
November 17, 2020||Patna||Admn urges devotees to stay at home||PATNA: Nearly two lakh people gather at the ghats to offer ‘arghya’ to the Sun God during Chhath celebrations at Danapur cantonment every year. Anand Bazar, Sadar Bazar, Machhua Toli, Lal Kothi, Kali Sthan, Takiapar, Nasriganj, Bibiganj and Naya Tola are the main ghats where devotees turn up in large numbers. This year, however, the district administration has restricted their convergence at the ghats due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Danapur SDO Vinod Dhuan told this reporter on Monday that the district administration had appealed to the people to perform Chhath rituals at home. “The movement of heavy or light vehicles will be banned in the Danapur cantonment area on November 20 and 21 so that devotees do not face any difficulty. The Peepapul will also remain shut on the two days,” Vinod said, adding that senior citizens and children had been asked not to visit the ghats. Meanwhile, Patna DM Kumar Ravi inspected Nasriganj and other ghats in Danapur cantonment area on Sunday and asked the locals to avoid visiting ghats. Danapur Nagar Parishad member Sanjay Kumar said, “Altogether eight ghats, which fall under the jurisdiction of the Danapur cantonment board, are being spruced up for Chhath festivities.” In view of the pandemic, people visiting the ghats have been told to maintain health protocols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/admn-urges-devotees-to-stay-at-home/articleshow/79251470.cms||Kumod Verma
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||Chief standing counsel dies of heart attack||Nainital: The chief standing counsel of the state government died of heart attack on Sunday night, two days before the high court was set to reopen after Diwali break. Officials said that the counsel Paresh Tripathi (51) was returning to Nainital from Lucknow to take part in the court proceedings on Tuesday when he suffered a cardiac arrest near Mall Road. As soon as he reached his residence on Zila Panchayat Road, he was rushed to the BD Pandey Hospital where doctors declared him dead. As the news of his death spread, the advocate general, deputy advocate general and registrar of the high court reached the hospital to offer their condolences. He was cremated at Rani Bagh on Monday morning in the presence of a battery of lawyers and senior officials of the district administration and police. A native of Almora district, Tripathi had appeared for the state government in several important cases including the state’s handling of the Covid-19 pandemic and contempt proceedings against senior officials for failing to remove encroachments from the state capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chief-standing-counsel-dies-of-heart-attack/articleshow/79251041.cms||Prashant Jha
November 17, 2020||Vijayawada||12-yr-old hurt in country bomb blast in Kurnool dies||Tirupati: A 12-year-old boy who was severely injured in a country bomb explosion at Chennampalli village in Avuku mandal in Kurnool district on Sunday, died while undergoing treatment at the government general hospital (GGH) at Kurnool on Monday. 12-year-old Vara Kumar was working at a cattle yard when a country-made bomb accidentally exploded on Sunday. The impact of the explosion was so severe that Kumar’s hands were completely blown off and the cattle shed destroyed. Cattle present at the shed at the time of explosion also sustained injuries. While Kumar was immediately rushed to the government general hospital at Kurnool on Sunday, he died while undergoing treatment at the hospital on Monday. Police are in the process of completing post-mortem formalities and are carrying out further investigations to figure out who abandoned the country-made bomb.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/12-yr-old-hurt-in-country-bomb-blast-in-kurnool-dies/articleshow/79251039.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||Congress worker booked for ‘foul language’ against PM on Facebook||Haridwar: A Congress worker from Haridwar was booked on Monday for a comment on Facebook against Prime Minister Narendra Modi which was alleged to be abusive. A case under IT Act was registered against him on the complaint made by BJP MLA from Jawalapur Suresh Rathor on Monday. SHO Jwalapur police station Praveen Singh Koshiyari told TOI, "A case has been registered against the accused Manish Karnwal under section 66 of the IT act and section 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) of Indian Penal Code. Further investigation is going on."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/congress-worker-booked-for-foul-language-against-pm-on-facebook/articleshow/79251035.cms||MS Nawaz
November 17, 2020||Patna||SuMo confidant, staunch RSS man becomes deputy CM||PATNA: After emerging as the largest party within the NDA and the second largest in the state, BJP is conducting a new political experiment in Bihar by borrowing from the UP model of having two deputy chief ministers — Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi. The 64-year-old Prasad, the older of the two deputies to CM Nitish Kumar, is a fourth-term MLA from Katihar in the Seemanchal region adjacent to the India-Nepal border. Prasad is a 'kalwar' by caste, which comes under the 'Vaishya' community. Considered to be close to former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, whom he has replaced, Prasad is considered very popular in his region. His close association with SuMo can be seen from the fact that the former deputy CM had gone to Katihar to accompany Prasad for filing his nomination papers for the assembly polls. Prasad is a staunch RSS man and has been associated with BJP's students' wing—ABVP. Born in Saharsa district in Mithilanchal region, Prasad passed his intermediate (10+2) in science stream from the DS College, Katihar, in 1974. In his affidavit submitted to the election commission, Prasad has shown agriculture as his profession. In Katihar, Prasad owned a medical store in the town. In 2001, he became the president of the Katihar unit of the chamber of commerce. He has an impressive influence in 'baniya' (traders') community in Katihar and the rest of Seemanchal. His tryst with politics began in 1980. But he got elected to the state legislative assembly for the first time in February 2005. He is counted among the fiercest leaders of the party. In 2015 elections, he lost to Ram Prakash Mahto of RJD. Prasad has won the 2020 election for the fourth consecutive time by defeating his old rival Mahto by over 12,000 votes. Before being sworn-in as deputy CM, he was unanimously elected as the BJP legislature party leader. Soon after taking the oath of office, Prasad said, “The entire team will work under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar to pursue Bihar on the path of development and fulfil the dream of making it a developed state.” Prasad had, however, missed the opportunity to become a minister in the previous NDA government. Instead, Pranpur MLA late Binod Kumar Singh was inducted as a minister in the Nitish Kumar government in 2017. Binod died due to brain haemorrhage at a hospital in Delhi recently. Prasad is the third prominent leader of Seemanchal region after late Bhola Prasad Shastri and Md. Taslimuddin. He has been made deputy CM in order the strengthen the party in Seemanchal region. The local people are expecting that prominent issues like the migration of labourers and acute poverty would be addressed by the new NDA government. Prasad had raised the issues related to recurring floods, migration and poverty in the assembly ever since he was elected as a member of the legislative assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-confidant-staunch-rss-man-becomes-deputy-cm/articleshow/79251715.cms||Ramashankar
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||From lawyer to publisher, Kolkatans remember the legend without airs||Kolkata: When not shooting or rehearsing for films and plays, Soumitra Chatterjee would write, introspect, observe and exchange notes with people — those he liked and those he didn’t even know. Chatterjee was always available for anyone who chose to walk up to him and chat. Chatterjee was one of those rare actors who also had a serious literary bent of mind and studied and wrote profusely, most of which found eager publishers. The last volume of his prose is currently being edited by Shamik Bandyopadhyay and will be published soon. Chatterjee trusted him with his manuscripts and diaries, which resonated with his deepest thoughts and reflections. “He gave easy access to everyone so he could observe life through them and often these people would come up in his poems and other pieces. The diary he gave me to read the last time I met him — in August — told me about his reactions to events as they happened around him. These were pensive and sombre and lacked the zest for life I had noticed in his earlier writings,” Bandyopadhyay said. Chatterjee’s publisher, Shubhankar Dey of Dey’s Publishing, is looking forward to publishing this third volume of prose by the actor, the earlier two having been bestsellers. “His connection with College Street was just as deep as that with Tollygunge para. He gave us ‘Ekshan’, the literary magazine that gave us the scripts of Ray,” Dey said. For others, like GST officer Shahanshah Mirza, the meeting with Chatterjee was sudden and professional. In 2013, when he was in the service tax department and the tax was widened to include artists, Chatterjee had sought an appointment to discuss the details. “He walked into my office with his accountant, like an unassuming person, eager to know the details and I found him to be a thorough gentleman with an intelligent mind,” Mirza said, adding that later on, whenever the two met, the actor would acknowledge him. To lawyer Tamal Mukherjee, who met Chatterjee through friends, the bond automatically grew and they would meet at least twice every month to chat for hours. “Despite being an ocean of knowledge, he was simple and endearing. He had an overpowering impact on everyone, much more than a star can ever have. Once, when I was with him at the Banga Sammelan in the US, he had said about Uttam Kumar, ‘He is Mahanayak and will remain so forever.’ This sums up his greatness,” Mukherjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/from-lawyer-to-publisher-kolkatans-remember-the-legend-without-airs/articleshow/79251515.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 17, 2020||Business||Equitas launches special savings a/c for women||Chennai: Equitas Small Finance Bank, on Monday, launched an exclusive savings account product for its women customers — Eva — offering a 7% interest rate on deposits, besides free health check-ups and unlimited teleconsultations with female doctors, gynecologists and mental health experts. Under the product, women account holders will get a Provident Fund (PF) waiver and discounted gold loan rates, along with a waiver on lockers from 25% to 50%. Eva can be availed by all female customers — salaried, homemakers, business women, senior citizens, transwomen to non-resident Indian women. Aimed to build customer relationships, the Eva account holders will not be charged any non-maintenance fees, said the small finance bank in a press statement. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/equitas-launches-special-savings-a/c-for-women/articleshow/79251805.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 17, 2020||---||Bihar: Nitish Kumar set to tread a path he didn’t plan||PATNA: Nitish Kumar is at the helm of Bihar again, but with a radically changed script and team. His “sisters” may have “crushed all his enemies”, as Usha Devi said on ‘Bhai Dooj’ on Monday before his swearing-in, but Nitish has new challenges and so has the BJP — now the big brother in Bihar NDA with 74 MLAs compared to JD(U)’s 43. Also, half of the 14 ministers sworn-in are from BJP, including the two deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, who are deeply rooted in the ‘Sangh’ ideology and likely to keep the organization above alliance interests. The NDA government has a wafer-thin majority in the House with 126 MLAs, including four each from Jitan Ram Manjhi’s HAM(S) and Mukesh Sahani’s VIP as well as one Independent MLA against the opposition strength of 110 members in the 243-member House. The body language of Nitish indicates the kind of predicament he is facing and might not have imagined before. As reported in the media on Sunday, Nitish told the NDA legislators at their meeting that he wanted someone from BJP to be the chief minister, but was accepting the post on the insistence of saffron party leaders. He reportedly made this remark in the presence of defence minister Rajnath Singh, who had come as the BJP observer to facilitate the government formation exercise and name two leaders for the deputy CM’s post. A strong opposition bench will ensure that the road ahead for Nitish will be rocky in the assembly. “Best wishes to respected Shri Nitish Kumar Ji on being nominated as the chief minister. I hope that instead of the ambition of the chair, you will make the 19 lakh jobs and positive issues like education, medicine, earning and irrigation as government’s priority,” tweeted the leader of RJD and the opposition Mahagathbandhan, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who emerged as a strong leader outside the shadow of his father Lalu Prasad. Though Nitish, after taking oath as the CM for the 7th time, said he would deliver on the responsibility bestowed by the people of the state and dismissed the challenges as nothing new. “Har bar kuch nayapan rahta hin hai (every time there is something new),” he said when asked about his former deputy Sushil Kumar Modi and the new BJP leaders by his side. Former Assembly Speaker and one of the five JD(U) ministers sworn in on Monday, Vijay Choudhary was confident of handling new challenges. “Under the leadership of Nitish, we will overcome all challenges and take the state development work forward in Bihar,” he told media persons at the Raj Bhavan. But the electoral verdict has put Nitish’s JD(U) and BJP on a crossroads to take the future political course as both the parties will need to groom leadership to handle the challenges posed by Tejashwi and LJP chief Chirag Paswan in the next elections. BJP lacks a leader with mass appeal in Bihar as it cannot bank on PM Narendra Modi all the time to romp home. Only time will tell whether Nitish remains as much comfortable with the two BJP deputy CMs as he was with Sushil Modi but one thing is for sure that the saffron party, as well as the JD(U), needs second-rung leaders to fight the future political battle in Bihar against the formidable opponents with a solid vote base. That BJP will push its agenda and widen its base is evident from the fact that the party made a man from OBC and a woman from EBC as deputy CMs besides ministers from Dalit and Mahadalit communities, which were so far considered the support base of Nitish and his party. Since BJP has achieved the first target of scoring more than JD(U), the Bihar verdict will boost the party morale in other states like West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala where elections are due before May next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/nitish-set-to-tread-a-path-he-didnt-plan/articleshow/79251716.cms||Jai Narain Pandey
November 17, 2020||---||Bihar: Will Sushil Kumar Modi emerge as a big survivor in future?||PATNA: It is a measure of his long-felt utility, clout, strength, and his innate quality of resilience in the face of adverse circumstances that Sushil Kumar Modi, BJP leader and former deputy CM, may yet emerge as a big survivor in the not so distant future, even though he may appear sidelined at present, observers say. “The party’s central leadership might decide to rehabilitate Sushil Kumar Modi in ways that it thinks proper. He could be made a central minister, even head of the GST council. There are several options before the central leadership,” state BJP spokesman Prem Ranjan Patel said. “But his experience, control over various kinds of information, including about the state’s economy and the party’s affairs, and his ability to spot talent in the party even in the districts and to access them will be missed,” Patel added. That notwithstanding, the most important topic of discussion after CM Nitish Kumar was the removal of the deputy CM tag from SuMo. Indeed, on Sunday afternoon, the question being asked around in whispers was whether PM Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah were in any way instrumental in the fall of SuMo? For, it was certain that SuMo will not figure in the council of ministers, and, in the circumstances, as per his admission, he will be happy to carry the tag of BJP’s “party worker,” something no one could “take away” from him. Back in August 2012, a month after CM Nitish Kumar had told in an interview to an English daily from Delhi that he had reservations about then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi becoming the BJP’s “prime ministerial candidate”, SuMo had told another English daily that Nitish was “PM material.” Soon, a group of Bihar BJP leaders like Dr C P Thakur, Giriraj Singh, Rameshwar Chaurasia and Ashwini Kumar Choubey emerged on the scene as hardcore followers of NaMo and started rooting for him in Bihar as the party’s “PM candidate”. Curiously, two years earlier in 2010, both Nitish and SuMo had maintained that campaigning by NaMo was not needed during the Bihar assembly election that year as his presence would not be in the interests of the NDA. However, with PM Modi and Shah at the helms of affairs of both the country and in BJP, SuMo’s skill and utility were mustered in April 2017 to launch a campaign against RJD chief Lalu Prasad, his wife Rabri Devi, and their children, especially then deputy CM Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and health minister Tej Pratap Yadav, pointing to omissions and commissions on their part. To put it laconically, it amounted to muckraking by SuMo to tarnish the image of the “Lalu family” further as ED raids followed. In between, what is called the Srijan scam surfaced, but it was turned into a side issue, virtually buried. Suddenly, in July 2017, Nitish walked out of the grand alliance and formed NDA government with the BJP in the state, and SuMo also got rehabilitated as deputy CM after the BJP’s debacle in the 2015 assembly polls. Attempts were made to clip the wings of SuMo in BJP from 2016. Then state BJP president Nityanand Rai ignored SuMo supporters in the party’s structure. SuMo was virtually isolated in Bihar BJP, as upper caste functionaries of the party were also opposed to him. The situation for Nitish and SuMo became critical after the death of then Union finance minister Arun Jaitley last year, as the latter was their important voice even in the new dispensation. The rest, as they say, is history.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/will-sumo-emerge-as-a-big-survivor/articleshow/79251773.cms||Abhay Singh
November 17, 2020||---||Bihar: LJP chief congratulates Nitish Kumar, BJP||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who has of late become an eyesore for the JD (U), congratulated Nitish Kumar after being sworn in as the chief minister of the state for the fourth consecutive term on Monday. “Congratulations to you for being the CM once again and congratulations to BJP for making you the CM,” Nitish’s bête noire Chirag tweeted after the swearing-in ceremony at the Raj Bhavan. Chirag was one of the first politicians to thank Nitish for being elected as the CM for the fourth consecutive time. The Jamui MP did not stop there. He further tweeted in Hindi, “I am sending you the vision document prepared by four lakh Biharis so that you can implement some of them. Congratulations once again on becoming CM and BJP for making you the CM.” Chirag hoped that the NDA government led by Nitish Kumar would complete its five year term. “I hope the government will complete its tenure and you will continue to be CM of NDA,” another tweet of the LJP chief read. LJP had contested the recently concluded assembly polls solo and could manage to win only one seat out of the 135 constituencies it had contested. Chirag, however, claimed that his mission was complete and he fought the election to force the JD (U) to bite the dust at the hustings. The JD (U), an important ally of the NDA, won 43 seats in the 243-member state assembly. However, the BJP's tally rose to 74 in this election from 53 in the 2015 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/ljp-chief-congratulates-nitish-bjp/articleshow/79252047.cms||Ramashankar
November 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: LJP chief congratulates Nitish Kumar, BJP||PATNA: LJP chief Chirag Paswan, who has of late become an eyesore for the JD (U), congratulated Nitish Kumar after being sworn in as the chief minister of the state for the fourth consecutive term on Monday. “Congratulations to you for being the CM once again and congratulations to BJP for making you the CM,” Nitish’s bête noire Chirag tweeted after the swearing-in ceremony at the Raj Bhavan. Chirag was one of the first politicians to thank Nitish for being elected as the CM for the fourth consecutive time. The Jamui MP did not stop there. He further tweeted in Hindi, “I am sending you the vision document prepared by four lakh Biharis so that you can implement some of them. Congratulations once again on becoming CM and BJP for making you the CM.” Chirag hoped that the NDA government led by Nitish Kumar would complete its five year term. “I hope the government will complete its tenure and you will continue to be CM of NDA,” another tweet of the LJP chief read. LJP had contested the recently concluded assembly polls solo and could manage to win only one seat out of the 135 constituencies it had contested. Chirag, however, claimed that his mission was complete and he fought the election to force the JD (U) to bite the dust at the hustings. The JD (U), an important ally of the NDA, won 43 seats in the 243-member state assembly. However, the BJP's tally rose to 74 in this election from 53 in the 2015 assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ljp-chief-congratulates-nitish-bjp/articleshow/79254918.cms||Ramashankar
November 17, 2020||Patna||Rise of Renu Devi from a widowed insurance agent to Bihar deputy CM||BETTIAH: Trailing her during the 2000 Bihar polls, TOI had profiled Renu Devi as someone destined to rise on the political horizon of Bihar. Locally described as a ‘Lambi race ki ghodi’, she has galloped to her victorious destiny from her canter 20 years ago. Meet the new deputy chief minister of the state. Her father Krishna Prasad— a junior engineer in the state irrigation department—married her off young to Durga Prasad, an inspector with the Peerless Insurance Company in Howrah. Widowed in 1988, Renu, who had studied up to intermediate level, returned to her paternal home in Bettiah with her two young children, a boy and a girl. With support from her well to do family, Renu started as an insurance agent with her late husband’s company. In 1991, around the time L K Advani’s Rath yatra was stopped by the Lalu Prasad government at Samastipur, a young Renu was drawn to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad. A year later, she was made the district president of Durga Vahini, the VHP’s women wing, just months before the Babri Masjid was demolished on December 6, 1992. As a successful Durga Vahini activist, Renu soon joined the BJP. In the 1995 Bihar polls, she was fielded from Nautan. Her political fortunes looked up when BJP shifted her to Bettiah in 2000. The old city area of Bettiah that has had a long history of the Hindu Mahasabha and the RSS provided her with a core organizational support that helped her politically. And, she had the blessings of the Late Madan Prasad Jaiswal, then Bettiah MP, who Renu affectionately called ‘Chacha’, just as she called-and still calls- everyone ‘Bhaiya’. And Bettiah, in turn, has known Renu as ‘Didi’. Renu’s entry into the BJP coincided not only with the ascendance of Hindutva, but it also overlapped with the rise of Mandal politics. And in time, social engineering became the mantra of electoral politics. It helped that she was a Nonia- the traditional saltpetre mining caste— an EBC, which further propelled her on the political racecourse. In 2005, Renu became a minister in the Nitish Kumar government. She retained the Bettiah seat in 2010 but a cabinet berth eluded her. When she lost the 2015 polls, Sushil Kumar Modi, who is among her mentors, asked this reporter in surprise: “How did Renu lose out?” Today, the giant wheel has turned in such a way that Renu has replaced her mentor as the deputy CM, albeit together with Katihar MLA Tarkishore Prasad- also a leader with RSS moorings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rise-of-renu-from-a-widowed-insurance-agent-to-deputy-cm/articleshow/79255150.cms||Abhay Mohan Jha
November 17, 2020||Patna||Many devotees in Patna to perform Chhath rituals on rooftops||PATNA: Even as the Ganga continues to attract lakhs of devotees during the four-day Chhath festivities, a large number of Patnaites will remain confined to their houses for performing the rituals this year amid the Covid-19 pandemic. They will worship the setting and rising sun from makeshift water bodies created on rooftops or in courtyards. The district administration has also issued strict guidelines for observing Chhath rituals at Ganga ghats with social distancing and other preventive measures. Hence, the responsible citizens will avoid taking any risk by visiting the overcrowded ghats. Moreover, due to the ever-increasing shift in the course of the Ganga at different ghats in the city, devotees find it very difficult to trek the large distance for reaching the river water. Although the shifting of a river course is a natural phenomenon, it has become more pronounced during the last three decades, says Geological Survey of India’s retired director Narbadeshwar Dayal. Earlier, the devotees used to visit the nearest ponds of their localities and perform Chhath rituals, but most of them have either been reduced to waste disposal dumps or overtaken by human settlements. Old-timers recall that Netaji Subhash Park on the south-eastern side of Gandhi Maidan, Indira Gandhi Planetarium near the Kotwali police station, Vaishali Cinema below the Rajendra Nagar overbridge, A G office near Sultan Palace on Beer Chand Patel Path, and the entire Saidpur Complex of Patna University behind Moin-ul-Haq Stadium are all sites of “dead water bodies”. “Chhath devotees miss these water bodies for performing the rituals,” says environmentalist Mehta Nagendra Singh. Most of the existing ponds in different localities are not clean enough for the devotees. According to some recent studies made by the students of Patna University’s environmental science department, most ponds located in Anisabad, Gardanibagh and Patna City areas are filled with municipal wastes, making their water unfit for domestic purposes. Hence, very few people want to visit these ponds, especially during the pandemic. In recent years, the district administration as well as some voluntary organizations started organizing mass Chhath rituals in different localities by creating artificial ponds. One such makeshift pond has been constructed near Panchmukhi Temple on Boring Canal Road where hundreds of devotees will offer ‘arghya’ to the setting and rising sun this year. Similar ponds have been constructed at Kankarbagh, Gardanibagh and other places. However, several devotees will still offer ‘arghya’ to the sun from artificial water bodies constructed on their rooftops. “We have been performing Chhath rituals at home for several years and will do it this year too,” says Anali Prasad, a resident of Anandpuri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-devotees-to-perform-chhath-rituals-on-rooftops/articleshow/79251436.cms||B K Mishra
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Transporters claim they have not hiked freight charges||LUDHIANA: Rubbishing the reports of a hike in freight charges of surface transport due to non-operation of goods trains, transporters have claimed that they have not hiked even a single rupee in the existing freight charges. According to the businessmen, the manufacturing of goods in Ludhiana factories has slowed down due to unavailability of raw material because of which there has been a drop in the demand for trucks. They are also of the view that the government should introduce a special relief package for the transporters as they have suffered huge losses during the lockdown and moreover, during the last few months their costs like salaries and wages, fuel and insurance costs have also risen sharply. Speaking to TOI, Charan Singh Lohara, chairman of All India Motor Transport Corporation (AIMTC), the apex body of transporters, said “The freight rates of transport services have remained same for months and not even a single member of ours has hiked the freight charges. All these are all rumours. Why will anyone hike the freight charges when already there is no business and there is no logic for it since the demand is same as it was before the rail services were stopped. The simple logic behind no change in the demand is that when the factories do not have any raw material or have short supply of the same, they produce 50% of the goods which they used to do normally. So, in such a situation when the production has fallen drastically the quantity of goods coming to us for booking is almost the same as compared to the period when trains were running.” According to Goldy Sharma, another transporter from the city, “As far as bookings amid the non-operation of trains is concerned, there is no change in the situation for the transporters as we still have the same quantum of bookings. Transport industry is passing through the worst phase as all our expenditures like fuel cost, insurance cost and salaries and wages have almost doubled but as we are unable to hike the freight charges our incomes remain the same and we are only suffering losses. Due to lockdown, the transport industry has been crippled and a huge number of transporters from the city have still not been able to resume their operations fully. It is high time that both state and central governments realise their responsibility and introduce a package for the revival of the transport sector or else hundreds of transporters will be forced to shut down their businesses permanently.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/transporters-claim-they-have-not-hiked-freight-charges/articleshow/79251736.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Get 9 colony gates regularised by SDMC, court tells West Delhi RWA||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court has asked the resident welfare association (RWA) of a west Delhi colony to approach the civic body to get nine of its gates regularised. Justice Najmi Waziri restrained South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) from taking any action to demolish gates of a colony in Rajouri Garden, after the local RWA approached it seeking time to get these regularised as per the 2007 policy of the civic body. “The corporation should take a decision within four weeks, after hearing the petitioner through videoconferencing and/or physical hearing, whichever is suitable to the petitioner. The requisite documents should be filed and permissions from other authorities’ may be necessary, should be obtained by the petitioner. In respect of manning the gates and keeping them open, the petitioner should observe the extant rules. Till then, SDMC should stay its hands against any precipitate measures apropos the said colony gates,” justice Waziri noted in his order while granting partial relief. The court was hearing a petition by Rajouri Garden MIG Green Flats, opposing SDMC’s decision to dismantle/demolish the nine colony gates. In its plea through advocate BL Wali, the RWA argued that many decades ago nine gates were installed at the entry points into the residential colony to secure its residents. While no one objected to their installation and existence because they served the larger public good, off late a former resident had complained to SDMC. The RWA contended that the complainant cannot claim the colony roads as public thoroughfares. The court pointed out that in 2007 the corporation notified a policy for installation of gates in residential colonies and noted that even if the nine gates were installed prior to the policy, they would have to be regularised in terms of this policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/get-9-colony-gates-regularised-by-sdmc-court-tells-w-delhi-rwa/articleshow/79252669.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||BJP MLA’s convoy attacked||LUCKNOW: Unidentified miscreants attacked the convoy of BJP MLA from Salempur in Deoria district on late Monday evening. Police initiated a probe and rounded up six persons in connection with the incident. BJP MLA from Salempur Kali Prasad is safe, said police. SP, Deoria, Shripati Mishra told TOI, BJP MLA was returning after meeting a party member near Chakarwa Bahordas, when his convoy crossed a procession at Pranchappra village in Salempur police station area. Some unidentified miscreants broke the rear windshield of the SUV in which MLA Prasad was seated. “BJP MLA was not injured but his security was stepped up and a case is being registered,” he said. The SP said a team of forensic experts was sent to ascertain how did the rear windshield of the SUV broke.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mlas-convoy-attacked/articleshow/79253277.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kanpur||Kin rejoice as Shamshuddin returns home||KANPUR: When ‘Indian spy’ Shamshuddin returned home on Sunday after spending 28 years in Pakistan, his kin were overjoyed and thanked the authorities for securing his safe return. As the news spread, local residents gathered around his sister Shabina’s Kanghi Mohal house in the city to celebrate the occasion. Shamshuddin had gone to Pakistan in search of a job in 1992 after being lured by a relative. Unfortunately, he was sentenced to eight years’ in prison in that country on charges of being an ‘Indian spy’. Expert in making shoe uppers, Shamshuddin was lodged in Karachi Jail after his sentencing on October 24, 2012. His eight-year jail term ended on October 26, 2020, and he crossed over into India via Wagah border. He was handed over to the Amritsar administration by the Indian Army and kept in mandatory quarantine. After the end of the quarantine period, Kanpur police brought him back to the city on Sunday night. Shamshuddin’s sister Shabina said: “We are extremely grateful to the government for securing his safe release. We shall remain indebted for all it’s help.” “It is unbelievable and we are so happy. All's well that ends well,” his nephew Mustafa said, wiping away tears of joy. After a short meeting with the family, he was taken away by the city police for routine debriefing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kin-rejoice-as-shamshuddin-returns-home/articleshow/79252862.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 17, 2020||Bhopal||Children’s safety worries parents; Safety top priority, say institutions||Bhopal: After the state government has come forward with a proposal to regularly open campuses, parents and schools are both putting forward their own claims. Parents said opening schools is not a good idea while schools said that they are all prepared for this. Sources said that the government may take the opinion of the parents also before officially announcing the dates. Notably, school education minister Inder Singh Parmar claimed that the state government has decided to open classes from 9 to 12 by the end of this month. Parents said that the experiences of other states which decided to open school campuses have been very upsetting. “Whether it is class 12 or class 1, it is not a good idea to open regular classes for school students. This is a situation of wait and watch and then decide at a later stage. Opening schools can put students in trouble. Why are we inviting unnecessary trouble,” said Ananya Sahu, mother of a class 10 student. She has made it clear that she will not send her child to school in any situation. Parents also want to know who will take the onus if a positive case is detected while attending the schools. “Schools are not taking any responsibility for what will happen if a case is detected. They are only assuring that they will follow the Covid norms. We have seen that cases have been detected despite tall claims of following all Covid norms,” said Shantanu Dixit, father of a class 12 student. Parents have decided to meet the minister in this regard. Countering all these claims of the parents, schools said that parents are overreacting. “We have opened our campuses since September 21. Our teachers and others have been coming to schools by following all Covid norms. Have you heard of any case? Students will also be protected in the same way. We are also aware that a single case can cause a lot of trouble and schools will not let this happen,” said Babu Thomas, secretary, private school association, Bhopal. Schools said that parents can visit the campus to check the measures being adopted. “To deposit fees, several parents have visited the campus. They have also seen that strict measures are being followed. This is what we can do. Don’t hamper the academics of the children. This will put more pressure on students if schools are kept closed for more time,” said a school owner not wishing to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/childrens-safety-worries-parents-safety-top-priority-say-institutions/articleshow/79251737.cms||Ramendra Singh
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||30-year-old man succumbs to injuries after fight over firecrackers||Roorkee: A 30-year-old man succumbed to his injuries on Monday after he was involved in a fight between two groups in his village near Roorkee during Diwali over firecrackers. Police have deployed a heavy force in the village to avoid any untoward incident. According to reports, around 10.30 pm on Saturday, a group of villagers at Gadharona had gone to a shop to purchase crackers. But the shopkeeper denied them, saying it was closed. Angered by the shopkeeper's response, the group started bursting crackers aiming at the shop and other shops of the shopkeeper's relatives. Later, a fight ensued between both the group, during which over one dozen men from both the sides were injured. Among the injured, Ajay, 30— who belonged to the group who came for shopping— was undergoing treatment at a hospital. But he died after sustaining internal injuries. "Victim Ajay was admitted to many hospitals in Dehradun and Roorkee, but his brain had become dead due to internal injuries. He breathed his last 12.30 pm at the Civil Hospital on Monday,” said SP (rural) Swapn Kishore Singh. Police have registered a case against eight men and deployed a heavy police force, including a woman and two men platoons to maintain the peace in the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/30-year-old-man-succumbs-to-injuries-after-fight-over-firecrackers/articleshow/79251050.cms||Tapan Susheel
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 753 Covid-19 cases, lowest in 135 days||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 753 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking its cumulative caseload to 8,54,764. This is the first time for the state to record three-digit daily infection numbers in the last 130 days after registering 998 cases on July 5. However, this was the lowest single-day count in the last 135 days. The toll jumped to 6,881 as 13 more people succumbed to the virus. As many as 1,507 patients were declared cured. There are currently 17,892 active cases with 8,29,991 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 97%. The recovery rate was almost 99% in Kurnool and Vizianagaram districts. West Godavari reported 216 new infections, followed by East Godavari (130 cases). The 11 other districts reported less than 100 cases with Anantapur recording as little as four cases. This is a record for any district to record single-digit case numbers in the last several months. Seven districts witnessed less than 30 new cases on Monday. Of the 13 deceased, two each are from Chittoor, Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts, and one each from Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Nellore, Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari. The state has so far tested about 92 lakh Covid-19 samples with a case positivity rate of about 9%. The national positivity rate stands at 7%, while the state’s overall mortality rate continued to remain stable at 0.8%. Andhra Pradesh also continues to retain its lead among all states in terms of conducting the highest number of Covid-19 tests per every one million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-reports-753-covid-19-cases-lowest-in-135-days/articleshow/79251052.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||‘Cover fisherwomen under Matsyakara scheme too’||Visakhapatnam: Citing that the YSR Matsyakara Bharosa scheme is an example of gender inequality, fishermen associations have urged the government to expand the scheme to cover the 60,000-odd fisherwomen in the state. “There are around 60,000 fisherwomen across the state. They don’t go out on the sea as their male counterparts but are involved in fish trade in the harbour areas and at different fish markets. The fishing ban also affects them and it is a clear example of gender inequality. So we have requested the state government to extend this facility to the fisherwomen as well,” Arijili Dasu, general secretary of Visakhapatnam district fishermen welfare association, told TOI. Fishermen in the age group of 21-60 years who operate motorised and non-motorised boats during the marine ban period/lean period from April 15 to June 14 are eligible for the scheme. “Fisherwomen are eligible under this scheme in other south Indian states like Tamil Nadu. Since 2004, the Tamil Nadu government is paying Rs 4,500 each to the fishermen and fisherwomen of that state,” added Dasu. Speaking to TOI, fisheries minister Dr Appalaraju Seediri said the scheme is intended only for fishermen who venture into sea and cannot engage in fishing activities during the ban period. “In fact, compared to other states, the amount we pay fishermen is much higher,” the minister added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cover-fisherwomen-under-matsyakara-scheme-too/articleshow/79251065.cms||Arpit Basu
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||State cabinet likely to discuss reopening of colleges this week||DEHRADUN: The state cabinet, which will be convened this week, would most likely discuss proposal to reopen the higher education institutes in the state, officials privy to the information said on Monday. According to the proposal, the colleges will open only for practical lessons as stated in the UGC guidelines, while the theoretical classes will continue through the online platform. This comes in the backdrop of the state’s higher education institute association expressing its reservation on reopening of colleges and universities only for the practical classes. The body has claimed that it is not feasible to operate in the campus with low student turnout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/state-cabinet-likely-to-discuss-reopening-of-colleges-this-week/articleshow/79251061.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Tests at lowest of month due to Diwali, so is daily count; active cases at 9,000||BHOPAL: The lowest number of Covid-19 tests in the month of November was conducted on Monday which also marked the day with the lowest number of positive cases. Similarly, the lowest number of Covid-19 death in a day so far in November, (only two) was also reported in the state on the day. During the only 597 new positive cases were reported in the state which is lowest in the month of November so far and only 12,972 tests were carried out which is also the lowest in a single day in the state so far in the current month. In the month of November, so far, 4,02,612 tests have been conducted in the state which averages to around 25,163 tests done per day. And the number of cases also increased day by day in the month of November, however the fresh cases came down on Monday to the lowest of the month so far. And with it also came down the number of tests, the number of test done in a day was reduced by nearly 50% on Monday. With these 597 fresh cases, tally of covid-19 cases reached 1,84,524 in the state. Apart from these fresh cases, only 2 deaths were reported in the entire state, taking the death toll due to covid-19 in the state to 3092. These two deaths were reported, one each from Bhopal and Harda districts. On Monday, fresh cases were reported from 48 of the 52 districts of the state. Only Raisen, Anuppur, Mandla and Burhanpur districts were the ones where no fresh cases were reported. And of the 48 districts where new cases were reported, cases were reported in double figures from 15 districts of the state. Bhopal and Indore districts topped the charts with the maximum number of fresh cases with 141 and 89 fresh cases being reported. Other cities with high number of positive cases include –Sagar 31and Jabalpur 29. On the brighter side, 745 people who were admitted to different hospitals in the state recovered and were discharged. With these new patients recovering from the disease, count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 1,72,436. Cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state as on November 16, was 93.44%. As on November 16, there were 8,996 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lowest-no-of-tests-cases-in-nov-reported-from-state/articleshow/79251765.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Three corporations push for desealing 3,000 units||NEW DELHI: With Delhi BJP chief initiating a “desealing drive” in east Delhi’s Rishabh Vihar DDA market on Tuesday last week, all three municipal corporations are now in a hyperactive mode to reopen the properties sealed for violation of regulations by a special committee of the Supreme Court. It is expected that these drives will lead to 3,000 units being unfettered across Delhi, most of them in residential areas. The reopening exercise was prompted by the Supreme Court saying only commercial properties could be sealed, not residential ones. Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, said 559 properties had been de-sealed in Shahdara South, and the process is on to reopen 284 more in the same zone. “Most of these were sealed for violating building regulations in residential areas, such as misuse of stilt parking and construction of an extra room. We have granted them relief and more properties sealed by the monitoring committee will be identified for reopening,” Jain declared. Times ViewThe desealing drive will help many commercial areas and shopping centres get back on track, which is important at a time of economic slowdown. But this should not become an excuse to let major offenders go unpunished. Short-term gains cannot come at the cost of fundamental principles.His counterpart in the north corporation, Jai Prakash, had similarly said that close to 1,000 properties of the identified 1,400 sealed ones had been unlocked and almost all will be available to their owners before Diwali. He said, “235 of these are in Karol Bagh zone alone. SDMC too is allowing relief to over 600 sealed property owners.” SDMC mayor Anamika confirmed that 569 units had been freed and the target of 612 would be met before Diwali. On August 14, the Supreme Court ruled that the monitoring committee had the mandate to act only against commercial properties, not residential ones. The municipal councillors have since been pushing the executive wing to extend the de-sealing order to commercial areas and local shopping centres. Responding to the demands of the councillors, the law department of SDMC has clearly pointed out that the law does not permit it to use August 14 order on residential properties to open commercial ones. The law officers have stated that the shop-cum-residence plots are not covered by the judgment Alarmed by the de-sealing spree, the monitoring committee has submitted a report to the court that rues the undoing of all its work over 14 years. In its 10-page report, the committee expressed grave concerns at its work coming to a “grinding halt”. All actions to restore the confidence of the public in the rule of law had come to a naught and Delhi was reverting to the pre-2006 days when “adherence to regulations had been given a complete go-by”, the report says. Citing the “frantic” activity of de-sealing of properties that were sealed for unauthorised construction, misuse and allied illegal activities, the committee’s report concluded that these developments had “created an undesirable atmosphere of free-for-all”. The committee stated it was a “mere bystander” to these irregularities being perpetuated with impunity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-corpns-push-for-desealing-3000-units/articleshow/79252699.cms||Paras Singh
November 17, 2020||Varanasi||Ban ineffective, city’sair quality plummets||VARANASI: The NGT’s ban on cracker remained ineffective during Diwali festival in Varanasi causing the Air Quality Index (AQI) plummeting to severe level. This has forced the experts to express the apprehension that it may aggravate Covid-19 situation in the city. The local administration seemingly failed to implement NGT order in the city, as illustrated by the post Diwali report of air quality in Varanasi compiled by Climate Agenda was released on Monday. The report suggests that the NGT’s order for a blanket ban on firecrackers in city was clearly violated resulting into city air plummeting to “severe levels” up to 423 AQI. The report indicates that PM 10 is the major pollutant in Varanasi. It proves that along with firecrackers, poor waste management, waste burning on the roadside as well as dusty and bumpy roads are also contributing to the poor state of city air. The monitoring of air quality was held at 18 locations in the city. According to the report, Ashapur remained the most polluted locality where PM 2.5 and PM 10 concentrations were recorded 252 and 423, about 4 and 4.5 times higher than the government's standards, respectively. Sarnath, Kashi Station, Pandeypur and Kachahari areas were found to be the top 5 polluted areas whereas Ravindrapuri locality was found to be better than others. Lead campaigner of NGO Climate Agenda, Ekta Shekhar, said, “There have been reports worldwide which claim that the poor ambient air quality has an adverse impact on Covid-19 recovery chances and it also increases the risk of higher number of Covid-19 positive cases.” Taking this into account, the NGT had passed an order for a blanket ban on fire crackers in some cities including Varanasi. “It’s disappointing to see that the administration of the Prime Minister’s constituency failed miserably in effectively implementing the NGT’s order,’’ she said adding that along with existing Covid-19 cases, this failure in implementing blanket ban on crackers will have serious health repercussions on children and senior citizens as well. “The situation could have been prevented, if the administration behaved responsibly,” she added. The Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) bulletin issued on Sunday too recorded 294 AQI (PM2.5) putting Varanasi in the category of ‘poor’ air quality a day after Diwali. SSP Amit Pathak admitted that the ban on firecrackers was violated in the city. “However, no punitive action was taken in this regard. People were discouraged to use firecrackers during Diwali,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ban-ineffective-citysair-quality-plummets/articleshow/79252813.cms||Binay Singh
November 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Blood sugar levels rise in Covid-recovered patients||VIJAYAWADA: The Covid-19 recovery rate may be increasing, but officials of the health department have a new challenge to address—post-Covid-19 complications. A number of high-risk patients with diabetes has seen a sudden spike in blood sugar levels following Covid-19 treatment. With patients who have pre-existing conditions facing health complications after Covid-19 treatment, health officials have started compiling data of high-risk patients who have recovered from the virus. “Many recovered patients are coming to us with other complications. The drugs used for the management of Covid-19 in themselves can also cause side effects like uncontrolled sugars which can lead to invasive fungal infection. A healthy diet and proper care are needed after Covid-19. One should check their vitals regularly for at least six months,” said Dr V Bhagyaraj, a city-based physician. Doctors added that high blood sugar levels in turn causes many complications. “Usage of a high dose of steroids or broad-spectrum antibiotics will increase the risk of invasive fungal infection. High levels of blood sugars is also a reason for fungal infections and it is also causing several other complications like kidney problems. Maintaining sugar levels post Covid-19 is very important,” said Dr Murali Krishna Ganguri, diabetes and endocrinology consultant at Manipal Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/blood-sugar-levels-rise-in-covid-recovered-patients/articleshow/79251076.cms||Venu Lanka
November 17, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Good NEET show pushes up cut-offs||High scores, fewer seats and new government policies may crush hopes of several medical aspirants this academic year as cut-offs for MBBS is likely to go up by at least 80 marks in most categories during the state counselling. This year, the state is likely to offer 4,179 seats – 3,032 in government colleges – under the state quota when it opens the seat matrix on Wednesday. While 227 of the 3,032 seats will be taken for government school students, the state will be able to add just 50 more seats this year after the government college in Kanyakumari got the National Medical Commission nod for 50 additional seats. In 2020, there are 5,119 students with scores above 500 compared to 1,359 students in 2019. Experts say when the 69% rule of reservation is applied to the state quota seats after reserving seats for special category – quotas for people with disability, sportsmen, children of ex-servicemen and government school students – any students, including those in the scheduled groups, who score below 350 marks may not get a seat in state-run colleges. In 2019, the cut-off for SC, SCA and ST were 360, 301 and 267 respectively. This year, the cut-off for government school students is likely to be around 180 marks. "We are top heavy this time," said student counsellor Manickam Arumugam, who has been closely following medical admissions for several years now. This year, there were 968 students with scores above 600 compared to 139 students last year. The open category cut-off in government colleges may be around 600 in government colleges this year compared to 520 last year. The biggest gap is likely to be among MBC candidates with a difference in cut-off of at least 90 marks. The cut-off for MBC students could be 526 in 2020. While the cut-off for BC is expected to be above 560, for BCM it is likely to touch 528. Like last year, the seats for general category are likely to be over in the first two days. The schedule may not even call for BC category because by then all BC seats may be exhausted. "It is not a surprise to many students," said Sundar R, a NEET tutor and counsellor. "This year, many students did not apply because they know the 2021 exams are just six months away. Also, the state has promised 1,600 more additional seats from 11 new medical colleges. Some students with scores as low as 183 have already opted for seats in deemed universities," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/good-neet-show-pushes-up-cut-offs/articleshow/79252701.cms||Pushpa Narayan
November 17, 2020||Allahabad||24 ghats, deepwater barricading to be set up for Magh Mela||PRAYAGRAJ: Planning for Magh Mela has begun in earnest with the mela police administration planning to set-up 24 ghats for bathing purpose of the devotees. The step was taken to promote social distancing in the mela in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Magh Mela will be commencing from January 14, 2021. The police have also decided to conduct deepwater barricading up to five-kilometre on the banks of Sangam, so that the devotees and pilgrims get enough space for bathing. Mela police have also drafted a plan to set up three km long river line for better movement of the boats. The seers and saints, along with the mela police on Monday held a bhoomi pujan on the site of the mela amid the recitation of shlokas and mantras. Beginning from today, the department would start setting up the reserve police line along with camp offices at the Magh Mela site. 13 police stations and 36 outposts would be set up as part of crowd management and security plan. The police department has also been to follow as well as enforce all Covid-19 safety norms like maintaining social distancing, wearing of masks and checking daily sanitization during the mela. Plans to deploy motorboat and water ambulance in the forthcoming Magh Mela is also under discussion, said in-charge of Jal Police, Kadedin Yadav. A three-kilometre long river line will be set up from New Yamuna bridge to Sangam for deployment and ferrying of boats. Mela police have also drafted a plan to make an adequate arrangement at Arail ghat. The Jal police have sought four companies of flood PAC, 80 swimmers, one company each of NDRF and SDRF and adequate police forces for the safety and security of pilgrims arriving for the mela.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/24-ghats-deepwater-barricading-to-be-set-up-for-magh-mela/articleshow/79252907.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kanpur||‘No alliance with any big party for 2022 polls’||KANPUR: Cementing ties with his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav promised Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL) founder a representation in the state cabinet if SP comes to power after 2022 assembly polls. Akhilesh also announced that SP will not contest from Jaswantnagar, the assembly seat from where his uncle Shivpal has been contesting all these years. Without taking names of Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party, Akhilesh also made it clear that his party will not go for any kind of alliance with big political parties. However, he said that he will keep options open for tie-ups with smaller parties. Akhilesh, who was in his home district Etawah on Saturday to celebrate Diwali, said, “I have said this on a number of occasions and today I am saying it again, we have given Jaswantnagar seat to Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia. Also, that we will make their leader a cabinet minister. Now, we expect that PSPL workers too should come forward and lend their full support in ensuring the formation of Samajwadi Party government in the state,” said Akhilesh on questions on alliance with political parties in upcoming 2022 assembly polls. He also attacked CM Yogi Adityanath led BJP government over insensitive behaviour by policemen with children of traders selling firecrackers in Bulandshahr. “Lok Bhawan in the state capital is made for people to sit and give good governance, but if they insult people and trouble them, then such people should be thrown out from Lok Bhawan,” he said. A number of Congress and BSP leaders and workers joined SP in the presence of Akhilesh on the occasion. “Every other day, leaders from Congress and BSP are joining Samajwadi Party, which is a good sign and will further strengthen the party,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/no-alliance-with-any-big-party-for-2022-polls/articleshow/79252852.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Civic body slow in demolishing 80% of illegal structures||NEW DELHI: Despite a large number of owners of buildings with illegal constructions being booked by North Delhi Municipal Corporation, only 20% have witnessed some demolition action, allegedly owing to the lethargy and dodgy attitude of the building department officials. An internal report of the civic body showed that out of 1,357 builders caught for illegal activities, demolition notices were issued in 1,194 cases. However, action was carried out in only 318 cases. This inaction of the department points towards an alleged connivance with the lawbreakers. A senior corporation official said that Section 343 of Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, 1957, states that erection of any building or execution of any work without sanction or in violation of building bylaws should be demolished within 15 days. Failing this, the commissioner may himself order for demolition of the structure and the expenditure incurred on such action should be recovered from the violators. Records maintained by the executive engineers of Keshavpuram, Rohini and Karol Bagh zones during 2017-18 showed that while there were 1,357 cases of unauthorised construction, sealing or demolition took place in only 318 cases. In Keshavpuram zone, 362 properties were booked, but 252 cases (70%) witnessed no sealing or demolition. In Karol Bagh, out of 477 cases, no action took place in 47.5% violations. In Rohini zone, there were 518 instances of unauthorised construction, but no action was taken in 397 cases. Overall, demolition or sealing orders were not executed in 876 cases, even though it is mandatory to carry them out within 15 days of issuance of demolition orders. Moreover, in 161 cases the department did not even pass demolition orders. “This inaction of the department points towards unlawful support to those people at whose instance unauthorised construction/erection of works were carried out,” the report stated. The priority of action against booked properties depends on several factors, like court cases, dates, cutting water or electricity connections, said a senior official. Councillors have repeatedly raised the issue of corruption in the building department of all three corporations in the House and standing committee meetings. In several instances, the councillors have alleged that once the junior engineers, assistant engineers and senior engineers get plum postings in the department, they are not shifted out based on the rotation policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-body-slow-in-demolishing-80-of-illegal-structures/articleshow/79252703.cms||Paras Singh
November 17, 2020||Bhopal||Covid count on rebound, Bhopal gets on with life||BHOPAL: Covid infections have seen a rise in seven of the 28 bypoll bound districts — where polls were held on November. The highest increase in average cases reported per day is in Ashoknagar district where by-elections were held in two constituencie. The district has registered an increase of 133% in the average number of positive cases reported per day this month compared to last month. As of now, November has seen 140 fresh cases, averaging around 8.7 cases per day meanwhile in 31 days of October only 116 fresh cases were reported averaging around 3.7 cases per day in Ashoknagar. Followed by Ashok Nagar, is Morena district— where bypolls were held in 5 constituencies. So far in November, 166 fresh cases have been reported, which averages around to 10.3 cases per day, while in October a total of 220 fresh cases were reported in the entire month averaging around 7 cases per day, thus an increase of 46% has been reported in the average number of new cases reported daily. Likewise, in Bhind district 37% increase in average number of cases reported per day in November has been found compared to the average number of cases reported daily in October. Other districts where byelections were held and number of Covid-19 cases have increased since then includes Datia, Guna, Agar Malwa and Gwalior districts. This is besides the fact that statewise there has been a dip of around 41% in average number of fresh cases reported daily in November compared to October. 43,312 fresh cases were reported in October in the state, which averages to around 1,397 new cases daily, while in 16 days of November 13,165 fresh cases were reported in the state which averages to around 822 fresh cases reported daily. Byelections were held in 28 constituencies of these 19 districts after 22 MLAs had quit Congress and joined the BJP causing the fall of the Kamal Nath government. Some other MLAs too followed suit while a few deaths were also reported, making 28 assembly constituencies vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-cases-on-the-rise-in-seven-of-28-seats-that-went-to-bypoll/articleshow/79251771.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 17, 2020||Kanpur||Overnight showers reduce city’s AQI, temperature||KANPUR: The air quality index (AQI) as well as temperature of the city came down on Monday following overnight and morning showers. The rains that hit the city around 11 pm continued intermittently the whole night on Sunday and till 8 am on Monday morning due to which the air quality index which had crossed 440 microgram per meter cube came down to 91 microgram at around 5 pm on Monday. Similarly, the temperature too dipped to 3.7 degree Celsius from the normal temperature. According to the Meteorological department, the city recorded maximum temperature of 24.4 degrees while the lowest recorded temperature was 16.4 degrees. The humidity content increased and touched 87 percent against 51 percent .The Met department has predicted cloudy weather this week. Despite the ban, the residents burst crackers which led to an increase in pollution level. According to data available from the Central Pollution Control Board’s Nehru Nagar observatory, the PM 2.5 level had crossed 280 microgram per meter cube at around 10 pm on Saturday evening which was around 258 microgram in the afternoon on that day. The small particles of potash and ingredients of crackers caused breathing problems to even normal and healthy persons. The people defied the blanket ban on sale and bursting of crackers imposed by the state government. Following the ban in selling crackers in the city, the cracker lovers bought crackers from Shuklaganj and Unnao. Some small vendors too sold crackers in small carry bags to the people. The district administration as well as the police failed to control bursting of crackers and it was at its peak between 8 pm and 10.30 pm. The visibility was poor on Sunday morning due to smoke and smog but it improved after 8 pm. The city witnessed climatic change around 11 am when the air velocity increased followed by drizzle which continued till Monday morning. It was recorded as 38.4 mm. The rains not only washed the pollutant sheet and reduced PM 2.5 value which was recorded as 89 US AQI. Similarly,the levels of ozone, nitrogen and sulphur dioxide were reduced to 13, 43,and 4 respectively. The health department has advised people who are sensitive to avoid outdoor exercise on Tuesday morning as people would burst crackers on Monday evening too and that would affect the air quality index too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/overnight-showers-reduce-citys-aqi-temperature/articleshow/79252893.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||JNTUH computer-based test for second semester exams||Hyderabad: The Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad (JNTUH) is set to conduct a computer-based test for second semester exams for first to third year BTech and BPharmacy candidates. The CBT is scheduled to be held later this month. The exam is intended to benefit regular students who were absent during the mid-term exams. This CBT will also be conducted for the students who have transferred from other universities or autonomous colleges under JNTUH and for the internal marks component of substitute subjects. “The CBT will contain 25 objective questions from the entire syllabus of the subject,” read a letter issued by Kamakshi Prasad, director, evaluation, JNTUH to all college principals. The letter added that all the questions are to be answered through the online mode over a period of 45 minutes with each question carrying one mark. The CBT will be conducted at a limited number of centres based on the number of registrations and the details will be available on the examination portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jntuh-computer-based-test-for-second-semester-exams/articleshow/79243950.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Drivers, unions unhappy with move to fit IoT devices in autos||Visakhapatnam: Autorickshaw drivers and union leaders in Vizag city expressed unhappiness with the government’s decision to install Internet of Things (IoT) devices in a fleet of autorickshaws in the city, claiming the devices are not user-friendly. As a pilot project, the Road Transport Authority (RTA) had installed the devices—named Abhaya—in a 100 autorickshaws. The devices will help track vehicles and be of use in case of a crime committed inside the vehicle or if the vehicle is stolen. “There are several problems with these devices. The most important being even for minor repair works the auto drivers or owners have to seek a host of permissions from the RTA. The process won’t be convenient for the drivers,” G Vamana Murthy, state general secretary of CITU-backed AP Auto Rickshaw and Motor Workers’ Union, told TOI. Drivers claimed the devices have an additional problem: that of ensuring their safety. Unlike a four-wheeler, an autorickshaw has no locking system, posing the chance of the devices getting stolen. The third problem the drivers apprehend is the correct use of the device. Under the system, the device comes with a panic button attached to it. If a passenger presses the button the autorickshaw will stop automatically and police will reach the spot. “We are trying to make the passenger aware of its importance and to be careful they don’t press the button accidentally,” added Vamana Murthy. “Whatever problems the auto drivers are mentioning are teething problems. As the drivers and passengers would get used to it the device would be very useful. Andhra Pradesh is the first state in the country to have launched the Abhaya scheme,” said a senior RTA official. In fact, RTA officials are planning to increase the number of autorickshaws fitted with the device. “We are planning to install the app in another 1000-odd autos shortly,” deputy transport commissioner GC Ratnam said. Autorickshaw drivers claimed the devices are not user-friendly, pose problems of safety and said repairs will require a number of permissions from RTA||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/drivers-unions-unhappy-with-move-to-fit-iot-devices-in-autos/articleshow/79251099.cms||Arpit Basu
November 17, 2020||Allahabad||Ram’s idol to come up at Shringverpur Dham, says Maurya||PRAYAGRAJ: Just like in Ayodhya which is the birthplace of Lord Ram, a huge statue of the deity would also be installed in Shringverpur Dham, said deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya. Maurya was speaking on Friday night at the inauguration of the three-day Deepotsav organised at Shringverpur. The festival concluded on Sunday. In Ramayana, Shringverpur has been described as the kingdom of King Nishadraj who helped Lord Ram before he proceeded for his 14-year exile. During excavation, a temple of sage Shringi was also unearthed. “The idol of lord Ram would be installed at Shringverpur Dham next to the statues of Nishad Raj and Rishi Bharadwaj. Along with lord Ram, idols of goddess Sita, Laxman and Hanuman would also be installed at Shringverpur.” The deputy CM said that statues of eminent sages could be installed at various crossings of Prayagraj over the next few years. “A proposal to this regard is being mulled by the state government,” he added. Maurya said that all efforts were being made to ensure that the work for the proposed bridge over river Ganga as part of the Rampath Gaman Route can start soon. Although the Ramayana Mela is being organised in Shringverpur Dham for many years, the Shringverpur festival was organised for the first time on the occasion of Diwali. Thousands of devotees attended the festival. When the sun set, the ghat of the tapobhumi of saint Shringi was lit up by 51,000 diyas (earthen lamps) for three days. Within a radius of a kilometre, the entire dham was decorated with colourful lights. Visitors were also educated about the hazardous impact of firecrackers on the environment. Sanjay Tiwari, president of the organization which organised the festival, said, “51,000 lamps were lighted on behalf of the organisation, but with the cooperation of the local residents over 1.25 lakh diyas were lit all over Ramghat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rams-idol-to-come-up-at-shringverpur-dham-says-maurya/articleshow/79252914.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Private schools to re-open from this week||DEHRADUN: The majority of private schools in Uttarakhand are likely to reopen from this week. Several private schools in Uttarakhand have now been provided with an interim NOC to reopen their campus for students of Classes X and XII. The body which represents the private schools in Haldwani has stated that the majority of their schools will reopen from November 17. Notably, many of the schools could not reopen on time as they had either not complied with the SOP issued by the state government or they were yet to be inspected by the district officials. It is worth mentioning that though the government-run schools and some private schools had reopened from November 2, the student turnout remained abysmal. Apart from the low student turnout, there have been several incidents across the state of students or teachers contracting Covid-19 while attending the school this month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pvt-schools-to-re-open-from-this-week/articleshow/79251101.cms||Mohammad Anab
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Off course: Few takers for emerging technology seats||Hyderabad: Courses in emerging technologies such as computer science and engineering (CSE) in data science, cyber-security, internet of things and block-chain technology recorded a mere 40 per cent to 60 per cent allotment with a large number of seats going vacant after the final phase of admissions. As per figures released by the engineering, agriculture and medical common entrance test (admissions) convenor Navin Mittal, of the 12,000 seats in emerging technologies, only 7,000 odd seats were filled. Computer science and engineering (CSE) (internet of things) had the highest vacancy of 54 per cent followed by CSE in internet of things and cyber-security including block-chain technology. “Although new seats were added in emerging technologies, there was complete lack of awareness among students. Many could not even make out the difference between a traditional CSE and a specialised CSE course into emerging technologies,” said KVK Rao, general secretary, All India Federation of Self-Financing Technical Institutions. In fact a mere eight per cent seats were vacant in conventional CSE courses. Courses such as chemical engineering, aeronautical engineering, auto-mobile engineering, recorded 100 per cent seat allotment. Spot admissions will now be held for seats which have been left vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/off-course-few-takers-for-emerging-technology-seats/articleshow/79243966.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur reports biggest single-day spike in new Covid-19 infections||JAIPUR: While the state’s daily Covid-19 cases saw a slight dip on Monday, Jaipur reported its biggest single-day spike of 538 new infections, accounting for 25% of cases reported from across the state. In the past two days, the city had reported 1,036 virus cases. Jaipur accounted for 20% of cases reported in the first 16 days of November in the state, with 6,194 new infections. In comparison, cumulative cases for the state in November (till 16th) stood at 30,993. A senior health department official said that people should continue to take precautions to prevent the risk of getting infected. “People are celebrating the festivals, but they should do so while taking all measures to prevent themselves from getting infected,” said the official. The health department is anticipating cases to rise post Diwali. Across the state, 12 persons died, 2,169 others tested positive on Monday, bringing the overall tally to 2,27,986. With 12 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to 2,078. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 398, while two died in Ajmer that took its casualties to 158. With two more deaths in Alwar, its toll rose to 68, and two deaths in Sriganganagar took its fatalities to 32. Jodhpur reported its 205th death, Bikaner 152nd, Pali 79th and Jhunjhunu reported its 35th death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (538), Jodhpur (412), Bikaner (182), Kota (153), Pali (143), Alwar (145), Nagaur (89), Bharatpur (79), Udaipur (61), Ajmer (50), Hanumangarh (39), Tonk (35), Bhilwara (35), Jalore (34), Baran (21), Sriganganagar (20), Jhunjhunu (20), Sikar (20), Dungarpur (17), Dausa (16), Bundi (15), Jhalawar (13), Dholpur (8), Chittorgarh (7), Sawai Madhopur (5), Rajsamand (3), Sirohi (3), Pratapgarh (2), Barmer (2), Churu (1) and Karauli (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-reports-biggest-single-day-spike-in-new-covid-19-infections/articleshow/79252706.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: RTA to make FASTag mandatory from January 1||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Road Transport Authority (RTA) is gearing up to make FASTag mandatory for all transport vehicles under the M&N category (goods and passenger vehicles) from January 1, 2021. The RTA will not issue a fitness certificate if the vehicle owners fail to affix the FASTag to their vehicles as per guidelines issued by the Union ministry of road transport and highways. Speaking to TOI, RTA deputy transport commissioner for Visakhapatnam, GC Raja Ratnam, said “We have received guidelines from the Centre regarding making FASTag compulsory for transport vehicles from January 1. We are waiting for instructions from our higher-ups in the state to go ahead with it.” A transport vehicle must take a fitness certificate every two years, Raja Ratnam said, adding, “We will go for enforcement drives after all transport vehicles get FASTags. The system is very useful for easing traffic movement on the highways.” General secretary of the AP Lorry Owners’ Welfare Association YV Eswara Rao said the state has nearly three lakh trucks, ranging between four wheels to 18 wheels, of which 2.5 lakh have already affixed the FASTag. Services of the remaining 50,000 trucks without the FASTag are limited locally and move only within a 50 km radius of a city or town for transport of milk, ration and cement, Eswara Rao said. “A truck that does not move on the highway does not need FASTags. Even though, we are ready to go ahead according to the guidelines of the government. We will mobilise the truck owners to take the tags before December 31,” Eswara Rao told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rta-to-make-fastag-mandatory-from-jan-1/articleshow/79251105.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Amrapali homebuyers deposit over Rs 266 crore in SC||NEW DELHI: With the Supreme Court taking steps to finish construction of the pending housing projects of Amrapali group, the homebuyers, who had been left in the lurch, have started depositing the amount due on them in the court’s registry to ensure completion of the construction work. Appearing before a bench of Justices U U Lalit and Ashok Bhushan, senior advocate R Venkataramani, who was appointed receiver to manage the affairs of the group, told the court that homebuyers have deposited over Rs 260 crore in the last ten months as part of their dues. He said this amount was paid by homebuyers themselves and an additional Rs five crore have been deposited by banks and financial institutions on behalf of the buyers as part of their home loan. The receiver told the bench that he had not been able to get in touch with many home-buyers as they are not from NCR region but assured the court that he will be able to compile all the information by the end of the year. “We have found 1,603 loan accounts of home-buyers in various banks and financial institutions and an amount of Rs 1,238 crore could be raised if the banks and financial institutions release the remaining amount,” the receiver told the bench. On a proposal of the court on whether the RBI could intervene to provide funds for completion of the Amrapali projects, the bank regulator told the court that it was for individual banks to take a decision and it cannot force banks to provide funds for court-monitored Amrapali projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/amrapali-homebuyers-deposit-over-rs-266cr-in-sc/articleshow/79252705.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||BSF sub-inspector, killed in Kashmir on Diwali eve, cremated in Rishikesh with full state honours||Haridwar: Border Security Force (BSF) sub-inspector Rakesh Dobhal, who was killed in the line of duty a day before Diwali during ceasefire violation by Pakistan in the Baramulla sector of Kashmir, was cremated with full state honours in Rishikesh on Monday morning. On the day, his mortal remains reached his hometown Rishikesh, where hundreds of locals visited his house to pay their respects. The residents of the city poured flowers on the vehicle carrying the soldier’s mortal remains to the crematorium and chanted slogans like — ‘Jab Tak Suraj Chand Rahega, Rakesh Tera Naam Raehga’, 'Vande Matram', and 'Bharat Mata Ki Jai’. His remains were consigned to flames by his younger brother Umesh Dobhal at Purananad Ghat. Speaker of Uttarakhand assembly Premchand Agarwal, education minister Arvind Pandey, Rishikesh mayor Anita Mamgain, and scores of others paid their tribute to the soldier. Dobhal is survived by an eight-year-old daughter, mother, wife, and two brothers. Meanwhile, several locals expressed their anger over the soldier’s death and said the government should retaliate. “Our brave soldiers are making the supreme sacrifice for the sake of the country. Now, the time has come to take stern steps against terrorists and their protectors. Another surgical strike must be conducted to teach a strict lesson to them,” said Sagar Joshi, a local resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bsf-sub-inspector-killed-in-kashmir-on-diwali-eve-cremated-in-rishikesh-with-full-state-honours/articleshow/79251117.cms||MS Nawaz
November 17, 2020||Goa||Mapusa bus stand project will be taken up on priority: CM Pramod Sawant||SALIGAO: Chief minister Pramod Sawant recently said that the proposed bus stand project at Mapusa as well as the refurbishing of the market will be taken up on priority, even though the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic has badly affected the government treasury. Sawant said land for a Ravindra Bhavan has also been identified and “this project will also become a reality”. “The central government has decided to provide us with financial help for various projects and all the councillors. including the Mapusa MLA, will be taken into confidence before we go ahead with the project,” Sawant said. The chief minister, who is also the home minister, said that the setting up of the new police district office in the town will also be undertaken. “The new district police offices at Mapusa and Ponda will enable better and effective control of law and order,” said Sawant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-bus-stand-project-will-be-taken-up-on-priority-sawant/articleshow/79253316.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Bhopal||Imarti Devi & Giriraj Dandotiya yet to resign, waiting for rehab||BHOPAL: Two ministers of Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet who lost the assembly by-polls— Imarti Devi and Giriraj Dandotiya— are unwilling to let go of their ministerial berths easily and are waiting for the party to make a move. Sources said they are waiting to be rehabilitated in state undertakings (corporations and boards). Imarti Devi, who is woman and child welfare minister, suffered a humiliating defeat in Dabra assembly seat of Gwalior despite being the most talked about candidate from BJP. She lost the poll to her relative and Congress rival Suresh Raje by a margin of 7,971 votes. Similarly, minister of state for farmer welfare and agriculture development, Giriraj Dandotiya lost the Dimani assembly seat in Morena district to his Congress rival Ravindra Singh Tomar by a huge margin of 19,712 votes. When contacted, Imarti Devi didn't respond to the calls however, Dandotia said that he will soon resign from the cabinet. "We are yet to get over the defeat. My resignation is inevitable. “We will follow the party diktat," Dandotiya told TOI over phone. One of the three ministers, Aidal Singh Kansana, who was holding the public health engineering (PHE) department had resigned a day after the poll results saying, "If the public had wished us to continue as minister, we would have won. But, I lost the election and the very next day decided to resign from the post on moral grounds." Constitutional experts observed that the ministers could remain on the post for six months of taking oath of the office. "Any common person who takes oath of the office as a minister can remain on the post till six months. If they had won the assembly election, they could continue on the post. In this case, after six months their appointment will be cancelled suo moto," said former principal secretary of assembly, Bhagwandas Israni adding, "However, the ministers should have resigned on moral grounds immediately after their defeat." The three ministers in question had taken oath in Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet on July 2, during the second rejig of the team. They could remain on their post for six months which will be over on January 1, 2021. Sources in BJP disclosed that there is a mounting pressure on the state leadership to accommodate the three leaders in any board or corporation and accord them a cabinet minister status too. However, a decision to his effect is likely only after the approval by the central leadership. BJP said the entire matter comes under the chief minister's prerogative. "This is the chief minister's prerogative whom to appoint and whom to drop. Technically the ministers can remain in office for six months," said BJP state spokesperson Rajneesh Agrawal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/imarti-dandotiya-yet-to-resign-waiting-for-rehab/articleshow/79251776.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||Kumbh Mela: Officials mull camps for Nagas, other seers on Akhada premises in wake of Covid||Haridwar: In the wake of Covid-19 pandemic, the mela administration is mulling to establish separate camps of Naga sadhus and senior saints of all 13 akhadas on the premises of their respective akhadas, rather than in the sectors demarcated for the Kumbh Mela. The proposal, which has been drafted by the Mela administration, will be implemented after discussions with representatives of Akhil Bharaitya Akhada Parishad. Notably, the mela administration had reduced the number of sectors of Kumbh Mela from 43 to 23. In the previous melas, the land was allotted to the Naga seers and other akhadas on which they set up camps during the almost four-month long festival. “Camps of Naga saints and other religious leaders of the akhadas will not be permitted on Kumbh sectors, but they can set up camps on the premises of their respective akhadas. This decision has been taken in the wake of Covid-19 pandemic. However, it will depend on the situation of the pandemic at the time of Kumbh mela. The final decision will be taken according to the situation of the pandemic at that time,” additional mela officer Harbeer Singh told TOI. Usually, Kumbh Mela in Haridwar starts from January and the land in Kumbh mela sectors is allotted to the akhadas much before commencing the mela. But this time, the Kumbh mela may formally start from March when the first shahi snan (royal bath) takes place in which the akhadas participate with great fervour. Meanwhile, the Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad has announced that their seers would start to come to Haridwar from January for installing camps. President of Akhil Bharitya Akhada Parishad Narendra Giri told TOI, “Our saints are ready to leave and will reach Haridwar from January. We are not very happy with the preparation of Kumbh works. It is the responsibility of the administration to make due arrangements.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-mela-officials-mull-camps-for-nagas-other-seers-on-akhada-premises-in-wake-of-covid/articleshow/79251132.cms||MS Nawaz
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||RTC plies special Karthika Maasam buses for pilgrims||Visakhapatnam: AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) Visakhapatnam region has come up with Pancharama Kshetra packages for pilgrims interested in visiting Lord Shiva temples during Karthika Maasam. RTC deputy chief traffic manager K Venkata Rao said the services were made available for pilgrims from November 15, the first Sunday of Karthika Maasam. “But the devotees did not like to take the tour due to the belief that Sunday was an ‘Amavasya’. But the buses for the next Sunday have already been booked,” Venkata Rao told TOI. The RTC is ready to operate nearly 300 buses from the region for the Pancharama Kshetras this season, and may increase the number of services if the demand goes up. Meanwhile, RTC Srikakulam divisional manager G Varalakshmi said special buses have been arranged for devotees to visit Amaravati, Bhimavaram, Palakollu, Draksharamam and Samalkot. The buses will depart at 4 pm on Sundays. The ticket fare is Rs 2,100 for adults and Rs 1,575 for children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/rtc-plies-special-karthika-maasam-buses-for-pilgrims/articleshow/79251131.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||35-year-old rape survivor set on fire by accused in Jaipur||JAIPUR: A 35-year-old rape survivor was set on fire in Walled City on Saturday allegedly by a person whom she had accused of rape around six months ago. Police have arrested four persons in the matter. The survivor is undergoing treatment at a hospital. Though she suffered 50% burns, she is said to be stable. A case has been registered at Kotwali police station. The main accused, Lekhraj, along with three of his relatives have been arrested. SHO Yeshwant Singh of Kotwali station told TOI, "The accused was absconding after the rape case was registered against him six months back. On Saturday, he entered the 35-year-old woman's house and poured an inflammable substance, most likely petrol, on her and set her on fire with a diya." According to officials, the woman and the accused were neighbours. Apart from the rape charge, cops have not found any other dispute for the crime. "When the woman lodged the rape case against Lekhraj, she alleged that the incident had happened over a year ago. So, the medical examination did not show any signs of assault. The court had issued an arrest warrant for the accused but he had fled. We have been searching for him since then.” While the woman suffered 50% burns, the accused also sustained burn injuries. All the four have been sent to police remand till November 18. “The woman is undergoing treatment and, at present, is in stable condition. Her burn injuries are severe but that of the accused are not serious. We will question all of them to find if it was a premeditated attack or if something had happened for the accused to commit the crime. The rape case investigation will also proceed," the officer said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/35-year-old-rape-survivor-set-on-fire-by-accused-in-city/articleshow/79252725.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Builder held for duping 120 buyers via Noida project||NEW DELHI: A west Delhi-based builder, who allegedly duped over 120 homebuyers by making them invest money in a fictitious project in Noida, has been arrested by Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police. The accused, Satinder Singh Bhasin, is a resident of Rajouri Garden. Joint commissioner (EOW) OP Mishra said Bhasin told people that his company was going to build 33 floors in 99 days and collected a huge sum from them without having any authorisation or land to build the project. It was alleged that in 2012-13, Bhasin’s company, Mist Avenue Pvt Ltd, invited the general public through an advertisement to invest in its project, Mist Avenue, situated at Plot No 1, Sec-143B in Noida. “The company kept demanding funds from the buyers without constructing the building and even levied interest on the amount that was not due from the complainants,” Mishra said. Later, Bhasin changed the name of the project to “Festival City” and also the name of the company to Mist Direct Sales Pvt Ltd. “The buyers were assured possession in 2015, but the deadline was arbitrarily extended to 2022. The allottees were forced to enter into a new contract with the new company. The project was still kept in abeyance,” added Mishra. After police sought a report on the project from Noida Authority, it came to the fore that Mist Avenue Pvt Ltd had no authority to develop it. The licence to develop the project had been given to Anand Infoyage Pvt Ltd on the said land. Details of bank accounts confirmed that money had been collected from the public after which the accused was arrested, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/builder-held-for-duping-120-buyers-via-noida-project/articleshow/79252715.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Not all economic pacts good for India: MEA||Hyderabad: A day after 15 Asia-Pacific nations signed the world’s biggest trade agreement — the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP), that India has steered clear of, Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar on Monday said that India had allowed subsidised products from abroad and granted unfair production advantages to others in the name of openness and globalisation. “...all the while it was justified by the mantra of an open and globalised economy. It was quite extraordinary that an economy as attractive as India allowed the framework to be set by others,” Jaishankar said while virtually addressing the inaugural session of Deccan Dialogue organised by the Indian School of Business (ISB). The Union minister pointed out that post the economic liberalisation, India should have focussed on negotiating optimal engagement with the world and its success should have been determined by not only taking into account the GDP growth rate but also factors like sustainability, employment and all-round development of society. “...We not only failed to develop the deep strengths that the large industrial economy like ours should have...we actually created an employment challenge by becoming over dependent on imports,” he said. He said those who argue in favour of “openness” do not present the full picture. “This is equally a world of non-tariff barriers, of subsidies and state capitalism…without exaggeration, what we will be deciding now will determine whether India will become a first-class industrial power or not. And that is why the outlook of Atmanirbhar Bharat is so crucial today,” he added. He said there is a need to embark on the next generation of reforms that address challenges which were neglected by a narrower vision. On the global discussions around Covid-19, he said the focus has shifted to rapid testing and reliable vaccines. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has committed to the United Nations that we will help make vaccines accessible and affordable to all… and from the regular conversations that I have had with so many global counterparts, the world is counting on us to do so,” he said, underlining the importance that India will play in battling Covid-19 on a global scale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/not-all-economic-pacts-good-for-india-mea/articleshow/79252712.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Non-agri land registration set to resume from Nov 23||Hyderabad: In a major relief to people awaiting registration of non-agriculture properties to resume, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided that it will commence on Dharani portal from November 23. Dharani, a one-stop portal of the government for all matters pertaining to land transactions, was launched on October 29, marking resumption of registration of agriculture properties. The resumption of registrations of non-agriculture properties would be launched by chief secretary Somesh Kumar. During a review meeting with officials on Sunday, the chief minister said the process of registration of agriculture land through the Dharani portal has become popular among people. “In the state, people are of the view that a new era has begun in land registration. The feedback from the field was quite satisfactory. Dharani has overcome the initial teething problems. In another three to four days, it will overcome all initial problems. We have decided to commence registration of non-agriculture land only after resolving all issues pertaining to Dharani,” KCR added. The state government had earlier informed the high court that there was no time frame or deadline to upload data of non-agricultural properties on Dharani. Another related case pertaining to security of Aadhaar and other personal details of property owners sought by the state in connection with uploading it on Dharani portal is pending and its hearing has been posted to November 20. The state government has been asked to submit to the court the safety mechanism it has put in place for security of personal details of property owners by November 17. Registration of properties was halted on September 8 after which the new Revenue Act, 2020, was brought into force. Though the registration of agriculture land was started on October 29, the registration of non-agriculture properties remained suspended as the process of uploading records pertaining to non-agriculture properties was not completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/non-agri-land-registration-set-to-resume-from-nov-23/articleshow/79243992.cms||Roushan Ali
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Experts bat for self-reliance, globalisation||Hyderabad: At a time when protectionist tendencies are on the rise globally, India must strike a fine balance between self-reliance and globalisation to realise its dream of an Atmanirbhar Bharat, said experts at a session on Atmanirbhar Bharat: Synchronising Globalisation with Decentralised Cooperation’ as part of ISB’s Deccan Dialogue virtual conference . “Whatever the pushback we are seeing on globalisation…we should not go back to the pre-1990 phase of low quality, high cost demand…That would be a retreat from a strategy which actually has given India some of the highest growth rates that it has ever enjoyed so I hope that lesson from the 1990s is not lost,” said Shyam Saran, former foreign secretary of India. Agreeing, Dammu Ravi, additional secretary, ministry of external affairs, said globalisation and self-reliance are not mutually exclusive and there is a limitation to what self-reliance can do in a highly inter-dependent world. “We have to depend on APIs from outside and world in turn depends on Indian pharmaceuticals…tmanirbhar Bharat should not mean just localisation because though the Indian market is huge, exports too are an important element of the entire economy,” he explained. According to Invest India managing director & CEO Deepak Bagla, in a post-Covid world global supply chains are reshoring themselves, moving closer to where the market is and becoming shorter something that India should capitalise on. “We are getting a large number of queries from firms looking to move their supply chains because we remain the largest consumer base in the world of around 1.5 billion by 2025 and this is a big magnet for supply chains moving into India.” Nasscom president Debjani Ghosh said that in a hyper digital and contactless world in the Covid era, trust will be the most important currency of the new normal.  If India plays the digital game right, after the manufacturing unlock the digital game can be another potential $3 trillion opportunity||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/experts-bat-for-self-reliance-globalisation/articleshow/79252761.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Call to improve amenities at Gajuwaka court||VISAKHAPATNAM: Over 4,000 cases of various kinds such as industrial litigation, marital discord and dowry harassment are being transferred from Vizag district court to Gajuwaka court as per their jurisdiction over the last few months. However, according to lawyers, the Gajuwaka court lacks basic amenities and facilities such as drinking water, washroom besides requirements such as a bank branch and post office. The transfer of the family court from Vizag to Gajuwaka is also in the pipeline. Since Gajuwaka is located near the steel plant and other public sector units and industries, several cases related to workers are filed, especially pertaining to section 498 A, dowry harassment, infidelity and other marital disputes. At least 4,000 such cases, pending since last few years, have been recently transferred from Vizag court to Gajuwaka. Currently, there are five courts in the Gajuwaka court complex including two additional district judge courts, one principal senior civil judge court, one additional chief metropolitan magistrate court and one junior civil judge court. The Gajuwaka Bar Association has been demanding the setting up of a family court for a long time. The official sanction for the same has already been received from the high court and a building has also been constructed, but the family court is yet to start functioning. Senior advocate Kuppili Muralidhar, who is also the president of Forum of Legal Professionals, said there are around 3,000 lawyers in Gajuwaka court including several lady advocates. “But still there is no drinking water facility and no washrooms for ladies or for clients. During the rains, the court complex gets water-logged. Also for every court, we need a bank and a post office within the premises. Banks are required for depositing bail security money in court and a post office is preferred as all legal notices have to be sent by registered post only. However, the nearest bank branch is around five km away,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/call-to-improve-amenities-at-gajuwaka-court/articleshow/79251149.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Burglar steals Rs 7 lakh from ATM in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Using a gas cutter, a burglar broke open an SBI ATM in Vanasthalipuram and decamped with Rs 7 lakh cash kept inside the ATM chest in the wee hours of Monday. Vanasthalipuram police said the burglar walked into the ATM kiosk at around 2.30 am and closed the shutter. Police suspect it was the handiwork of only one person who cut the machine along with the hidden cash chest using the gas cutter. He emptied the cash into a bag and coolly left the spot. Police said he might have committed the offence in less than 45 minutes. The accused even took away the CCTV connected hard disk, which was kept inside the ATM. “After coming out of the kiosk, he was seen getting into a car. But, the visual on CCTV camera is not clear. We are working on the leads,’’ Vanasthalipuram inspector K Murali Mohan told TOI. The accused reportedly covered his face. The ATM kiosk was one of the several ATMs whose maintenance was handed over by the bank to a private company. As per their security system, the hard disk was connected to the ATM and it became easy for the accused to leave no visual evidence for cops to identify him. Non-availability of a security guard made it easy for the accused to commit the offence by downing the shutter, police said. It was only in the morning when locals on seeing the damaged ATM telephoned dial 100. Soon, cops arrived there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-steals-rs-7-lakh-from-atm/articleshow/79252751.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand records 243 fresh Covid-19 cases, 9 deaths||Dehradun: Uttarakhand recorded 243 fresh infections of novel coronavirus on Monday. With this, the total number of Covid-19 cases reached 68,458 in the state. Also, nine more coronavirus-related deaths were reported from the state on the day, pushing the Covid-19 toll to 1,116. Abhishek Tripathi, official of Covid-19 control room, informed that the maximum of 107 cases of coronavirus were reported from Dehradun, followed by 24 from Nainital, 21 from Pauri, 18 from Haridwar, 15 from Almora, 14 from Udham Singh Nagar, 12 from Chamoli, nine from Champawat, seven cases each from Bageshwar and Tehri, six from Rudraprayag, two from Uttarkashi, and one from Pithoragarh. “Among the nine deaths reported on Monday, four were recorded in Haldwani, two in Dehradun, and one each in Rudraprayag, Srinagar (Pauri), and Bahadrabad (Haridwar),” added Tripathi. Apart from the new cases and deaths, 441 patients recovered from the Covid-19 infection on Monday, taking the total number of cured cases to 62,555 in the Himalyan state. With this, the recovery rate reached 91.3% in Uttarakhand. Meanwhile, officials revealed that as many as 843 patients were provided with the 108 emergency ambulance service during Diwali festivities from November 12 to November 14. “The 108 ambulance service helped 299 women in reaching hospitals for delivery and other pregnancy-related complications. As many as 114 accidents victims were driven to hospitals from the day of Dhanteras to that of Diwali. Similarly, 25 heart attack patients were also helped in reaching hospitals by the emergency ambulance service of the state. The service also helped 17 people with burn injuries in reaching hospital on time,” said Anil Sharma, general manager (projects), 108 emergency ambulance service. The official added that the ambulance service also carried 338 victims of random medical complications to hospitals during the same period. “The emergency ambulance service could work so effectively as we had prepared an extensive plan for the festival. All the ambulances were put on high alert across the state and the employees were asked to be prompt in dealing with any emergency. In order to avoid getting stuck in a jam, the drivers shared the information about road congestion from the technical call centre in the state capital,” added Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-243-fresh-covid-19-cases-9-deaths/articleshow/79251154.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Burari on top of road accident chart, West Delhi reports worst affected areas||NEW DELHI: Some of the worst areas in terms of road accidents are in west Delhi. However, the locality with the maximum number of road accidents reported in 2019 was Burari in north Delhi with 282 accidents. Burari was followed by Mangolpuri (247), Nangloi (220), Rohini (190), Dwarka (177) and Ashok Vihar (176), according to data for 2019 released by Delhi Traffic Police. New Delhi and Central districts logged the lowest accident figures, 179 and 188, respectively. North-West district had the most fatalities at 211, with West (176), South-East (155), Outer (146), and East Districts (132) trailing it. In 2018 too North-West had led with the most fatalities (265), followed by West (248), Outer (166), South- East (146) and East districts (132). There were 5,610 road accidents last year, in which 1,463 persons died and 5,152 suffered injuries. These figures represented a decline over 2018 by 14% in accidents and 13.4% in deaths. An officer said that the number of injured had also declined by 15.3%. The data shows that 46% of people killed were pedestrians, while two wheelers riders were the second-most vulnerable and accounted for 34% of the fatalities. Traffic officers said that speeding remains one of the main reasons behind road accidents despite the fact that stringent fines are in place and hundreds of challans are issued every single day across the city. Twenty black spots had been identified in 2019, a black spot being a place with a high frequency of accidents. Outer Ring Road had nine such spots, followed by GT Karnal Road and Ring Road. Mukundpur chowk was the most notorious of such locations in 2018. Road traffic accidents have three main causes: human (drivers, riders, vehicle occupants, pedestrians and cyclists), vehicles (vehicle design and structure, mass, equipment, such as seatbelts or tyres, etc.) and road infrastructure and weather. In the report on accidents, Taj Hassan, special commissioner of police (Traffic), wrote: “To improve the road safety situation in Delhi, a multi-pronged concerted strategy needs to be implemented with a special focus on preventing deaths of vulnerable road users like pedestrians, two-wheelers and NMT users. A holistic approach by addressing all 4Es, that is, Engineering, Education, Enforcement and Emergency care of road safety, as recognised by World Health Organization, are required to be implemented by strengthening the current system and institutions and creating a new system that will target specific risk factor as well as creating protective strategies for vulnerable road users with scientific analysis of data identifying the causative factors.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/burari-on-top-of-road-accident-chart-w-delhi-reports-worst-affected-areas/articleshow/79252753.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||40,000 unknown viruses lurking around: Bharat Biotech CMD||HYDERABAD: Even as the world is battling Covid-19, there are 40,000 unknown viruses in the world and what we are seeing in the form of Coronavirus is just a sample, Hyderabad-based vaccine maker Bharat Biotech’s chairman and managing director Krishna Ella said. “About 40,000 unknown viruses are existing right now and only 10,000 can hop in from animal to animal to human or animal to human to animal. What we are seeing today is a sample... it is because our economies are affected, Covid-19 got more attention,” Ella said while addressing participants virtually at the ISB Deccan Dialogue on Monday. To tackle these issues, Ella pointed out that the external affairs ministry can start with appointing epidemiologists in our neighbouring countries so that India can collaborate on such diseases early on. Meanwhile, Rahul Chhabra, secretary, economic relations, ministry of external affairs, said that until now countries only thought of military threats to security but now ‘health security’ too has come to fore. “Nobody is safe until all of us are safe. Health security was not a main table agenda in international discussions, but post the pandemic it has become the top agenda now,” he said. He also added that while Indian vaccine players will have the opportunity to cater to the global markets, holding clinical trials in each and every market will be a challenging task. Prof M Vidyasagar of IIT-Hyderabad, who was also the chairman of the committee that built a model to predict the progression of Covid-19 in India, said the biggest challenge in the coming days could be that the winters could exacerbate the spread of the pandemic. He added that if India is able to tackle it, it would be the first country to do so as other countries have been grappling with a rise in the number of Covid-19 patients with the onset of winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40k-unknown-viruses-lurking-around-bharat-biotech-cmd/articleshow/79252741.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Google removes 5 rogue lending applications||NEW DELHI: Several digital lending applications, unauthorized by any financial regulator, were available for download on Google Playstore for over three months. These apps, whose names resembled legit companies, offered users short-term credit at very high interest rates and then, in some cases, harassed or abused the borrowers for repayment. Following queries sent by TOI to Google, the technology giant took down at least five of them. “Such unauthorized apps grew during the lockdown when people needed quick cash. The apps' names resembled legit companies. Many people did not know how to distinguish between the two. They were downloaded by at least 400,000 to 1 million people," said fintech researcher Srikanth L, who studied at least 10 such apps. TOI tried reaching out to the numbers listed on the now-defunct apps, but they were unreachable. Those taken down by the technology giant include Ok Cash, Go Cash, Flip Cash, ECash and SnapItLoan. "Our Google Play Developer Policies are designed to protect users and keep them safe, and we recently expanded our Financial Services policy to help protect people from deceptive and exploitative personal loan terms. When violations are found, we take action," a Google spokesperson told TOI on Friday. According to Google's policies, if any app "contains or promotes financial products and services", it must comply with state and local regulations for any region or country. However, Srikanth’s research showed that these apps had their servers hosted on Alibaba cloud, a Chinese company. “A common feature among these apps is that they have no legal entity in India. It is possible that some money is laundered through this as all these transactions will be outside the regulatory purview of RBI. They also did not list any grievance officer’s numbers, and did not have any valid address listed on Play Store," said Srikanth, a coordinator at a citizen led collective, Cashless Consumer, which raises awareness about digital transactions. One such app is still available on the PlayStore but several users have pointed out that it harasses people during the repayment process. A screenshot, which went viral on Twitter, showed an executive from the app asking a girl to send him nude pictures after she defaulted on a payment. The girl from Tamil Nadu eventually attempted suicide. One of the borrowers left a comment on the Playstore about his experience, stating that executives from the company had allegedly called and abused him for being just a day late with his repayment. He also alleged that the company made a WhatsApp group and added all his relatives in it in order to shame him. According to Srikanth, these applications asked for more permissions than required, and some even had access to the users' galleries, putting their private data at risk. “Since these apps are not regulated, they don't follow any rules. They employ a wide range of intimidation tactics, including calling the borrowers' contacts to shame them. There are also cases of executives threatening to make private pictures public in case of non-payment," he said. Srikanth believes the only way to reduce the effectiveness of these rogue apps would be awareness, better regulation and increased digital literacy. “We need to have more informed consumers who understand the differences between rogue apps and legit ones. Platforms like Google, too, need to strengthen their app store policies so that these apps do not make it to the top of their Playstore list,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/google-removes-5-rogue-lending-applications/articleshow/79253637.cms||Anam Ajmal
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Guv okays MLC nominees||Hyderabad: Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan on Sunday cleared the names of Gorati Venkanna, Basavaraju Saraiah and Boggarapu Dayanand for appointment as Members of Legislative Council (MLCs) for a term of six years under the governor quota. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led cabinet had cleared the names.of these three leaders for MLC seats under the governor’s quota a few days ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/guv-okays-mlc-nominees/articleshow/79244003.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Air travel to return to pre-Covid levels by year end: Hardeep Singh Puri||HYDERABAD: Indicating that the civil aviation sector, that was battered by the pandemic, is finally flying back towards recovery, Hardeep Singh Puri, minister of state (independent charge), Union ministry of civil aviation, on Monday said he expects air travel in the country to reach pre-Covid levels by the end of 2020 or early next year. “I am confident that by the end of the year, by December 31 or soon thereafter… means a week or two weeks thereafter, we will be back to pre-Covid levels,” Puri said, while addressing participants virtually at the ISB’s Deccan Dialogue on Monday. He also said the aviation sector must ensure that the existing safety protocols are not only maintained but strengthened in the coming days. He also said that countries that are globalised must ensure that they do not become overly dependent on a single nation or region for the supply of essential goods and services. Puri said Covid has underlined importance of having in place robust healthcare infrastructure and public health emergency protocols to tackle a public health crisis of this scale.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/puri-air-travel-to-return-to-pre-covid-levels-by-year-end/articleshow/79252770.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: FIR filed for defamatory posts against judiciary||VISAKHAPATNAM: CBI has registered an FIR against 17 persons for posting defamatory content against AP high court judges on social media. The FIR, registered in Visakhapatnam, pressed charges under sections 505, 506 of IPC against some of the accused based on the nature of social media posts. A few others have been booked under relevant sections of the IT Act. Of the 17 accused, 16 have been identified while one is named as ‘unknown’. The case was first probed by the crime investigation department and later transferred to CBI following the HC’s directive. The HC bench, comprising justices Rakesh Kumar and J Uma Devi, had passed the order after a series of derogatory posts were made on social media platforms against judges and judiciary. The next hearing is scheduled for December 14. The HC has directed the CBI to submit its report in a sealed cover within eight weeks. CBI DSP V Srinivasa Rao is the investigating officer. In the FIR, the CBI stated all 12 cases registered by the CID have been clubbed into one case. The accused have been charged for “intentionally provoking, promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will, criminal intimidation, publishing or transmitting obscene material in electronic form between April 1 to July 15 this year”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fir-filed-for-defamatory-posts-against-judiciary/articleshow/79251173.cms||Siva G
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Encroachment of lake fuelled flood fury: Residents||HYDERABAD: One month on, memories of the flood continue to haunt those living around the centuries-old Hasmathpet Lake in Secunderabad Cantonment. Even now, their cellars and walls bear the water mark, indicating just how high the levels rose — about six to eight feet — as sewage water gushed into their houses, soon after the downpour. “We are still in shock. The sound of sewage flowing into nalas at high speed, still scares us,” said R Maheswar, a resident of SBI Colony, the first residential colony in Secunderabad Cantonment to be affected after water from the Hasmathpet nala flooded residential pockets. This happened after the lake, also known as ‘Boin Cheruvu’, was filled to capacity and overflowed. Reason: rampant encroachments around the lake and open nalas in the area. “It was nothing short of house arrest. We spent two days in the house amid stinking sewage. Nobody came to our rescue. Our entire colony had five-feet of sewage water that overflowed from the open nalas,” said Sridhar Reddy, a resident of Park View Colony stressing the need for a facelift of the nalas that have shrunk significantly due to encroachments. Residents also called for reviving the Hasmathpet Lake that is maintained by the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and adversely affected close to 25 to 30 residential colonies in the Secunderabad Cantonment in the recent floods. The total area of the water body that originally stood at 76-acre, has now dropped to 68 acres. “The remaining eight acres has being encroached by habitations and other structures,” said Ch Nagaraju, in-charge and assistant executive engineer, GHMC North Division Lakes. The ICRISAT Colony, Phase-II, is another pocket that had to bear the brunt of this rapid, unplanned growth, rue its residents. “I was stuck in the house for two days after the nala, running adjacent to my house, overflowed with sewage water,” said B V Subba Rao, a Hyderabad-based water expert who is also former advisor to the Centre for Climate Change, at the Engineering Staff College of India (ESCI), Hyderabad, A team of SCB officials led by deputy CEO, Vijay Kumar Balan Nair, that inspected the lake and nearby colonies, soon after the deluge submitted a report to the SCB chief executive officer, B Ajith Reddy. It stated that “the floodgate built for letting out the water has been broken forcibly to let out the upstream water stagnated in the Hasmathpet lake, so as to protect the buildings in the GHMC area” and cited it as the main reason for inundation in the Cantonment area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/residents-encroachment-of-lake-fuelled-flood-fury/articleshow/79252796.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Covaxin Phase III trials kick start with NIMS in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The first and largest efficacy study for a Covid-19 vaccine in India kicked off on Monday with volunteers at the NIMS, Hyderabad, receiving the first dose of vaccine for Phase III trials of indigenous vaccine candidate Covaxin. The Phase III trials for Covaxin, which is being developed by Bharat Biotech along with the Indian Council of Medical Research-National Institute of Virology , will involve 25,000 volunteers over 18 years of age across 25 centres in around 19 cities of the country. These include King George Hospital in Vizag, Guntur Medical College, AIIMS and Guru Tej Bahadur Hospital in New Delhi, Grant Government Medical College, Sir JJ Group of Hospitals and Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital And Medical College in Mumbai, Aligarh Muslim University in UP, among others. As part of the Phase III study, volunteers will receive two intramuscular injections at an interval of around 28 days and “will be randomly assigned 1:1 to receive either two 6 mcg (microgram) injections of Covaxin or two shots of placebo”, Bharat Biotech said. Being a double-blinded trial, neither the investigators, participants nor the company will be aware of who is assigned to which group, it added. Top company officials had earlier told TOI that first set of efficacy data from the Phase III trials will be available only by April or May of 2021 after which the vaccine maker will proceed with applying for a commercial licence and WHO pre-qualification. Bharat Biotech joint MD Suchitra Ella said the development and clinical evaluation of Covaxin marks a significant milestone for vaccinology in India, for a novel vaccine, and has garnered interest from several countries for supplies and introduction globally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-phase-iii-trials-kick-start-with-nims-in-city/articleshow/79252784.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Chaos-ridden Sadar Bazar gets decongestion roadmap||NEW DELHI: Taking note of a long-pending demand for decongesting Sadar Bazar, North Delhi Municipal Corporation has chalked out a comprehensive plan, which includes regulating vendors, removing encroachment and declaring majority of roads as one-way. North Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said a meeting was recently held with officials and vendors to discuss the problems and soon, another round of meeting would be held to take the plan ahead. “While the traders wanted roadside vendors to be removed permanently, those sitting in the market for ages have refused to move anywhere. To resolve the matter, we have identified two spots within the market where these people can be adjusted in an organised manner,” Prakash said. The civic body also aims to pursue senior officials from Delhi Police to discuss and finalise the plan for making the roads one-way. “Majority of the roads are narrow and movement of two-way traffic only adds to the congestion. When someone parks vehicles on roadsides, the situation becomes more problematic. After consulting the traders, we have reached a conclusion that making roads one-way will resolve the matter to a major extent. I will soon seek an appointment with the commissioner of police in this regard,” said the mayor. Besides encroachment and haphazard movement of traffic, loading and unloading of goods beyond the permissible time (12 noon) is another reason behind traffic jams in the area. Hand-pulled carts, rickshaws and minivans are used inside the market for carrying stock throughout the day. Also, these can be seen parked haphazardly. Traders, however, claimed that there were multiple issues belonging to various agencies and unless they all worked together, it would be difficult to decongest the area. “We were supposed to have a joint meeting post Diwali but so far no date has been shared. Unless there is a proper parking facility developed in the area, congestion will continue,” said Rajendra Sharma, general secretary of Federation of Sadar Bazar Traders’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chaos-ridden-sadar-bazar-gets-decongestion-roadmap/articleshow/79252788.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||3-year-old girl kidnapped from bus station, rescued||Hyderabad: A three-year-old girl who was kidnapped on Saturday from the Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS)was rescued by Afzalgunj police in Mahabubnagar district on Monday. Police arrested a couple, S Shivudu and S Parvathamma, of Mahabubnagar. According to the police, the couple had abducted the girl as they were childless. Police said that on Saturday, Jaya Lakshmi along with her two children was at MGBS to board a bus to Bellary in Karnataka. Jaya Lakshmi’s cousin Laxmi and her husband Nagaraju too were with them. Before boarding the bus, Nagaraju decided to back out due to some issues and got down from the bus, following which the two sisters went behind him to convince him to accompany them. When they returned, Jaya’s daughter was missing. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-year-old-girl-kidnapped-from-bus-station-rescued/articleshow/79252798.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Kidnapped 5-yr-old rescued a day later by Suryapet police||Hyderabad: A five-year-old boy who was kidnapped in Suryapet on Diwali night was rescued by the police on Sunday. The boy had gone to buy a matchbox and oil from a neighbourhood store. P Gowtham, 5, son of truck driver Mahesh and his wife Nagalakshmi from Bhagat Singh Nagar in Suryapet left the house at 7.30pm on Saturday. “In the evening we purchased crackers and I dropped him home. Later in the night he went to a store nearby on his cycle and bought oil and matchboxes. As he did not return home in 10 minutes, my wife went in search of him and his cycle was found nearby,” Mahesh told media personnel. The family immediately lodged a police complaint and cops along with the boy’s family, searched for him in the neighbourhood till morning. While cops continued to look for the boy, at around 8.30 am, a lady tailor in Gowtham’s neighbourhood received a phone call from an unknown person. “The caller said that boy was with him. When the tailor said she does not have sons, he asked her if any boy from neighbourhood was kidnapped. When the woman asked about his details, the unknown man disconnected the call,” Suryapet police said. Police started analysing the call details of the suspect and after a manhunt, managed to rescue the boy. “We have rescued the boy and handed him over to the family. The boy is safe and we traced him out of town,” Suryapet SP R Bhaskaran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kidnapped-5-yr-old-rescued-a-day-later-by-suryapet-police/articleshow/79244020.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Biological E Limited begins Phase I/II clinical trials||HYDERABAD: Biopharmaceuticals player Biological E Limited (BE) said it has begun Phase I/II clinical trials of its Covid vaccine candidate in India following DGCI’s nod. It has been working with US-based biopharma firm Dynavax Technologies Corporation and Houston-based Baylor College of Medicine. The company said it expects results of trial, which will evaluate safety and immunogenicity of vaccine candidate, to be available by February 2021. As part of trial involving 360 volunteers in 18-65 years age bracket, each participant will be administered vaccine by way of two intra-muscular injection doses at an interval of 28 days. Vaccine candidate includes an antigen that has been in-licensed from BCM Ventures, along with Dynavax’s advanced adjuvant CpG 1018. Candidate consists of “receptor binding domain of spike protein of SARS-CoV-2 virus at three dose levels adjuvanted with CpG 1018 plus alum”, it said.  “CpG 1018’s potential to boost immune response to produce more antibodies and longer lasting immunity may minimize dose of antigen needed, enabling vaccination of a greater number of people,” said Ryan Spencer, CEO, Dynavax. BE Ltd MD Mahima Datla said their vaccine candidate offers one more potential option for Covid-19 prophylaxis. Dr Maria Elena Bottazzi, associate dean of the National School of Tropical Medicine at BCM, said transition of vaccine candidate into human trials exemplifies transfer of technology with BE, that could lead to a safe and affordable vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bio-e-begins-phase-i/ii-clinical-trials/articleshow/79252791.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Varanasi||Yogi Adityanath gifts Rs 75 lakh projects to Vantangia village on Diwali||GORAKHPUR: Keeping his promise of celebrating Diwali with Vantangias, chief minister Yogi Adityanath visited Tinkonia village on Saturday and celebrated the festival with the community by distributing sweets and gifts to the children. The CM also gifted government projects worth Rs 75 lakh to the village and gave letters of PM Gramin Awas scheme to allottees, dry ration kits and sweaters to locals, and said it took 70 years for the benefits of government schemes to reach the Vantangia community. “Earlier, government officials never visited your village. I am a witness to this as I used to visit Vantangia villages at least once a year. Now, people of the administration visit you to ensure you get all benefits of central and state government schemes,” Yogi said. “Now, you people can reach the district headquarters in 70 minutes from here,”he added. Government schemes and benefits started reaching Vantangia villages after they were notified as revenue villages by the state government barely a year after Yogi became the chief minister. “Earlier, we used to sit in huts, but now pucca houses are constructed here. This is the true Diwali,” Yogi said, extending Diwali greetings to the villagers. He also appealed to the people to light a Diya in memory of the martyrs. “I have come to your village directly from Ayodhya Dham where Deepotsav was organised. After 492 years, the construction of a grand Ram temple has begun,” he said. The BJP government strongly believes that benefits of all government schemes must reach to everyone, irrespective of their caste or religion, the CM said. “No one should be deprived of the benefits of government schemes. People’s representatives, including MPs and MLAs, now keep information about and status of the schemes being rolled out in their regions. It is their duty to inform people about these schemes and their implementation so that you know what the government has done,” Yogi said. Following his tradition of visiting Vantangias on Diwali since the last several years, Yogi also took part in Annaprashan ceremony organised by the community and visited an exhibition. Citing statistics, Yogi said 1,000 to 15,000 people died of encephalitis every year till recently, but this year only 21 deaths were reported due to this illness. “The time is not far when this disease will not be able to claim a single life in this region,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/yogi-gifts-rs-75l-projects-tovantangia-village-on-diwali/articleshow/79252805.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Man, daughters attacked with sword in Delhi||NEW DELHI: A 42-year-old man and his daughters aged 20 and 18 were attacked with swords by a group of men in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Diwali night for objecting to lewd remarks. Two men have been arrested. The accused and the victims are neighbours. While the man who was attacked, is a street vendor, one of the accused works as an airconditioner repair mechanic. According to police, around 11pm on Saturday, the two sisters were standing outside their house when one of the accused, Maninder Singh, allegedly passed obscene remarks at the younger sister. They objected to this but he did not stop. The women then informed their father about it. When the father went to complain to Singh, the latter was joined by three other men, Narinder, Dolly and Sunny. As alleged by the victim, the four men were armed with swords and sticks and they attacked him. While the 42-year-old man was critically injured, his daughters who tried to intervene also sustained injuries. The matter was then reported to police. A senior officer said the injured were taken by a police team to Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital where they were admitted for treatment. All three of them have sustained cut wounds. The two women’s brothers were also allegedly assaulted by the men. “Based on the father’s complaint, Maninder Singh and another suspect Prabhjot Singh were arrested for attempt to murder. Later, a case of molestation, criminal intimidation and under other relevant sections was also registered against the suspects based on the younger daughter’s complaint,” said Sameer Sharma, additional DCP, West. Police are now checking CCTV footage and recording statements of other witnesses. Search for other suspects is also under way, the officer added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-daughters-attacked-with-sword/articleshow/79252802.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Gandhi docs get peers’ support||Hyderabad: Junior doctors at Osmania General Hospital (OGH), Kakatiya Medical College (KMC) and Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) Adilabad, have announced their support to ongoing strike by medicos at Gandhi Hospital and threatened to join the stir. The junior doctors at the nodal Covid centre, Gandhi Hospital, had struck work four days ago demanding that the hospital be turned into a non-Covid centre and academic session be begun immediately. On Monday, junior doctors at the three institutes, including OGH, RIMS and KMC, gave notices to the respective superintendents announcing their support for the doctors at Gandhi Hospital. Junior doctors at KMC and RIMS have threatened to boycott duties from November 18, while OGH doctors have not given a specific date but have warned of stir over the issue. “We stand in support of the decision taken by TJUDA on boycotting electives from November 18, if demands, mentioned by Gandhi junior doctors, are not met. We are ready to serve with more dedication if our demands are met,” a representation by junior doctors of KMC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-docs-get-peers-support/articleshow/79252803.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Diwali hit Covid tests as T reports 500 cases||Hyderabad: Diwali festivities has hit Covid-19 tests in Telangana in the last few days with authorities analyzing only 17,296 on Monday and throwing up just 502 new coronavirus cases.  Three deaths were recorded on Monday, taking the total number of cases in the state to 2,57,876 and the death toll to 1,407 so far.  Overall, 2,42,084 patients in the state have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection, while there are 14,385 active cases.  Going by the current case fatality rate (CFR) of 0.54 percent, one in every 200 patients is succumbing to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/diwali-hit-covid-tests-as-t-reports-500-cases/articleshow/79252806.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||‘Custodial torture’ of advocate brothers: ASI suspended, three cops transferred||LUDHIANA: A day after two advocate brothers were allegedly thrashed in police custody in Haibowal, commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal suspended ASI Sham Singh and transferred to the police lines SHO inspector Jaskanwal Singh, ASI Didar Singh and constable Hemant. The action was taken after a delegation of advocates met the top cop on Monday morning. According to the advocates, a special investigation team (SIT) has been formed and it would submit a report to Agarwal. The delegation told Agarwal about the alleged torture of advocate brothers Sidharth Chandi and Mohit Chandi of Bachan Nagar, Haibowal. In the afternoon, some advocates, along with the brother duo, met SIT head joint commissioner of police Bhagirath Singh Meena and handed over a written complaint to him. General secretary of the district bar association Gagandeep Singh Saini said, “We met the commissioner, who has suspended ASI Sham Singh on whose complaint both the advocates were booked, and transferred three cops to the police lines. After the SIT submits its report, further action will be taken.” By Monday evening, another delegation of advocates, along with Chandi brothers, reached the CP office to hand over a complaint. But Agarwal refused to meet them. The advocates were stopped at the entrance, after which they staged a protest for about 45 minutes and raised slogans against the police administration. Joint CP Meena met the advocates. According to the lawyers, Meena assured that an FIR would be lodged against the cops by Monday night and footage of CCTV installed at the police station checked. Agarwal confirmed the development and said a departmental inquiry has been marked.  Plaint mentions liquor trade, name of woman SHO In the written complaint, advocate Sidharth Chandi has named 10 cops as accused. They include inspector Jaskanwal Singh Sekhon, ASI Sham Singh, ASI Bhinderpal, constable Hemant, constable Inderjit, sepoy Gagandeep Singh, the munshi of Haibowal police station, Sarabha Nagar SHO sub-inspector Madhu Bala, ASI Malkit Singh and ASI Didar Singh. Chandi alleged that when the cops were beating him and his brother, the SHO was saying to them that they should not have dared to complain against the liquor sellers in the area “as they run the government”. The SHO also threatened to implicate them in a rape case and brandished his gun. The complainant also alleged that when the cops were mercilessly beating them up, SHO Madhu Bala came there. When Sidharth requested her to help him, she abused him and asked other cops to beat them again.  Officials mum over incident All the senior police officers maintained distance from the media and did not give a statement over the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/custodial-torture-of-advocate-brothers-asi-suspended-three-cops-transferred/articleshow/79251198.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Cracker window smashed||Ludhiana: Breaking the noise meter and the two-hour cracker window, the city stretched its Diwali night into the entire next day but police booked fewer than 10 violators.The fireworks went on from morning to night on Sunday, even 24 hours after the festival, and stopped only for a brief spell of rain. The police patrols that the officers claimed had a busy time were not seen anywhere. Ajit Singh, 65, of Guru Nanak Colony said: “My locality carried its Diwali night celebrations into Sunday, while the neighbourhood police post didn't send any cop over. I tried to stop a few youngsters but they didn't listen.”Noorwala Road resident Ritika Malhotra, 26, said: “They had community fireworks in the open ground in front of my house. It stopped with the evening rain. On Diwali, crackers went on till midnight. When police blew their siren, people went indoors for a few minutes and came out as soon as the men in khaki turned their backs.”Police were silent spectators even in the old city, Dugri, Model Town, Model Gram, Haibowal, Jodhewal, and the localities of Chandigarh, Hambran, and Pakhowal roads. Manmeet Singh of Dugri Phase III said: “My daughter and I have breathing problems that aggravate with the cracker fumes. So when I stopped a few youngsters bursting crackers around my house on Sunday, they started arguing with me. I wanted to call police but thought it wise not to create bad blood with neigbhours. Police failed in limit the bursting of crackers to the 8-to-10pm window.”The Ludhiana police lodged eight FIRs in the wee hours of Sunday but none on Monday, even though the noise had not reduced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cracker-window-smashed/articleshow/79251202.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 17, 2020||Chennai||Local bodies to spend Rs 1Kcr to repair damaged roads||Chennai: Roads across Tamil Nadu damaged while laying water pipelines and other utilities are set to get better. The government has permitted urban local bodies including Greater Chennai Corporation to spend Rs 1,000 crore on 11,000km of roads. A government order issued by municipal administration and water supply (MAWS) department secretary Harmander Singh three days ago follows numerous representations and petitions from public and elected representatives to restore these roads as they cause hardships. Roads get damaged when agencies like Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB), popular as Metrowater, and OFC cable laying companies dig up to lay pipelines, connections or cables. Several accidents have been caused near these dug-up portions. In the last five years, 35 water supply schemes and 23 underground sewerage schemes have been taken up in all urban local bodies across the state. Funds for these projects are given through pooled financing raised as loans by the TN Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO) from banks and financial institutions on behalf of the urban local bodies. The GO also stated that urban local bodies were facing a severe financial crunch due to the still raging Covid-19 pandemic, with state finance commission grants being cut, property tax revision withheld and lease rent exempted for two months. The huge expenditure for Covid-19 prevention activities had also caused a dent in the finances. This necessitated allocation of funds for restoration of roads in urban local bodies in addition to funds already sanctioned for restoration of 4376 km through schemes like TN Urban Road Infrastructure Fund (TURIF) and Chennai Mega City Development Mission. The MAWS secretary has instructed all urban local bodies to prepare a detailed project report (DPR) covering all prioritised damaged roads with an actual estimate of the cost. The project sanctioning committee of TURIF would have to approve it. Though TUFIDCO would raise the loan, urban local bodies would have to repay the loan on time using funds that they would get from state finance commission. The government has also stated that it would stand guarantee for these loans so that the interest cost can be brought down for the local bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/local-bodies-to-spend-rs-1kcr-to-repair-damaged-roads/articleshow/79251894.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Goa||Goa airport sees rise in cargo and passenger movement||PANAJI: The Diwali tourist rush helped propel footfalls at Goa International Airport with the number of flights and air freight showing an increase. From the 70 flights that operated out of Goa as on October 30, the number of flights has jumped to 86 flights in a single day, a fortnight later. Air freight movement also continued to move towards normalcy, with the Airports Authority of India’s AAI Cargo Logistics and Allied Services (AAICLAS) handling 409 tonne of cargo in October as against 15 tonne in May and 337 tonne in September. “AAI’s staff feels motivated seeing the huge spike in passenger footfall. Last month 1.7 lakh passengers flew from the airport. We are marching towards normalcy,” said Goa Airport director Gagan Malik. AAI also said that the airport is becoming a noteworthy cargo hub. AAICLAS team works around the clock and is therefore handling rising shipments of air cargo. In May, the airport handled 15 tonne cargo while last month 409 tonne cargo was handled. In October, data shows that Goa’s lone airport handled 1,578 flights. While on October 30, the airport handled 35 arrivals and 35 departures, the flights have increased to 43 arrivals and 43 departures as on November 15. Several low cost domestic airlines have started increasing flights to Goa from metros and Tier II cities as Goa’s tourism sector slowly reopens. “Goa International Airport handled 43 arrivals and 43 departures on November 15. The arriving passengers were 6,320 and departing passengers were 3,791. We had crossed the benchmark of 40 flights on weekends a fortnight ago. We are resuming responsibly,” said Malik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/airport-sees-rise-in-cargo-and-passenger-movement/articleshow/79253344.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Festive high: 100 tipplers land up in emergency wards in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: This festive season saw binge drinking cases shoot through the roof in Hyderabad, if hospital records are any indication. Government tertiary care centres alone saw around 130 patients being wheeled in with complaints of uncontrolled blood vomiting — an aftermath of excessive alcohol consumption — with the NIMS recording about 100 of these cases. Osmania General Hospital (OGH) too witnessed a spike in these cases, just around Dasara, said doctors. While the numbers at emergency rooms of private centres was relatively lesser — between 5 and 10 on an average — it was still higher than usual, sources confirmed. “Last week there was a very significant increase in alcohol binging patients reaching us with upper GI bleeds. A lot of alcohol binging has been happening this year and we have been getting around 10 cases each day for over a week now,” said Dr Ashima Sharma, head of department of emergency, NIMS. She added: “During festivities in previous years, we used to see one or two such cases and more of trauma cases due to alcoholism like bike to bike collision. We have seen a paradigm shift in the kind of alcohol binging emergencies from being trauma and surgical emergencies to medical emergencies now.” In majority of these cases, doctors say, patients already have a partly dysfunctional liver due to regular intake of alcohol and binge drinking has led to varied gastrointestinal problems with immediate health hazards.  “Post binging on alcohol, patients may have protracted vomiting and retching leading to Mallory Weiss syndrome (tear in the food pipe), which can cause massive blood vomiting. Prolonged alcohol binging without inadequate food intake can lead to severe pancreatitis, which is a life threatening condition with mortality up to 30% requiring emergency hospital care,” explained Dr Suraj Uppalapati, consultant gastroenterologist, Medicover Hospitals that reported some cases of medical and trauma emergencies — related to alcohol binging — in the last few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/festive-high-100-tipplers-land-up-in-emergency-wards/articleshow/79252809.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ families also feeling breathless, seek government help||LUDHIANA: Every year fear grips 14-year-old Harsimran Singh, son of a farmer from a village near Jagraon, ahead of stubble burning season. For, around the time, it becomes difficult for him to breathe and he has to use an inhaler. “My father stopped setting stubble on fire after I developed this respiratory problem. A doctor told us that my problem was directly related to smoke. There are many farmers in the village who burn stubble as they don’t have adequate resources to dispose it of. The doctor advised me to use an inhaler and avoid going out when stubble burning was in full swing,” said Harsimran. There are many such children of farmers who are bearing the brunt of this menace. Many farmers also feel that the practice is harmful but express helplessness. “Every stubble burning season, my children, including seven-year-old son Jasnoor, and I suffer from cough and cold. Farmers are not happy burning the stubble. Things will change if the government provides them money or gets the stubble lifted from fields as farmers cannot afford to transport it. The government should realise that we are producing food for the country and should help us,” said 35-year-old Mandeep Singh, a farmer of Shanker village near Dehlon. Farmer leaders rue lack of government support. “We have to spend on illnesses due to smoke. If the government helps farmers in managing the stubble, there will be no farm fires,” said Sudagar Ghudani, general secretary of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta-Ugrahan) who lives in Ghudani village in Ludhiana district. “The Supreme Court had asked the government to give Rs 2,500 per acre to farmers who don’t set stubble on fire, but nothing has been given. About Rs 800 crore was to be given to farmers,” he said. The farmer leader said his grandson, Bhavdeep Singh, 22, suffers respiratory problems during the stubble burning season. The health department officials said there was an increase in cases of respiratory problems around the time. “Normally if we get 50 patients a day, five to 10 are that of respiratory problems. But in harvesting season, 50% of the patients report respiratory problems, like allergic reactions, including asthma, lower respiratory tract infections, pneumonia and bronchiolitis in children. The patients are from all sections of society, including farmers,” said Dr Rajinder Gulati, senior medical officer (SMO) at Khanna. He added that people also report watering and redness of eyes due to smog. Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) chairman Satwinder Marwaha told The Times of India, “Stubble burning contributes to air pollution in the harvesting season. We are trying to create awareness and even issuing challans. We tell farmers that besides causing health problems, they were also damaging the soil through this practice.” Cost-effective method Progressive farmer Sukhjit Singh Diwala from Diwala village near Khanna, who has spoken on the subject at a national conference, said, “Farmers are the first sufferers of stubble burning as they are near the fields. They can manage the residue without paying much as it can be incorporated into the field by mulching and can help in checking weed problem too. However, most farmers are scared of innovating.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-families-also-feeling-breathless-seek-govt-help/articleshow/79251214.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 17, 2020||Chennai||7.5% quota may help 300 from govt schools||More than 300 students from humble backgrounds could enter medical colleges in the state this year thanks to the 7.5% special reservation for government school students. Of the 5,750 seats, 313 will be filled by these students. N Jeevithkumar, a government school student from Siluvarpatti in Theni district, topped his category with 664 of 720 marks. His father K Narayanamoorthi rears goats for a living, while his mother N Parameswari works in the 100-day job guarantee scheme. His teachers helped him join a private coaching institute. Suryalakshmi S M of Government Girls Higher Secondary School at Porur in Chennai scored 368 marks in her first attempt. "With the help of mentors from KMC and my school teachers, I prepared for a whole year and was able to score 536 out of 720 in my second attempt," said the daughter of a casual worker at a flour mill. Even then, she may not have got a seat as the cut-off for BC students is likely to go up to 550 marks. But, thanks to 7.5% reservation, she is now expected to get into the prestigious Madras Medical College. Hari Krishnan S of the Government Higher Secondary School in Lalgudi, Trichy, with 423 marks and ranked 38th in his category, is likely to get into one of the top three government colleges. "In the beginning I didn’t have the confidence to do well in NEET. My confidence grew along with practice," he said. His only coaching was the state government’s online test series and video lectures. His father works in a grocery store. "Without the 7.5% reservation, only 15 students would have got MBBS admissions from government schools. Though the reservation is justified, there is a huge gap between government school students and others as the cut-off may differ at least by 200 marks in all the categories," said career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi. "We need to train government school teachers to prepare students for exams such as NEET," said Dr Prasad Mane, secretary, Kilpauk Medical College Alumni Association, adding that they are willing to help government school students in the first and second year of MBBS too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/7-5-quota-may-help-300-from-govt-schools/articleshow/79252831.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Family booked for setting neighbour’s house on fire||LUDHIANA: A family allegedly set their neighbour’s house on fire following a dispute over bursting of crackers in Ramandeep Colony, Mundian Kalan, on Sunday. The police have lodged an FIR against four accused — Bharat Sharma, his brother Sanju Sharma, their mother Harpreet and father Kamal Sharma. Harjit Kaur, 31, said in her police complaint, “My family and I have been living in a rented accommodation in Ramandeep Colony for the past one-and-a-half years. On Diwali, my husband Baljinder Singh and nephew Daljit Singh were bursting crackers in the street. The accused objected to it and started abusing them. After an argument, the accused attacked them with sticks and baseball bats and escaped.” When Harjit along with Baljinder and Daljit had gone to a hospital for a medical examination, their neighbour Simran Kaur called them up and said their house had caught fire. “We rushed back home and found it in flames. Bharat Sharma and his family had set our house on fire. Furniture, Rs 2 lakh in cash and jewellery were gutted. We have suffered a loss of Rs 6 lakh.” A fire brigade reached the spot and doused the blaze. Jamalpur police station ASI Sulakkhan Singh said the FIR has been registered under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (punishment for wrongful restrain), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy house), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC. The accused would be arrested soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/family-booked-for-setting-neighbours-house-on-fire/articleshow/79251217.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||7 die of Covid-19, 84 test positive||LUDHIANA: In a major jump in Covid-19 deaths in Ludhiana after many days, seven residents succumbed to the disease and 84 tested positive on Monday. As per the local media bulletin, the district fatalities included a 64-year-old man of Jamalpur Awana; a 75-year-old man of Dholan, Jagraon, who had diabetes and hypertension; a 53-year-old woman of Kot Mangal Singh, who had diabetes, chronic kidney disease and hypertension; a 49-year-old woman of Umedpur, Sahnewal, with cardiac diseases; a 48-year-old diabetic woman of Model Gram Extension; a 70-year-old woman of Chawni Mohalla; and a 55-year-old man of Azad Nagar. The day also saw an outsider dying of the virus and 13 testing positive here. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district fatality figure was 867 and that of outsiders 348. So far, 4,19,284 persons have been tested. Of the 84 new cases, 32 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 11 positive cases’ contacts, 25 from OPD, nine through tracing process, five health-care workers, one cop, and one severe acute respiratory infection case. The local health department officials said the district case count was 21,488 and that of outsiders 2,989. To date, 19,865 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.44% of the total cases. There are 753 active cases here. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,372. On Monday, 114 persons were quarantined and 1,428 samples collected. There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four government ones at CMCH. Eleven patients, including four Ludhiana residents, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/7-die-of-covid-19-84-test-positive/articleshow/79251220.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Ex-Ranji Trophy cricketer from Andhra Pradesh held in bid to dupe firm||HYDERABAD: A former Ranji Trophy cricketer from Andhra Pradesh was arrested by Task Force sleuths on Monday for allegedly attempting to extort money from a firm by impersonating as personal assistant (PA) of IT minister KT Rama Rao. Task Force police in a press note said that the accused, Badumuru Nagaraju, a native of Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh, was earlier arrested in various cases in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. According to the police, on November 7, the accused made a phone call to the management of a drugs and pharmaceuticals company and introduced himself as KTR’s personal assi. “He informed the management that the state pollution control board is issuing a closure notice to their factory, but later offered to resolve the issue by demanding Rs 15 lakh,” police said. The accused has earlier been arrested in seven cases for attempting to cheat people by impersonating as PA to different ministers. On Monday, the police laid a trap and nabbed the accused in Jubilee Hills. Police seized a mobile phone from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ex-ranji-trophy-cricketer-held-in-bid-to-dupe-firm/articleshow/79252857.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Goa CM praises media for role during pandemic||PANAJI: Throughout the pandemic, so far, journalists have been on the forefront and the media has played a phenomenal role in disseminating information among the public, said chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday. Sawant made a special mention of The Times of India's chief photographer Rajtilak Naik for his commendable work during the pandemic. “I was witness to the photograph he got the award for. When people had extreme fears about Covid, photographers such as Rajtilak showed the way,” Sawant said at the National Press Day function in Panaji. “We have to organise National Press Day to ensure that Goan media becomes relevant at the national-level,” he said. Sawant urged journalists to write factual political news, adding that he never questions reporters on the manner in which a story in written. Stating that Goa is considered the country’s tourism capital, the chief minister said, “When you write on Goa’s environment and tourism, write factually because that news goes across. If we write anything wrong in terms of tourism, then the state will be impacted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-praises-media-for-role-during-pandemic/articleshow/79253356.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Less than 9,000 patients are now under treatment||NAGPUR: Vidarbha region reported 530 new cases of Covid-19, while 829 patients recovered from the disease on November 16. This not only increased the recovery rate of the region to 93% but also reduced the number of under-treatment patients (active cases) to 8981. While the number of under-treatment patients came under the 9,000 mark for the first time since the peak in September; more than half of these patients are recovering in home isolation. This means that less than 4500 patients are in hospitals in all the 11 districts. This significant decline in under-treatment patients indicates that the new cases are fewer and recoveries are more in the region. On Monday, most districts in Vidarbha, except Nagpur, resumed the number of tests close to their regular capacity. Nagpur, however, conducted only 1505 tests, including 95 from rural. The number of deaths also increased in Vidarbha region on Monday. In all, 20 deaths were reported. They include Nagpur (7), Wardha (3), Gondia (3), Chandrapur (2), Gadchiroli (1), Akola (1), Amravati (1), Yavatmal (1) and Buldhana (1). The death toll reached 5,760 with the case fatality rate 2.71%. The fatality rate is still more than the state and national average. Cases emerged from Nagpur (114), Gondia (141), Buldhana (85), Chandrapur (71), Gadchiroli (29), Wardha (27), Akola (27), Amravati (25), Yavatmal (10), and Washim (1) while recoveries came from Nagpur (155), Gondia (260), Chandrapur (119), Buldhana (98), Gadchiroli (71), Yavatmal (55), Amravati (31), Akola (15), Washim (13) and Wardha (12). Out of the total 2,11,399 cases reported till date, 1,96,618 have recovered. The recovery rate of Vidarbha now stands at 93%. On Monday, the district administration from Bhandara did not issue the updated figures of Covid-19 cases and recoveries. Wardha: The district saw three deaths and new 27 cases of Covid-19 and 12 recoveries on Monday. The total number of cases in the district crossed the seven thousand mark and reached 7022. Recoveries are 6,355. A 52-year-old man from Wardha, a 65-year-old man from Pulgaon and a 52-year-old woman from Deoli died while undergoing treatment. The death toll is now 225. Out of 156 test reports, 27 were positive. Cases came from Wardha (16), Hinganghat (6) and Deoli (5). At present, 442 active positive patients are undergoing treatment. Chandrapur: There were 71 new cases reported and two deaths registered in district on Monday. The total has now increased to 17,717, while the death toll has risen to 274. There were 119 discharges during the day taking the total recoveries to 15,252. There are now a total of 2,191 patients under treatment in the district. Amravati: A Covid death and a spike of 24 cases took the toll to 371 and the caseload to 16,942. Thirty-one recoveries took the total count to 16,176 for a percentage of 95.48. This left 395 active cases on Monday. Yavatmal: The district recorded one death, a 66-year-old man from Babhulgaon, on Monday. Out of the 31 test reports, 10 were found positive. Currently, there are 296 active positive patients undergoing treatment in the district. Of the 10,756 Covid patients detected so far, 10,063 have recovered. Buldhana: The district received 982 reports of Covid-19 tests on Monday. Out of these, 85 were positive. This took the total caseload of Bhandara district to 10,493. Monday saw 98 patients recovering from Covid-19 which took the total number of recovered patients to 9955. A 70-year-old man from Amboda village in Nandura Tehsil died while undergoing treatment on Monday. The death toll reached 132. At present, Buldhana district has 406 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: A 47-year-old woman from Aheri died during treatment in Gadchiroli on Monday. This took the total Covid-19 death toll of the district to 70. While 29 new patients were detected, 71 patients recovered in a day. This took the total number of cases to 6,918. Out of these, 6,388 have recovered which means the recovery rate of Gadchiroli is 92.34%. Total 460 patients are undergoing treatment in the district. Washim: Only 1 new case of Covid-19 was detected in Washim on Monday while 13 patients recovered. Now, out of 5,901 total cases, 5,572 have already recovered. No death was reported in Washim for the 6th day in a row. Total 185 patients are under treatment. Akola: The district reported a Covid death after almost a week. A 76-year-old patient who got admitted in a serious condition on November 15 died on Monday. This took the death toll of Akola to 284. Total 27 new patients were detected while 15 were discharged on Monday. Now, Akola has 8750 total cases, including 8153 recoveries and 313 patients under treatment. Gondia: The district information office released data of the last three days on Monday. Total 141 new cases were reported while 260 recovered in the last three days. Three deaths were reported. As far as Monday is concerned, 26 new positive patients were reported and a 37-year-old patient died during treatment. Now, the district has 10,824 cases, including 10,159 recoveries and 145 deaths. Total 520 patients are under treatment, while 239 of them are recovering in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-9000-patients-are-now-under-treatment/articleshow/79251919.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 17, 2020||Chennai||Thunderstorms, heavy rain spells may continue in Chennai today||CHENNAI: The rain that has been lashing the city since Sunday evening is likely to continue on Tuesday, with the Met department forecasting thunderstorms, and at times heavy spells. A trough of low pressure has already brought heavy rain in the suburbs, as Tambaram received 7cm and Alandur received 4cm in the last 24hours. The core areas received 1.2cm rain on Monday. Most roads were flooded and traffic slowed down after a heavy spell in the forenoon. There was steady rain in the afternoon and in the evening causing inner roads to flood. A met department forecast for Tuesday said the sky condition is likely to be generally cloudy. “Thunderstorm with light to moderate rain, heavy at times, is likely to occur in some areas.” A met department official said a trough of low pressure from Comerin to north Tamil Nadu was the reason for the rain. There will be heavy spells at times. The rain is likely to reduce the day temperature on Tuesday to 30°C and minimum temperature to 25°C. Online weather tracking sites showed that most part of the state received heavy rain on Monday. There were thunderclouds over the state. The city and its suburbs received heavy rain since Sunday night and several people could not commute to work on Monday morning. Those who managed to reach workplaces did so by struggling through inundated inner roads and some main roads. Nungambakkam received 1.2cm rain while Meenambakkam received 2.1cm rain till Monday evening. Sriperumbudur received the maximum rain in the region at 18cm, while Kancheepuram received 16cm, Marakkanam 12cm, Gummidipoondi 10cm, Kelambakkam 9cm, Chengalpet 8cm, and Chembarambakkam 7cm. Most parts of the state received good rain on Monday. Since October 1, the city has received 436.8mm of rain against the expected 488.5 mm, an 11% deficit. A forecast for the rest of the state for Tuesday said that thunderstorms with moderate rain were likely to occur at many places over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry & Karaikal areas. “Heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over Cuddalore, Nagapattinam, Karaikal, Tiruvarur, Pudukottai and Ramanathapuram districts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/thunderstorms-heavy-rain-spells-may-continue-today/articleshow/79251902.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Post Diwali return by govt buses hell, say passengers||CHENNAI: Returning to the city from their native places after Diwali on government mofussil buses was risky and tough, complain passengers. Windshields of several new blue/sandal-coloured buses turned foggy in the interior side more frequently than usual during heavy rains. Some passengers were told to leave the side windows open to avoid fogging. But this led to window seats getting completely wet. Drivers, who halted at least once in 30 minutes, eventually had to travel much slower due to poor visibility from inside. T R Pandian, who travelled in a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation Villupuram (TNSTC) bus from Kancheepuram to Chennai on Sunday evening, said that it took almost three hours to reach Koyambedu in a point-to-point (PP) service. For most parts of the journey, the driver couldn’t accelerate beyond 10-15 km an hour. “This could happen when glasses meant for A/C buses were fit in these non A/C buses. Visible Light Transmission (VLT) of each glass is different and TNSTC needs to relook into whether appropriate ones were used while manufacturing windshields,” said Pandian, who is also an industry expert. TNSTC drivers, who fear facing repercussions from higher-ups in case they complain against this, agree that it was an extra risk because their resting time will be cut if they travelled very slow. Managing director of TNSTC Villupuram Muthukrishnan rejected these allegations and said such phenomenon was possible during the rainy season in one or two buses but not a common issue which is applicable to all new buses. A senior technical staff at TNSTC said usually temperature outside the bus is less compared to inside during rains. Therefore, air inside the bus (with windows shut) carries moisture, which condenses when it comes in contact with the cold windshield. “Foggy glasses can be cleaned easily using cloth. By opening the window for a few minutes, the dryer outside air can enter inside and set it right. There was no need to panic,” he added. However, official data suggests that at least 2,700 road accidents happen every year in the state during rains. Over 450 get killed in it and more than 3,500 get injured. Besides the issue of foggy windshields, roofs of some of the new buses turned leaky forcing many passengers to cancel trips.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/post-diwali-return-by-govt-buses-hell-passengers/articleshow/79251907.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Clear stand on sectt mosques by Nov 21: JAC||Hyderabad: The joint action committee (JAC) of Bazyabi mosques has set November 21 as deadline for the Telangana government to clarify its stand on the reconstruction of mosques demolished in the state secretariat. A meeting headed by Mushtaq Malik, president, Tahreek Muslim Shabban, was held with different political parties, religious leaders and scholars. The religious leaders said the places of worship should be reconstructed at the spots where they had once stood. “We have set a deadline for the reconstruction of the secretariat mosques. If there is no word from the government on the reconstruction of mosques at their very spot, we will finalise the course of action to be adopted,” said Mushtaq Malik, who is also the convener of the JAC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/clear-stand-on-sectt-mosques-by-nov-21-jac/articleshow/79252866.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Waqf chief says he hasn’t read CrPC, Telangana HC wants him removed||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Monday asked the state government to remove Mohammed Khasim as CEO of the Telangana State Waqf Board immediately. The bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy asked for his removal after he told the court that he had never read the provisions of Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) which could be used to protect waqf properties from encroachers. “He is hand in glove with the encroachers. Let him go home,” the bench said while hearing three petitions asking the authorities to protect Muslim graveyards in Hyderabad from encroachers. TOI had reported in July that land sharks have gobbled up about Rs 1 lakh crore worth of land owned by the waqf in the state. The judges asked Khasim several questions on the encroached properties, but his reply was limited to stating that the police were refusing to register FIRs on the ground that these were civil disputes which did not need police intervention. The bench went through his report which revealed that as many as 86 Muslim graveyards in Hyderabad were encroached and that the board could get FIRs registered in only five cases. “Read the CrPC. It tells you to first approach the SP of the district if the SHO refuses to register the case,” the bench said. “You can also approach the jurisdictional judicial magistrate and lodge a complaint with him. He (magistrate) can direct the police to register an FIR. In how many cases did you do this?” Khasim replied he was not aware of this, nor had he read the CrPC. Mirza Saifulla Baig, the counsel for waqf, replied that there was not a single instance in the state so far where the board had invoked judicial magistrates. “We gave 45 complaints and the police registered FIRs in only five cases,” he said while assuring the court that they would approach magistrates with private complaints soon. Chief Justice Chauhan told Baig that he was surprised to see an officer who tells the court that he never read CrPC. “I am amazed at Khasim’s attitude,” the Chief Justice said. “Relieve him of his post. How can he protect the properties of the almighty? Hyderabad has so many waqf properties. This CEO has failed to protect many of them. The state must take serious view of the dereliction of duty by Khasim.” The Chief Justice also directed the state government to order an inquiry into encroachment of Muslim graveyards in GHMC area. The bench directed the principal secretary for minorities welfare to file an affidavit by December 17 explaining steps taken to restore lost properties. “We may ask him to appear before us if he does not display seriousness in bringing facts before the court,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/waqf-chief-says-he-hasnt-read-crpc-hc-wants-him-removed/articleshow/79253361.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||All 191 panchayats will have online services soon: Goa CM||PANAJI: The state government on Monday moved several services of the electricity and registration departments online, including new domestic power connections and marriage registrations. Chief minister Pramod Sawant who launched the services said that all 191 village panchayats will be able to avail of common online services in a few days, which will allow those with network problems a one-point access. He said that most of the state government websites will be updated by November 30 and become functional from the new year. “Even during the pandemic the government has tried to provide services. In the next few days nine more departments will launch their online services,” Sawant said, adding that, shortly, 92 houses in forest areas will be given power connections. Recently, Sawant had rapped various departments following a report that placed the number of inoperative websites at around 70. With several services of the power department now online, citizens can make online applications for new power connections, increase and decrease of power load, and change of name and category, among others. The launch of online services will benefit the citizens, the chief minister said, adding that earlier to register a marriage a person would have to visit the sub register office a minimum of three times. “If the sub registrar was not cooperative then people would have to make at least five visits. With the launch of online services now people will have to make only two visits,” he said. Sawant said that those facing problems accessing online service at home can visit the village panchayat to avail of the common online service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/all-191-panchayats-will-have-online-services-soon-cm/articleshow/79253369.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Osmania University warns colleges over staff salaries||HYDERABAD: Following complaints from teaching and non-teaching staff of affiliated colleges, over denial of salaries for the last six to seven months, the Osmania University has sent a letter to the colleges to pay salaries and file compliance reports within a week. It has come to the notice of OU that 182 colleges were paying only 25% to 50% salaries, while some were paying only once in three months. Many were also found threatening staff with termination, if they demanded regular or full salary. “We have been raising this issue of faculty termination and non-payment of salaries since March. The teaching community is already in a vulnerable condition due to inept action of the university,” Telangana School’s Technical College’s Employees Association president, A Santhosh Kumar, who submitted a letter to the registrar seeking verification of faculty members in colleges, said. Taking cognisance of the complaints, the university has now instructed managements of all affiliated colleges (professional and non-professional) to pay salaries to their staff, both teaching and non-teaching, regularly without any deduction and release arrears immediately. “Further, the managements of affiliated colleges are directed to submit details of salary payments to the teaching and non-teaching staff for the last six months in the academic branch (affiliation section) within a week. Otherwise, stringent action will be initiated against non-compliant colleges,” OU registrar Prof Ch Gopal Reddy said in a letter sent to affiliated colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ou-warns-colleges-over-staff-salaries/articleshow/79252868.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Covid protocol alert for serious patients in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Covid treatment protocol monitoring team has issued a guideline for hospitals and doctors to keep watch on severely infected patients who have potentially lethal conditions of hypoxia. The team of experts said all markers of cytokine storm should be monitored and controlled in time, before the disease starts affecting other organs, apart from the lungs. The team has opined that cytokine storm, an uncontrolled production of soluble markers of inflammation, is majorly responsible for involvement of several organs leading to multi-organ failure in many cases. The team has suggested regular monitoring of parameters for inflammatory markers like IL-6 and certain proteins that would guide doctors in predicting the progression of the disease so that the patient gets required medication in time. “During the hyper-inflammatory state or cytokine storm, which is expected to happen between days 5 and 10, increase in inflammatory markers like raised ESR and CRP, increased levels of IL-6, ferritin, LDH and D-dimer, are seen. These parameters should be used to detect disease progression,” said the latest guideline. Experts have categorised the disease into three phases on the context of this guideline — asymptomatic phase, non-severe symptomatic phase with upper airway involvement and severe potentially lethal disease with hypoxia leading to acute respiratory syndrome. And cytokine storm as per, evidence, is a leading cause for the disease to affect several organs apart from the lung. Doctors said that a section of infected patients who develop severe complications undergo cytokine storm, causing massive inflammation that can result in multi-organ failure. “Initially, there was a lack of information and experience in treating severely infected patients. But after literature or evidence on cytokine storm in patients emerged we started using all inflammatory marker tests so that we can stop the disease from progressing,” said a doctor from the core covid team of a private hospital. “Since an increasing number of patients are turning up at our post-Covid clinic that was operational only on Wednesdays, we have extended this OPD service on Tuesday as well,” said an administrator at Medical College Hospital Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-protocol-alert-for-serious-patients/articleshow/79251957.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Red sanders from AP being smuggled to fund Tamil Nadu elections?||KADAPA: Is money from smuggling of Andhra Pradesh’s precious red sanders wood being used to fund the May 2021 assembly election in Tamil Nadu? Police in Rayalaseema and Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) sleuths say most of the smugglers they have arrested recently are from Tamil Nadu and work independently without local involvement. Officials add the smuggling racket has multiple stages, from a woodcutter to an international smuggler. As these stages have separate modules, each having no link with the other, it is difficult to nail the politicians involved. But they are in the process of establishing links after making a number of arrests. The smugglers are mainly targeting the Seshachalam forest. Post-lockdown, Kadapa, Chittoor and Kurnool district police and RSASTF personnel arrested several of them. Kadapa police had earlier arrested Anaicut Babu of Vellore district. Babu is believed to have links with a prominent political party in Tamil Nadu. He also has links with accused smugglers such as Madhavan and Mustafa of Chennai, Thiruthani Mani of Thiruthani and Arcot Bhai of Vellore. Kadapa SP K K Anburajan said movement of smugglers had increased manifold in Kadapa forests. “Yes, there is a link between the red sanders smugglers and the upcoming Tamil Nadu elections,” he said. Most of the smuggled wood goes out of the country via seaports or the land route via Myanmar and Bangladesh. Anburajan told TOI, “A few families from Tamil Nadu have migrated to Myanmar and been playing a key role in the smuggling. The prized wood is smuggled out via north-eastern states.” A number of woodcutters and masons were arrested in September and October in Chittoor and Kadapa. Police said the woodcutters came to Seschalam in hired vehicles. Cops arrested one Shaik Abdul Hakim from Kuniyamuthur near Coimbatore on November 8 in connection with the smuggling of red sanders on November 2. Five woodcutters were charred to death when they were travelling in hit the diesel tank of a lorry in Kadapa. The incident occurred when Hakim was trying to hijack the car carrying red sanders logs with the help of another gang. Kadapa police also arrested another gang led by Velumaliey Veeraraghavan Settiyar on November 8 and seized a Tamil Nadu registered lorry with the logs. RSASTF reserve inspector Bhaskar said they have booked 12 cases of red sanders smuggling in October alone. “Except in one case involving local smuggler Srinivas Reddy, the rest are from Tamil Nadu. Apart from Kadapa, smugglers are also focusing in Talakona and Bakarapet in Chittoor. Earlier, locals had a hand, but now Tamil Nadu-based gangs are directly involved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/red-sanders-from-ap-being-smuggled-to-fund-tn-elections/articleshow/79253365.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Cracks on Amravati-Morshi road, soon after its opening||NAGPUR: The cement road from Amravati to Morshi has developed huge cracks soon after opening. Built by the national highway division of state public works department (PWD), Amravati, the road will pose danger for motorists if the cracks are not repaired promptly. Some of the cracks are very long. A 25 kilometre stretch on the 50km road is full of cracks, raising serious questions about the quality of work. About Rs200 crore was spent on this project. Dattatraya Bhonde, superintending engineer of PWD, said there were only a few cracks on the road. “The road is made of cement panels four feet long. I have asked the contractor to replace the panels wherever cracks have developed,” he added. Bhonde said replacement would begin soon and be completed within two weeks. “The contractor has to maintain the road for four years so there is nothing to worry,” he added. Former Morshi MLA Dr Anil Bonde, however, demanded an inquiry against the officers whose slack supervision led to the poor quality work. “I travel on the road frequently. The quality of work is very poor and there is a large number of cracks. It is clear that the PWD officers did not keep an eye on the work,” he said. Bonde added, “I demand that the state government set up and enquiry and take action against the officers concerned. The repair work should be completed at the earliest so that there are no accidents in future.” A government employee from Amravati who travels to Morshi frequently said on the condition of anonymity that the cracks had started appearing weeks ago. “Why didn’t the PWD start repairing the road earlier? Why did it wait for people to raise a hue and cry?” The employee added, “Action should be taken against the officers concerned and the contractor for such poor quality work. How can the road develop cracks soon after completion? There is not much heavy traffic on the road.” Amravati resident Jaising Deshmukh said the base of the cement road must not have been proper, otherwise there was “no chance of a cement road developing cracks so early”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cracks-on-amravati-morshi-road-soon-after-its-opening/articleshow/79251974.cms||Ashish Roy
November 17, 2020||India||GST frauds may force govt to turn to inspectors again||NEW DELHI: Hit by a series of fake invoice-based GST frauds, the government is now considering legal amendments as well as tightening the registration process for new businesses — a move that will reverse the technology-driven process for the indirect tax regime. The GST Law Committee will consider the changes at a hurriedly convened meeting on Wednesday after 1,180 entities out of the over 1.2 crore GST payers were identified for allegedly being involved in the fake invoice racket with around 350 cases filed in the last five days. “Unscrupulous elements have exploited the ease of doing business conveniences in the existing system by getting a GST registration easily and quickly and later taking advantage of the liberalised norm for grant of registration in GST,” an official explained. In the past too there have been instances of such frauds involving companies, whose number would have added to a few thousand, but the government had repeatedly said that it was deploying technology to track the offenders. But using the recent crackdown, the tax bureaucracy seems to be hitting back with the government considering a process of “detailed physical and financial verification” by tax officers of entities that do not have a “commensurate financial track record”. In other words, before registering an entity under GST, tax inspectors would land at doorsteps of companies that do not have a track record of filing income tax returns or paying taxes. Although officials have not disclosed the details of the proposed exercise, those starting business will face the maximum number of questions. Similarly, provisions related to deemed registra-tion under GST law are also being reviewed for possible tightening to prevent mis-use by “fake dealers”. The government is also considering strengthening provisions related to suspension of GST registration to make the process more efficient and faster, a source said. The source said that tightening was required as fake invoices were being issued, not just for availing or passing tax credits but also extended to other financial offences. The government’s argument for the increased scrutiny is that in the long run such activities will have an impact on the economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gst-frauds-may-force-govt-to-turn-to-inspectors-again/articleshow/79253759.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Bhopal||Bisahulal Singh joins chorus for Speaker from Vindya region||BHOPAL: Amid speculations over probable names for the post of Speaker in Madhya Pradesh assembly, food and civil supplies minister Bisahulal Singh has joined the chorus demanding appointment of Speaker from Vindhya region. After BJP's victory in the recent by-polls, there is an intense lobbying for the post of Speaker in the saffron party. The pro tem Speaker, Rameshwar Sharma has made a record by staying for over four months in the office and the BJP leaders were demanding to elect the new Speaker from Vindhya or Mahakaushal region. "Every person loves his region. People of Vidhya want that an able person from their region should be elected as Speaker of the assembly. I also support their demand. A full-time Speaker will be elected in the winter session of the assembly," Bisahulal told reporters, on Monday. Sources in BJP disclosed that several leaders were lobbying for the post of Speaker and deputy speaker after the party won 19 seats in the recent by-polls and attained a full majority. As per the latest tally in the House of 229 members, BJP has 126 MLAs while the main Opposition Congress has 96 MLAs. There are two MLAs from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), one from Samajwadi Party (SP) and four Independent MLAs. After the BJP government took over the reins of power under the leadership of Shivraj Singh Chouhan, MLA from Huzur assembly seat, Rameshwar Sharma was appointed as pro tem Speaker on July 3. He has almost completed four and a half months in the chair, which is a record in the history of Madhya Pradesh. "Normally a pro tem Speaker remains in the office for two three days, till the appointment of a Speaker. This time the situation is different. Due to Covid-19 and by-polls, the election of Speaker was postponed. In the coming session of MP Assembly, a full-time Speaker will be appointed. There is no time bar on the tenure of a pro tem Speaker though," principal secretary of assembly, AP Singh Told TOI. Sources in BJP disclosed that apart from Sharma, who is continuing as pro tem Speaker, former speaker Sitasaran Sharma, senior MLA from Sidhi, Kedar Nath Shukla, MLA from Patan, Ajay Vishnoi, Nagendra Singh from Gurh and Yashpal Singh Sisodia from Mandsaur are strong claimants for the coveted post. Recently a delegation of MLAs from Vindhya region spearheaded by MLA Girish Gautam and Narayan Tripathi had also demanded that Vindhya region should be given importance. Sources in the assembly disclosed that in case the government decides to call an assembly session in December to clear the supplementary bills, then the election of Speaker and deputy Speaker could be held. Else, the election will be held in February or March during the budget session of the state assembly. The Congress has demanded to call the assembly session at the earliest. "Elections are over and the assembly session should be called immediately to elect the Speaker. BJP has managed seven months in the government through temporary arrangements. Now the government is trying to run the assembly too on a temporary basis," said Congress state spokesperson, Bhupendra Gupta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bisahulal-joins-chorus-for-speaker-from-vindya-region/articleshow/79251971.cms||Rajendra Sharma
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Man opens fire over land dispute, held||Hyderabad: A dispute over a 30-acre land between two persons led to opening of fire by a history-sheeter at Chiragpally in Sangareddy district on Monday. However, no one was hurt . Police said P Kamal Kishore was fencing a 30-acre land when a local businessman, Ali Akbar, raised objections over it. This led to a heated argument between them and they were joined by their respective supporters. Ali was joined by his associate Layak, a history-sheeter. He reportedly fired five rounds in the air with a country made weapon. “Villagers claimed three bullets were aimed at them,’’ Chiragpally SI Ganesh told TOI. According to police, on hearing the gunfire, a large number of villagers gathered and later Ali and Layak left the place. Meanwhile, police, who came to know about the incident, reached the spot and pacified members of both groups. Police took Ali and Layak into custody and booked the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-opens-fire-over-land-dispute-held/articleshow/79252874.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||No change in high court’s order on 20% school fee waiver: SC||KOLKATA: City schools were not given any relief by the Supreme Court as far as the 20% waiver of tuition and session fees is concerned. The apex court heard the special leave petition filed by city schools against the Calcutta High Court order of October 13 that had directed schools to give the waiver and asked parents to pay up the revised fees by November 30. The matter will be heard again in January. Eleven schools under the Church of North India filed the appeal on Monday and were heard along with other schools by the two-judge bench of Justice Ashol Bhushan and Justice R Subhash Reddy. Some city schools will be heard on Tuesday. The interim order given on Monday said that there would be no change in the order that was given on October 28. However, apart from the 20% waiver on tuition and session fees, the Supreme Court has stayed a few other clauses of the HC order that talk about allowing parents who are distressed due to the pandemic and need further waivers to apply separately. The high court had also allowed formation of a three member committee to look at such appeals. “We will have to wait for the final order now,” said Sourav Bhagat, the lawyer for South Point and MP Birla Foundation. “Let parents follow the order and clear their dues by November 30 as the court has directed. The hearing is on and we will wait for the final order,” said B P Tiwari, who represents the La Martiniere schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-change-in-hc-tuition-fee-waiver-sc/articleshow/79251976.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 17, 2020||Meerut||Ganga mela goes green with 'patera' grass mats||Bijnor: Mats made of reeds, a wetland grass that grows abundantly in Bijnor district, will be rolled out at the five-day Ganga Snan Mela that begins here on November 30. Thousands of devotees come to the fair every year and pitch tents to stay. Hailing the decision of the organizers to opt for reed mats at the fair, environmentalist Mayank Mayur said, "Many devotees use polythene sheets to cover the floor in their tents and throw them on the river banks while leaving. But use of biodegradable reed mats is an eco-friendly solution. All devotees should use these mats." To meet the additional demand for these mats for the fair, the residents of over 21 villages along river Ganga, including Rawali, Shahzadpur and Dayalwala, are burning the midnight oil in mowing and collecting "patera" grass, as the reed is locally known, for weaving the eco-friendly mats. According to villagers, the reed mats can not only be used as floor covers but have been utilised to butress the boundary of kuchcha toilets. These mats are in demand in Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand and even Maharashtra besides UP, said Naishad Ahmed, a contractor who supplies them to buyers both in UP and outside. The onset of winter sees a manifold rise in demand for these mats, said Ahmed. He explained that the cold winter in northern India often causes icicles to form on plants at night, damaging them. These reed mats come in as a handy low-cost cover to protect crops and vegetables from the cold and frost. They are also used to pack vegetables and fruits. Ahmed and other contractors purchase the reed mats at Rs 9-10 per piece and sell them for Rs 15-20. He estimated the reed mats fetch an annual business of around Rs12 crore in the district. Krishna Devi, a weaver at Rawali village, said, "We have been making reeds mats for generations. One person is able to weave 10 to 15 mats in a day." Another villager, Bhopal Kashyap, said, "We collect reed grass from khadar areas when Ganga water recedes and store it at home. Later, the family weaves the mats. The upcoming Ganga Snan fair is a boon for us."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ganga-mela-goes-green-with-patera-grass-mats/articleshow/79134894.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Martyred Naik Satai gets an emotional farewell||NAGPUR: The streets of Katol town were choked as thousands of people came out to pay their last respects to martyred Naik Bhushan Satai whose body was brought to his native place. In honour of Satai, locals began decorating the area near his home with flowers and rangolis from Sunday evening itself. Anticipating a huge gathering, the police had made security arrangements in advance. Residents of the locality did not celebrate Diwali and the lull on Sunday evening made Satai’s parents, Ramesh and Meera, suspicious. Eventually, they were informed that their son was no more. Till then, relatives had kept the tragic news under wraps, saying he was injured. A press release from the Army said that Satai was at a forward post in the Gurez sector along the line of control in a counter-insurgency operation. On Friday, the enemy fired mortar shells and Satai sustained a splinter injury. Satai was taken to the base hospital where he succumbed to his wounds. As the cavalcade entered the city, people flanked both sides of the road leading to Satai’s home. They chanted slogans like ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ and Pakistan murdabad. There were a few instances of groups burning the Pakistani flag. Videos of the packed streets went viral. Some went to their terraces and showered flowers on the truck carrying the Satai’s coffin. “Neighbours disclosed to Satai’s parents that their son was no more. They offered their condolences, saying he had laid down his life for the country,” said an acquaintance. After being flown to Nagpur from Srinanagar, the body was kept overnight at the Kamptee cantonment. On Monday morning, a wreath-laying ceremony was held at the Amar Yodha memorial in the cantonment. Nagpur district’s guardian minister Nitin Raut, state’s home minister Anil Deshmukh and senior army officials were present. Deshmukh followed the cavalcade to Katol where the last rites were held with full military honours. Apart from people from all walks of life, leaders and workers from all political parties had gathered at the ground where the funeral was held. In a statement to local journalists, Satai’s sister Sarita said she was proud of her brother and his death should be avenged. Sadly, Satai was consigned to flames on Bhai Duj, the brother-sister festival. Even onlookers became teary as Satai’s kin broke down on receiving his body, said an eye witness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/martyred-naik-satai-gets-an-emotional-farewell/articleshow/79251983.cms||Shishir Arya
November 17, 2020||Kochi||Metro commissionerate plan set to bite the dust||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After naming IGs as city police commissioners of Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi in 2019 – in a departure from the normal practice of appointing DIGs to the post –, the government is likely to reverse the decision. The status quo ante could come into effect from January 1, it is reliably learnt. The rank of commissioners was upgraded as part of setting up a metropolitan commissionerate system by conferring magisterial powers to the top cops in these two cities. However, the proposal encountered legal hurdles and strong opposition from IAS officers, as well as the CPI. The government’s decision to elevate police commissioners to the rank of IG was taken without enough preparedness and plugging all the loopholes. The appointment of IGs as commissioners had made the policing structure in the two cities top heavy – with an IG, a DIG and an SP as commissioner, additional commissioner and deputy commissioner, respectively, policing a small area relative to other urban centres. Furthermore, without magisterial powers, the commissioners had a much smaller jurisdiction compared even with junior-ranking SPs who man large districts. For instance, while Thiruvananthauram and Kochi commissioners have only 20-odd police stations under them, a large district like Kannur headed by an SP had as many as 42 police stations under his/her jurisdiction. The government faced strong opposition from IAS officers and the law department on the matter of the metropolitan commissionerate system. Section 8(1) of CrPC empowers the state government to declare, by notification, from a specified date any area in such state comprising a city or town whose population exceeds one million as a metropolitan area. The law department’s opinion says that as per the section 8, the expression ‘population’ means a population ascertained at the last preceding census of which the relevant figures have been published. Therefore, the state government can only declare such areas as metropolitan areas in which as per the last census, the population exceeds one million, it said. Neither of the cities would meet the criterion, it said. Moreover, the government’s coalition partner, the CPI, objected to the move, saying such a sensitive matter should not be implemented without detailed discussion in the LDF. It is now learnt that the government will appoint two DIGs as commissioners in both the cities, effective January 1, when many officers, including present Kochi city police commissioner Vijay Sakhare, are promoted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/metro-commissionerate-plan-set-to-bite-the-dust/articleshow/79251316.cms||KP Saikiran
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Semi-naked body of unidentified woman found near Jaitala||NAGPUR: An unidentified woman in her 40s was found dead near Jaitala Chowk Market on Monday. The decomposed body was found in semi-naked condition, with the right arm eaten by stray animals. Sonegaon police, which have registered the case as accidental death, said the body of the unidentified woman was found in front of an abandoned and ramshackle house. The body was discovered by a vegetable vendor who had been attracted to it by the strong stench, after which he alerted police. Zonal DCP Noorul Hassan said there used to be two vagabond women in the locality but one of them is now dead while the other is missing. “There were no apparent injury marks on the body or the private parts. The post mortem would be able to throw more light on the question of foul play in the death,” he said. “There was a sari and some hair on the ground around 50 meters away from the body,” said Hassan. “It’s possible the woman was taking shelter in one of the abandoned houses in front of which her body was found,” said the DCP. Senior inspector Dilip Sagar of Sonegaon police station said post mortem would be conducted on Tuesday. “We are trying to establish the identity of the woman. She was likely a rag picker. We are probing the case from every angle,” said Sagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/semi-naked-body-of-unidentified-woman-found-near-jaitala/articleshow/79252001.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Load-testing starts at Majerhat, ROB may be ready by November-end||KOLKATA: Load testing of the new cable-stayed Majerhat bridge started on Monday. The testing will go on till Friday. A span of the old road-overbridge (ROB) had collapsed on September 4, 2018. “After successful load testing and fine-tuning of the cables, the new bridge will be ready by the end of the month,” said an engineer of the state public works department (PWD), which is implementing the Rs 250 crore Majerhat ROB reconstruction project. The load testing involves mounting fully loaded vehicles while the stability of the structure is monitored and the load-bearing capacity of the bridge is calculated. Contractors, the Haryana-based SP Singla, started the load testing around 8pm with 12 trucks weighing total 528 tonnes. Actually, 13 trucks, each weighing 44 tonnes, had been parked on the bridge since morning, in case one of the vehicles developed snags. “The load testing is a continuous five-day affair. So we waited for Diwali to be over,” said an engineer. Initially, 50% of the total load must be mounted and left like that for 24 hours while a team of engineers monitored the bridge for signs of structural deflections. Then another 25% and the next 20% and finally the last 10% load must be added. The structure’s behaviour with the 100% load is observed. Again, the load will be removed step-by-step. “The entire procedure will go on till Friday night,” the engineer added. After the load removal, the PWD officials will do the bridge’s deflection reading and approach its Taiwan-based consultants, Wiecon, on the format of fine-tuning the cables. That is a complex job when the final fine-tuning for stress modulation of the cables is done. This should take a week’s time. Simultaneously, the road marking will also be done. Instrumentation or equipping the structure with sensors to provide real-time data showing how the new bridge functions well against static and dynamic vehicular load, will be done after opening the bridge, officials said. The contractors will also build the staircases to the railway tracks and develop the area below the bridge after the commissioning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/load-testing-starts-at-majerhat-rob-may-be-ready-by-nov-end/articleshow/79251981.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Gang war leads to double murder, three arrested||NAGPUR: Rivalry among the splinter gangs of ‘Beats Group’ in east Nagpur led to a double murder, raising questions about the efficiency of the clamp down on goons by the police in the city. Rural police managed to detect the case within six hours by arresting three, including mastermind Jageshwar Dudhankar alias Balu, who had two cases of murder in the past and several ones of assault against him. Bodies of Krunal Charde and Sushil Bawane bearing several stab wounds were found in Dongargaon near the Kuhi-Pachgaon road. Charde and Bawane, also having crime records, were close to Dilip Thaokar who is now lodged in Nagpur central jail for his alleged involvement in the murder of dreaded goon Viju Mohod last year. Dudhankar was close to Mohod. Thaokar, too, was part of the ‘Beats Group’ before he drifted away along with some of his close aides like Charde and Bawane. Following Mohod’s murder, rivalries among the splinter gangs of the ‘Beats Group’ intensified. With Mohod eliminated and Swapnil on the run after the proposal of MPDA had been prepared against him and many like Thaokar in jail, Dudhankar had been trying to raise his head in east Nagpur. He had become the target of Thaokar’s close associates like Charde and Bawane. It’s learnt that Charde and Bawane had a tiff with Dudhankar earlier in the day at Dighori naka. They came face-to-face again later in the day when Dudhankar had lured them to sit in his car and go elsewhere to settle scores over a liquor party. Dudhankar and his accomplices, Rahul Lambat and Nishnt Shahkar, then took the victims near Pachgaon and attacked them with a knife. Police said the weapon belonged to the victims. The local crime branch (LCB) team of Nagpur rural under SP Rakesh Ola managed to nab Dudhankar and two others shortly. Sub-inspectors Sachin Matte, Narendra Gourkhede and Javed Shaikh (cyber) had led the LCB team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gang-war-leads-to-double-murder-three-arrested/articleshow/79251993.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kol goes e-way to celebrate Bhai Phonta in Covid times||Kolkata: Though brothers and sisters preferred to stay safe, they did not want to feel sorry on Brothers’ Day, that was celebrated in several Bengali, Gujarati and Nepali households in Kolkata on Monday. So, many of those who could not physically sit across their brothers, putting the tilak of safety on their foreheads, chose to use the screens of their smartphones to do so. After all, if ‘pushpanjali’ can be done on the virtual mode, so can be ‘Bhai Phonta’ or ‘Bhai Beej’ as the Gujaratis call it and ‘Bhai Dooj’ as the Nepalis say. Sourav Mukherjee, a TCS employee, was a happy man when he returned from France earlier this year because he would be visiting his sister for ‘Bhai Phonta’. But a month ago, Covid struck him and though he has now recovered, he is still at home. His sister, Mousumi Bhattacharya, a schoolteacher, would not let the occasion go without applying phonta, so she did it from her Bally residence. Same was the case with Anumita Ghosh, a Cognizant employee who is based in Pune but is now working from home from her Baruipur residence. “I could not let the day go without giving phonta to my two young first cousins, Arkajyoti and Abhrajyoti, who have no sisters of their own and have been taking phonta from me every year,” she said, following the entire paraphernalia of a puja thali filled with sandalwood paste, dhaan-durba and a well-lit diya. This is the first time that beautician Paro Chen has not travelled to Nepal to give phonta to her brother Rajan Debakota. She took half a day’s leave from her salon so that she could organise her virtual bhai phonta in style. “We looked up the almanac for the right time and followed the same rituals as we do back in Nepal for ‘bhai dooj’. Though we were separated by hundreds of miles, the screen thankfully brought us together,” she said. Since Yogesh Tanna and sister Sweta Badiyani had decided not to visit each other for ‘bhai beej’ for Covid’s sake, they both had decided in advance to meet virtually at the appointed time for the rituals. “She sat near her family altar and applied the tilak and followed it up by offering me a sandesh on-screen. I was so touched…” Tanna said. The Gujaratis also celebrated the ‘Besta Varas’ of new year on Monday. The e-phonta fever touched even cops, many of whom chose not to visit their sisters because of their daily exposure to the public. In case of Arup Roy Choudhury, who heads the Dasnagar PS, the virtual phonta came early in the morning from sister Esha Sengupta in Dubai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-goes-e-way-to-celebrate-bhai-phonta-in-covid-times/articleshow/79251997.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 17, 2020||Madurai||16th C copper plate inscription details abduction of women, bribe||Dindigul: A 16th century AD copper plate, which speaks of abduction and imprisonment of women for political reasons and their rescue by paying bribe, was found in a house at Palani in Dindigul district recently. Archaeologist A Narayanamoorthy, said that abduction and imprisonment of women is something that has heard about since the period of the Ramayana. History has it that even women from the family of Tipu Sultan were captured and imprisoned in the Vellore fort by the British. The copper plate, found in an old house in a village recently, also speaks of a similar incident. Ancestors of those who lived in the house were from the present day Virudhunagar. It was discovered when they were cleaning the house. He said that the images of the sun and moon inscribed on it shows that the plate dated back to the 16th century. It is 44cm in length and 22 cm in width, and has a crack in the middle due to ageing. The details of the inscriptions are given in two parts; the first part has 115 lines and the second part 60 lines. It says that a chieftain named Sangupillai had ruled Irunchola Vallanadu, which is in Virudhunagar district. People in his kingdom have written this copper plate for him. Some startling facts about Ariyanatha Mudaliyar, who was the commander of the armed forces of the Naicker kings, have been revealed in the copper plate. Ariyanatha Mudaliyar had been the accountant of Krishnadevarayar and deputy commandant of the armed forces. He had been the deputy commandant for three Naicker era kings. In 1551 AD, he laid a siege to Vadapatti in the kingdom of Sangupillai, and abducted two women from there and three women from Rendapulli, and brought them to Madurai and imprisoned them. Three women who had been abducted by Annamalai Naicker, another deputy commandant from Mannarkottai, were also languishing in prison. Sangupillai, who came to know of it, had sent his people with 880 gold coins to rescue the women. This is detailed in the copper plate. Narayanamoorthy said that care had been taken to refrain from revealing the names of the abducted women. “This shows that revealing the name of female victims was not ethical even in those days,” he said. The people have got the copper plate inscribed by Solaialagan, on behalf of their village. They said they are ever indebted to Sangupillai for protecting the honour of their women, and that any marriage in their community should be done with the consent of Sangupillai. Further, there is information that the chief gatekeeper in the prison in Madurai, Sappaiyan, had sought a bribe of 100 gold coins to allow them into the fortress and he was paid the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/16th-c-copper-plate-inscription-details-abduction-of-women-bribe/articleshow/79251994.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Bodies of 2 girls, who jumped into river, fished out in Vaikom||KOTTAYAM: The bodies of two intimate friends who had jumped into Muvattupuzha river in Vaikom was fished out of Vembanad lake on Monday morning. Amrita Ani, 21, native of Anchal, Kollam, and Arya G Ashok, 21, native of Ayoor, Kollam, had jumped into Muvattupuzha river from Murinjapuzha bridge in Vaikom on Saturday night. Both girls had done their graduation together and they left their respective homes on November 13 morning for getting their degree certificates from college. The body of Amrita was fished out from the lake in Poochakkal while Arya’s body was found near Perumbalam south jetty. The bodies were shifted to Kottayam medical college hospital for autopsy. The two had gone missing since November 13 and their relatives had filed a complaint at Chadayamangalam police station in Kollam. Both had jumped into the river around 7.45pm on Saturday. Some local residents had seen both walking along the bridge. A woman residing near the bridge told police that she had heard the sound of something falling into the river followed by a loud cry. In a search operation by police, they found a pair of sandals and handkerchief from the bridge. Since Chadayamangalam police had passed on the message of two girls missing from their station limits, Vaikom police shared the picture with Chadayamangalam police. The relatives of the girls identified the objects. They have termed the girls’ death as mysterious.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bodies-of-2-girls-who-jumped-into-river-fished-out/articleshow/79251323.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Panel to aid energy efficiency projects||Visakhapatnam: The Andhra Pradesh State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) has constituted a committee of eight banks, from both private and public sectors, and three non-banking financial companies for facilitating financing for energy efficiency projects in the state. The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) has institutionalised Partial Risk Guarantee Funding for Energy Efficiency (PRGFEE) scheme, which provides the financial institutions a partial coverage of risk involved in extending loans for the energy efficiency projects. This is expected to help to scale up the energy efficiency investments in AP. In a meeting conducted with banks and NBFCs on Sunday, the energy secretary constituted a committee by nominating the executive of Union Bank of India as Chairman, executive of State Bank of India as vice-chairman and chief executive officer of APSECM as convener. As part of the initiative, the APSECM will seek energy efficiency proposals from various stakeholders in different sectors. After carrying out the technical appraisal of the energy efficiency project and based on technical viability, it will recommend the project to financial institutions’ committee for funding. Energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said that the PRGFEE is an innovative financial instrument, which uses the public resources to channelise private sector financing towards promoting energy efficiency in different sectors. “The BEE has formulated a risk sharing mechanism to provide financial institutions with a partial coverage of risk involved in extending loans for energy efficient projects. The BEE has allotted around Rs 312 crore for the PRGFEE at national level,” said Srikant. According to the state officials, Andhra Pradesh has a lot of scope in improving energy efficiency in various sectors, including industry, buildings, municipalities, transport, agriculture, etc. Under the PRGFEE scheme, BEE will provide a guarantee for a maximum 50% of the loan or Rs 10 crore per project, whichever is less, to financial institutions that offer loans to industries or others to take up energy efficiency projects in AP. The BEE has estimated that more than Rs 13 lakh crore energy saving investment potential will be available in the country by 2031 out of which about Rs 8.60 lakh crore of investment potential will be available with the industries, buildings and municipal sectors alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/panel-to-aid-energy-efficiency-projects/articleshow/79236698.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||200km from Gadchiroli, police post built in a day gives fin boost to region||NAGPUR: The Patagudam Armed Outpost (AOP) in Sironcha taluka near Chhattisgarh border, which hosted home minister Anil Deshmukh and his wife on Diwali, was built by 800 cops in a single day on February 29, 2016. Located some 200km from district headquarters Gadchiroli, this police post is considered the remotest in the state, and is located in the highly sensitive Maoist bastion. The then district collector Ranjit Kumar and SP Sandip Patil (now DIG, Naxal range) were present at the construction site on that day. The place was cleared by felling trees, makeshift defence walls were erected with sandbags, morchas erected for round-the-clock security, electricity lines were drawn and water connections were made. “It was not only a police post but also a ‘development’ post and so even the district collector was present,” said Patil, who returned to the post last week as DIG, accompanying the state home minister. The visit has highlighted the significance of the place as a key strategic point from both security and economic point of view. “Due to security reasons, the post had to be erected within a day, with makeshift boundaries and tents inside, which was later made into permanent barracks,” he said. Following a suggestion by senior security adviser of ministry of home affairs (MHA) K Vijaykumar, the post was set up after Maoists torched the Public Works Department (PWD) camp near Bhopalpatnam twice within six months. The PWD camp had been erected to oversee the works on the bridge being built on the Pranhita river. The bridge connects three states, Telangana, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, giving impetus to economic activities in the otherwise ill-developed economy of the region. The bridge helped reduce the distance between Telangana and Chhattisgarh’s Jagdalpur by 800km and opened up the market of Bastar and also Sironcha in Gadchiroli. DIG Patil recalled his stint as SP, Gadchiroli, when he had to undertake an operation of three nights and two days to conduct an operation in the Patagudam-Bhopalpatnam stretch after Maoist arson damaged the PWD camp. “We had conducted a survey at Patagudam and Bhopalpatnam to ascertain whether a police post could be opened here. Later, we were accompanied by MHA senior adviser K Vijaykumar, who too suggested a police post be opened here,” said Patil, who supervised the construction of the Patagudam AOP. “During the survey and operation, I was spending day and night in the forest and bathing in the river,” he recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/200km-from-gchiroli-police-post-built-in-a-day-gives-fin-boost-to-region/articleshow/79252052.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||EM Bypass gets new lane markers||Kolkata: Multiple accidents on EM Bypass this year — a few of them were fatal under three specific guards like Ultadanga and Beliaghata in the north and Purba Jadavpur in the south — have led cops to come up with new experiments. The previous experiments in 2018 and 2019 resulted in the introduction of new signals and staggered traffic flow from Maa flyover. Following the death of a woman on Sunday, cops are focussing on two aspects — better traffic furniture like improved lane markers to ensure better lane discipline, diversions (necessary for the ongoing Metro work) and checking illegal parking. There have been four fatal accidents towards the northern side of Bypass after lockdown. Two of them happened due to crossing of the road in an unrestricted manner. But, officers at Lalbazar said dangerous manoeuvres at high speed were equally worrisome. “There is no quick formula. But we are making raised pavement markers visible from a long distance along the Bypass, especially in the accident-prone stretches. We found that several motorists, especially at night, were facing difficulty in seeing lane markers on both flanks. Similarly, we are also making some subtle changes for the vehicles from service roads to merge with the main road traffic. The traffic signals are being realigned,” said an officer. At Kadapara crossing, where locals had blocked the road, demanding financial help for the accident victim’s kids, cops have increased presence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/em-bypass-gets-new-lane-markers/articleshow/79252021.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Roads inundated after heavy rain lashes Madurai city||Madurai: Heave rain lashed Madurai incessantly on Monday, which disrupted normalcy in the city. Many roads, including the South Masi Street, East Chittirai Street, near the Meenakshi temple and the roads where the smart city works ongoing were inundated with rainwater.The Periyar bus stand was flooded and vehicles were stranded on the South Masi Street due to waterlogging. Traders said that it would take them a decade to recover from the loss being caused by the rains in the areas where the smart city works are under way.Theni district also received heavy rainfall and the Suruli falls had water gushing down heavily. People were prevented from entering the fall to take bath. Heavy to moderate rainfall was experienced in Tuticorin. Tuticorin district collector Senthil Raj told reporters that 36 vulnerable locations had been identified in the district and 40 motor pumps were being used to pump out the water. Many places in Tuticorin, such as the government hospital, Thenpagam police station and other low lying areas became inundated. Virudhungar, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram also experienced rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/roads-inundated-after-heavy-rain-lashes-madurai-city/articleshow/79252011.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kochi||Burglars decamp with jewellery from shop in Kochi||KOCHI: In a major burglary reported from Eloor near Kalamassery, Ernakulam, entire gold and silver ornaments stored in a locker at a small jewellery shop here were stolen over the weekend. According to police, the owner of the jewellery shop has given a statement that nearly 3kg of gold ornaments and around 25kg of silver ornaments went missing from the outlet. The burglary is suspected to have taken place after 7pm on Saturday when the shopowner locked it. The shop remains shut on Sundays. The incident came to light when the shopowner opened the outlet on Monday morning. A team of Kochi city police, including assistant commissioner of police K Laljy, visited the spot and collected evidence. Forensic experts, including fingerprint experts, and dog squad were pressed into service. The shop was functioning from a rented room at a FACT shopping complex at Eloor. The jewellery owner had converted one rented room into two by erecting a partition wall. Besides jewellery store on one side, he had employed a staffer to run a salon on the other side. The burglars drilled a large hole in the back wall of the shop to enter and decamp with the ornaments. “The shop was partitioned in such a way that one who manages to enter either of them gets access to both the salon and the jewellery store. Both had a common shutter door too. The ornaments were kept in a locker. The burglars seem to have made a huge hole in the back wall of the salon, entered the ornament store and cut open the locker using a gas-cutter,” said Laljy. There was no power in the shop. The accused might have disabled the power supply to avoid getting caught in the CCTV. However, it seems like the cameras were not functioning anyway, said police. Police suspect someone familiar with the area to be behind the crime. “There are around 30 shops in the building. It is most likely that the miscreants worked in any of these shops in the past. Also, those who used to visit the salon must also have noticed that there was no major barrier between the two shops,” police said. Eloor police have registered an FIR and a probe is on. Cops said that they will have to verify the claim about the amount of missing gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/burglars-decamp-with-jewellery-from-shop/articleshow/79251325.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Man, 37, hacked to death in Melur||Madurai: A 37-year-old man was hacked to death by his friends, who were under the influence of alcohol, at Melur in Madurai district in the early hours of Monday. The victim, Muthukumaran, was Madurai district secretary of the South India Forward Bloc. He was running a poultry farm at Vellaripatti. According to police, a group of his friends, including Mariappan of Yagappa Nagar, consumed liquor in the poultry farm. The group met there often. After a liquor party on late Sunday night, Muthukumaran asked the gang to leave the place. However, they wanted to spend the night there. As the argument turned ugly, Muthukumaran was hacked to death with. The men escaped from the spot. Police launched a search for the men. Relatives of Muthukumaran and members of South India Forward Bloc party staged a road blockade in Goripalayam. The group dispersed after police pacified them. Police assured them that the accused would be arrested at the earliest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-37-hacked-to-death-in-melur/articleshow/79252046.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Madurai has over 26L voters, highest among southern dists||Madurai: The draft electoral roll released for the districts on Monday, showed that Madurai has the highest number of voters among the ten southern districts with 26,07,693 voters and Dindigul is next with 18,16,281 voters. Madurai district collector T Anbazhagan released the draft rolls for Madurai district on Monday, in the presence of representatives of political parties. He said that there were 13,23,420 female voters and 12,84,099 male voters in Madurai district and 174 others. People who wished to get enrolled in the voters list should do so by using form VI, applications for deletion of names should be made on form VII and for change in name and address form VIII should be used. Those who wished to change their address within the same assembly constituency should use form VIIIA. People who are 21 years of age or above should specify why they are seeking enrollment and should give reasons to show that they were not previously enrolled or that they are not registered elsewhere. Forms for applications for inclusion, deletion and making changes can be obtained from the polling stations, tahsildar’s office or zonal offices of the corporation from November 16 to December 15 this year on all working days. Special enrollment camps would be held on November 21 and 22, and December 12 and 13 in the respective polling stations. The final roll would be published on January 20, 2021. Among the 10 assembly segments in Madurai, the Madurai East constituency has the highest number of 3,14,248 and Sholavandan has the least number of 2,11,054. Compared to the previous roll, 48,113 voters have been deleted due to death and duplication. The number of new voters enrolled in the district is 12,501.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-has-over-26l-voters-highest-among-southern-dists/articleshow/79252034.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||New Town urban gardening with LED grow-light tech||Kolkata: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) has launched an urban gardening project using LED grow-light technology for commercial cultivation of tuberose (Rajanigandha) and chrysanthemum (dalia) plants on a two-acre land near the Biswa Bangla Gate in New Town. NKDA chairman Debashis Sen launched the project by turning on the LED lights on Saturday night. The authorities are taking help from Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vigyan Kendra and flower growers of Panskura as to how the lights could be used for cultivating the plants, where to get the seeds, what fertilizers need to be used, time of watering and how to sell the flowers in the wholesale markets and local retailers. There will be 50,000 chrysanthemum plants of about 12 colour varieties and around 30,000 tuberoses. The area will also have the provisions for other seasonal plants as well. People visiting the Biswa Bangla Gate, too, will get the top view of the two-acre land. Officials said the technology of LED grow-lights is being used to achieve high quality flowers. The process involves increasing the duration of ‘day light’ through artificial lighting. Officials said the process has been in practice in rural areas of Panskura for over 25 years to improve quality of the blossom. The ‘grow-lights’ method has been endorsed by Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidhyalaya. As advised, these lights will only be used during the growing period of the saplings, which is around 25 days, officials said. The project has not only been taken up as a beautification or tourism developing initiative. It will also help in generating jobs for the local self-help groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-urban-gardening-with-led-grow-light-tech/articleshow/79252045.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Offence registered in multi-crore fraud case||NAGPUR: Ranapratap Nagar police have registered an offence against four persons, including one Vijay Gurnule, for their alleged role behind duping several investors to the tune of crores of rupees on the pretext of giving them high returns through multi-level marketing. Zonal DCP Noorul Hassan, who was supervising the investigation, said Gurnule and his team would lay traps for vulnerable investors convincing them to invest in their schemes on the pretext of high returns. “We feel the multi-level marketing scam could go up to at least Rs40 crores during the course of the investigation,” said Hassan who stated that the case would be referred to the economic offence wing for further investigation. In the latest case, Ganesh Chafle and his friends were duped to the tune of lakhs of rupees after they were promised weekly returns of more than Rs10,600. As the Chafles got regular returns for nine weeks, they invested more money and also encouraged their neighbours and friends to join them. Later, Gurnule stopped the weekly returns and also kept the office locked for several days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/offence-registered-in-multi-crore-fraud-case/articleshow/79252058.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Search on for 4 men involved in man’s beheading||Madurai: The Madurai city police have launched a search for four people who were allegedly involved in beheading of a 22-year-old youth from Uthangudi at the busy St Mary’s junction on Sunday. After chopping off the head in full public view, the murderers had placed it in front of the church. Police sources said that four people including Chinna Alex, Alagu Raja and Palanimurugan, who are being searched have been booked under IPC section 302 (punishment for murder) by the Keerathurai police. After murdering Muruganandam, they left the car near Palanganatham and escaped. P Muniyasamy,25, from Kamarajarpuram escaped with injuries in the attack. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order) R Shiva Prasad said Muruganandam, who did not have any criminal antecedent had gone there to meet his friends. His friend Muniyasamy is a history-sheeter. The reasons behind the murder and whom the gang targeted primarily are under inquiry. Prasad said that police will be in a position to reveal the details only after the suspects are arrested. A team consisting of four sub-inspectors and an inspector is searching for the suspects, he added. Police sources said that the deceased was a member of Vellakali gang, a wanted gangster, who is a supporter of former zonal chairman of Madurai corporation Rajapandi. More than 17 people have lost their lives in the gang rivalry between Rajapandi and V K Gurusamy, who too is a former zonal chairman of Madurai Corporation, over the last 20 years. It is suspected that Gurusamy’s men could have murdered him. In July this year, Vellakali’s gang hurled petrol bombs and attacked the Gurusamy’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/search-on-for-4-men-involved-in-mans-beheading/articleshow/79252056.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Ayyappa devotees avoid Siddhapudur temple||Coimbatore: Every year on the first day of Tamil month Karthigai, the entire road to Ayyappan Temple at Siddhapudur in the city would be blocked as thousands of devotees would throng the temple to garland themselves with tulsi or rudraksh. But this year on the first of Karthigai on Monday, the temple wore a deserted look with only 220 people turning up for the ritual. Last year, nearly 5,000 devotees garlanded themselves. U Sabarinathan, manager of the Ayyappan Temple in Siddhapudur, said at least 2,000 devotees would come to garland themselves on Karthigai 1 every year, so that they can strictly observe the 41-day fast and take the trek to Sabarimala. “We keep garlanding people from early morning till 7pm,” he said. But this year, the crowd was less than 5%. Temple authorities say there could be multiple reasons for the drop. “While one reason could be the pandemic and people avoiding crowded places, the other reason is Sabarimala authorities have cancelled general queue and have decided to issue only 1,000 tickets a day to people who register online. Also, today happens to be pattimai or prathamai in the calendar, considered inauspicious by Tamils. We expect more crowd on Wednesday to come and garland themselves,” Sabarinathan said.For thousands of regular devotees who want to keep the fast but can’t get a token to Sabarimala, the Ayyappa Temple has announced a special abhishekam for them from 7.30am to 8.30am next month. Devotees can bring their irumudis in the morning and pray.Meanwhile, the district recorded 174 fresh cases of covid-19 on Monday, taking the tally to 46,587. However, active cases continued to fall and stood at 883, after 181 people got discharged on the same day. The total number of people recovered stood at 45,117, taking the recovery rate to 96.8%. The district also recorded one death, taking the toll to 587. The victim was a 76-year diabetic woman who died of Covid pneumonia and respiratory failure at ESI Hospital on Saturday after three days of hospitalization.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ayyappa-devotees-avoid-siddhapudur-temple/articleshow/79252072.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Public opinion sought on ODF status to Madurai||Madurai: The Madurai corporation has sought public opinion on declaring the city as an open defecation free (ODF) zone. People can share their opinion on the ODF status if any by writing a letter to the corporation. Comments can be shared on the Facebook page as well. People can also write their suggestions and complaints to mducorp@gmail.com or call up the complaint number at 8428425000, an official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/public-opinion-sought-on-odf-status-to-madurai/articleshow/79252064.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana boosts advocate general’s discretionary powers to hire law officers||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has increased the discretionary powers of the state’s advocate general (AG) to appoint law officers and to promote them to higher ranks. The changes were included in an amendment to the Law Officers (Engagement) Act, 2016 in the recently-concluded state assembly session. The amendment has increased the quota of the advocate general to directly engage law officers in his office from five to 10. With this, the AG can engage 10 law officers in his office on own discretion and without following any procedure prescribed for the engagement of other officers. Earlier, the AG had the power to engage five law officers only. Similarly, the amendment also empowers the AG to re-designate or promote the law officers without the need of recommendation of the selection committee provided such law officers fulfil the requisite criteria in the 2016 Rules. Apart from empowering the AG, an amendment also has been introduced to replace the word ‘appointment’ with ‘engagement’ in the statute, originally enacted in 2016. With this, the appointment of law officers would be termed as engagement, not appointment as mentioned in the law earlier. Importantly, several letters in this regard were sent by Ambala-based lawyer Hemant Kumar to the various functionaries of the state in March this year asserting that though the title of the 2016 Act terms engagement of advocates in the office of AG, Haryana but Section 2(c) of the Act defines the law officer as an advocate appointed under the Act in the office of AG. Also, Section 4 of the Act provides that the state government shall be the appointing authority for the various categories of posts under this Act although it ought to be engaging authority. The Sections 5 and 6 of the Act, pertaining to the constitution of selection committee and its function, also uses the term appointed and appointment in lieu of engaged and engagement, respectively, regarding the selection of law officers for the office of AG, Haryana. Advocate Hemant Kumar had pointed that it is utterly surprising that this grave anomaly/discrepancy has not come in the knowledge of any senior legal or administrative functionary of the state government till date even after passage of four years of its enforcement. The Haryana Law Officers (Engagement) Act was enacted by the Haryana government in 2016 after the Supreme Court had asked the Haryana government to lay down a procedure for engagement of law officers. The law officers are basically advocates who are appointed in contractual capacity to represent the state before various courts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-boosts-advocate-generals-discretionary-powers-to-hire-law-officers/articleshow/79252074.cms||Ajay Sura
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Madurai ranked 42, many projects nearing completion||Madurai: Madurai Corporation secured 42nd position in terms of progress achieved in smart city projects among the 100 cities, revealed an internal communication shared by the ministry of housing and urban affairs with local bodies. Other important cities in the state such as Chennai, Coimbatore and Trichy secured 54, 45 and 60th positions respectively. Madurai corporation commissioner S Visakan said that the ranking is dynamic and gets changing frequently. All the projects taken up by Madurai Corporation are progressing well sticking to the timelines, he said. Madurai Corporation has taken up 15 projects including major projects such as Underground Drainage (UGD) for 15 wards north of Madurai city, Periyar Bus Terminal, Vaigai River Front Development, Multi Level Car Parking (MLCP), conversion of street lights into LED lights, heritage development, solid waste management, Masi Streets landscaping and drinking water project. So far only one project – Smart Fruit Market- has been completed. Other projects are in various stages of construction. MLCP and LED light conversion are on the verge of completion and are expected to be completed by December. Most of the projects including Periyar Bus Terminal, Vaigai River Front Development and Solid Waste Management are expected to be completed by next March. UGD project will be completed only by March, 2022, officials said. “The projects taken up by Madurai Corporation are big. Hence, Madurai has not scored well in the number of projects completed category,” a corporation official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-ranked-42-many-projects-nearing-completion/articleshow/79252068.cms||V Devanathan
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Herb garden set up at jail||Coimbatore: DIG of prisons G Shanmugasundaram and prison superintendent R Krishnaraj inaugurated a herb garden on the central prison premises on Monday.The garden has 21 types of plants including Malabar nut (adathodai), thulasi (holy basil), karpooravalli (Mexican mint), thuthuvalai, pirandai, karunochi, naval (Syzygium cumini), nagamalli, vilvam, omavalli (Colinus ambonicus), periyanangai, arugampul (cynodan doctylon) and henna.The central prison has 167 acres of land. “We have enough land and water for cultivation. We have selected some convict prisoners to take care of the plants,” said Shanmugasundaram. “Leaves of some plants will be powdered and will be displayed at the prison bazaar for sales. We plan to set up a herb garden at the open air jail at Ondipudur also.” The prison authorities are planning to sell the herbs to the government herbal farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/herb-garden-set-up-at-jail/articleshow/79252075.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab BJP to contest all assembly seats in 2022||AMRITSAR: With the SAD-BJP partnership coming to an end after Akali Dal pulled out of the NDA government over the contentious farm laws, the BJP in Punjab has decided to contest all the 117 assembly seats on its own and even started preparations for that. Talking to mediapersons on Monday, BJP secretary Tarun Chugh said the party had begun preparations on a war-footing to contest all the assembly seats on its own in the ensuing 2022 assembly elections in the state. When BJP was in alliance with SAD (B), the saffron party, as par agreement with the coalition partner, used to contest on 23 assembly seats and three Lok Sabha seats in Punjab. A challenge for the party will be to find 117 winning faces when it is not in alliance with SAD and there appears to be no formation of a new partnership in the near future. Sharing party’s poll plans, Chugh said the state BJP unit was contemplating its strategy on strengthening itself in all the 23,000 booths spread in Majha, Malwa, Doaba and Kandi areas of Punjab. “Plans are being prepared to work on party’s poll formulas of appointing youth, pana parmukh, shakti kendra parmukh for direct contact with common people,” he said. He said BJP president J P Nadda would have a virtual meeting on November 19 to inaugurate party offices in 10 districts of Punjab through which they would inform as many as 160 welfare schemes launched by the Modi government to the people of Punjab. He also indicated a possible three-day stay by Nadda in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/punjab-bjp-to-contest-all-assembly-seats-in-2022/articleshow/79252088.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Man shoots two during property dispute in Tamil Nadu's Palani||DINDIGUL: Two people were injured when a theatre owner from Palani in Dindigul district opened fire using his licensed revolver in connection with a property dispute on Monday morning. Police said that the accused Natarajan, owner of Valluvar theatre in Palani town, has a land dispute with Ilangovan, a farmer from Akkaraipatti village. The piece of land is located in Appar Street a prime residential area in Palani, worth over Rs 1 crore worth in the market. The two had approached a court a few years ago claiming ownership. After the lower court favoured Ilangovan, Natarajan went for an appeal. A heated argument erupted when Natarajan saw Ilangovan and his relatives fencing the land on Monday, following which Natarajan took out his revolver and opened fire. Palanisamy was shot in the waist while Subramani took a bullet in his lower abdomen. Natarajan also threatened others using the weapon. One of Ilangovan relatives hurled a piece of wood against Natarajan and also pelted stones, following which he backed off and left the place. Dindigul range DIG M S Muthusamy told TOI that the two were out of danger and are undergoing treatment. “Natarajan was arrested, and the weapon has been seized. Natarajan was a reputed person in the area and there was no criminal antecedents against him before the incident,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-shoots-two-during-property-dispute-in-palani/articleshow/79252071.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Jammu-Srinagar road link snapped by heavy snowfall||NEW DELHI: Several high-altitude areas of Jammu & Kashmir and Uttarakhand received heavy snowfall on Monday that affected normal life and forced closure of the key Jammu-Srinagar National Highway. In Kashmir, authorities issued an avalanche warning for four districts as the higher reaches of the Union territory received moderate to heavy snowfall. The warning has been issued in Kupwara, Bandipora and Baramulla districts of north Kashmir, and Ganderbal in central Kashmir, officials said. In Uttarakhand, the Upper Himalayan areas received the season’s first heavy snowfall, intensifying cold conditions across the state. Snowfall began at all places in the upper Himalayan areas including Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri, Yamunotri, Auli and Harsil on Sunday night and continued till Monday morning, wrapping them in thick, white sheets of snow, according to officials. People in several parts of Himachal, too, on Monday woke up to a white blanket of snow while Shimla and Manali witnessed the season’s first snowfall. In J&K, a team of the Army and police jointly rescued 10 people, including two women and a child, trapped in the snowfall at the high-altitude Sinthan pass in Kishtwar district. Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand said the rescue teams acted swiftly upon receiving information about the stranded group. The teams walked for five hours along NH-244 in zero visibility conditions during the night and “brought back the stranded to Sinthan ground where they were provided with food and shelter”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jammu-srinagar-road-link-snapped-by-heavy-snowfall/articleshow/79253777.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Upload staff data on human resource system by Nov 30: Manohar Lal Khattar||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana government has directed the nodal officers to upload data of all the employees including that of boards, corporations and universities among others on the human resource management system (HRMS) by November 30. Presiding over the review meeting of HRMS on Monday, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar also issued directions to set up an online reservation roaster system and automatic requisition system for the purpose to send the indent to recruitment authorities of vacant posts for direct recruitment. Various issues pertaining to the benefits and welfare of employees were discussed in the meeting. The CM also directed that all the departments should use HRMS to ensure decision on timely disposal of cases of extension in service beyond the age of 50/55 years. The HRMS system would also ensure grant of assured career progression (ACP) benefits to the employees on completion of satisfactory service without any delay. At present about ACP of 8,000 employees is overdue. This system will also inform the heads of departments about the number of employees whose ACP is due for the period of next three months. The CM was informed that transfer orders would be issued through HRMS only, otherwise which the same will not be valid and no relieving and joining report will be generated by the system. Even temporary transfer within the department for a limited period will also be done through HRMS.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/upload-staff-data-on-human-resource-system-by-nov-30-khattar/articleshow/79252104.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Trade bodies urge Goa CM to stall tourism policy||PANAJI: Three trade bodies on Monday submitted a joint representation to chief minister Pramod Sawant asking that the Goa Tourism Policy 2020 not be implemented till inputs are received from them. The groups, comprising Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) and Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) have sought time till the end of November to collate and submit inputs. They also want the formulation of the Goa Tourism Board to be kept on hold till their suggestions are received. The joint representation by the three bodies stated that they were dissatisfied with the Goa Tourism Policy 2020 and structure of the Goa Tourism Board. The policy was notified last week following deliberations with trade representatives over a period of two years. No sooner was the policy approved by the cabinet last month than TTAG had objected to the composition of the proposed tourism board. It had claimed that the board would not be able to serve its purpose if there were more government representatives than industry stakeholders. It would not be any different from similarly constituted boards, TTAG had said. A senior tourism official said the objections raised by industry stakeholders were unfounded and that they couldn’t expect the government not to have control of the board when it will be totally funded by it. “Funding for the board will be fully by the government unlike in other places where the tourism board gets funding from the private sector,” the official said. “The Goa Tourism Policy has been in making for almost two decades and therefore we propose that this policy be done in a sustainable and balanced manner as this important policy is expected to shape the future of tourism in Goa for decades to come. The Goa Tourism Board will play a crucial role in decision-making for the betterment of the tourism sector in the state,” the joint representation read. The three trade bodies have also requested the chief minister to ensure that no immediate decisions having long-term impacts are taken while the board is in the process of being formulated. They also want the tourism department to defer the floating of a tender for the appointment of a public relations agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/trade-bodies-urge-sawant-to-stall-tourism-policy/articleshow/79253373.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Forest college’s R&D nursery creating cloned trees||Coimbatore: Despite a power shutdown on Kotagiri Road, where TNAU’s forest college and research institute (FCRI) is located, work continues at a brisk pace at the newly-inaugurated research and development nursery. While some workers monitor the pop-up sprinklers which only mist, and not water, the new clones, others carefully observe the newly-mated lemon-scented gum (Corymbia citriodora) and kadam varieties. The R&D nursery, inaugurated a week ago, is creating a clone bank for 24 tree varieties that have a ready demand in the market. The varieties were chosen based on Tamil Nadu Agro climatic zones and wood-based industries’ requirements. “The 24 varieties are categorized based on industries it serves like pulpwood, plywood, timber, energy, oilseed and high-value species. We developed them by identifying superior varieties and species in the last 20 years, improved them, cloned them and mass-multiplied them,” said FCRI dean K T Parthiban. “We have clones with high cellulose and low lignin for paper industries, medium dense wood for plywood industries and such distinct characteristics for each variety.”The institute has already released six of the 24 varieties including casuarina MTP 1 and 2, Melia dubia MTP 1 and 2, kadam MTP 1 and eucalyptus MTP 1. “While casuarina is meant for pulpwood, Melia dubia can be used for pulpwood within 18 to 24 months and plywood after three to five years,” said Parthiban. “The kadam MTP1 and eucalyptus MTP1 are both multipurpose trees. While kadam can be used for plywood, pencil and fuel after five years, eucalyptus can be used for pulp, plywood and energy.”Scientists at the university are working on releasing the remaining 18 varieties, including Toona T CO2 for plywood, subabul LL 45 for pulpwood and energy, teak TK07 and mahogany SM19 for timber. “While some are being validated by industries, others are being cloned,” said head of department of agroforestry I Sekar. “Top paper, plywood and timber industries have validated our varieties and readily buy wood from farmers after the trees mature. In fact, we get into a tripartite agreement with every farmer planting our clones. The third party is the industry and support price is fixed. So, once the trees mature, the farmer just contacts the industry that will collect them and pay up immediately.”The clones are already being cultivated by 55,000 farmers across 75,000 hectares across the state for the last 10 years. They want to reach 1.5 lakh hectares by multiplying and releasing clones from the new R&D lab. FCRI has also formed a consortium with other stakeholders in agroforestry, including wood-based industries, established tree farmers, tree fellers, wood chippers and agroforestry-based business incubators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/forest-colleges-rd-nursery-creating-cloned-trees/articleshow/79252117.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Integrated farm at jail reaping rich dividends||Coimbatore: The integrated farm at the Coimbatore Central Prison, which employs prisoners, is reaping rich dividends.Rabbits reared at the farm are now sold through the prison bazaar. “We started the sale of rabbits from Monday. A pair is sold for Rs 500,” deputy inspector general (DIG) of prisons G Shanmugasundaram said.The prisoners are also taking care of 200 quails. “They will start to lay eggs within 10 days. We plan to sell the eggs at the bazaar soon. Quail eggs are rich in protein,” the DIG said.Prison authorities have set up an 8f deep, 132f long and 34f wide fish pond. “It has 6f deep water. We have released 2,000 common carp hatchlings. They will weigh 750g after seven months. The fresh water fish can be raised throughout the year. After seven months, the fish will be sold at the prison bazaar,” superintendent of prisons R Krishanaraj said.Ten convict prisoners are taking care of the fishery, rabbit and quail farms. “A prisoner is deputed to clean the rabbit cage and another to collect green fodder. State agricultural department’s agricultural officer Senthilkumar is training the prisoners. The skills will be handy for the prisoners after they are released,” said Shanmugasundaram.Authorities are also planning to expand the vermicomposting yard at the farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/integrated-farm-at-jail-reaping-rich-dividends/articleshow/79252103.cms||A Subburaj
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Two killed in face-off over political rivalry||ALWAR: Two persons were killed when two groups had a violent altercation over political rivalry in Bharatpur’s Kama on Monday. Around half-a-dozen people were injured. The deceased were identified Asharfi Meo (50) and Rohtash Jatav ( 27). “The two groups had a dispute since the last five years over sarpanch elections and on Monday, the member of one group slapped a person of the rival group. When the latter went to the other group, the meeting turned violent as both the groups resorted to stone-pelting as well as firing,” said a police official. Four victims were taken to the hospital, but two of them succumbed to injuries while one was referred to Jaipur in serious condition. A witness also recorded a video of the incident in which it can be seen that one group was on terrace and pelting stones at the one below. They also had weapons on them. Cops have started a probe and detained a few persons. Firing incidents are becoming more frequent in the state as the lockdown is being eased. In the last two months, police have seized over 700 illegal weapons from 686 people out of which maximum were from Dholpur, Bharatpur and Jaipur East. According to data, from September to November 1, a total of 716 weapons were seized and 686 people arrested in 588 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-killed-in-face-off-over-political-rivalry/articleshow/79252125.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Recovery rate at 96.7% in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris saw a high recovery rate of 96.7% of Covid-19 on Monday while the active cases came down to 195. The district logged 19 new cases of the virus on the day, taking the tally to 7,130, even as 15 patients were discharged. So far, 6,894 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district. Of the new cases, two were reported from Ooty while the remaining from rural areas across the district. All the 19 new cases were primary and secondary contacts of earlier positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/recovery-rate-at-96-7-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79252121.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||92% of wireman, helper posts lying vacant in TNEB||Coimbatore: As 92% of wireman and helper posts are vacant in the Coimbatore circle of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB), existing staff are forced to face mounting workloads.The circle has 365 distribution section offices that have 14 wireman and helper posts each. “But today, the offices have only two staff each,” said R Govindharajan, general secretary of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Board Engineers’ Union. “The circle has as many as 3,457 sanctioned helper posts and 2,464 sanctioned wireman posts. But only 153 helper posts and 329 wireman posts are filled,” he told reporters on Monday.“People visit the offices to apply for service connection and to register grievances. Each office receives 35 to 60 grievance calls a day. Due to manpower shortage, we cannot carry out the maintenance works regularly and due to lack of proper maintenance, machines are getting damaged. This in turn has been causing a huge revenue loss. There is a delay in addressing the grievances. To meet the requirements, we have been using contract workers to carry out emergency works,” Govindharajan said.“We had requested senior officials to fill the existing vacancies. Recruitment for the posts of gangman has also been stalled due to a court case. Our workload has gone up,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/92-of-wireman-helper-posts-lying-vacant-in-tneb/articleshow/79252124.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Leopard found dead in tank||Udhagamandalam: A leopard was found dead inside a water tank in Masakal village in the Kattabettu forest range in the Nilgiris on Sunday.Villagers, who found the carcass on Sunday evening, informed the forest department.A team of forest staff reached there on Monday morning to retrieve the carcass, assistant conservator of forests Saravanakumar said. “It was a male leopard aged around four years. It might have fallen into the open tank two days ago and might have struggled for 24 hours to get out. The nails of the animal were damaged. We also noticed scratch marks on the walls of the well,” he saidPostmortem was conducted by a local veterinarian as per the guidelines of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) in the presence of representatives from the local body and NGOs.Samples of the vital parts of the animal were collected for forensic tests. Later, the carcass was burnt inside the forest.Forest officials instructed panchayat officials to cover the open well. “We will cover the water tank in a day or two. We will also clean the tank,” a panchayat official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/leopard-found-dead-in-tank/articleshow/79252119.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Festival celebrations in Pilodia village go beyond religion||Jaipur: Pilodia village near Gangapur city spreads a unique message of brotherhood. While many believe that rural India is divided on the basis of caste and religion, residents of Pilodia village has set a great example where people from all religions come together to celebrate Govardhan puja.Govardhan is a major festival in rural Rajasthan and is celebrated by people in their homes. However, in this village every year on Govardhan puja, residents of the village contribute cow dung to make Govardhan statue at the village square. Ramdayal Meena, a resident of the village said, “I have never encountered any occasion of tussle between any caste or community in the village. Everyone contributes their share of cow dung and help in making the statue of Govardhan maharaj. They all participate in the puja. It is an important occasion of the village which we all look forward to.”Anthropologist Madan Meena who has studied rural settings of Rajasthan said that even the Muslim community in the village participates in the festival. “There are many fakirs residing in the village who ask for alms from Hindu households. In marriages people gift clothes to each other as a part of their relationship. So, the line of religion is thin in this village,” said Meena.The statue is usually 15 feet long and three feet high and is made at the centre of the village. It takes around four hours to collect cow dung from every household and make the statute. After the puja is over, villagers circumambulate the statue of Govardhan maharaj. Prasad is distributed among all. “Later, cow dung is taken by the people to their houses to be used as fuel. This year due to Covid we were not able to celebrate in a big way,” said Girvar Chipi, another resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/festival-celebrations-in-pilodia-village-go-beyond-religion/articleshow/79252120.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Masks on faces, prayers on lips: Some follow but many devotees violate norms as places of worship reopen||NAGPUR: A large number of devotees thronged places of worship after they reopened on Monday. Social distancing went for a toss at many places. There was, however, no crowd in churches as people were denied entry because the authorities were yet to get the official notification from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Former BJP minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule performed a grand puja at the Koradi temple. Shiv Sena leaders led by mahanagar pramukh Pramod Manmode offered prayers at the Tekdi Ganesh temple. Evening prayers were held at Sai Mandir. There was quite a crowd at these places. Akash Deshpande, a devotee of Sai Baba, was glad that the temple had finally reopened. “I used to stop and pray to Sai Baba whenever possible. Now, I can offer prayers from close quarters,” he said. Ramakant Reshme, owner of a stall selling flowers near Sai Mandir, said that he was relieved that the temple has finally reopened. “The government did a wrong thing by keeping places of worship closed for so long. Wine shops were allowed to do business throughout the lockdown,” he said. A private prayer and worship session was held at Sadar’s SFS Cathedral on Monday as the authorities await official notification from the local administration before a public mass is held. “Today, it was a small group of mostly volunteers who were helping in cleaning the church and getting it ready it for the eventual public reopening. We have not received any notification from either the civic body or the collector’s office regarding the reopening. The coming Sunday will be celebrated all over the world as the Feast of Christ the King and we are hoping to get all the permissions before that,” said Archbishop Elias Gonsalves of the Archdiocese of Nagpur. Parishioner Jerry D’Souza, who attended Monday’s prayer and worship, said it was a long time coming. “For the last eight months I could not attend church and hence, today was special. For every Catholic, church is a place where you get to listen to the gospel and understand it,” said D’Souza. A khadim (attendant) at the sanctum of Tajbagh mausoleum shouted, “Don’t come in if you are not wearing a mask. Just pay your respects and keep walking. Prayers can also be offered from outside the premises. They will be heard from there as well.” The shrine attracts devotees from different faiths, making it one of the highest visited religious spots of the city. People above the age of 65 and faces without masks were also seen at some of the shrines. Boys were seen wooing visitors to parks vehicles near their shops and also to buy stuff like flowers and chadars (cloth to cover the tomb). “People had a tough time during the lockdown and we continued to help those living in the locality,” said Syed Talif Taji, the Sajjada Nashin (inheritor of the shrine) — a direct descendant of Tajuddin Baba. An entire ecosystem depended on the shrine. These included shopkeepers to khadims to even supplicants, said a trustee. “We had a very difficult time. During these months, we managed to survive on borrowings. Finally, there is some hope as the shrine has been reopened,” said Kallu Khan, one of the shop’s employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/masks-on-faces-prayers-on-lips-some-follow-but-many-devotees-violate-norms-as-places-of-worship-reopen/articleshow/79251377.cms||Ashish Roy
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||BJP appoints in charge in poll-bound municipal councils||JAIPUR: The state BJP on Monday appointed election incharges in the 50 poll-bound municipal councils spread over 12 districts. The polls are scheduled in December. Former vice-president Arun Chaturvedi, Rajya Sabha member Ram Kumar Verma, MLAs – Vasudev Devnani, Manjeet Choudhary and Ashok Lahoti — have been made incharge of several places. The incharges have been asked to stay at the respective poll-bound areas. “They have to prepare a panel on each seat, carry out an internal survey on each potential candidate and finalise issues to be raised in the campaigns,” said a party source. The remaining have been picked up from the pool of party workers who have never held any position and have been active in the RSS. “Our role is to give the direction to the polls and to ensure that candidates stick to the party line. Also, promises they make should be in sync with the party idealogy,” Devnani, who is the in-charge of Mt Abu seat, said. The appointment of incharges have yet again had a strong influence of RSS and party president Satish Poonia. “Several MLAs appears to have been perturbed over the appointments since their referral were not entertained by the party president,” said a party source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-appoints-in-charge-in-poll-bound-municipal-councils/articleshow/79252141.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Private school teacher on hunger strike admitted to hospital||Jaipur: A private school teacher who was part of a hunger strike was admitted to the hospital after her condition deteriorated on Monday. Forum of Private Schools in Rajasthan has been protesting the non-deposition of fees at Shaheed Smarak for five days now. Seema Sharma was admitted to SMS Hospital around noon on Monday after she complained of weakness. Another protester, Hemlata Sharma, is also said to be not well but she made it clear that until their demands are fulfilled, she will continue with the hunger strike. Anil Sharma, member of Forum of Private Schools, Rajasthan, said that they have been forced to take this extreme step. “Private schools are facing financial crunch as most schools haven’t received fees. Schools are finding it difficult to make ends meet. We want government to intervene and decide this at the earliest,” said Sharma. Private schools have called a meeting on Tuesday to decide whether to continue with the hunger strike or call it off. They will also decide if the protest needs to be taken forward in a different form. Almost all the private schools in the state have stopped online classes as fees has not been paid. Matter regarding fees is still pending in the Rajasthan High Court. However, private schools will soon decide whether to start online classes at least for those who have paid the fees. Watch Rajasthan: Forum of private schools protests over non-deposition of fees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/private-school-teacher-on-hunger-strike-admitted-to-hospital/articleshow/79252136.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Draft electoral roll released||Coimbatore: Collector K Rajamani released the draft electoral roll here on Monday. As of November 16, the district has 29,70,733 voters – 14,68,222 men, 15,02,142 women and 369 other gender voters. With 4,44,016 voters, Kavundampalayam constituency has the highest number of voters and Valparai constituency has the lowest number with 2,01,655 voters. In Tirupur district, the draft electoral roll was released by collector K Vijayakarthikeyan. The district has 23,03,842 voters – 11,42,775 men, 11,60,809 women and 258 other gender voters. Those who complete 18 years of age by January 1, those whose names are missing in the list, those who want to change their name or address and those who want to remove name from the list should submit application forms at polling stations, revenue divisional officers offices and taluk offices. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/draft-electoral-roll-released/articleshow/79252129.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||National Epilepsy Day: Anybody with severe Covid may suffer seizures for the first time||Nagpur: Doctors say that though epilepsy patients don’t face any increased risk from Covid infection, others may be at a risk of suffering from seizures for the first time in life in case of brain involvement.Neurosurgeon Dr Chandrashekhar Meshram said with severe Covid the infection risk of severe encephalitis increases but patients can rest assured as it is a treatable disease.“Patients with epilepsy do not have more chance of developing Covid infection. However, due to infection and fever, the epileptic attack may get precipitated in those with epilepsy. Those who have severe Covid infection with associated encephalitis can develop an attack of epilepsy for the first time,” said Dr Nirmal Surya, chairman of epilepsy foundation.Dr Sangeeta Rawat, head of the neurology department at KEM Hospital, Mumbai, said epilepsy can occur at any age. “One in 200 persons has a chance of getting epilepsy during their lifetime,” she said.The observations come ahead of National Epilepsy Day which is on November 17. To mark the day, the Indian Academy of Neurology, Nagpur Neuro Society, Nagpur Epilepsy Association, Psychiatry Society Nagpur, Orange City Cultural Foundation, Epilepsy Foundation, Epilepsy subsection of IAN and Saptak have joined hands for a public education and awareness drive. Well known experts from the city and across the country will speak on different aspects of the disorder.“Epilepsy is a treatable and preventable disease of the brain. There are more than 50 million patients of epilepsy all over the world and 24 lakh people are newly diagnosed every year. Nearly 80% of the people with epilepsy live in low and middle-income countries,” said Dr Meshram, who is president of the Tropical Neurology group of the World Federation of Neurology.Neurologist at CIIMS, Dr Neeraj Baheti, said epilepsy is considered a major social stigma in many parts of our country and there are various misconceptions about epilepsy so many patients do not consult doctors. “Family members and people with epilepsy should not hide their condition. They should consult a doctor, take regular treatment and lead a normal life” he said.Dr Gagandeep Singh, epilepsy specialist and secretary of the Indian Academy of Neurology, cautioned that there are other conditions which look like epilepsy but in actuality that’s not the case. “If epilepsy is suspected, don’t hide it and consult your doctor for a proper diagnosis. If the treatment starts early then a majority of the patients with epilepsy can be cured. It’s good news that whatever medicines are available in the western world for treatment of epilepsy are also available in our country. Proper diagnosis is crucial,” he said.IT’S A CURABLE* 70% epilepsy patients can be cured and others can be helped to lead a better life* 80% patients in low income countries are still untreated because of lack of knowledge and non-availability of medicines* India has nearly 12 million persons with epilepsy. * Main reason for recurrent epileptic attacks is not taking medicines regularly* Pay special attention during festivals and functions* By and large, Diwali is not very happy for epileptic patients as some get breakthrough seizures* Possible reasons could be air pollution, sound pollution, change in diet, excitement, lack of sleep and skipping medicinesTYPES OF SEIZURESSeizures depend on which area of the brain is involved. In majority of cases the cause for epileptic seizure is known and includes abnormalities of brain development, stroke, head injuries, infections, brain tumours, genetic causes or brain damage during and after birth. Some of these causes are preventableDURING AN EPILEPSY ATTACKDO NOT...• Put anything in the person’s mouth• Try to hold down or restrain the person• Forcibly attempt to open the clenched teeth• Bring shoes, chappals, onions near the noseDOs• Stay calm• Turn person on one side, position mouth towards ground• Protect head, remove glasses, loosen tight neckwear• Help to avoid injury• Stay with the person until full awareness• Call ambulance if seizure lasts more than 5 minutesxxxxxxxxxxxxxx||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/national-epilepsy-day-anybody-with-severe-covid-may-suffer-seizures-for-the-first-time/articleshow/79251384.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 17, 2020||Coimbatore||Air, noise pollution levels dipped significantly on Diwali day in dist||Coimbatore: Going by the parameters, both air and noise pollution levels have significantly reduced on the Diwali day this year when compared with previous years in Coimbatore district. The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has monitored both the air and noise pollution levels at two places – Kavundamplayam (residential category) and district collector’s office (mixed category) - before and on the Diwali day. The value of PM10 – inhalable particles with diameter up to 10 microns – at collector’s office was 45 to 91 mg/m3 before the festival day and 86 mg/m3 on the festival day. Its value at Kavundampalayam was 19 to 56 mg/m3 before the festival day and 55 mg/m3 on the day of festival, according to an official from TNPCB. The permissible limit of PM10 in the air is 100 mg/m3. The value of PM2.5 - inhalable particles with diameter up to 2.5 microns – at collector’s office was 10 to 20 mg/m3 before the festival day and 12 mg/m3 on the festival day. Its value at Kavundampalayam was 9 to 24 mg/m3 before the festival day and 14 mg/m3 on the festival day, the official added. The permissible limit of PM2.5 in the air is 60 mg/m3. Similarly, the presence of Sulphur dioxide (SO2) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2), which are emitted while bursting crackers, were also found to be within the permissible limit in both the areas, the official said. In case of noise pollution, the collector’s office has recorded 63.2 decibels on the day of festival and 58.7 decibels before that, the official said, adding that the permissible limit in mixed area is 65 decibels. The noise pollution was recorded beyond the permissible limit only in Kavundampalayam area. 64.3 decibels were recorded on Saturday against the permissible limit in residential areas – 55 decibels, the official added. “This is the cleanest Diwali celebration that the city has witnessed in the last 10 years and the pollutants level are significantly lesser compared to the previous years. It is mainly because of two things. One, the time limitations announced by the state government for bursting crackers and due to the pandemic,” the official said. Also, the vehicular movement was reduced at least by 70% on Saturday and its contribution to both air and noise pollution is significant, the official said. City-based environmentalists said that it is one of the much-needed changes in the society and they are confident that the trend will continue in the upcoming years. “One of the main reasons for the reduction in air pollution is drop in firecrackers sales in the district and it is because people are affected financially during the lockdown. Awareness about the ill-effects of bursting firecrackers has increased among the people especially children,” Mac Mohan, an environmentalist, said. Pointing out that announcement regarding fixation of time slots for bursting crackers had not reached the public and people were found bursting crackers throughout the day, he said that the government should make such important announcements in advance and ensure that it reaches majority of the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/air-noise-pollution-levels-dipped-significantly-on-diwali-day-in-dist/articleshow/79252134.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Thank people for not using crackers: CM||Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has expressed his gratitude to the people of the state for abiding by the resolution of not bursting crackers on Diwali. He said it was really commendable that people showed understanding and acted as responsible citizens in the fight against Covid. This self-motivated drive was really praiseworthy, he added. “This social awareness instills new hope in me. This resolution shows that irrespective of any adverse conditions, people of the state are always ready to face them. All residents of the state deserve a big thank you,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/thank-people-for-not-using-crackers-cm/articleshow/79252132.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Covid-19: Recoveries over twice number of new cases in Goa||PANAJI: New Covid-19 infections have been showing a consistent drop since last month in Goa and, on Monday, the state’s active case tally fell below the 1,500-mark. The state reported 285 recoveries, which is more than twice the new cases detected during the day. Recovery rate has touched 95% in the last two days. There were 125 new cases and one death of a 66-year-old man from Panaji, who had hypertension and diabetes morbidities. He died at the Goa Medical College (GMC) after five days of treatment. Goa’s positivity rate stood at 10% with 1,220 samples tested during the day. With the decline in new infections, there has also been a marked drop in mortalities. The Covid-19 death count stands at 664 with the highest number of deaths reported in September. As many as 21 patients were hospitalised over the past 24 hours and 92 opted for home isolation. On Monday, the Panaji urban health centre reported nine fresh infections taking its case tally to 85. All centres in North Goa have less than 100 cases, including Chimbel and Porvorim, which for a prolonged period of over two months had witnessed a spike. In South Goa, only Ponda and Margao have over 100 cases. Infections from the port town have been under control. On Monday, its caseload dropped below 100.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/at-285-recoveries-more-than-twice-new-infections/articleshow/79253376.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Firecracker prohibition was partially effective: Police||JAIPUR: Despite a ban on firecrackers, people in several areas of the city burst firecrackers on Diwali. Though the use of firecrackers was much less, there were a few who did not respect the imposed ban. However, nobody was penalised and police claimed the ban was effective. ACP (law and order) Rahul Prakash said, “The ban was largely effective and compared to last year, the use of firecrackers was minimal. Prior to Diwali, we had sealed the shops selling firecrackers and on the festival day, our mobile teams were regularly making announcements about the ill-effects of crackers and the pollution caused by them. We did not have to penalise anyone.” Officials claimed that those who used firecrackers are probably the ones who had leftovers from the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firecracker-prohibition-was-partially-effective-police/articleshow/79252140.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Colleges to focus on online classes this sem||Madurai: Colleges in the city will make online classes available this semester as the state government has announced that they will not reopen until further notice, except for research scholars and final year postgraduate students. As there were concerns among students studying science subjects unable to attend practical lab sessions, colleges are hopeful of holding virtual sessions for now. “So far, the response has been good for online classes. Students and faculty have got used to it. Safety of students always comes first, so we are not looking to force students to come to college unless it strictly needs to be enforced. We plan to make classes available online even if we reopen, at least for the whole of this semester,” said Christianna Singh, principal, Lady Doak College. She added that parent-teacher conferences were also held online during which most parents expressed happiness with the quality of online classes and gave suggestions for improvement. “Campus life is much more than classroom and learning theories from lectures. We are missing out on practical sessions in labs and even use of the library facilities. Interaction with various faculty, seniors and juniors is invaluable for experiencing campus life so I’m definitely hoping for college to reopen soon,” said K N Murugesan, a second year BSc Physics student. Some colleges were hoping to complete at least practical sessions for students in batches by reopening. “We were more concerned for first year students as they are the ones who are completely out of touch with how campus life is supposed to be and planned to reopen for only them. But, it is good to continue with online classes until it is absolutely safe to reopen. Even for practical sessions for science students, we have technology to help us manage till then,” said Davamani M Christober, principal, The American College. He said that software is available for virtual labs and the faculty are holding live demonstrations for students during online classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/colleges-to-focus-on-online-classes-this-sem/articleshow/79252123.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Alwar Hindu youth first non-Muslim in nation to top Islamic Studies entrance exam||JAIPUR: Shubham Yadav (21) from Alwar has become the first non-Muslim in the country to top in the Central University Common Entrance Test in Islamic Studies. A philosophy graduate from Delhi University, Shubham wanted to understand the religion in depth. “There are so many misconceptions about Islam and I believe this is one of the most misunderstood religion. We read so many world leaders talking about it which made me think about taking it up in my post-graduation. Personally, I just want to study it to be a bridge between two communities at the time of so much polarisation,” said Shubham. Dreaming to become a civil servant, Shubham said that Islamic Studies will be helpful for UPSC preparations. Shubham’s father is a businessman and mother a housewife. He said his father supported his decision to study the subject. One major concern his parents have is security as he will be studying in Kashmir. “Out of 14 central universities in the country, colleges in Kashmir are the only ones offering the course in Islamic Studies. So, I will be there for two years. I have been to Kashmir and people over there are friendly. I don’t think we must make any misconception towards a community,” said Shubham. In Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Rajasthan Sanskrit University, there are many Muslims doing PhD. Shastri Kosalendra Das, head of the department in the university, this is a welcome step. “People willing to take a look into other religions without any prejudices is a positive move. Many other community students are studying Sanskrit in the university. This can help in bridging the gap between the two communities,” said Das. In Rajasthan University, there are two assistant professors in Urdu department who are Hindus. Rashmi Jain, an associate professor in Rajasthan University, said that whether it is for jobs or just interest of students, but now-a-days there is dilution of boundaries in education on the basis of communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/alwar-hindu-youth-first-non-muslim-in-nation-to-top-islamic-studies-entrance-exam/articleshow/79252130.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Adulterated paneer, cream destroyed during transit||Jaipur: As part of the ‘Shuddh Ke Liye Yuddh’ campaign, district administration destroyed 1,875 kgs of adulterated paneer and 115 kgs of stale cream, which were seized from three pick-up vans near a toll plaza on Jaipur-Agra National Highway, said additional district magistrate IV (ADM-IV) Ashok Kumar. The teams of food inspectors under district administration had intensified their campaign on November 15 and 16 in view of Diwali. Kumar, who is also the nodal officer of the campaign, informed that on Monday, Bassi police stopped three pick-up vans filled with paneer near the toll plaza on Jaipur-Agra National Highway. “The pick-up vans were carrying paneer and cream. The food inspector of Jaipur-II reached the spot and collected samples of paneer and cream. After examination, these were found to be of substandard quality. Around 1,875 kgs of paneer and 115 kgs of cream were destroyed on the spot,” he said. Meanwhile, another team of food inspectors on Sunday collected samples of paneer, which were brought to Jaipur from Balaji Paneer Udyog and Kesri Nandan Dairy at Sikrai in Dausa. A team of food inspectors on Friday had destroyed 300 litres of adulterated milk at Chithwadi area in Chomu, said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/adulterated-paneer-cream-destroyed-during-transit/articleshow/79252155.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||State not opening colleges from Tuesday||Jaipur: The state higher education department has denied permission to restart degree colleges from Tuesday. The UGC had allowed colleges to reopen from November 17 provided they got permission from their respective states. The school education department will take a call on the reopening of classes X and XII in the evening.Higher education minister Bhanwar Singh Bhati said they were yet to take a call on the opening of colleges. “This decision cannot be taken by my department alone. As and when the decision is taken, it will be informed to the colleges in advance,” said Bhati. Sources said the health department had tipped off a surge in Covid cases in December and opening of schools/colleges would contribute to more cases. Normally, the session ends by March, but the department is hoping that if they get a green light from the health to start from December, they can run the session till August with exams in June and July to compensate the loss. “It is certain that the academic session will be delayed by a few months. We are, however, providing online education through different social media portals but facing network problems in the rural areas,” said Sandesh Nayak, commissioner, college education. The developments in higher education are going to impact 11 lakh students enrolled in higher education institutes. Few colleges are running online classes, but presence of students is almost negligible. Similarly, most private universities are yet to start online classes. Uncertainty over re-opening of colleges has come as a blow for private colleges. They were hoping that once its starts, they can collect fees from the students as majority of them were yet to deposit it. Puneet Sharma, a higher education expert, said it was very disturbing to see that while the state was holding elections, it was scared of holding classes. “Nobody in the world has any idea when the situation will turn normal and till when we will suspend classes,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-not-opening-colleges-from-tuesday/articleshow/79252157.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Couple’s deaths yet to be solved||Jaipur: Cops are yet to determine the motive behind the deaths of the unmarried couple at Muhana on Saturday. While the woman died due to head injury, the youth’s cause of death remains to be ascertained. Police are yet to find if it is a case of double murder or suicide. While Deshraj (23) was dead when his body was found, Khusbu Kumari (19) was still alive though succumbed few hours later. “While the girl’s post-mortem report said she died due to the head injury, the youth’s autopsy report did not tell the cause of his death. Now FSL team will study the samples taken from him to ascertain the cause of death. There is a possibility that he might have attacked the girl and then consumed a poisonous substance but as of now it is very difficult to say as to what actually happened and we are investigating all aspects in the case,” said an official of Muhana police station.Officials claimed at present they do not know if it was a case of murder or suicide as there were no injury marks on the youth’s body while the girl had injuries on her head. They were hoping that the girl would gain consciousness and would be able to tell as to what transpired, but she died before cops could talk to her.According to officials, both the deceased were from not from Rajasthan and they were looking into the possibility if the couple’s families might be involved in the deaths. The official said, “The families of both the deceased claimed that they had no knowledge that the two were in a relationship or that they stayed together in Jaipur. We will question them further to get more details.” The bodies were handed over to the families after the autopsies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/couples-deaths-yet-to-be-solved/articleshow/79252162.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Aleixo: Cancel ‘disastrous’ projects||Panaji: The state government should take a cue from the ongoing protests and cancel the three “environmentally disastrous projects” initiated by the Centre, said Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco in a letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant. He said that protestors, especially children, have urged the government to stop transportation of coal and coke from Mormugao Port Trust to Karnataka and cancel the double-tracking of South Western Railway (SWR) line. Sawant, however, has said that it is not possible to stop the projects financed by the Centre. “I fail to understand why double tracking of SWR line cannot be stopped for good as you, yourself have vowed in the interaction with the children to get the present level of coal transportation from Goa to the thermal and steel plants of Karnataka reduced by more than half of the existing level within a year’s time,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aleixo-cancel-disastrous-projects/articleshow/79252942.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Gehlot hits out at Kapil Sibal for openly airing his views||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot came out strongly against former Union minister Kapil Sibal who again openly criticised the top leadership over the party’s poor showing in the recent Bihar assembly polls. .Sibal had said that the party must recognize it is in decline and “experienced minds, experienced hands and those who understand political realities” were needed to revive the organisation.“The time for introspection is over,” Sibal told the Indian Express in an interview that he also tweeted. Sibal was among the senior Congress leaders who raised leadership issue in a letter at the last CWC.Sibal’s criticism of the party leadership comes close on the heels of its ally in Bihar, RJD, attacking Rahul Gandhi’s poll campaign in Bihar.Gehlot in reply to Sibal said, “There was no need for Kapil Sibal to mention our internal issue in the media, this has hurt the sentiments of party workers across the country.”The Congress veteran and staunch Gandhi family loyalist said, “Congress has seen various crises including 1969, 1977, 1989 and later in the 1996, but every time we came out stronger due to our ideology, programmes, policies and firm belief in party leadership. We have improved with each and every crisis and also formed the UPA government in 2004 under the able leadership of Soniaji, we shall overcome this time too.”The three-time chief minister reasoned that, “There are various reasons for electoral losses, But each time rank and file of the Congress party has shown undivided and firm belief in the party leadership and that is why we came out of it stronger and united after every crisis. Even today, Congress is the only party which can keep this Nation united and take it forward on the path of comprehensive development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gehlot-hits-out-at-kapil-sibal-for-openly-airing-his-views/articleshow/79252159.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Madurai||MKU to hold online exams for arrears and supplementary||Madurai: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) will conduct the April 2020 arrear exams for all UG and PG courses and July 2020 supplementary exams for final semester students starting this week in the online mode. Students will be able to download question papers and write the exams from their homes.Though minimum pass marks have been awarded to students who were to write their arrear exams in April, any student who is willing to improve their score and has paid the fees can write the exams. Similarly, those who did not have a chance to give their online final semester exams held in September, would be able to give their exams now. In a notification, MKU registrar (in charge) Dr VS Vasantha said that question papers will be sent by principals/directors to students to be downloaded 15 minutes before the start of exam. Students will have to write their exams with pen and paper from home and submit the answer scripts either by online mode or offline mode within one hour after completion of the exams. Students can upload scanned copies of answer scripts online or make direct submission to nearby exam centre or send by registered post with time stamp. If students delay submission, the answer scripts will not be accepted for evaluation. The results of these exams will be released within the last week of November or first two weeks of December.The exams for final semester students were held in a similar manner in September. This system of conducting exams had drawn flak then as it left room for copying by sitting in groups or referring to sources for answers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-to-hold-online-exams-for-arrears-and-supplementary/articleshow/79252135.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Less firecrackers = fewer fire calls: Officials got only four this Diwali||NAGPUR: The fire and emergency services department received nine calls reporting fire during Diwali, of which four incidents took place due to bursting of firecrackers on Saturday and Sunday. This was one of the safest Diwali the city has celebrated in the recent past, said fire officials. Fire officials added that the fewer number of fire calls was an indication that Diwali celebration was a low-key affair in the city and citizens burst less firecrackers. The first call was reported from Kirti Nagar on November 14. At around 8.55pm, control room received a call reporting fire in a house. One fire tender from Sakkardara station managed to control the blaze by saving almost entire house. An air-cooler and other household materials worth Rs10,000 were gutted. The control room received second call from Savitribai Fule Nagar in South Nagpur. Two fire tenders from Narendra Nagar station reached there and extinguished the fire. Mattress worth Rs300 was gutted in the incident. Fire caused by bursting of firecrackers partially destroyed a forested area alongside Ganesh Tekdi road. At around 9.30pm, the fire department received a call and soon a tender from Civil Lines station reached the spot and doused the blaze. Another tragedy — loss of property and human life — was averted in congested Hansapuri locality when a waste dump on the terrace of one Aman Soni’s house caught fire due to sparks from firecrackers. Prompt action by both residents and Ganjipeth fire station staff helped in dousing the fire. Some non-firecracker related incidents were also reported in the city. A fire erupted at around 6.15am on November 15 in an electrical shop on Central Avenue in Gandhibagh. Goods worth Rs10 lakh were damaged. Five fire tenders took an hour to control the blaze. Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake said awareness among people about causes and preventive measures has increased manifold and this is one of the major reasons for fewer fire incidents reported this Diwali. People seem to have avoided bursting rockets, which is usually one of the major causes that cause fire, he said. In 2019, fire department had issued 752 no-objection certificates to set up temporary shops for selling firecrackers. This year, only 582 odd NOCs were issued. In view of the Covid pandemic, police had also denied permission to firecracker shops at 18 main market places in the city. “This move has also resulted in city witnessing lesser fire incidents during Diwali night,” said Uchake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-firecrackers-fewer-fire-calls-officials-got-only-four-this-diwali/articleshow/79251397.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Four students in Madurai likely to get MBBS seats||Madurai: Four students from Madurai district, including one from corporation school have a bright chance of getting a medical seat through the 7.5% quota for government school students. According to district education officials, out of the 20 students from government-run schools who were eligible for seats under the 7.5% quota, four of them have an almost confirmed chance of getting seats through counselling. “These four students have a great chance in the list for 7.5% quota. However, since there is a chance that some students can also get through open quota, perhaps 3-4 more government school students from Madurai can also get seats,” said S Vennila Devi, NEET coordinator. Three government school students - S Kanish Kumar, N Karthick Raja, and S Seethalakshmi - all repeaters from various government schools in Madurai, stand a good chance of getting medical seats as they figured within the top 50 rank for the 7.5% quota within their community. Kanish Kumar, with 329 marks, the highest among government school students in Madurai, secured state rank of 78, and 36 within the DNC community. “Last time I scored only 135 marks, which I improved to 329. However, it is because of the 7.5% quota that I have a good chance now to become the first doctor in our family. My father works as a mason while my mother is a homemaker,” he said, adding that he had undergone government NEET coaching last year when studying in Class 12 at the M Puliankulam government higher secondary school and spent this year preparing from home. N Karthick Raja from M Subbalapuram government higher secondary school scored 301, and was ranked 102 overall in the state and 20 within the SC community ranking for 7.5% quota. “I improved my score from 99 to 301. I studied from home using the new syllabus books for Class XII this year, which helped me score better. As there is only limited study material for NEET for Tamil medium students, the new syllabus books have proved to be valuable,” he said. Coming from a family of farmers, he hopes to specialise as a doctor in orthopaedics. Meanwhile, the lone student from a Madurai Corporation school has secured 69th rank in BC category under the 7.5% quota. As she stands bright chance of getting a medicine seat Madurai MP Su Venkatesan met the girl on Monday and congratulated her. She would be the first student from a corporation-run school to secure admission ever since NEET was introduced. B Pavithra, a student of Navalar Somasundara Bharathiyar Corporation Higher Secondary School in Palanganatham secured 214 marks in the NEET exam and secured 209 in the overall rankings. Pavithra’s father runs a grocery store in Madakulam main road. He said that he felt proud of his daughter and that she did well in the exams because of the coaching provided by teachers. Congratulating the school teachers, MP Venkatesan said that they conducted evening special classes. Madurai Midtown Rotary had provided healthy snacks to the students since it took late in the evening for them to reach home after the special classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-students-in-madurai-likely-to-get-mbbs-seats/articleshow/79252131.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 17, 2020||Madurai||Covid-19 cases dip in south, central TN; zero cases in Perambalur||Madurai/Trichy: For the first time in nearly five months, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases fell below 150 on Monday in the 10 southern districts of the state. With 127 fresh cases and five deaths, the tally in the region has climbed to 1,27,312, which include 1,594 active cases, 1,23,673 recoveries and 2,045 deaths. Meanwhile, Perambalur district in the central region has recorded zero fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday. Active cases in the district were just 33, the lowest among other districts in the region. The central region recorded 137 new cases taking the tally to 68,817, which include 1,581 active cases. Madurai reported 28 new cases, followed by Kanyakumari (26). All 10 southern districts reported less than 30 fresh cases. With 346 and 260 active cases respectively, Madurai and Tirunelveli have the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Tuticorin (231) and Kanyakumari (210). All other districts have less than 150 active cases. Covid-19 cases were reported in Sivaganga (8), Tuticorin (7), Ramanathapuram (5) and Tenkasi (2). The five deaths reported in the region were three in Madurai, and one each in Kanyakumari and Theni. The total Covid-19 death toll in Madurai is 432 as it has a death rate (2.2%) higher than the state average. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. The central region also recorded a death in Karur. With this, the toll has climbed to 891. Though overall figures are coming down in the region, Thanjavur with 34 new cases is on top. The total number of positive cases recorded in the district is 16,056. Trichy district recorded 26 fresh positive cases taking the tally to 13,074. Tiruvarur district reported 23 cases, Karur 22, Nagapattinam 17, Pudukottai 12, and Ariyalur 3 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-cases-dip-in-south-central-tn-zero-cases-in-perambalur/articleshow/79252142.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||‘Ports revenue took hit with mining ban’||PANAJI: Till September 2012, the annual revenue of the ports department stood at Rs 40 crore. It came crashing down with the stoppage of mining that year. Even after eight years, the ports department is yet to reach the heights it touched in terms of revenue collection then. Currently, its earnings range between Rs 7 to 8 crore, a ports official said, adding that they will not see revenue rising in leaps and bounds unless mining activities resume in full swing. It has tried to tap other sources to make up for losses in revenue, but it is still not adequate, the officer said. Some amount of mining transportation does happen now, but it is not even 20% of the trade that took place prior to 2012, he added. Since the stoppage of mining and consequent halt in ore transportation through the sea route, there has been a rise in other cruise traffic, the officer said. A few barge owners, who were earlier purely dependent on ore transportation, have diverted and invested in cruise vessels for use in the tourism sector, he said. “There is a big market for the segment and those who got into it in the last two to three years have done well except for the last six months when everything came to a standstill due to Covid,” the officer said. Though cruise traffic has gone up, the earning from the new source is no match to income from mining activity. The ports department has three floating jetties coming up at Campal, Old Goa and Chapora. The Panaji one was commissioned a few months ago. The three proposed jetties will be ready in the next three to four months. They are being built through Central funding. Refuting allegations that the new floating jetties have been planned considering probable coal transportation, he said they will provide berthing mostly to cruise vessels. “It is not true that they are meant for vessels transporting coal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ports-revenue-took-hit-with-mining-ban/articleshow/79252938.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Teen PUBG addict kills pal for not giving mobile||UDAIPUR: In a shocking incident in Rajsamand’s Jaitpura village , a 14-year-old boy killed his 16-year-old friend with a stone because he refused to give him his phone to play PUBG, police said. “The minor has confessed to the murder. He smashed the victim’s head with a heavy stone,” Rajsamand SP Bhuvan Bhushan Yadav said. The incident took place under Bhim police station limits on November 9. Police found the body of victim Hamid Kathat from a nearby hill on November 11. A shepherd had seen the body and informed police. Hamid's father Ramesh Kathat told police that his son and wife Rukma Devi had gone to work in the fields on November 9 but Hamid did not return home with his mother. Assuming that he was playing with friends, they called him only to find out that his phone was switched off. When the body was found, the phone was missing. A special team led by Bhim DSP Samandar Singh and SHO Gajendra Singh took help of the cyber cell and tracked Hamid’s phone details. Cops came to know that Hamid had spoken last to the accused, a 14-year-old boy, who was his friend from the same village. When police detained the minor and questioned him, he confessed to the crime. The accused said that he had an ordinary phone while Hamid had an android handset which they both used to play PUBG. On the fateful day, the accused asked Hamid to lend his phone for some time so that he could play games, but the former refused. Later they both roamed around and reached the hill where the accused found an opportunity and hit hard on Hamid's head with a heavy stone. He attacked him several times and ran away with the handset. The accused was produced before a competent court which ordered him to a correctional home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teen-pubg-addict-kills-pal-for-not-giving-mobile/articleshow/79252161.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Goa museum reopens after 8 months||PANAJI: The Goa State Museum, which was closed for visitors from March onwards in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, reopened on Monday. “Due to the pandemic we were forced to keep the premises shut for public visits. Now that we have reopened, we have put together a set of guidelines for visitors at the entrance of the museum,” a museum official said. Some of these guidelines include maintaining social distancing, compulsory wearing of masks and use of sanitiser before entering the premises. The Goa State Museum had released an order on March 18 stating that it will remain closed to the public as a precautionary measure to prevent the spread of Covid-19. After the state opened up, the museum was awaiting orders from the central government to reopen. Last week, the ministry of culture issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for re-opening of museums, art galleries and exhibitions as part of the Unlock 5.0 guidelines of MHA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-museum-reopens-after-8-months/articleshow/79253380.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal passes away||JAIPUR: Cabinet minister Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal passed away at Medanta Hospital in Gurugram on Monday evening. He was the minister for social justice and empowerment. He was elected to the Rajasthan assembly from Sujangarh in Churu district. Meghwal was shifted to Medanta Hospital after he suffered a stroke on May 13. He was on ventilator since then. The state government has announced a day of mourning and holiday on Tuesday for all state government offices. The national flag will fly half mast as a mark of respect to the departed soul. The party also cancelled the scheduled workshop of elected representatives for the local bodies to be held at Birla auditorium on Tuesday. AICC general secretary incharge of the state Ajay Maken had already arrived in Jaipur on Monday evening for the event. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot condoled the minister’s death. Gehlot tweeted, “Deeply saddened at the passing away of my ministerial colleague Master Bhanwar Lal Meghwal ji after a prolonged illness. We have been together since 1980. My heartfelt condolences to his family members in this most difficult time, may God give them strength. May his soul RIP.” PCC president Govind Singh Dotasra, former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, former chief minister Vasundhara Raje were among those who expressed condolence. Raje said the death of Meghwal is not just a loss for the Congress, but for the entire state. Master Bhanwarlal was born on July 2, 1948 in Sujangarh in Churu district. He was minister for education in the previous Gehlot cabinet as well. It was a double whammy for the Meghwal family as his daughter Dr Banarsi Meghwal passed away on October 29 due to cardiac arrest. The 72-year-old Bhanwarlal was the Dalit face of the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minister-bhanwarlal-meghwal-passes-away/articleshow/79252178.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||PM unveils statue of Jain saint in Jaitpur||Jodhpur: Prime Minister Narendra Modi unveiled a statue of Acharya Vijay Vallabh Maharaj through video conferencing on Monday to mark the 151st birth anniversary of the Jain saint. The grand ashtadhatu statue of the saint christened as the ‘Statue of Peace’ has been installed at Vijay Vallabh Sadhna Kendra in Pali district’s Jaitpur. Modi said it was his privilege to have unveiled world’s tallest statue of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel in Gujarat and now was again privileged to unveil yet another statue of great Jain saint Acharya Vijay Vallabh Surishvarji Maharaj in Rajasthan.“This statue would nurture peace and fraternity. Out saints have shown the world a path to build a better and holistic society,” Modi said.He called upon the community to initiate a movement for Atmanirbhar Bharat like they once did in the form of Bhakti movement during India’s freedom struggle.Recalling the preaching of Acharya Vijay Vallabh about equal status of women in society and education, he said a plenty of steps had been taken in this direction in the country.“Law has been enacted against evils like triple talaq and daughters of the country have been finding so many opportunities to exhibit their mettle in defence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pm-unveils-statue-of-jain-saint-in-jaitpur/articleshow/79252190.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Centre to grant funds for projects: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday said that the Union government will conduct a study on reducing coal handling at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) and to focus on handling other commodities at the port. Sawant said that the Union ports minister will soon visit the state to review the coal handling capacity. The chief minister said that he spoke to railway minister Piyush Goyal over the double-tracking issue and raised the concerns of the people of the state. “The ports minister has assured to look into the (coal handling) issue. He has assured to prepare a study report for handling other commodities at MPT,” the chief minister said After a large group of children met Sawant on Sunday with a plea to stop coal transportation through Goa and to scrap the double-tracking of the South Western Railway route, he assured them that coal handling capacity at the MPT would be reduced by more than half (the present level) within a year, but that it wasn’t possible for him to stop any Centre-funded infrastructure project abruptly. On double-tracking, the CM on Sunday told the children that the project has been on for the past ten years, and it didn’t start during his tenure. To this, a child retorted, “You as chief minister have the power to stop it”. Sawant replied: “I can’t say stop any central projects just like that. Crores of rupees are spent... for anything (different) we have to study the issue and see the viability. Maybe a committee would be set up soon to study the issue.” He had also explained that the news of 70,000 trees being cut at Mollem was based on wrong information. “Only one project is coming up at Mollem, and that’s the Tanmar transmission line,” he said. “I am also concerned about Mollem, Goa has 70% tree cover,” he had said. The CM said that the state needs power for industry and to generate employment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/centre-will-conduct-study-on-mpt-coal-handling-cm/articleshow/79252943.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Agra||Over 5,000 AMU retirees get half pension for October, benefits for staff retired in 2019 in a limbo||AGRA: About 5,500 Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) retirees have received only half of their pension for the month of October, as the University Grants Commission (UGC) has not released the full amount under the pensioners’ head. Also, many of the pensioners have not been paid their full retirement benefits due to non-availability of funds since 2019. Varsity spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said that while the order of releasing the remaining amount of pension for last month has been issued and soon the pensioners, including 21% teaching staff, will get their dues, the university has written to the ministry of education for seeking clearance of all their dues, which have been pending since 2019. Elaborating it, Kidwai said that leave encashment has not been made available to the retirees since July 2019 while gratuity of the superannuating staff is due since August last year. Commutation benefits have also been pending since November 2019, he added. The issue came to light after Prof Aftab Alam from the varsity’s political science department, who is also a member of AMU’s Executive Council, wrote an open letter to his colleagues raising the issue of retirees’ pension for the last month. “This has compounded the woes of many retired employees who have not been paid their full retirement benefits, including encashment of leaves, arrears of pay, gratuity and commuted value of pension, for the last few years,” Prof Alam wrote in his letter. He further stated, “The delay in the payment of pension and other retirement benefits has been viewed by our courts with grave concern. This, in my opinion, is a matter of serious concern.” Former president of AMU Teachers’ Association (AMUTA) Prof Hamid Ali, who retired in November 2019, said, “I haven’t received any retirement benefits till date. I have taken a loan for my daughter’s studies but now it is very difficult to manage as there has been no communication from the varsity in this regard.” Expressing his frustration with the current situation, he said, “I am unable to understand the university's priorities. All construction activities are going on. Everything is being done, including the construction of a new gate, but no one understands the pensioners’ plight.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/over-5000-amu-retirees-get-half-pension-for-oct-benefits-for-staff-retired-in-2019-in-a-limbo/articleshow/79250657.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Government air quality data claims ‘satisfactory’ level, private figures disagree||NAGPUR: The city’s air quality remained dismal on Monday too, revealed data uploaded by private agencies. After remaining on the blink for two days, the government data released on Monday did not match the private agencies. On Monday, TOI had reported that government pollution control boards did not reveal the air quality data for Saturday and Sunday, the two key days when crackers were burst during the ongoing Diwali festival. However, private agencies show that the levels were “unhealthy” for both days. On Monday at 9pm, the air quality monitoring data uploaded on the official website of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) showed the city’s air quality index (AQI) to be 76, which comes under ‘satisfactory’. Environment activists said the figure was “unrealistically low”, considering the temperature and large-scale bursting of crackers. On the same day and time, the AQI displayed by private agencies was almost double that of the government figure. As per IQ Air Map, the city’s AQI was 152, which is “unhealthy”. Another website aqicn.org, said the AQI was 151, again unhealthy. “Logically, the data by private agencies seems to be more reliable. How is it possible that despite so much bursting of crackers, the air quality remains satisfactory? What is more surprising is the fact that the discrepancy in data is at the same location in Civil Lines,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation. At around 4pm, the city’s AQI was around 71, as per the CPCB data. “After firecracker bursting, it only increased to 76, which is too good to be true. Such low AQI levels are usually seen in monsoon. In this season, especially during Diwali, it can’t be so low,” added Chatterjee. The restrictions on bursting firecrackers were again breached, with people bursting crackers till midnight on Monday too. Following the National Green Tribunal’s diktat that non-attainment cities should not burst crackers, city police had allowed only a small window for bursting crackers between 8-10pm. However, the norm was not followed in most parts of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-air-quality-data-claims-satisfactory-level-pvt-figures-disagree/articleshow/79251403.cms||Manka Behl
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||8 persons die after consuming hooch||ALWAR: Five persons from Bharatpur’s Kama and three from a neighbouring UP village died after apparently consuming hooch bought from the same shop between November 12 and November 14. After the victims fell ill, their families took them to a hospital in UP’s Mathura as it was closer from their village than Bharatpur, but none of them could be saved. The deceased from Bharatpur were identified as Sohan Singh, Shriram, Satish, Dhara Bhat and Bijana Dhilawati. The post-mortem of only person has been done. Following the incident, the district administration swung into action and demanded a report. The sample taken from one victim was sent to FSL to confirm if the death happened due to consumption of poisonous alcohol. The villagers also demanded that the store owner be arrested and action taken against those persons who manufacturehooch. Cops have also initiated an investigation into the matter, though no one has been taken into custody yet as the cause of death was yet to be determined. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/8-persons-die-after-consuming-hooch/articleshow/79252192.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Rain, hail drive mercury south||Jaipur: The western disturbance induced cyclonic circulation resulted in rain and hailstorm across the state on Sunday. The regional Met office said the northern and eastern parts of the state witnessed light rain followed by thunder showers on Sunday. The unseasonal rain has resulted in a drop in minimum temperatures by a few degrees. The lowest minimum temperature in western Rajasthan was recorded at Jaisalmer at 12 degree Celsius and in northern part in Ajmer at 14.8 degree Celsius. Meanwhile, the hailstorm meant bad news for farmers as there were reports that standing Rabi crops suffered damage. However, the extent of the damage was not known. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rain-hail-drive-mercury-south/articleshow/79252199.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Godinho: Govt should cap coal handling at 4mn tonne||Panaji: With mounting opposition to coal handling in the state, panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho on Monday said that the government should cap coal handling at Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) at 4 million tonnes (MMT). He also said that the commodity should only be supplied for local industries.  Godinho said that the state government is trying to reduce coal handling to 15 MMT at the port. “When mining activities resume, and iron ore exports commence from MPT, the question of handling more than 5 to 7 MMT of coal will not arise,” he said. Godinho said that the state government should endeavor to make an exception for local industries that need coal for their operations. Godinho also said that permission for coal handling was granted by the Congress government despite the code of conduct in force at the time. He suggested that installating domes at the coal handling site could be explored to reduce pollution, and cited Jaigad port as an example. Godinho also said that the state government should give permission to install more pollution control measures even if it is 4 or 5 MMT. “When elections near, the opposition tries to capitalise on such issues to instigate people,” he said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/godinho-govt-should-cap-coal-handling-at-4mn-tonne/articleshow/79252947.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: With tourist footfalls hit, less than 40% shacks open for business||PANAJI: For the first time in decades, Goa’s beaches may be bereft of its ubiquitous shacks that have attracted tourists from near and far as less than 40% of these temporary structures have started operations. While only 40% of the 350-odd beach shacks allotted by the tourist department have started business, those 400-odd shacks that come up in private properties have also seen a mere 30% opening for public. “Less than average footfalls comprising mostly domestic tourists are not adequate to sustain all operators,” president of the Shack Owners’ Welfare Society (SOWS) Cruz Cardozo told TOI on Monday. This, despite the tourism department reducing the licence fee by half for the beach shacks, which come up post-monsoon and are dismantled by May-end, allotted by it. “There is no business during weekdays and though Indian tourists are seen on weekends, it is not sufficient to keep operating cost under control. Therefore, only operators having their own premises have opened so far, while those renting spaces have decided to give it a miss this season,” president of the all-Goa Private Hut/Shack Owners’ Association Dharmesh Saglani said. He said lack of foreign tourists due to the restriction on international commercial flights and absence of regular Diwali rush of domestic tourists has taken a huge hit on their businesses. Cardozo said in South Goa just 30 beach shacks have come up though 100-odd were allotted. The department has given shack operators an extension till December 31 for setting up shacks. Those who fail to do so may lose their licences. The validity of a beach licence is for three years, renewable every season. “During normal times, all allottees have to erect beach shacks in September in accordance with the beach shack policy. This time they have been given time till December-end after the government decided to reduce licence fees for beach shacks by 50%,” a senior tourism official said. SOWS secretary John Lobo said only around 40% allottees have set up shacks, though a few are yet to start operations. “Some beach stretches in Calangute and Candolim don’t receive domestic tourists and it is difficult for them to sustain business. Mostly those who entirely operate their shacks without relying much on outside labour have commenced their activity,” said Lobo. He said during Diwali vacations there is usually a huge surge in footfalls. However, this year, even domestic footfalls are less. “Business during weekends is good, but on weekdays it is negligible,” he said. Lobo said allottees have adopted the “wait and watch policy,” and may set up shacks in December in order not to lose their licence to operate. “It doesn’t make business sense to pay 50% fees and erect shacks when there is likely to be not enough domestic tourists,” he added. “Now, our only hope is December when Goa witnesses a surge in tourist arrivals. There won’t be foreign travellers, but we expect domestic numbers will go up,” a private shack operator in North Goa said. Private shacks and huts mostly come up at Calangute, Candolim, Arambol, Morjim and Mandrem in North Goa and at Palolem, Patnem and Agonda in South Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-tourist-footfalls-hit-less-than-40-shacks-open-for-biz/articleshow/79252953.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 17, 2020||Goa||Ready for debate with Delhi govt, not AAP MLA: Goa minister||PANAJI: Goa power minister Nilesh Cabral on Monday said he was ready to debate with his Delhi counterpart, Satyendar Jain, over the electricity models in their respective jurisdictions, and not with an official of the Delhi Jal Board. He was reacting to a tweet by the Delhi Jal Board’s vice-chairman, Raghav Chadha, in which the latter challenged him to a public debate on the Delhi and Goa electricity models. “There should be protocol. The governments of Goa and Delhi can debate,” Cabral said. The minister told reporters that he had made it very clear that Goa and Delhi couldn’t be compared in terms of their respective power sectors. He also said that if the Delhi government sought to learn about Goa’s electricity model, it was welcome to do so. “I have no issue in debating with like-minded people and with those who understand the power problems of Goa and Delhi. I do not seek to debate with a person who is an MLA and vice-chairman of the Jal Board and who is not connected to power at all,” Cabral said. “Chadha can seek my advice and I can give him advice on behalf of the state government.” AAP later tweeted, “Goa’s Power Minister and BJP Leader Nilesh Cabral takes a u-turn, says never challenged anyone for debate. @DrPramodPSawant why is your Minister running away from a debate with @raghav_chadha.” Chadha, who is scheduled to be in Goa on Tuesday, had earlier tweeted to Cabral, “I am reaching Goa tomorrow by 2pm on your invitation, to have a public debate with you, on Delhi electricity model vs Goa electricity model. I haven’t yet heard from you about the place and time of the debate where I should come.” “Pramod Sawant ji (@DrPramodPSawant), kindly intimate whether your party high command has given permission for the public debate between Goa Power minister and myself. I am reaching Goa tomorrow afternoon,” he tweeted to the Goa chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ready-for-debate-with-delhi-govt-not-aap-mla-cabral/articleshow/79252948.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jaipur||Firecracker ban: Post-Diwali AQI in Jaipur better than 2019||JAIPUR: The ban on firecrackers, which was partially effective, helped maintain the city’s air quality as it did not deteriorate on Diwali night and the day after. On Diwali day, air quality was poor while on the next day it was moderate due to the hailstorm. The level of noise pollution was also slightly higher on Diwali night. The air quality index (AQI) at police commissionerate on Diwali this year was 48.4% less compared to last year. While The the AQI was 411 in 2019, it was down to 212 this year. At Science Park in Shastri Nagar area, the AQI level went down significantly in comparison to Diwali last year. The AQI remained at 142 compared to 468 last year. At Psychiatric Centre, the AQI was 161 in comparison to 242 in 2019. Except at Raja Park, the noise level remained lowest in the past five areas in areas where Rajasthan State Pollution Control Board monitors the level of sound produced during Diwali. At Gandhi Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Mansarovar, Civil Lines and SDMH, the level of sound recorded on Diwali was lowest since 2016. However, in the night, the level of sound recorded on Diwali night was higher than a day before. Despite the ban on crackers, the AQI in Bhiwadi, Jodhpur and Kota recorded an increase. While it was 344 in Bhiwadi in comparison to 270 in 2019, in Jodhpur it was 340 compared to 318 last year. In Kota, the AQI was 335 compared to 303 in 2019. Ajmer, Alwar, Pali and Udaipur reported decrease in AQI this year in comparison to last year’s Diwali AQI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/firecracker-ban-post-diwali-aqi-in-city-better-than-2019/articleshow/79252221.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Agra||He was only doing his job, expect justice from SC: Kerala journo’s wife||AGRA: After nearly a month and a half, Sidhique Kappan's wife finally sees hope. The Kerala journalist was arrested on his way to Hathras with three others on October 5 and charged with sedition. On Monday, while the Supreme Court did not grant him bail, it did issue a notice to the Centre, the UP government and the state police chief on his bail application. His wife said she "expects justice" at the next hearing on Friday. "I am happy to know the Supreme Court has sought a response on his bail," his wife Raihana, 37, told TOI. "I expect justice on Friday." It has been 42 days since Kappan was arrested. His legal counsel has not been able to meet him because, the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) said, the jail authorities keep citing Covid-19 concerns. It was only on November 2, days after the KUWJ had moved the Supreme Court, that Raihana could speak to him. "He called me from Mathura jail. We spoke for just about three to four minutes. I could not ask much. He has diabetes and needs medicines on time. We don't know if the jail authorities are making sure of that," she said. The 41-year-old journalist works with a Malayalam language news portal in Delhi. His family is based at Malappuram in Kerala, where his wife, 90-year-old mother Khadeeja and three children live. "He is very attached to his mother. He used to call every day," said Raihana. Khadeeja has symptoms of Alzheimer's. There's not a lot she remembers. But in sudden bursts, she recalls that routine. "She asks where he is. I tell her he had called the previous night when she was asleep and he is well." Raihana said Kappan would often travel for work. "I don't know what was wrong about what he was doing," she said. "He had informed his office he was going to Hathras to cover the alleged gang-rape and murder of the 19-year-old Dalit girl. He had no money to hire a car all the way. So he had told friends that if anyone was headed that way, he could join them. That's how they were all travelling together." The habeas corpus writ petition for the three others — Masood Ahmad, Atikur Rahman, Mohammad Aalam — has been listed in the Allahabad high court for hearing on Tuesday. Their bail pleas were rejected by a Mathura court on Friday. The four of them were arrested at the Maant toll plaza when, the police said, "sensitive literature" was seized from them. They were said to be members of Popular Front of India, an organisation Kerala has banned and that UP tried to last year. Later, Mathura Police said in the FIR that they were involved in running a website that was "conspiring" to disrupt peace in Hathras. Weeks later, Hathras Police also filed an FIR on the same lines. This was right after Hathras had been virtually walled off to politicians and the media. "Siddique always speaks up for those whose voices need to be heard. All his work is testimony to that. He writes on behalf of the oppressed. Our family survives on the little he makes as a journalist. There isn't money in it. He is just passionate," Raihana said. Now, she has her hopes pinned on Friday's hearing. "I am shattered. And I am determined to keep fighting for the sake of our children, who have been through a lot emotionally. I have tried everything to get my husband released. But I won't give up."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/he-was-only-doing-his-job-expect-justice-from-sc-kerala-journos-wife/articleshow/79250698.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 17, 2020||Kochi||Police detain suspected Maoist||KOZHIKODE: Police have taken into custody a person who is suspected to be a member of the urban structure of the CPI (Maoist). T K Rajeevan, hailing from Pookode in Kannur, was picked up by the police at Sultan Bathery in Wayanad on Monday morning. There is a long-pending warrant against him for taking part in the attack on a bank in Wayanad in 2002 by the Ayyankali Pada. Ayyankali Pada was the frontal organization of the CPI-ML (Naxalbari), a splinter Naxalite group in Kerala. Rajeevan is suspected to be the state committee member of the organization. CPI-ML (Naxalbari) merged with CPI (Maoist) in 2014 and Rajeevan became the member of the new outfit. He is married to Thankamma, the leader of the Adivasi Samara Sangham. Police also raided the house of Thankamma at Meenangadi. Porattam, an organization committed to Maoist principles, has condemned the police action of taking Rajeevan into custody and raiding the house without any warrant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/police-detain-suspected-maoist/articleshow/79251404.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||‘NGOs running childcare institutions got up to 6.6L/child in foreign funds’||NEW DELHI: A random analysis by National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) covering over 600 NGOs running child care institutions showed that going by FRCA data on the quantum of donations in 2018-19, the average amount received per child in these CCIs ranged between Rs 2.12 lakh and Rs 6.60 lakh. The analysis covered 638 NGOs across Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Telangana and Karnataka that housed around 28,900 children at the time the NCPCR commissioned the social audit in 2018-19. On why these five states were chosen, NCPCR chief Priyank Kanoongo said the audit in 7,163 homes in 2018-19 found around 2.56 lakh children in CCIs. Of these, over 1.63 lakh were in five southern states. NCPCR decided to analyse trends in foreign funding by taking these five states first, an official said. The NCPCR plans to study the trend further and extend the analysis to other states too. “We are not alleging anything but yes, we want that whatever money is coming into the country should be used for the benefit of the child as these CCIs are under the Juvenile Justice Act,” the NCPCR chief said. The random analysis was carried out by picking NGOs running CCIs audited by the Lucknow-based Academy of Management Studies in 2018-19. Kanoongo said they took the FCRA data available on the home ministry’s website (www.fcraonline.nic.in) for the year 2018-19. “The calculation was carried out with the receipt of foreign contribution by NGOs running CCIs against the number of children staying during the social audit,” he said, adding that the expenditure per child per annum, including all recurring expenses, came to about Rs 60,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ngos-running-childcare-institutions-got-up-to-6-6l/child-in-foreign-funds/articleshow/79253788.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Desperate Tollywood looks for options to finish projects on floor||KOLKATA: Director Shyamal Bose might not be a familiar name in the industry. But he has directed a record number of 11 movies with Soumitra Chatterjee. Six among them have already been released. Three are expected to release by next year. The problem is with the remaining two. While Chatterjee has shot his portions of these films, the dubbing was still to be done. In one of the films — ‘Swapno O Bastab’ — Chatterjee has played the elder version of the protagonist. ‘Bhalobasha’ will see him in the role of the hero’s grandfather. Ever since he began working with Chatterjee, Bose had become superstitious. “The moment the script was locked, I would first finish shooting Soumitra-da’s portions. I felt that would be good for my film. In both these films, the shooting with the heroine from Bangladesh is yet to be complete. But Soumitra-da’s portions were shot way before the pandemic-induced lockdown. During the unlock phase, he completed the shooting and dubbing of ‘Somoy’ — another film of mine that I will release shortly,” Bose said. By Sunday evening, when the news of Chatterjee’s demise had settled in, Bose began to think of alternatives. The first name that came to his mind was that of Dipankar De. “I called him up. He was emotionally very disturbed and couldn’t commit anything,” Bose said. Soumitra Chatterjee with Parambrata Chattopadhyay after the resumption of the shooting of 'Abhijaan'It is a similar situation for Parambrata Chattopadhyay’s biopic of Chatterjee titled ‘Abhijaan’. In this film, Jisshu Sengupta will be seen playing a young Soumitra while the thespian is playing his older self. Dubbing for the film was supposed to be done in November. “We are trying to figure out a way of doing it now,” said the director. Even the docu-series titled ‘Aami Soumitra’ that Chatterjee was shooting even in September is unfinished. “Just three sessions on theatre, art and cinema have been shot with him. We had planned other segments on literature and his personal life about how he was a sports and wild-life enthusiast. After his hospitalization, I couldn’t think about it. Even if my father can’t join, I will still want the segments on his literature to be discussed. I might not be able to hear it in his own words but will want to complete it by changing the format,” said Chatterjee’s daughter, Poulami Bose, who has been co-directing it with Sayantan Mukherjee. A still from 'Swapno O Bastab'Some two months back, Chatterjee had completed shooting his portions for Rick Basu’s psychological thriller titled ‘Aboho’ that also has Paoli Dam in the lead. Keeping his age in mind, Basu had consciously decided to shoot only Chatterjee’s portions in sync sound. Was it any premonition that he went for such a selective sync sound? “We had shot his portions in sync sound just in case there were some problems while dubbing his portions. He was getting old and would dub for only an hour a day. Nobody can replace his voice and we kept the sync sound option to avoid complications. Back then, he was completely fit and we had never anticipated his demise. Now, the dubbing variations can’t be improvised as he was brilliant in creating fresh nuances in a character’s voice,” Basu said. Another big challenge will be his absence from the poster shoot. “We can manage it from the limited production stills though I have decided to use an illustration to keep him alive in my posters,” the director added. In December, he was supposed to shoot his first web series titled ‘Ganga’ about a gangster. Announcement was made from Hoichoi OTT platform about this project that was conceived by actor Rudranil Ghosh. “He was so excited to play this negative character and would often call me up to discuss the script. This week, we were supposed to have a meeting to decide on the director of the series. Now, we will have to think of another option for the lead,” Ghosh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/desperate-tollywood-looks-for-options-to-finish-projects-on-floor/articleshow/79251406.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 17, 2020||Goa||Hold zilla panchayat polls by end-Nov or early December: Goa govt||PANAJI: The zilla panchayat elections that were scheduled to be held in March may now be held by this month-end or early December. “The state government has suggested to the state election commission to hold zilla panchayat elections by the end of this month or early next month. The government has already moved the file and the state election commission will take a decision soon,” panchayat minister Mauvin Godinho said. The zilla panchayat elections were initially scheduled for March 15, but with the threat of Covid-19, the state government postponed it to March 22. But on March 20, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for Janata Curfew on March 22 and the state government decided to push it further by another two days to March 24. Despite strong protests from people, chief minister Pramod Sawant was adamant on holding the zilla panchayat elections on March 24. Only after Modi intervened and asked Sawant to defer the polls, the state government decided to postpone the elections indefinitely. The five-year term of the zilla panchayats ended on March 23, before which the new body had to be in place. A total of 203 candidates are contesting the elections for the two local bodies—South and North Goa zilla panchayats—each comprising 25 constituencies. BJP has fielded candidates for 43 seats, while Congress has put up candidates for 38 seats. MGP, which has an informal pact with Congress, will fight the election for 17 seats. Aam Aadmi Party has fielded candidates in 17 constituencies and NCP in six constituencies. Besides, 79 independent candidates are also in the fray. In August, the state election commission had postponed polls by three months for 11 municipal bodies, which were scheduled for October 18. After completing the first phase of voting in Bihar assembly elections, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade had said, “Now zilla panchayat and municipal elections can be held in the state with social distancing and wearing face masks”. Tanavade had earlier told TOI that depending on the Covid-19 situation, zilla panchayat elections can be held in October.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hold-zilla-panchayat-polls-by-end-nov-or-early-dec-govt/articleshow/79252956.cms||Murari Shetye
November 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Aspirant for Mandrem seat Jit Arolkar joins MGP||MAPUSA: Independent candidate and the runner-up of the 2019 byelection in Mandrem constituency, Jit Arolkar, formally joined the Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) along with his supporters in the presence of the party’s leaders at Mandrem on Monday, but it was without the fizz planned as the government authorities denied him permission to hold a public meeting. Sources said that around eight days back, Arolkar had applied for permission to hold a public meeting of 200 people for his grand entry into MGP. As permission was denied, Arolkar was told to hold a meeting of only 50 people. His supporters then told him to instead have the joining ceremony at the entrance of the temple - near the venue where the earlier meeting was planned. Interestingly, on Sunday, Arolkar was booked by the Pernem police for allegedly cheating a family of Rs 30 crore in a property deal. Arolkar and his supporters were welcomed into the party by Madkai MLA and MGP leader Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar. Condemning the action of the authorities of denying Arolkar permission to hold a meeting of his entry into MGP, former deputy chief minister Dhavalikar said, “This incident shows that there is an emergency-like situation in Goa. The government allowed celebrations of Narkasur but we were not allowed to hold the induction ceremony. The MGP will contest all seats in the coming election to wipe out the BJP.” Arolkar alleged that the permission was denied on the instructions of deputy chief minister and Pernem MLA Manohar Ajgaonkar and Mandrem MLA Dayanand Sopte. “I worked hard for Ajgaonkar during the previous election to get him elected on the MGP ticket,” said Arolkar, while referring to Ajgaonkar joining the BJP in April 2019. It may be recalled that in 2018, Arolkar had already started his political work with the opening of the Udargat- Morjim, under the Swavlamban initiative, a shop to offer Mahila groups an outlet to sell locally made products.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aspirant-for-mandrem-seat-jit-arolkar-joins-mgp/articleshow/79252949.cms||Keshav Naik
November 17, 2020||Goa||Kids learn drawing Goa’s wildlife on social media||PANAJI: In a bid to draw attention towards the Mollem issue, illustrator and artist, Danica Da Silva Pereira taught young ones to draw simple illustrations on Goa’s wildlife through an online session on Monday. “Art visualises information. With so much technical information being put out about the Mollem issue, there are people of various age groups consuming that information. The artists that have made visuals in support of this campaign have made it easier for us to understand the problems and the long term effects of the three projects. Art is therefore a huge tool to spread the message,” she said. Currently based out of Cambridge, UK, Pereira has an MA in Children’s Book Illustration from the Cambridge School of Art. On Monday, she conducted a live session on Instagram’s channel @mymollem.goa. Using simple techniques, she guided children to draw the picture of an Indian pangolin – a species commonly found in Goa’s forest area. She then went on to colour the artwork with wax crayons to keep with the children.  She further encouraged them to draw more pictures of the wildlife of Goa and supporting the #SaveMollem initiative by making more illustrations. The Instagram page will be inviting one artist every month to conduct live sessions on art.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/kids-learn-drawing-goas-wildlife-on-social-media/articleshow/79252952.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali residents irked as dug-up road left open||MOHALI: Engineering experts in Mohali are unhappy with the way work on laying of underground sewerage pipelines is being done. They feel specifications of the Detailed Notice Inviting Tender (DNIT) are not being adhered to. They also believe that the contractor has forgotten to refill the dug-up land and allege that he says filling of the land is not part of the agreement. Mohali residents G R Jakhu, retired chief engineer, PUDA and Savinder Singh, retired chief engineer, public health said, “The tender for rebuilding of the road has not been finalised yet. More than four kilometres of the existing metalled road from phase 3B2 to phase XI has been dismantled to lay the sewer pipeline and the work is not carried out as per specifications laid down in DNIT. In Phase 7 to XI, loose earth filling has been done and from phase 7 to 3B2, trenches have been left open. Rain water will enter the trenches and penetrate into the bed of the existing metalled road, with the movement of traffic, it will be collapsed and later, huge expenditure will be incurred to set it right.” Former executive engineer N S Kalsi said, “Laying of the main sewerage line, which is a very important project costing over Rs 14 crore, was under the supervision of an engineer who had no knowledge about such work. You can well imagine from the pictures that the matter was already raised in written a few months ago but no action has been taken so far. Where the pipeline is already laid, why was the earth filling not done as per the specification laid down in the tender?” MC commissioner Kamal Kumar Garg said, “Filling of dug-up land is part of the tender document. As far as tendering for re-carpeting of the road is concerned, the tender document is sent for approval to the local government, which is awaited. The cost of road re-carpeting is inclusive to the total project cost of Rs 22 crore.” Just before lockdown in March this year, Punjab health and family welfare minister Balbir Singh Sidhu laid the foundation stone of the Rs 22 crore sewerage project in Mohali. The project was initiated from near NIPER institute in Phase 10 to change the main sewerage pipeline of Mohali under the AMRUT scheme. He expressed the hope that the project would be a long-term solution to the issue of sewerage water drainage. Under the project, a state of the art sewerage pipeline is being laid in Phase 1, 2, 3B1, 3B2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11. As against the previous Brick Dart system pipeline laid 40 to 45 years ago, the new structure will do away with the need to enter the pipeline as cleaning will be done with the aid of high-tech machines. The pipeline will be 9.9 kms long and 24 to 48 inches thick. It will entail cost of Rs 22 crore. Under the project, new sewerage lines are being laid from Baba Banda Singh Bahadur New Terminal to Sectors 64, 65, 66 and 67 chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-residents-irked-as-dug-up-road-left-open/articleshow/79251411.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Relatives yet to break news of Soumitra Chatterjee’s demise to grandson||KOLKATA: On Tuesday, a very small and private meeting will be held for Soumitra Chatterjee at a prayer hall in the city. This ritual will just be for the immediate family comprising the actor’s wife, son, daughter, grandchildren and the members of his brothers’ and sister’s families. The date for the other memorial service by the members of theatre group ‘Mukhomukhi’ that is run by his daughter, Poulami Bose, will be decided at a meeting on Wednesday. Chatterjee’s 9, Golf Green Road residence wore an empty look barely 24 hours after the demise of the legend. The crowd fizzled out and no more calls needed to be made to the hospital. His belongings were still strewn all over the house. “It is actually hitting me today that I will never see him again. I no longer need to worry about when the call will need to be made to the hospital and when I will have to go. I am not being able to be very strong today,” said Bose, breaking down in tears. There have been very few visitors at home. Sometimes, the mobile phone rang. And then, it was back to the emptiness. “My father never believed in rituals. But sometimes, ceremonial rituals have to be conducted to respect the sentiments of others. That’s why I am doing this prayer-meeting on Tuesday,” said Bose, looking forward to organizing a memorial service where songs he loved will be played and his favourite poems recited. “I will get someone to sing the songs he loved or organize an adda. Basically, it will be about remembering him, his way.” Chatterjee’s grandson, Ronodeep, who is recovering from a brain injury after an accident, hasn’t yet been told about the loss though he was never kept in the dark about his grandfather’s medical condition. “Bhaitu (Ronodeep) can’t speak but is very sharp and sensitive. I think he can sense something. When he looks at me, I feel he is waiting for me to break the news. But I don’t have the guts to break the news. I can’t face him and I don't know how he will react to the final outcome and how I will be able to help him then,” said Poulami. A doting grandfather, Chatterjee loved his grandchildren very much. “Bapi literally worshipped the ground my kids walked on. He spent the entire day with us on the ground floor. Every 5-10 minutes, he would walk into the room and see if Bhaitu had eaten his meal.” Immediately after waking up, he would first come down to check out on his grandson and lovingly address him as “Gopal” and “Amar Sonar Gouranga”. Once as a kid, his granddaughter Mekhola had told him that if he addressed her brother as Gopal, she should be called Gopali. “Since then, Bapi used to call her Gopali,” Bose said. Now there is nobody to call them by those names. The silence is unbearable at times. “Bapi was not just my father. He was a wall between me and the other things in life. He would guard me not in an obvious way. Now, I realize that all my guards are gone,” Poulami said. “In front of a sea of people, you need to maintain your dignity and poise. You have to remember so many things. Today, I am missing my father so much.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/relatives-yet-to-break-news-of-soumitras-demise-to-grandson/articleshow/79251409.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Wary students prefer home instead of Patiala institutes||PATIALA: Despite the state government allowing final year students to attend classes in universities and institutes, not even one of them on Monday reached the campuses of Punjabi University, Thapar Engineering Institute and Rajiv Gandhi National Law University (RGNUL) here. The government had allowed 50% of students to visit universities in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines. Punjabi University observed a holiday for the teaching staff on Monday but the non-teaching faculty members came for work. Amarjit Kaur, dean (academics), Punjabi University, said only final year students with a ratio of 50% would be allowed as per the guidelines and students were expected to reach from Tuesday. The university on November 11 had issued the guidelines and maintained heads of the departments or in-charge, according to their need, may call the students of last semester or final year in accordance with the rotation of 50% ratio to appear in classes at the main campus, colleges and neighbourhood campuses. The students, however, according to their convenience, can choose for online or offline mode for classes. The university authorities said the dean students welfare would remain in coordination with the heads of the departments regarding arrangements and accommodation of the students in university hostels in accordance with the guidelines issued by the UGC. Similarly, Thapar Institute of Engineering did not witness the return of any student so far. The authorities have announced that students would be quarantined for 14 days after they reach the premises. Gurbinder Singh, registrar, Thapar institute, said, “We have given one week to students to reach the campus. We are expecting 50% of the final year students to reach. They will be quarantined for 14 days after they reach the campus.” In RGNUL, the students are all set to appear for the online semester exams from November 20. None of the students reached the university premises in Patiala. Vice-chancellor P S Jaswal said, “So far students have been informed that they can come to the university following the consent of their parents. As for now, preparation holidays are underway as semester exams will be held from November 20. In the final year, we have around 180 students.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wary-students-prefer-home-instead-of-patiala-institutes/articleshow/79251419.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 17, 2020||Goa||Spl postal cover highlights mental health issues in Covid times||Panaji: The ongoing pandemic while putting lives at risk has also been tough on people’s mental health. Highlighting the importance of the same, the Goa Philately and Numismatics Society (GPNS) has released a special cover ‘To Fight Covid-19 Protect Your Mental Health’. The special cover which was designed by Aslesh Kamat and Siya Kamat was released at the hands of Sudhir Jhakere, SSPO of the Goa region at the Goa Post headoffice in Panaji. President of the psychiatric society of Goa, Dr Abhijith Nadkarni, who was present at the launch, explained the need to fight Covid-19 and protect one’s mental health. President of the Goa philately and numismatics society, Dr M R Ramesh Kumar, said that it is an excellent initiative “in educating the public” to come forward and speak about their mental health. He also stressed on the need “to practice yoga and meditation and to stay positive and be stress free”. A special cancellation on postal articles used in a campaign to highlight a message on Covid-19 was also released. The special red cancellation will be available from November 17 to 21 at the Margao post office with green cancellation. This will be available on philatelic articles such as postcards, inland letter cards, speed post, and registered posts, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/spl-postal-cover-highlights-mental-health-issues-in-covid-times/articleshow/79252957.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Let Christmas be low-key this year, help poor instead: Archbishop||PANAJI: The Archdiocese of Goa has called for a less extravagant and more spiritual celebration of Advent and Christmas during the Covid-19 pandemic. The faithful have been advised to divert the money they would have spent on lights, decorations and unnecessary expenses to the poor and needy instead. The liturgical season of Advent, which refers to the coming of Jesus Christ, is a period of preparation extending over the four Sundays before Christmas. “It is my earnest wish that the restrictions imposed by the ongoing pandemic may help us focus on what is essential, indeed necessary, for us to celebrate the feast of our God Immanuel in a way most befitting to Him…” stated the circular by archbishop Filipe Neri Ferrao to all the faithful and clergy. Ferrao stated that a genuine and spirit-filled celebration of Advent and Christmas “has never called for the extravagant display of external merry-making”, adding that this has increasingly characterised Christmases and is dictated more and more by today’s commercial concerns. He appealed to people to turn their attention to the needs of the other and to reach out to those in their own families, neighbourhood groups and parishes. Asking people and the clergy to avoid too many lights and decorations, the archdiocese has stated that the money be channelled towards the needy. “Think of moving from external illumination to lighting the lives of people. Parishioners could be advised to refrain from lighting fireworks and making unnecessary expenses, and instead help the poor and the needy,” the archdiocese stated. The faithful have also been advised to make small sacrifices in the family and give savings in cash or kind to the poor and underprivileged in their respective parish.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/let-christmas-be-low-key-this-year-help-poor-instead-archbishop/articleshow/79252961.cms||Lisa Monteiro
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Norms up in smoke at food joints, NMC taking no action||NAGPUR: If one believes Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), eating joints and restaurants in the city are following Covid-19 guidelines sincerely. On the ground, the situation is exactly opposite, most of the eating joints and restaurants in the city are blatantly violating the guidelines, thanks to the lenient attitude of both, Nagpur Municipal Corporation and city police. A round of the city’s commercial localities like Sadar, Itwari, Sitabuldi etc found most eating joints are blatantly violating Covid-19 protocol, especially social distancing norms. Even roadside eating joints have started business in violation of all norms, posing a health threat to citizens. However, data from NMC’s nuisance detection squad revealed that the civic cops have not taken any action against violation of Covid-19 guidelines by eating joint owners or gyms. Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi claimed that NMC has taken action against a couple of eating joints. The action was taken following complaints over social distancing norms in the restaurants, Joshi said. NMC also failed to monitor the ban on firecrackers at public places, though police registered a few cases. Joshi said the civic body has not found any violation of the ban on bursting of firecrackers at public places. Even civic officials from Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Nehru Nagar, Gandhibagh and Dhantoli zones, where most private and government hospitals are situated, said no violation pertaining to bursting of firecrackers at public places was reported. NMC data reveals that the nuisance detection squad penalized 27,600 citizens and traders for violation of Covid-19 guidelines, including venturing out without masks, odd-even day for shops, and dumping of bio-medical waste. NMC collected over Rs1.71 crore fine from this action. City police chief Amitesh Kumar said enforcing use of masks and social distancing has been the basic of pandemic policing by traffic police and also police station staffers. “Appealing to the masses to follow the guidelines was our strategy. Wherever the appeals did not work, enforcement agencies like police stepped in and action was being taken continuously,” said the CP. Kumar said a handful of people bursting crackers were pulled up and legal action has been initiated. “Our assessment was that intensity of bursting crackers was relatively low this year. Even then our patrolling staffers had to intervene at many places to enforce the time limit and also restrict revellers to remain inside their houses while bursting crackers,” he said. The CP said most hotels and restaurants were following the norms of 50% occupancy since beginning, but strict vigilance is being maintained. “Most establishments are following the norms fearing legal consequences, but police are keeping a watch,” he said. Some violation of social distancing and Covid-19 guidelines were also witnessed at religious places on Monday, the first day of reopening of shrines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/norms-up-in-smoke-at-food-joints-nmc-taking-no-action/articleshow/79251423.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 17, 2020||Chennai||Down the path of armed struggle||Parents of Velmurugan Ayyanar knew their son, a second year student of the government law college in Madurai, was attracted towards left ideologies and was an integral part of protests in the college — nothing more than a youth involved in active student politics. Read the entire story on TOI+How did their children become 'dreaded' Maoists||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/down-the-path-of-armed-struggle/articleshow/79252256.cms||V Mayilvaganan
November 17, 2020||Goa||Ponda police arrest cabbie for threatening Goa CM, others||PONDA: Following a probe into a threat issued to a member of the Goa Forward Party (GFP), the Ponda police on Monday nabbed a cab driver who had allegedly threatened chief minister Pramod Sawant over phone during the first week of November. South Goa SP Pankaj Kumar Singh said the accused, Ashish S Naik, 25, a resident of Cortalim, had texted threatening messages to the chief minister, panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho, former BJP executive committee member Pranav Sanvordekar and GFP member Durgadas Kamat. In all, four separate offences were registered at police stations in Panaji, Verna, Curchorem and Ponda. Singh said the only motive behind the crime was to take revenge on Jayesh Fadte, a resident of Upasnagar, Sancoale, with whom Naik had some enmity. “The accused intentionally attempted to involve the youth into the case stating that he would collect the ransom money, so the police should arrest him in the threatening for ransom case,” the officer said. Police sources said that Naik, being in inimical relations with Fadte, would allegedly send threatening messages in the latter’s name. He succeeded in his plan when 39-year-old Fadte was arrested a week ago on charges of sending threatening messages to Godinho and demanding ransom from him. The Verna police had acted following a complaint lodged by Godinho’s office. However, Fadte was booked without verification of the number from where the threatening messages had been sent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ponda-police-arrest-cabbie-for-threatening-cm-others/articleshow/79252955.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||For his doctors, Soumitra Chatterjee was an ideal patient||KOLKATA: Till he had to be shifted to the ICU of Belle Vue Clinic on October 9 — three days after being admitted to hospital with Covid-19 — actor Soumitra Chatterjee retained his passion for writing and his meticulous approach to work, according to doctors who treated him. Within minutes of being wheeled into the hospital, the 85-year-old asked for paper and a pen so that he could ‘carry on his work’. And he kept jotting down his thoughts till he suffered a sudden breathing distress and eventually lost consciousness, never to regain it. Initially, Chatterjee had no signs of severe encephalopathy that he lapsed into, according to Belle Vue critical care head Arindam Kar, who co-ordinated the actor’s treatment on behalf of the hospital, working in tandem with a team of government doctors appointed as advisors. “He seemed a bit restless and said it would be difficult for him to just lie on bed doing nothing. So, he asked for some papers and immediately started writing. He was apparently preparing for a role that he was supposed to shoot next month. It was clear that he never wasted a moment,” said Kar. Staring through the window of Cabin 303, where he was admitted before being shifted to the ICU, Chatterjee had spotted the building on adjacent Moira Street where Uttam Kumar lived. ‘Isn’t that Uttam-da’s house?” he had asked Kar. “I have been there several times and shared such a wonderful relationship with him,’ he told me,” added Kar. Orthopaedic Ramendu Homchaudhuri, who has keenly observed the actor while treating him over the last 12 years, described Chatterjee as a ‘simple but knowledgeable man who was extremely disciplined’. “He never had any starry airs, rather he left you charmed with his simplicity. And he could mesmerize everyone with his knowledge on a vast range of subjects,” said Homchaudhuri. Once on a trip to Durgapur for an orthopaedic conference, he regaled doctors with his analysis of literature and cinema, said Homchaudhuri. “He went on for several hours and we didn’t realize that it was already past midnight. But next morning, he was up on time and ready to attend the early morning sessions,” he said. The actor was also remarkably composed during times of crisis, said Homchaudhuri. “Three years ago, I got a call from him at six in the morning. ‘Can you come over to my house now? It’s urgent,’ he had said. I rushed to his Golf Green residence and saw him pacing up and down his living room. His wife had a fall and hurt her leg, he told me. I examined her and saw that her femur bone was fractured. I told him that she needed a surgery. ‘Can you arrange for it since I have an eye operation and must reach the hospital in an hour. Poulami (his daughter) is already there. I know I can trust you,” he told me.” For the next seven days, Chatterjee would call him twice a day to enquire about his wife. “He was worried but didn’t stop working,” said the orthopaedic. Later, Chatterjee himself had a minor surgery that was done by Homchaudhuri. “He was an obedient patient and strictly followed instructions. But he couldn’t quit smoking till he had an issue a few years ago,” recalled the doctor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-his-docs-the-star-was-an-ideal-patient/articleshow/79251412.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
November 17, 2020||Goa||No congregations for Old Goa feast, all Masses online||PANAJI: The novenas and feast of St Francis Xavier at Old Goa, which attract thousands of people daily, will not be open to the public this year, for the first time in living memory. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, devotees will have to participate in Masses online. However, there will be other, shorter programmes at Old Goa. For instance, a daily online adoration at 5am before the Blessed Sacrament. “Since it’s not possible to congregate because of MHA (Union ministry of home affairs) restrictions, veneration of the relics will be allowed from November 15 to December 2, from 10am to 4pm, and on the feast day from 2pm to 8pm,” said rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, Fr Patricio Fernandes. However, there will be other programmes on the life of St Francis Xavier, as well as on the gist of the Liturgy of the day. The Masses will be streamed live. Masses will be available on the Basilica’s website, https://www.bomjesus.org, its official YouTube channel, and the Archdiocese website, as well as telecast on a slew of local television channels. The Basilica has also provided a QR code to be scanned for the YouTube link. Fernandes said that the Covid-inspired programme for the novenas and feast was decided by the Basilica committee, community and collaborators, after notifying the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and taking the North Goa collectorate into confidence. The MHA guidelines don’t allow garlands, candles, waterbottles, touching and kissing of statues, holy water fonts, etc, Fernandes said. “It will be a paperless novena and feast this year. The poster with a serrated border is the official one,” he said. For the veneration of the relics, “dress code will be implemented while entering the premises”, he said. Fernandes said that a “pilgrimage path” has been created for a religious experience, right from the entry to the chapel where the relics of the saint are kept. In previous years, devotees and tourists would often enter haphazardly. The novenas and feast of St Francis Xavier are usually conducted in a large pandal erected outside the Basilica. Only recently did the Basilica, a major tourist draw, open for visitors. Strict SOPs are implemented, including barricades to promote social distancing. When it opened on November 10, it received 1,200 visitors. However, within a week, it saw 5,000 visitors on a single day. The theme for this year’s novenas and feast is ‘Bhagevont Fransisk-achi dekh gheun ami Jezuche govai’ (By walking in the footsteps of St Francis Xavier, let us bear witness to Christ). On the feast day, Masses will be celebrated at 6am and 7am in Konkani, 8am in English, and the high Mass at 10.30am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-congregations-for-old-goa-feast-all-masses-online/articleshow/79252967.cms||Lisa Monteiro
November 17, 2020||Agra||CRPF jawan shoots himself dead on duty, family dispute probable cause||AGRA: A 32-year-old CRPF jawan allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service rifle at the force’s camp office in Mathura on Monday. The jawan was identified as Vijay Kumar Meena, a resident of Rajasthan’s Karoli district. He was deployed with the 16B battalion in Mathura since 2018. SP (city) Udai Shankar Singh said Meena’s body has been sent for postmortem. Preliminary investigation revealed family dispute as probable cause behind his taking the extreme step. The SP added no suicide note has been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/crpf-jawan-shoots-himself-dead-on-duty-family-dispute-probable-cause/articleshow/79250731.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Agra||41 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 8,231||AGRA: At least 41 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 8,231. The patients included two junior doctors of SN Medical College. Besides, four patients suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome, three of influenza-like illness, three of severe acute respiratory infection, two of coronary artery infection and two kidney patients. Also, 69 Covid-19 patients were discharged on Monday. Of the 8,231 cases reported in the district, 91.7% have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases decreased from 555 on Sunday, to 527 on Monday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate is 2.6%. So far, 7,548 people have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/41-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-8231/articleshow/79250718.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali colleges yet to take final decision on reopening||Mohali: Universities and colleges in Mohali are yet to take a call on reopening. None of the private or government colleges has opened, with most of them saying they will wait for this month to end before taking a decision. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “Punjab government has allowed opening of universities and colleges from November 16, but the final decision lies with the management of colleges.” Chandigarh University chancellor Satnam Singh Sandhu said, “We have 605 students of the total strength from states other than Punjab. So, we are yet to get consent of parents and other than that, it is a cumbersome and expensive process to sanitise the entire premises. Students are also not keen to return to colleges. So, we have decided against opening the university.” However, he said PHd students and research scholars were already coming to the universities. Another private university spokesperson said, “We have not decided yet to reopen the university but some of the online classes are going on as per schedule.” An official at Government College, Phase VI, said, “We are also not opening the college as students are keen and parents have not given consent.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-colleges-yet-to-take-final-decision-on-reopening/articleshow/79251428.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Goa||Sonshi local arrested for aunt’s death||BICHOLIM: A resident of Sonshi was arrested on murder charges after his aunt succumbed to assault injuries while undergoing treatment. Bicholim police stated that Vasudev Srikant Samant, 27, had allegedly assaulted Nirmala Prakash Samant, 60, from Baye, Surla over a longstanding property dispute. Police said that on November 6, the accused along with other family members had gone to their ancestral house at Baye-Surla where the woman was residing along with her husband. During a verbal altercation over the property dispute, the accused, in the fit of rage, allegedly assaulted the woman with a wooden stick, causing her physical injuries, police said. She was first admitted to Sakhali community health centre and later shifted to Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim after her condition worsened. However, on Wednesday, the woman succumbed while undergoing treatment at GMC. He was remanded in five days police custody by JMFC Bicholim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sonshi-local-arrested-for-aunts-death/articleshow/79252960.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Special parole ends, 40 prisoners return to jail||CHANDIGARH: With the special parole granted owing to the Covid-19 outbreak ending, the first batch of 40 prisoners returned to the jail on Monday. Till the time of filing of this report, of the total 40 prisoners, 38 reported at the Model Burail Jail and were tested using rapid antigen test. All prisoners tested negative and were shifted to a special barrack set up on the premises. The next batch of prisoners will return on November 22. Similarly, undertrial prisoners will return from December 12. A high-powered committee under the chairmanship of Justice Jaswant Singh, Judge, Punjab and Haryana high court in a meeting on September 29 had directed the prison authorities to submit a detailed plan for re-admission of prisoners into the jail premises in a staggered manner and keeping in view the gravity of offence(s)/punishment(s). he committee had directed the return of prisoners from November 16. Adequate seating arrangement had been made for the returning prisoners in compliance with social distancing norms. A team from health department was present and rapid antigen test of the prisoners returning from special parole was conducted outside the jail (as per the guidelines of ICMR), at Gate No. 1. A special barrack has been set up for their 10-day quarantine. Justice Jaswant Singh had asked for the sanctioned capacity of jail and compared it with the total number of prisoners scheduled to return. The authorities said the sanctioned strength/capacity is 1,120 prisoners and strength was 779 on November 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/special-parole-ends-40-prisoners-return-to-jail/articleshow/79251430.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Punjab farmers’ stir costs railways 36 crore a day||NEW DELHI/ PATIALA: The Indian Railways has so far incurred loss of at least Rs 1,670 crore, which is nearly Rs 36 crore a day, due to the ongoing farmers’ protest in Punjab. Moreover, because of the ongoing stalemate 3,090 freight trains could not be operated for transportation of essential commodities such as foodgrains, fertiliser, coal and petroleum products. Till Monday late night, there was no sign of the rail operations resuming in the state as the protesters were still in the circulation areas of stations at 25 sites even after vacating the railway tracks. “There is no assurance on the running of passenger trains. They want only freight trains to operate, but railways can’t let anyone pick and choose. It’s dangerous as well because many maintenance trains are passenger rakes. Threat of protestors coming in way of those trains can lead to disastrous consequences,” said a railway official, who did not wish to be identified. Sources said the situation is becoming more serious as the protests have a direct impact on the movement of essential commodities, including fuel to Jammu and Kashmir and of essential supplies to meet the requirement of defence forces. Official data show that because of the protest, the railways could not operate 520 rakes to transport coal and 1,150 rakes for movement of foodgrains. The last unit operational in the government-run Lehra Mohabbat thermal power plant has suspended operations on the instructions of Punjab State Power Corporation Ltd (PSPCL) to save coal for emergency situations. The power demand in Punjab has also declined to around 4,000 MW. Punjab has five thermal power plants, including two government-run. All three private plants have shut down operations due to non-availability of coal. The two state-run plants did keep a single unit operational to meet the power demand, but as fuel stocks depleted, Ropar plant suspended operations on Wednesday and the unit at Lehra Mohabbat plant packed up on Saturday evening. The deadlock has also started impacting the farmers as nearly 270 rakes could not be operated to transport fertiliser to the state. “There is no clue of whether normalcy will be back soon. There has been no improvement on the ground for more than a week. We could not operate nearly 600 rakes carrying containers. The impact is felt by every section in Punjab. We are ready to run trains provided the state ensures no protestor will be back on the tracks when we run freight and passenger trains,” said the railway official. Data from Northern Railway show that 1,565 passenger trains have either been completely or partially cancelled. Another 105 trains have been diverted since September 22. “Many trains had to be terminated at Ambala, which is known as short termination. Everyday trains were planned expecting the return of normalcy. But there has been no end to the crisis,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-farmers-stir-costs-railways-26-crore-a-day/articleshow/79253795.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 17, 2020||Chennai||Unlocking rare record collection for music lovers||As a child, Srinivasan Mohan ‘broke’ many gramophone records owned by his father. But there was an opposite reaction to his naughtiness, of course, not instantly. He soon fell in love with the old records, and today, he maintains more than 6,000 gramophone records. With rare records of bands like The Beatles and speeches of India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Mohan today shares the records with those who are interested online through YouTube. "The lockdown gave me time to convert some rare gramophone records to digital audio files that I post online," said Srinivasan, who has converted more than 100 such records during the lockdown, they include rare film songs, Carnatic and Hindustani concerts and speeches of world leaders. "I grew up listening to songs as my family was into music. I was enamoured by the duo Vishwanathan-Ramamoorthy when I first heard their songs. It was a turning point and I soon started listening to songs in other languages. As I developed an interest in music, I started collecting old records. And that’s how it all began," said Srinivasan, a hotelier based in Coimbatore. Collecting old gramophone records is time consuming, but at the same time equally rewarding, said Srinivasan, who feels his hobby in a way preserves music. "We have advanced when it comes to technology. But at the same time, we have lost lots of music. We don’t have copies of many records. My idea is to pass this wealth of knowledge to the next generation," he said. A rare gem in his collection is by veteran playback singer P B Srinivas, who had written two songs in English when Neil Armstrong landed on the moon on July 20, 1969. He sang one solo and the other with famous singer S Janaki. "The songs were recorded and sent to the US President. I have a copy of these rare songs. I still consider this a precious one because it was meant for a special event," he said. Maintenance is the toughest part, said Srinivasan, who has a separate house to store his records. The search for records has taken Srinivasan to the most unusual places in Chennai, Madurai and Kanyakumari. Many times, he found rare records lying abandoned at waste-paper stalls. "Some people don’t know its value, and some others don’t want to preserve the records. I was in touch with many people across Tamil Nadu. Whenever someone finds a rare record, I get a call and then I go and collect it," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/unlocking-rare-record-collection-for-music-lovers/articleshow/79252319.cms||M T Saju
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||Portals of Kedarnath and Yamunotri closed for winter season||Dehradun: Amidst heavy snowfall, the portals of the Kedarnath and Yamunotri temples were closed for the winter break on the occasion of Bhai Dooj on Monday. The doors of the Kedarnath temple were closed for winters at 8.30 am and those of the Yamunotri temple at 12.15 pm on Monday. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat and his Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath, along with priests and officials of the Char Dham Devasthanam Board, attended the portal closing ceremony at the Kedarnath shrine. From Kedarnath, the palanquin of Lord Shiva was taken to Kharsali village of Ukhimath, which is the deity’s winter abode. Accompanied by a music band of the Indian Army, the palanquin was taken from Kedarnath in the presence of around 200 people. Speaking on the occasion, CM Rawat said, “Snowfall is being considered as the cloth and ornaments of lord Kedar. I pray that the lord showers us all with his blessings.” According to legend pertaining to Yamunotri, lord Shani comes to meet his sister Yamuna a day after Diwali and subsequently, she visits her maternal home in Kharsali on the occasion of Bhai Dooj. Thus, every year, the goddess Yamuna departs to Kharsali, which is believed to be the home of her uncle, where she is worshipped for the next six months. Notably, the Char Dham Yatra had to be cut short this year due to the outbreak of Covid-19. The portals of the Char Dham shrines were opened on July 1. According to the data provided by the Char Dham Devasthanam Board, more than 1.3 lakh devotees visited Kedarnath this year. This is the lowest pilgrim footfall recorded at the shrine after 2014 (a year after the 2013 Kedarnath deluge) when only 41,000 people had visited the temple. However, the shrine had been witnessing increasing pilgrim turnout since 2014. Kedarnath recorded 1.54 lakh devotees in 2015, 3.11 lakh in 2016, 4.76 lakh in 2017, 7.30 lakh in 2018, and more than 10 lakh in 2019. The Yamunotri shrine also witnessed its lowest pilgrim turnout of the last 10 years with only 8,000 devotees visiting the temple this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/portals-of-kedarnath-and-yamunotri-closed-for-winter-season/articleshow/79250737.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Siolim sisters murdered by nephew’s wife, hired worker’||PANAJI: A dispute among family members in Siolim led to a young woman hiring a daily wage worker to kill two of her husband’s aunts. Within hours of the murder, Anjuna police arrested both the accused from a rented room at Assagao where they were hiding. Police said that they received a call from a neighbour around 10.30pm on Sunday night informing them about the incident. Police said that both the accused together killed the aunts using sharp weapons to smash the heads of the victims. Both the accused ran away from the spot after commiting the crime. A complaint has been filed by Julio Lobo against the two accused, his wife Rovina, 29, and an unknown male person, for the “common intention to commit the murders of Marta Clementina Lobo, 64, and Vera Lobo, 62 both residents of Siolim, Bardez”. PI Suraj Gawad said that Rovina had assured the male co-accused, Subhan Rajyaballi, a native of Karnataka, around Rs 30,000 for the killing. He also said that only Rs 500 had been exchanged between the two accused till the incident occured. Gawas also said that Rovina was on the lookout for a person to commit the murders since the last 26 days but was unable to find anyone. Gawas said that Rovina met Rajyaballi, a daily wage worker, only recently and that both the accused are not related to each other. Rajyaballi had being staying in Goa since the past 16 years. Gawas said that the accused were both arrested from the house where they were hiding, in a rented room hired by Rajyaballi. Rovina hired Rajyaballi as both the deceased, who are unmarried, were not in good terms with her since a long time. Police said that Rovina along with her family and both the deceased aunts were staying in the same house at Siolim. Julio had been staying with his aunts since childhood and after the marriage, the couple continued to stay with the two relatives, which led to disputes among the family. Gawas said that both the accused were produced before the court and have been remanded in seven days police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/siolim-sisters-murdered-by-nephews-wife-hired-worker/articleshow/79252974.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Days after DCP assures proper patrolling, thieves strike in Ind Area-I||PANCHKULA: Ten days after the Panchkula DCP assured Industrial Area association members of proper patrolling in their area, unknown miscreants stole 50 silver coins and an LED screen from the office of a steel factory in Industrial Area Phase-I. A case of burglary has been registered. In his police complaint, Sanjeev Kumar, manager of Amar Steels, Industrial Area Phase-I said the miscreants broke through the main gate. The accused stole 50 silver coins and an LED screen. A case has been registered under Section 457 (house trespass) and 380 (theft at dwelling house, etc.) of the IPC at Sector 20 police station. Further investigations are on. On November 7, Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) met Industrial Area Welfare Association members and formed a committee to curb crime in Industrial Area after he received a complaint from them. He assured them of proper patrolling in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/days-after-dcp-assures-proper-patrolling-thieves-strike-in-ind-area-i/articleshow/79251432.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Building permission gets easier, KT Rama Rao promises more reforms||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao on Monday said the state government is focussing on providing better services by bringing in administrative reforms apart from creating infrastructure in the state. He said the government is also working out to bring a new GHMC Act by incorporating various reforms. “As of now, 43% of state population is living in urban areas and this figure is likely to increase further in the coming five to seven years,” the minister said, while launching TS-bPASS for online, hassle-free and transparent building permission system. He said TS-bPASS would prove to be the best initiative when it comes to building construction approval system in the country and even the Centre and other states were following schemes being implemented in the state. KTR stated that the government with complete trust in citizens has put in place a self-certification system and appealed to the people not to break the trust by registering illegal (putting up structures violating building rules and registering them) structures or encroached public spaces. “Under the new system, if anybody is found to be providing false information, the civic body can bulldoze structures without giving any notice,” he said. According to TS-bPASS, no building permission would be required to construct a house in plot area up to 75 square yards and building height up to seven metres, while instant approval would be granted for buildings coming up in plot areas between 75 sq yards and up to 600 sq yards, based on self-certification. The government has come up with TS-bPASS exclusively for building approvals similar to TS-iPASS, a single window approval system for industries. He said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao had introduced these reforms to develop infrastructure in urban spaces and at the same time ensure decentralisation of administrative power for the welfare of people living in rural areas. “This is the reason, the state government had come up with new districts, mandals, revenue divisions, and panchayats,” he added. The minister said Hyderabad has affordable houses, which no other metro has in the country. He appealed to real estate leaders to ensure this trend continues. “I appeal to the citizens and real estate sector to utilise this initiative. Based on your feedback, if required, modifications will be made,” he said. Municipal administration department principal secretary Arvind Kumar, CREDAI president Rama Krishna and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bldg-permission-gets-easier-ktr-promises-more-reforms/articleshow/79252991.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||UP, Uttarakhand CMs stranded in Kedarnath for hours||DEHRADUN: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath and CM Trivendra Singh Rawat were left stranded in Kedarnath for several hours on Monday as the Himalayan shrine recorded heavy snowfall during the ceremony of closing of the shrine’s portals that the two state leaders were attending. The two chief ministers were scheduled to leave for Badrinath soon after attending the ceremony at Kedarnath as Adityanath was scheduled to lay the foundation stone of a 40-room guest house for pilgrims being built by the UP government in Badrinath. After the ceremony, the two were to return to Dehradun from where Adityanath was to leave for Lucknow. But heavy snowfall in the region disrupted their plans. It was only after the weather cleared that the CMs were able to board a chopper at 4:30pm and reach Gauchar where they were scheduled to stay for the night. According to Darshan Singh Rawat, media advisor to CM Rawat, the chief ministers will offer prayers at Badrinath on Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, speaking to the media in Kedarnath, Adityanath said that all major issues of property division between the two neighbouring states have been resolved. “The remaining minor issues will also be addressed soon,” he added. On the dispute over ownership of Hotel Alaknanda in Haridwar, which had also been contested in the Supreme Court, Adityanath said, “It has already been decided that the hotel would be handed over to the Uttarakhand government. The UP government is making its own guest house nearby which is expected to be complete before Kumbh. The project is likely to be over by December this year,” he said. Watch UP, Uttarakhand CMs stranded in Kedarnath for hours due to heavy snowfall||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/up-ukhand-cms-stranded-in-kedarnath-for-hours-as-heavy-snow-disrupts-plans-to-go-to-badrinath/articleshow/79250753.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 17, 2020||Kozhikode||White veil to ensure visibility: KeSCPCR||Kozhikode: Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (KeSCPCR) has asked the commissioner of road safety authority to issue an order asking girls – who go to madrasas early in the morning or evening – to wear white face veils along with their purdah. KeSCPCR’s issued the order after joint road transport officer (Pattambi) CU Mujeeb suggested that drivers find it difficult to see black colour at morning and evening. And they could spot it better if the colour of the veil was white. KeSCPCR found merit in his suggestion as the same was pointed out by many drivers during road safety class. Commission members K Nazeer and C Vijayakumar issued the order asking motor vehicles department to give wide publicity to the decision through road safety classes. It asked Kerala Waqf Board to issue an order asking institutions to implement the decision. Meanwhile, Samastha Kerala Islam Matha Vidyabhyasa Board, Chelari, said that the key suggestion would be communicated to all madrassa teachers under the organization. Mujeeb, now working in Perinthalmanna, had interacted with community leaders including Panakkad Syed Hameed Ali Shihab Thangal while he was in Pattambi. “I contacted Muslim organizations including the two factions of Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema to apprise them about the problem,” he said, adding that he had addressed meetings to explain the issue before madrassa authorities. “The suggestion was implemented at some madrassas in Malappuram. After KeSCPCR decision, it is now applicable throughout Kerala,” he said.#||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/white-veil-to-ensure-visibility-kescpcr/articleshow/79251472.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Implement NGT ban on Chhath at Kolkata lake, greens tell govt||KOLKATA: Green activists, environmentalists, birders and regular visitors to Rabindra Sarobar hope that the Lake’s custodian and the police will now get down to the serious business of implementing the National Green Tribunal’s order to prevent any religious or social function there. Subhas Datta, whose petition at the NGT had led to the ban in 2018, said the KMDA’s attempt to push through a stay citing law and order problem during Chhath was unacceptable, particularly since the government had been successful in implementing court orders in the past few weeks — first stopping people from entering Durga Puja pandals and then ensuring crackers weren’t burst during Kali Puja-Diwali. “KMDA and the government did not act upon the NGT’s order seriously. But with the matter now in the Supreme Court, it will be difficult to shrug off responsibility,” he said. Green activist Naba Datta, though, was sceptical. “KMDA first attempted to get the ban order altered at the NGT and then moved the Supreme Court, seeking permission to hold Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar. Let’s see what the agency and police do now that the Calcutta High Court has ratified the NGT order and the Supreme Court has refused any interim relief,” said the secretary of Sabuj Mancha, an umbrella organization of environment groups and individuals. Those who regularly walk at the lake and birders who visit to click resident and migrant birds, are hopeful the government will act like it did during Durga Puja and Kali Puja-Diwali. “The administration has demonstrated that it can do something if it wants. Last year, the police had mysteriously disappeared on Chhath morning, allowing miscreants to enter the grounds,” said Sumita Banerjee, who has been fighting for the cause for nearly a decade. Birder Sudip Ghosh appealed to the government to help KMDA implement the order for the sake of Lake’s ecology and the winged guests it receives. This year, more species of migratory birds have been sighted at the Lake than ever before. Even the painted stork, which had stopped visiting the Rabindra Sarobar after the ruckus during Chhath in 2015, have returned. Let’s not drive them away again,” he pleaded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/implement-ngt-ban-on-chhath-at-lake-greens-tell-govt/articleshow/79251466.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Let us not drive away fauna with reckless acts’||KOLKATA: A walk down the paved pathway along the edge of Rabindra Sarobar will surely treat you to a sight of a variety of birds. But the sprawling waterbody that was declared a ‘national lake’ in 1997, under the National Lake Conservation Programme also has a wealth of fauna including fish, frog, snake, squirrel, civet cat, mongoose, and a rich variety of butterflies. There are also 131 varieties of trees and 34 types of terrestrial microfungi in and around the waterbody, making the 192-acre facility a biodiversity hotspot. As Chhath approaches, environmentalists have expressed fears of disturbing the ecological balance of this biodiversity hotspot. TimesViewThe focus should be on controlling the damage to the few large green zones that we still have. Celebrations should be orderly and should not have any impact on the environment.“We often tend to speak about birds at Rabindra Sarobar because they can be easily spotted. The photographs posted on social media, in turn, raise awareness on the extraordinary habitat that any city would be proud of. But the lake is home to more than just birds. There are a rich varieties of bugs, beetles, butterflies, ants, fish, snakes, squirrels, civets, mongoose and many other species,” said Sudip Ghosh who has clicked many of them. The fragile ecosystem thrives all year till Diwali and Chhath arrive. The festivals — particularly Chhath that is celebrated by thousands on the Lake premises — leave them terrified. “Overnight, the oasis turns into hell for the flora and fauna. We have to protect this productive green space that provides numerous services like air quality regulation, carbon absorptions and protection from extreme weather events. It is an invaluable asset to the city,” pointed out Promit Mookherjee, a researcher at The Energy Research Institute in Delhi. The 379 species recorded at the Rabindra Sarobar till last year includes 107 varieties of birds, 57 varieties of butterflies, 40 varieties of fish and 29 varieties of ants. Software engineer Amitava Majumder, who is also an avid photographer, feels the Sarobar premises and its inhabitants need to be protected at any cost and mass rituals, such as Chhath, should be prohibited there to protect the ecology. Just like the painted stork that had disappeared after the Chhath of 2015, not to return till this year, the Indian flapshell turtle also vanished in 2015, but hasn’t been sighted since. This year, the Indian roof turtle has been spotted. “Let us not drive the turtle away this year,” pleaded Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/let-us-not-drive-away-fauna-with-reckless-acts/articleshow/79251462.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: BJP draws up candidates’ list for 30 wards||HYDERABAD: As the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Election (GHMC) polls near, the BJP has finalised candidates for about 30 of 150 wards, out of which 15 were allotted to those who lost elections in the 2016 polls, but stood strong second. The BJP has also finalised tickets for another 15 contestants who are from other parties (mostly TRS) and have strong political connections. A reliable source in BJP told TOI that though scrutiny of the applications is almost final, the party will wait till the notification for polls is issued and a few more dissidents from ruling TRS and Congress would join the party. “ The ticket allotment will be in such a fashion that 40 per cent would go to those already in the party, the rest will be decided depending on who will join the party from other parties, mostly TRS will be the focus,” they said. Reportedly, some leaders from prominent political family members from TRS including their wives and daughters candidature is finalised. BJP announced receiving of applications on Sunday and on Tuesday final verification will happen and be presented before the election management committee. “There is huge rush in the party office for submission of applications, we have received an average of four applications for each ward,” NV Subhash BJP spokesperson said. BJP leaders say that not having an alliance with TDP this time gave them more options and they are working out on local level realities in allotting wards for contestants for the polls. The BJP had done internal survey on candidates some time back.  Another Congress leader Jitta Surender Reddy HAS joined the BJP. He is representing Champapet area. He is also likely to be contesting the GHMC polls. There will be many more from Congress and TRS soon joining the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-draws-up-candidates-list-for-30-wards/articleshow/79253007.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||30 with criminal records won 2016 GHMC polls: FGG||HYDERABAD: As all the political parties are gearing up for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections, Forum For Good Governance (FGG) on Monday said that during the 2016 GHMC elections, 72 candidates who allegedly had criminal records contested. FGG has appealed to all the political parties to field candidates who have no criminal record during the upcoming GHMC elections. According to the data released by FGG on Monday, among all the political parties TRS allegedly had fielded maximum number of candidates facing criminal cases in the year 2016 -- 14 members. “All political parties put together have given tickets to 72 candidates having criminal records, out of them 30 candidates with criminal records won elections. Criminals contesting the elections make people uninterested in election process especially in urban areas and make them not participate in voting, leading to low poll percentage. Political parties have a moral responsibility to not to give tickets to candidates with criminal background,’’ FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy said in a press release. The nature of charges faced by the contested candidates in the last election includes cheating, assault, intimidation among others. During the previous GHMC election, there were several incidents of clashes which took place between the cadre of different political parties, especially in South and East zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-with-criminal-records-won-16-ghmc-polls-fgg/articleshow/79253008.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Alarming rise in PM2.5 despite 80% dip in fireworks; west Kolkata worst-hit, finds study||KOLKATA: Despite the record low in bursting crackers in Kolkata this year, a World Bank-funded hyperlocal pollution analysis of the data generated by 20 sensor-based pollution monitoring devices in the city revealed how the city’s emission map changed from green to dark red on Diwali night. However, it would be far worse in previous years. The analysis highlighted that the city cannot bear the assault of fireworks anymore. Track the pollution level in your cityThe World Bank project — CLEAIR — that assesses the city’s hyperlocal air quality round the year, has plotted the emission levels on the city’s map with colour codes to show the change in the PM2.5 load in the ambient air. The hourly emission levels on the map revealed that pollution started to increase from 7pm and peaked from midnight to 2am and then gradually decreased. The hyperlocal pollution study, however, clearly showed a difference between the intensity of Diwali pollution of 2019 and that of this year. In 2019, the peak was 400µg/m3, this Diwali peak was 200µg/m3. The PM 2.5 count rose to 125µg/m3 in Beliaghata, Narkeldanga and Phoolbagan around 7pm on Diwali night. Around 9pm, the figure rose dramatically in Cossipore and Paikpara in the north and Garden Reach and Metiabruz in the west. The PM2.5 count was recorded in the range of 175µg/m3-200µg/m3. By 11pm, the high levels of pollution were raging all along the western side from Cossipore to Garden Reach and then Behala, Sarsuna at 200µg/.m3. According to environmentalists and West Bengal Pollution Control Board, fireworks display was clearly reduced by 80% compared to previous years. But there were some pockets of violations. “The mapping showed that even 20% fireworks can generate enough pollution to suffocate the city,” said Sanjoy Chatterjee, director, Ideation Technology, which in partnership with World Bank and Bengal’s department of environment established the network of the monitoring devices with the help of ISRO’s satellite airflow model for accurate plotting of pollutants on the map. “Delhi is paying a high cost for not heeding judicial orders. Delhi’s high pollution has raised the number of Covid infections and a host of other respiratory diseases,” said environment activist Subhas Datta. A WBPCB scientist said that the Diwali pollution as mapped may not have been entirely induced by fireworks. “Freight traffic enters the city, moves along the corridor on the western side of the city and leaves a high level of pollutants before exiting the city around 6am. However, an analysis of the pollutants could have ascertained if they were induced by fireworks or traffic,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/alarming-rise-in-pm2-5-despite-80-dip-in-fireworks-west-kol-worst-hit-finds-study/articleshow/79251468.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Interceptor van made cops breathe easier as commuters moved slower||MOHALI: According to traffic officials, Punjab’s lone intercepter van regulated commuters’ vehicle speed by issuing challans to defaulters from November 2 to November 15. “We are now going to Ropar as per schedule,” said state transport official Balkar Singh, who is the only one who drives the vehicle in Punjab. Data procured by TOI shows that during the van’s tenure in Mohali, it issued 160 challans to those who crossed the speed limit. Maximum challans were issued at Traffic Zone 1 (48), followed by Derabassi (23), Zone-3 (20), Zirakpur (19), Lalru (17), Chatt (12), Mullanpur (11) and Handesra (10). No challans were issued in Kurali, Airport, Landran, Nayagaon, Kharar and Zone-2. No challans were issued in these six locations which have congested roads, face staff crunch and are in rural areas like Nayagaon, where speeding is not possible. Officials said that the interceptor van comes with a pre-installed hi-tech speed radar, which detects violators from a range of 1 kilometre and saves the speed, time and date. The advanced features made the last few days easier on police personnel in Mohali. “It saved a lot of time as to use our own speed radar, first we have to go to the Phase 8 traffic office to pick up the heavy machine and then reach the destination and set up a check-post” said a traffic police official requesting anonymity. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Traffic, Guriqbal Singh said, “We completely utilised the speed van in our district and set up speed check-posts every single day. It definitely increased our efficiency. The prime factor behind road accidents is speed and if we can control speed, there will be fewer accidents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/interceptor-van-made-cops-breathe-easier-as-commuters-moved-slower/articleshow/79251481.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Coal crunch: Lehra thermal plant suspends operations||PATIALA: The last unit operational in the government-run Lehra Mohabbat thermal power plant has also suspended operations on the instructions of Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) to save coal for emergency situations. Meanwhile, the power demand in Punjab has also declined to around 4,000 MW. Punjab has five thermal power plants, including two government-run. All three private plants shut down operations due to non-availability of coal following the farmers’ agitation, including ‘rail roko’, against the farm laws. The two state-run plants did keep a single unit operational to meet the power demand, but as fuel stocks depleted, Ropar plant suspended operations on Wednesday and the unit at Lehra Mohabbat plant packed up on Saturday evening. PSPCL officials claimed that both these government plants were stopped from generating power in order to save coal for emergency situation. The power demand has also declined and during the last three days, no major power cut has been imposed, they said. “All three independent power plants (IPP), including Talwandi Sabo Power Limited (TSPL), Banawali, Mansa, NPL, Rajpura, and GVK, Goindwal Sahib, had already suspended their operations following no availability of coal. Now the two state-run power plants have also suspended operations to save coal for any emergency situation. They have a fewer day of coal available with them if run on full capacity,” said PSPCL official. Both these power plants had light up their unit each around two weeks days ago, after the last private plant in Punjab faced shut down following coal shortage. Ropar plant has four days of coal stock whereas Lehra plant has 1.37 days of stock left. The officials added that power demand on Monday was around 3500 MW to 4000 MW, of which around 500 MW was met from hydro projects within the state, while no power was available from power plants in the state. The power demand on Sunday was 3518 MW, as maximum demand whereas on Diwali (Saturday), it was maximum 4807 MW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/coal-crunch-lehra-thermal-plant-suspends-operations/articleshow/79252399.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||No rectification made to final voters list, says Congress||Hyderabad: The Congress on Monday said that despite having submitted the list of duplicate and bogus voters in Doodh Bowli division to the concerned deputy municipal commissioner, no rectification was made to the final voters list that has been published for the GHMC elections.In a letter to state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi, Telangana Congress election committee convener G Niranjan said that in the hard copies provided to the Congress the details of the electorate in a number of divisions is missing. For example, the hard copies do not contain the voters' list of several wards, including all the divisions in Musheerabad and Charminar, three each in Jubilee Hills and Rajendranagar, four each in Malakpet, Malkajgiri, and Goshamahal, a division each in Yakutpura and Quthbullapur constituencies respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-rectification-made-to-final-voters-list-says-congress/articleshow/79253022.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Goa||Surla ryots want procedures for compensation to be eased||Bicholim: The Surla gram kruti samiti from Surla, Bicholim taluka, has urged the chief minister to ease the procedures for getting compensation due to farmers from the mining companies for destruction that had been caused to their farms due to mining silt. The body said that since 2007, only 57 of the 761 farmers have received compensation from the Rs3.66 crore deposited by the mining companies. The samiti members requested chief minister Pramod Sawant to appoint a special person to handle the issue, which won’t be affected even if the deputy collector is transferred, and that “rigid procedures” such as producing a succession deed be omitted. “The fund is with the government since 2007 and it has now grown almost double. I have personally briefed almost eight deputy collectors about the issues related to farmers in the village but while the discussions were being held they used to be issued transfer orders. I had to again narrate the entire matter to the new officer,” a samiti member Uday Natekar said, while demanding that the government should come up with some other way to sort out the issue, without asking for succession deed documents. The body said that since 2007, only 57 of the 761 farmers have received compensation from the Rs3.66 crore deposited by the mining companies. The samiti members requested the chief minister to appoint a special person to handle the issue||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/surla-ryots-want-procedures-for-compensation-to-be-eased/articleshow/79253393.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Bineesh Kodiyeri’s former partner files complaint with police||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A former business partner of Bineesh Kodiyeri has filed a complaint with the police, alleging that a team – led by the former driver of Bineesh – attacked him on the suspicion that he had disclosed crucial information to probe agencies. Lawrence Joseph, a resident of Sasthamangalam, filed a complaint with Museum police alleging that Sunil Kumar, alias Manikandan, threatened him over the phone and WhatsApp that he and his family would be eliminated. On Sunday, when he had gone to a salon, Manikandan and two others attacked him. He said that he ran into a nearby Congress election committee office to take shelter. Later, when he was walking home, Manikandan and others tried to take him away, by force, in a car, but he escaped the attempt and somehow reached home. Even after reaching house, Manikandan tried to break open the gate and pelted stones at his vehicle parked inside the compound. These incidents were filed in the complaint. Lawrence, who had monetary dealings with Bineesh earlier, is now running a laundry and real estate businesses. Manikandan too is running his own business. Lawrence also handed over all threatening messages he received from Manikandan to the police. Meanwhile, Museum police said that a team is conducting an enquiry and no case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bineeshs-former-partner-files-complaint-with-police/articleshow/79251494.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Unknown man found with injuries dies, murder case registered||AMBALA: An unknown man was found seriously injured and unconscious at Dussehra Ground in Barnala village of Ambala district. The man, who appeared to be around 27, was unclothed. He died during treatment at the civil hospital in Ambala City on Sunday. An FIR has been lodged against the unknown accused under Section 302 (punishment for murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Panjokhra police station on the complaint of Harjit Singh, incumbent sarpanch of Barnala village. Sarpanch Harjit stated to the police, “At about 7.30am on Sunday, I received information on phone about an unknown man lying unconscious with grievous injuries inside Baba Genda Bhagat Ground (Dussehra Ground) in Barnala village. The person had several injuries on his face, head and body and was without any clothes. I believe that some unknown person caused these injuries to murder him. Our village residents put on a lower and an upper on his body and we called the ambulance. He was rushed to the civil hospital, Ambala City and later I came to know that he died.” Panjokhra police station house officer (SHO) sub-inspector (SI) Ramesh Kumar said, “The person could not be identified as no belongings have been found from his body or near the spot. He was rushed to the hospital, where he died undergoing treatment. In his MLR (medico-legal report), doctors mentioned that he had nine injuries on his body. The body of the deceased has been kept in the hospital mortuary. We will wait for 72 hours to see if anyone comes to claim it.” The SHO said a case has been registered and efforts are being made to identify the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/unknown-man-found-with-injuries-dies-murder-case-registered/articleshow/79251504.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan slams central agencies, CAG over targeting KIIFB||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan slammed central agencies, that are probing multiple cases, and the comptroller and auditor general for its remarks against Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), saying that the agencies should not align with political opponents who are worried about Kerala’s developmental strides under the LDF government. Addressing a news conference on Monday, Vijayan said that when LDF government assumed office, the public had much expectations when it came to developmental initiatives though the state lacked enough resources. At that juncture, government decided to scale up and utilize KIIFB, which had used by previous governments. He said that KIIFB has now given clearance to projects worth Rs 55,000 crore that has brought happiness to Keralites. But it is worrying a section with a weird mindset as it feels that such development is being undertaken by LDF government. But, under no circumstance will the government allow anyone to trounce KIIFB, he said. Vijayan mocked Swadeshi Jagran Manch activist Ranjith Karthikeyan – who filed petition against KIIFB in the high court – and KPCC secretary Mathew Kuzhalnadan – who is appearing for the petitioner – saying that they shared a good rapport in attacking KIIFB. He challenged opposition leaders and asked if they are of the opinion that all projects envisaged under KIIFB must be scrapped. If they oppose it, they should be ready to admit that none of the KIIFB projects are required in their constituencies. Vijayan said that all the agencies under the Centre, except one, is probing multiple cases, and they are also targeting the officials in such a way that they are scared to take their work forward. He said that people had given a mandate to the government when it took over the governance in 2016 and government will fulfil the same at any cost. However, the chief minister refused to comment on M Sivasankar’s statement in court that investigating agencies are forcing him to name political targets in cases he has been implicated. However, Vijayan thanked Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his help to complete the GAIL pipeline project from Kochi to Mangaluru. He said that Modi’s intervention helped complete the project when it was stuck. He announced that the laying of 510km pipeline under the project from Kochi to Mangaluru has been completed. He said that works along 470km were completed by the LDF government and once fully functional, project will yield a revenue of Rs 500 to Rs 720 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-slams-central-agencies-cag-over-targeting-kiifb/articleshow/79251535.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Trichy||Life-size statues to come up at five spots||Trichy: As part of city beautification drive, the corporation has identified five arterial junctions and traffic islands to install life-size granite and colourful fibre statues. The statues, sponsored under the aegis of smart cities mission programme, shall be designed and produced by state-run Poompuhar handicrafts organisation.Corporation has finalised the two ends of Sasthri road, Thillai Nagar main road intersection with Thennur high road, Settipalam bridge across Uyyakondan canal and Anna Nagar link road as preferable spots for the statues. All the localities fall under the area based development (ABD) zone of the smart cities mission project.A statue featuring Karakattam, the ancient folk dance of Tamil Nadu, in fibre material and a colour fibre statue of four horses shall come up at Thillai Nagar traffic island and Settipalam bridge near MGR statue respectively. “The other three statues will be granite (black) featuring an artistical lion, peacock and fish. Granite statues will be manufactured at the Mahabalipuram facility while fibre statues at our Kumbakonam facility,” a Poompuhar handicrafts official said. Sasthri road traffic island near Mahatma Gandhi school end will have a fish statue while the end near the new passport office shall have a lion statue. Anna Nagar link road will have peacock statue. The statues are likely to be completed and positioned in less than two months. “The statues will create a positive impression of the city’s landscape among the visitors,” corporation commissioner S Sivasubramanian said. The civic body has already installed a statue of charging cheetahs on Cauvery bridge near Melachinthamani.In March 2019, the corporation had proposed to install statues and signages on arterial roads to boost aesthetic appearance at a cost of Rs 4 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/life-size-statues-to-come-up-at-five-spots/articleshow/79253041.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 17, 2020||Trichy||MGNREGA workers to plant 50,000 saplings for Miyawaki forest in Trichy||Trichy: For the first time, the revenue department of Trichy district has utilized the workforce of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) for the Miyawaki method of mass plantation drive scheduled on Tuesday in a government poromboke land near Manachanallur. The officials said that around 4.2 acres of revenue department’s land was identified at Poonampalayam village in Manachanallur taluk of the district. Although Miyawaki style —a Japanese method of growing trees in a small piece of land is not new to the district, officials said that Poonampalayam is the first rural local body to get the Miyawaki method of afforestation drive. While the land belongs to the revenue department, locals including rice mill owners have mobilized fund to do earthwork at a cost of Rs 4 lakh. Around 50,000 native tree saplings were also sponsored by the locals. “Drip irrigation system has been facilitated, a borewell in the site will be used to irrigate the saplings. MGNREGA workers were entrusted to maintain the plantation area on a rotational basis,” S Vaithyanathan, RDO, Lalgudi told TOI. DRDA and revenue department have jointly planned the drive as planting saplings is identified as one of the sustainable solutions to prevent the government poromboke land from being encroached. Around 3-4 native breed saplings per square metre will be planted to ensure dense forest-like ambience.On Monday, around 80 to 100 MGNREGA workers cleared the site and marked the land to plant saplings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/mgnrega-workers-to-plant-50000-saplings-for-miyawaki-forest-in-trichy/articleshow/79253045.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Trichy||Trichy 60th among TN cities in smart ranking||Trichy: In the latest country-wide ranking of smart cities selected under the smart cities mission programme, Trichy city was ranked 60 behind Madurai (42) and Thanjavur (57). Among the cities in the state, Salem has scored 70.7 and ranked 8. All the cities in the state chosen for the smart cities mission programme have surpassed Trichy in the dynamic ranking based on the progress in implementing infrastructure projects and utilisation of funds under smart cities mission.The ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) has selected 100 cities including 11 cities in the state is different phases since March 2016. The cities were selected based on the Smart City Proposal (SCP) submitted to the ministry listing the proposals aimed at developing the city. Although Trichy did not find a place in the first two rounds, the city was selected in June 2017. The cities selected for the programme will be sanctioned funds to implement infrastructure development projects.In the recent most dynamic ranking by MoHUA as on November 13, Trichy with 41.09 marks was ranked 60 behind nine smart cities in the state. The ranking was calculated based on the scores achieved by the city in completing smart cities mission projects and utilising the funds. Salem was the only city in the state that came in the top 10.Though Trichy Corporation has completed five smart city projects and is on the verge of completing three more projects, it has gone down in the ranking. However, Trichy Corporation officials said that cities selected in round 1 (March 2016) and round 2 (October 2016) had adequate time to prepare and implement the projects. “Trichy was selected only in June 2017 in round 3. Since the ranking is dynamic, we will move forward in the ensuing ranking by completing a few more projects,” a senior corporation official said. While Tiruppur was also selected along with Trichy in round 3, Tiruppur city has achieved rank 24, far better than Trichy’s rank. Stating that the corporation has expedited the civil work on 23 projects, officials added that the city will certainly improve the scores in the next ranking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-60th-among-tn-cities-in-smart-ranking/articleshow/79253049.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 17, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab farmers vow to intensify fight against farm laws||BATHINDA: Protesting against the central farm laws for over one-and-a-half months, the farm organisations of Punjab observed the 105th martyrdom day of seven freedom fighters, including Kartar Singh Sarabha, at the protest sites across the state on Monday. At many sites at railway stations and toll plazas, farmers recalled the supreme sacrifices made by Sarabha and his compatriots. Sarabha, Vishnu Ganesh Pingle, Jagat Singh, Harnam Singh, Bakhshish Singh, Surain Singh elder and another Surain Singh were hanged in Lahore conspiracy case on November 16, 1915. Sarabha was only 19-and-a-half years old. “We owe a lot to freedom fighters who made supreme sacrifices for the liberation of the motherland. Now again, we are midway through the fight for liberation, this time to save farmers from being crushed under the laws enacted by the Parliament that are intended to put them on the mat. In our fight against the Union government, we are getting inspiration from freedom fighters Bhagat Singh, Kartar Singh Sarabha and many more. Kartar Singh Sarabha was a thoughtful youth whom Bhagat Singh used to consider as his role model,” said BKU (Ekta Dakonda) general secretary Jagmohan Singh. “The sacrifices made by these peoples’ heroes inspire us to continue with the fight and to further intensify it to save farmers from being crushed. On the martyrdom day of Sarabha and six others on Monday, the farmers paid glowing tributes and at some places they sang revolutionary numbers,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Barnala block activist Chamkaur Singh. A large number of protesters, including women, renewed their pledge to keep fighting till the farm laws are not withdrawn or the Union government don’t give a written guarantee of continuing with the minimum support price (MSP) on all crops. Farmers also reiterated their resolve to reach Delhi under ‘Dilli Chalo’ call on November 26-27 under any circumstances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/farmers-vow-to-intensify-fight-against-farm-laws/articleshow/79252404.cms||Neel Kamal
November 17, 2020||Trichy||41 sovereigns gold burgled from house||Thanjavur: Gold jewellery weighing 41 sovereigns were stolen from the house of a senior official of the public works department (PWD), Trichy region, early on Monday in Thanjavur.According to police, PWD chief engineer S Ramamoorthy, 57, is a resident of Parisutham Nagar in Thanjavur. Since his regional office is located in Trichy, he has been residing at a house in Trichy with his family.He celebrated Diwali at his Trichy home along with his family, while the watchman of the Thanjavur house had gone to his native place on leave, police said.After noticing that the watchman was not on duty, some miscreants entered the house after breaking the front doors of the house early on Monday and decamped with 41 sovereigns of gold jewellery.Ramamoorthy and his family members returned to Thanjavur on Monday morning and shocked to notice that the front door was broken.When they checked the bureau and other lockers, they found that 41 sovereigns of gold ornaments were stolen, south police station inspector Sridhar told TOI.Based on a complaint lodged by Ramamoorthy, south police registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/41-sovereigns-gold-burgled-from-house/articleshow/79253071.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Woman loses Rs 13 lakh to online scammers||PANCHKULA: A 37-year-old woman from Panchkula was allegedly duped of Rs 13 lakh by a person she met on Facebook, who claimed to be from UK and two others. The accused claimed that he had sent her 30,000 pounds (around Rs 29 lakh) as a gift. Later, a person who claimed to be a customs official demanded a “fee” to get the parcel “released.” In her police complaint, the woman, a resident of Sector 20, said she received a message from an online friend who called himself David Benjamin and said that he is a marine engineer from London. On November 3, he told her that he had sent her a courier of 30,000 pounds with Citi Link courier, Finland. Soon after, she received a WhatsApp call from a woman who introduced herself as Anita Bhatnagar, an official from the customs department. The woman demanded “custom charges” and provided a bank account number in which the money was to be deposited. Thereafter, another person who identified himself as Reddy called and demanded some other charges/fees. In multiple transactions, the victim deposited Rs 13 lakh in the bank account of the accused but she did not receive the parcel. She filed a complaint and a case was registered under Section 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc.), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document or electronic record), 120-B (punishment for criminal conspiracy) of the IPC at Sector 20 police station. Further investigations are on. Police said, “We are working with cyber cell officials to work on the case. Investigation is in progress.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/woman-loses-rs-13-lakh-to-online-scammers/articleshow/79251522.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Heaped waste near monuments to be cleared soon, says archaeology dept||PANAJI: Goa may have just recently opened for tourism after the Covid-19 lockdown, but already garbage is piling up at various tourism hotspots. At the picturesque archaeological monuments dotting the state, the piles of garbage in their vicinity are turning out to be quite an eyesore. Currently, all sites of the 51 monuments are open in Goa, based on the SOPs laid out by the government. Aware of the problem, the department of archaeology is now attempting to clear the garbage. “Currently we have only six monument attendants for all the 51 monuments in Goa. We try to shuffle these attendants from one place to another,” a department official said. Interestingly though, garbage collection at these sites comes under the purview of the respective local civic body. “We often write to the panchayats to clear the garbage at the sites, but we hardly get any response,” the official said. As a result, the department has now decided to clear the garbage alongside its annual vegetation clearance at the sites. “We usually carry out vegetation clearance immediately after the monsoon season. This year, since the withdrawal of monsoon was delayed till the last week of October, we had to initiate this process late,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heaped-waste-near-monuments-to-be-cleared-soon-says-archaeology-dept/articleshow/79253400.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Colleges reopen to low numbers in Gurugram, some plan odd-even roster||GURUGRAM: Colleges and universities across Haryana resumed physical classes for the first time in the 2020-21 academic session on Monday. The attendance, however, remained significantly low on the first day. Officials in the education department attributed it to the festive season and the rising number of Covid-19 cases in NCR. As per the SOPs issued by the higher education department, institutions have drawn up a roster and limited the visit of each student to thrice a week. Online classes, however, are to continue until the Covid situation stabilises and fresh directives are issued by the Centre. “Colleges and universities across the state resumed their physical classes in a staggered manner on Monday. Due to the festive season, a few colleges are observing holidays but they will reopen soon too. We have had discussions with the deans and the college administrations and asked them to prepare a plan to rationalise the number of students visiting the campus on a single day. A strict compliance with the SOPs is a must and any dereliction will invite action,” said an education department official. While a few colleges opened on Monday, several others remained shut due to the holiday declared by Gurugram University. A few that did open did not even see 1% attendance. For instance, at Dronacharya Government College, only 20 students turned up. A brief counselling session was held in the open about the government’s plan to roll out a hybrid mode of education — online and offline — and Covid-related protocols to be followed. “The attendance wasn’t encouraging and will take time to improve. There could be several reasons, like the ongoing festive season.We have issued rosters and day-wise plans to the faculty and the students,” said Pooja Khullar, the principal of Dronacharya Government College. Colleges have chalked out plans to ensure staggered entry of students on the campus to ensure physical distancing and make monitoring manageable. Some colleges are also planning to roll out the odd-even formula, in which students would be called on the basis of their roll numbers. “As and when the strength increases, we will divide the students in sections, with not more than 20 in each. Also, the classroom sessions are being planned in a way that each student visits the campus only twice a week,” she added. Sector 14 Government Girls’ College said it will implement odd-even when it resumes physical classes from November 23. It will also invite first-year students on the basis of the same formula to submit their documents. “On the basis of surveys conducted by our faculty, we decided that 50% students will attend online classes. Out of the 50% attending classroom sessions, 25% will be present on the campus on a given day,” said RK Garg, the college principal. Private colleges in Gurugram and Nuh are yet to take a final call on classroom sessions and have decided to continue only with online classes for the time being. “Many of our teachers, non-teaching staff and students come from Delhi. With cases rising there, there’s hesitation to come to campuses. We’ll figure out how many faculty members are open to coming to the college and then take consent of the students. Thereafter, we’ll take a call on resumption of physical classes,” said Maj General GS Bal (retd), dean of student welfare at Amity University, Gurugram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/colleges-reopen-to-low-attendance-some-may-roll-out-odd-even-roster/articleshow/79253159.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP seeks aid for crop damage||CHANDIGARH: With unexpected rain disrupting the last phase of paddy procurement in Punjab, stocks were affected in some grain markets on Monday. Demanding compensation for farmers, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has blamed the state mandi board for not making proper arrangements. AAP leader Budh Ram said lifting of stocks had been tardy at some places and poor arrangements resulted in farmers bearing losses. “They should be adequately compensated. Farmers are upset over the damage to their produce and the state government is squarely responsible for it,” he said. At many places, farmers who were drying up their produce to get rid of moisture content were affected by rain and are now hoping for clear weather later this week.  Till November 12, 201.72 LMT of paddy (including Basmati) had arrived in grain markets against the corresponding figure of 161 LMT. Of this, 200.4 LMT had been procured through 34.4 lakh passes issued to farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-seeks-aid-for-crop-damage/articleshow/79252438.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Talks on, Punjab Cong defers MLAs’ Jantar Mantar stir||Chandigarh: Punjab Congress has decided to defer its protest at the Jantar Mantar in Delhi against the Centre’s farm laws and the restrictions on movement of freight trains in the state. The party earlier planned to hold a series of protests in the national capital where a group of Congress MLAs were to hold a daily sit-in for “securing the interests of farmers”. A Congress leader said in view of the ongoing negotiations between farmers’ unions and the BJP government at the Centre, the party had decided to defer its protest for now. The situation will be reviewed in a few days. Earlier this month, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar had announced that the party would start a series of protests at Jantar Mantar in Delhi against what he called were “anti-farmer” bills passed by the Centre after Diwali. The party said the aim of the protest will be to wake up the Centre and deter it from breaking the backbone of the agriculture sector in the state. Punjab Congress, said the leader, was of the view that the farm laws would ruin the economy of the state, thereby having a cascading effect on growers. He said Punjab was an agrarian economy and anything which would affect farmers would impact the entire state. Last month, chief minister Amarinder Singh had led a symbolic protest with party MLAs at Jantar Mantar against the farm laws after the President refused to meet the delegation, pointing out that the farm bills passed by the state assembly were still pending with the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/talks-on-punjab-cong-defers-mlas-jantar-mantar-stir/articleshow/79252405.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Trichy||Cops on a mission to reform ganja peddlers, give them books||Trichy: In a move aimed at reforming ganja peddlers languishing in jail, the Nagapattinam range narcotics intelligence bureau (NIB-CID) police has distributed books on great men so that they can keep themselves engaged inside the prison and turn a new leaf.“To ensure that they keep busy inside the prison, we gave them biographies of Mahatma Gandhi and books on Swami Vivekananda. This will help them keep away from bad company. Once they get out of jail, they will lead a normal life instead of getting trapped in the ganja network,” said Barath Srinivasan, deputy superintendent of police, NIB-CID, Nagapattinam range.Four people were arrested last week in Sethibasauthiram with 130kg of ganja. They were shifted to the Trichy prison. Police said that many of the ganja peddling accused are first-timers and indulge in such acts after being lured by history-sheeters. “We came to know during interrogation that they were used as pawns by smugglers to take the contraband from one place to another,” said inspector J Balamurugan from NIB-CID, Nagapattinam. All are in the age group of 30 to 40 years and did it for money. Many innocent people who go to jail for such offences are brainwashed by some of the accused in the jail and they come out as smugglers, said Srinivasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cops-on-a-mission-to-reform-ganja-peddlers-give-them-books/articleshow/79253055.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Trichy||6,448 voters added in draft rolls for Trichy||Trichy: The draft electoral rolls were released in Trichy by the district collector on Monday, ahead of the assembly elections to be held in 2021. While a total of 6,448 voters have been added to the voter's list, as many as 43,115 names have been taken out from the electoral rolls for the nine assembly constituencies in Trichy district.The district has 22,60,439 voters including 11,60,256 women, 10,99,977 men and 206 persons of the third gender as per the revised list released on Monday. While there were 22,97,106 voters enlisted in the electoral roll released on February 14, 2020, the revised list contains 36,667 less names after accounting for 23,954 voters who died, 14,971 who have shifted residence and 4,190 double entries. Among the nine assembly constituencies, Thiruverumbur had the maximum of voter names deleted with 10,153 deletions while Mannachanallur registered the least with 2,092 deletions.Voters can check their names and addresses as the draft roll will be displayed at all the revenue division offices, taluk offices and polling stations. Voters can apply for making any changes to the rolls between November 16 and December 15, 2020. The district collector said special camps will also be held for the purpose on four days-November 21,22 and December 12 and 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/6448-voters-added-in-draft-rolls-for-trichy/articleshow/79253062.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Big task for KMDA, cops: Sending Chhath crowds from lakes to ghats||KOLKATA: After completing two successful assignments—of preventing crowds at pandals during Durga Puja and stopping the bursting of fireworks on Kali Puja and Diwali—with distinction, Kolkata Police is bracing itself for a third major challenge this festive season: keeping Chhath devotees away from Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. With the Supreme Court refusing to stay the NGT order banning Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar to protect the Lake’s ecology and listing the next hearing for Monday, three days after the festival, the police will have to prohibit rituals at Rabindra Sarobar as well as at Subhas Sarobar, as ordered by the Calcutta High Court. Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA), custodian of both the lakes, also has the unenviable task of implementing the order, having failed to do so for the past two years. Last year, it did go the distance in creating awareness about the negative effects of the rituals at the Lake, organising meetings with community leaders and local ward councillors, and making arrangements at alternative venues. It had even issued a closure order for Rabindra Sarobar. But police allegedly went missing on Chhath morning, allowing violators a free run. Cops had later blamed KMDA for not making enough requisition of uniformed men. “We are the Lake’s custodian. But we have to depend on police for enforcement of the order. We have made alternative arrangements at 44 water bodies across the city, up from 10 last year, where devotees can perform Chhath rituals. There are six water bodies with ghats in Nonadanga area. KMDA is also developing temporary ghats at Jodhpur Park lake, Madartola jheel, Layelka jheel and other water bodies near Ruby and elsewhere,” said a KMDA official. The time is short with just four days to go for Chhath, an instruction has been sent out from police headquarters Lalbazar to local OCs, asking them to reach out to neighbourhoods with presence of Chhath devotees and urge them to use local ponds instead of heading to Rabindra or Subhas sarobars. “We are bound by the high court order,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar. The KMC will provide the devotees with a list of local water bodies. Like last year, police plan to shut down not just Rabindra Sarobar but also Subhas Sarobar and have asked KMDA to specify the date from which the closure will take place. Officers said there would be adequate police bandobast at both the lakes. This includes more policewomen as mostly women conduct the Chhath rituals. “There will be two-layer security and an efficient local network will be the backbone of our response,” said an officer who was on duty last year as well. Traffic police, too, will be roped in as they have to play a key role in redirecting vehicles carrying Chhath devotees to alternative water bodies. Also, WBTC buses will be stationed at both Rabindra and Subhas sarobars to ferry people to alternative sites, should they arrive on foot. The other ghats will be covered by CCTV cameras and there are plans to use drones at both the lake areas to provide the necessary video evidence, if required. If someone bursts crackers anywhere in the city, cops will slap cases under Explosives Act, like during Kali Puja and Diwali. “The prosecutions will continue till November-end and include Jagatdhatri Puja,” said an officer. The six FIRs drawn up for Chhath last year are yet to be chargesheeted. In one of the FIRs, police explained at length what transpired on Chhath day and led to thousands of devotees taking control of the Lake that evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/big-task-for-kmda-cops-sending-chhath-crowds-from-lakes-to-ghats/articleshow/79252468.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Oppn slaps breach of privilege notice on Isaac||Thiruvananthapuram: The Congress-led opposition has moved a breach of privilege notice against finance minister T M Thomas Isaac alleging that the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) report was leaked to the media before it was tabled in the assembly. The notice was sent by MLA V D Satheesan to speaker P Sreeramakrishnan. “There has to be secrecy over the findings made by the CAG. It is a routine practice that the findings will be communicated to the finance secretary. However, this has to be kept a secret till the report is tabled before the assembly,” said Satheesan. However here, the finance minister himself leaked the findings of the report before the media by convening a press conference. The issue has become grave since he had claimed that it is a draft report and the final report has not come. The draft report is a secret document. Here the minister not only leaked the draft report but he even took part in television channel discussions over this leaked report. Hence it is nothing but a breach of privilege shown to the assembly, said Satheesan. In the notice given to the speaker, Satheesan said as per the powers of the CAG, “Article 151(2) says that the reports of Comptroller and Auditor General of India relating to the accounts of the state shall be submitted to the governor of the state who shall cause them to be laid before the legislature of the state”. He said the CAG itself has stressed the need for maintaining secrecy of the reports before it is tabled in the assembly. “The Comptroller and Auditor General of India, under Article 151 of the Constitution discharges a constitutional obligation in the submission of audit reports to the President/governor, that are tabled before the Parliament/state legislatures. As per the extant instruction, audit reports are treated as confidential documents till they are tabled in the Parliament/state legislatures. Privilege is also being claimed in respect of the draft audit paras and bond copy of the audit reports sent for signature of CAG. According to the well-established parliamentary practice, usage and convention, it is improper to give premature publicity in the press of matters connected with the business of the House, i.e. in respect of the audit reports prior to its tabling in the House, the CAG has made it clear,” wrote Satheesan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oppn-slaps-breach-of-privilege-notice-on-isaac/articleshow/79251555.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Balbir Singh Rajewal refuses to be Cong poster boy, party deletes tweets on him||BATHINDA: Monday’s Twitter blitzkrieg against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his government’s agri-marketing laws backfired on the Congress for using farm unionist Balbir Singh Rajewal as a poster boy without his consent. After Rajewal tweeted that he won’t lend his name to a political campaign, the Congress had to delete every tweet that included his photograph as the agitation’s hero. Asked about it, Rajewal told TOI: “The Congress never sought any permission to use my name and photograph in its tweets. If it must do politics, it’ll not be in the name of farmers.” The Congress tweeted that the BJP’s “attack on the annadata (food provider)” has shattered the public’s faith in the government. Referring to the 54-day-long freight train embargo, the tweets accused the Bharatiya Janata Party of “terrorising an entire state” and robbing farmers of MSP (minimum support price of crop). The tweets accused the Centre of denying Punjab basic essential goods for people, raw material for factories, coal for thermal-power plants, and urea for farms, the last of which had “endangered the state’s food security”. Defending the tweets, a Congress leader said on the condition of anonymity: “Tweets on any public-domain issue about our annadata are okay. Twitter is a platform for raising your voice, and the BJP-enacted anti-farmer laws called for objection, even though I am unaware which photograph we used without his (Rajewal’s) knowledge.” Punjab BJP president Ashwani Sharma said: “The Congress is playing politics over a serious issue that we hope to resolve in the next meeting with the farmers, whenever that be. The probable outcome of talks makes the Congress frustrated.” Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh’s political secretary Captain Sandeep Sandhu said: “Those tweets were made from Delhi but when Rajewal objected, those were removed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rajewal-refuses-to-be-cong-poster-boy-party-deletes-tweets-on-him/articleshow/79252465.cms||Neel Kamal
November 17, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar takes charge as double-engine Bihar CM||PATNA: JD(U) president Nitish Kumar was on Monday sworn-in as the chief minister of Bihar for a record seventh time in the past 20 years, amid a boycott of the ceremony by the opposition Mahagathbandhan comprising RJD, Congress and the Left parties. The 69-year old Nitish was administered the oath of office at Rajendra Mandap in the Raj Bhavan premises by governor Phagu Chauhan, a day after Nitish staked claim to form the government, submitting letters of support from all four NDA allies–JD(U) (43 legislators), BJP (74), HAM-S (4) and VIP (4). The governor also administered the oath of office to 14 ministers, including the two deputy CMs, Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi (both from BJP), replacing Sushil Kumar Modi who had been Nitish’s deputy for around 12 years. Soon after their oath, Prasad and Devi were provided chairs at the dais alongside Nitish Kumar befitting their status as the CM’s deputies. Other ministers were guided to sit at places earmarked for them. It is for the first time that there will be two deputy CMs in Bihar. Six previous governments had a deputy CM but never two. Senior JD(U) leader and former speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Bijendra Kumar Yadav, Ashok Choudhary, Mewalal Choudhary and Sheela Kumari were administered the oath of office, next. After that Santosh Kumar Suman of HAM(S), VIP’s Mukesh Sahni and BJP’s Mangal Pandey, Amarendra Pratap Singh, Ramprit Paswan, Jiwesh Kumar and Ram Surat Kumar took the oath of the office from the governor. Of the total 14 ministers, seven are from BJP, five from JD(U), one each from HAM(S) and VIP. Of the total 15, CM Nitish Kumar and BJP’s Mangal Pandey are MLCs (member of legislative council). Two other ministers (Ashok Choudhary and Mukesh Sahni) are not members of any of the two houses in the state. Choudhary and Sahni might be made MLCs against the nomination quota. Of the 14 ministers, nine are first-timers. The new faces in Nitish cabinet are deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, Mewalal Choudhary, Sheela Kumari, Santosh Kumar Suman, Mukesh Sahni, Amarendra Pratap Singh, Ramprit Paswan, Jiwesh Kumar and Ram Surat Kumar. Soon after taking the oath, Nitish said, “Based on the people’s mandate, the NDA has once again formed the government in the state. We will work together and serve the people.” “As our CM has said we will work more to ensure more development across the state. The development will be our agenda,” former speaker and minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said. To a question on Sushil Modi not returning as his deputy, Nitish told reporters, “It is the decision of BJP not to field Sushil Modi as the deputy CM.” Region-wise, the largest contingent of five ministers is from the Mithila region in north Bihar, while one minister each hails from Kosi, Seemanchal, Magadh, Shahabad, Champaran, Tirhut, Saran and Munger region. The new cabinet will hold its first meeting on November 17 (Tuesday), a government official said. Prominent NDA leaders who attended the swearing-in ceremony were Union home minister Amit Shah, BJP president J P Nadda, Rajya Sabha deputy chairperson Harivansh Narayan Singh, former Bihar CM Jitan Ram Manjhi, former Maharashtra CM Devendra Fadanvis, Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey, Nityanand Rai, BJP general secretary and Bihar Incharge Bhupender Yadav, BJP state president Sanjay Jaiswal and JD(U) state president Bashishtha Narain Singh. Two decades ago, Nitish was first sworn in as the CM in March 2000 for a term that lasted barely a week as he failed to muster a majority and was made a minister at the Centre in then Atal Bihari Vajpayee government. Five years later, he returned with the JD(U)-BJP alliance winning a majority in November 2005. Upon completion of his five-year tenure, Nitish again returned as CM in November 2010 after the JDU-BJP coalition won a landslide in the assembly election. Nitish stepped down in May 2014, taking moral responsibility for the JD(U) poor show in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. He once again returned as the CM in February 2015 when a rebellious Jitan Ram Manjhi was elbowed out. Nitish took oath as the CM for the fifth time in November 2015, heading a government of the Grand Alliance comprising RJD, JDU and Congress. He abruptly came out of the alliance in July 2017, citing charges of corruption against RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, and resigned as the CM only to return in less than 24 hours with the support of the BJP. He took oath as the CM for the sixth time on July 27, 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-takes-charge-as-double-engine-cm/articleshow/79252466.cms||Madan Kumar
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||People skirt cracker ban with chemical cocktail||AMBALA: After the district administration banned crackers, several kirana stores in Ambala City supplied a mixture of sulphur-potash chemical powders to people. Local iron welders prepare a gun-like structure on order with the help of iron pipes and rods, which is used to burst the mixture of chemical powders, creating a sound like that of a double-barrel gun (donali). As youths enjoy “firing” these “donalis,” they do not fathom the risk involved. The Ambala district administration has not checked supply of explosive content despite the chemicals being sold openly in general stores for just Rs 50 per 100 grams in areas like Gurh Mandi and Jai Maa Market, Baldev Nagar. During a visit to New Pratap Nagar area in Baldev Nagar of Ambala City by this TOI reporter on Sunday evening, some youths were seen bursting the chemical mixture with the help of the gun-like structure they got prepared by a local welder. The youths demonstrated how to use the mixture of the chemical powders in the structure and create a sound louder than a cracker and even a gunshot. The youths said, “We bought these chemicals from a general store at Jai Maa Market in Baldev Nagar and it is easily available there. You just go and ask anyone where to get the potash mixture powder from and you will be guided there.” At the shop, the mix was being sold for Rs 50 per 100 gram. Station house officer (SHO), Baldev Nagar police station inspector Hamir Singh was alerted. He said, “I visited the shop and warned the shopkeeper that if he sold the chemicals again, a case would be registered against him. The shopkeeper said the chemical stock has finished.” Ambala City sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Sachin Gupta said, “We can get it checked if we have a complaint in this regard.” Ambala drug control officer Sunil Chaudhary said, “The gun-like structure is called 'toprha' and it is often used in this manner to create a cracker-like sound by agriculturists to protect their crops from wild animals. Our department has no direct concern with these chemicals. They could be procured from fertiliser suppliers easily. I do not have any idea about its regulation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/people-skirt-cracker-ban-with-chemical-cocktail/articleshow/79251549.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana ex-minister booked for cow slaughter in UP||AMBALA: UP Police has booked Ambala-based Haryana Democratic Front (HDF) leader Nirmal Singh, a four-time former MLA and Haryana minister, for allegedly shooting at three cows near his stud farm on the Haryana-UP border. The case was registered on November 14 at Behat police station on the complaint of Mam Hussain of Mohand village, currently residing at Bartha Korsi village in Saharanpur district of UP, against Singh and others under sections 3 (prohibition of cow slaughter), 5 (prohibition of sale of beef) and 8 (penalty) of the UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act, 1955. Hussain told police, “On November 12, I had taken my cows and buffaloes out to graze. Around 5pm, my three cows were drinking water from the Yamuna when Nirmal Singh, of Haryana state, who owns a stud farm nearby was there with his five accomplices. They started shooting at the cows. While one cow was injured, the other two are still missing.” Behat police station house officer (SHO) inspector Anand Mishra said, “A case has been registered and a notice will be issued to Nirmal Singh to present himself for investigation. The complainant owns some livestock and has apparently given such a complaint at the behest of someone. It seems the incident did not take place in our jurisdiction but we registered a case on the complaint.” Singh has denied the allegations, saying, “It is just an allegation and the FIR is also investigative in nature. We too have filed many complaints against cattle thieves, who often cross over and steal livestock from our premises. We have several cows apart from horses and many are missing.” On November 10, Singh inaugurated his party office in Ambala to mark its first anniversary and announced to contest civic body polls in Ambala city, assembly and Lok Sabha polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hry-ex-minister-booked-for-cow-slaughter-in-up/articleshow/79252489.cms||Jaskaran Singh
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: LDF protests in 25,000 centres against central probe agencies||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ruling LDF which on Monday organized a protest by 25 lakh workers in 25,000 centres in the state against the intervention of central investigating agencies, adding the central auditor too to the list of enemies ahead of the protest. The harsh observations made by Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) on KIIFB in its report on state finances prompted the CPM to include CAG too in the club of ED, customs, NIA and CBI against whom the protest was originally planned. “Creating controversies around KIIFB is part of the organised effort to sabotage development projects in the state. The agencies which came here to probe gold smuggling case are not confining the probe to their mandate and intervening in all prestigious development projects. They have already intervened in K-FON, Life Mission, Taurus Downtown project and E-mobility project. The interpretation that availing loan through KIIFB is anti-constitutional is a continuation of this campaign,” CPM state secretariat said in a statement issued here. The CPM state secretariat alleged that Sangh parivar organization Swadeshi Jagran Manch and KPCC are hand-in-glove in sabotaging KIIFB. “The serious question that has now been posed before the people of Kerala is whether the 800 major projects of Rs 50,000 crore being implemented through KIIFB in all panchayats in the state need to be continued or abandoned. If we accept the interpretations of Congress, BJP and CAG, these development projects will be sabotaged,” said the statement. LDF convener and CPM state secretary A Vijayaraghavan who inaugurated the LDF protest at Kannettumukku here asked whether there is any part of the state which hasn’t been benefited from KIIFB project. “Our policy is not to steal away from the allocation made to the poor. Instead, we work to bring resources from any part of the world and use those for the needs of the poor people. We have all seen how schools around us have been transformed recently. Hill highway and coastal highway projects are being implemented with the help of KIIFB,” said Vijayaraghavan. He said the unity of Kerala was on display when the state was devastated by floods and during the outbreak of Covid-19. “Why is our opposition sad when the government is trying to uphold people’s interest? Why is Chennithala sad when we give grocery kits for all families during the pandemic?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ldf-protests-in-25000-centres-against-central-probe-agencies/articleshow/79251571.cms||---
November 17, 2020||---||Bihar: Opposition boycotts swearing-in, says it’s betrayal of mandate||PATNA: The opposition Mahagathbandhan said the formation of NDA government in Bihar was betrayal of mandate and boycotted the swearing-in ceremony of Nitish Kumar as CM and other ministers on Monday. No representatives of either RJD or Congress or the three Left parties were present during the function held at Raj Bhavan. RJD, which has emerged the single largest party with 75 members elected to the 243-member legislative assembly, tweeted hours before the swearing-in ceremony: “RJD boycotts this oath taking ceremony. Mandate was for change and against the NDA. But this mandate was changed by ‘administrative order’. Go and ask the unemployed, farmers, contractual employees and niyojit teachers. People are angry because of NDA’s fraud. We are people’s representatives and we stand with them.” Lashing out at the NDA government, RJD’s state president Jagdanand Singh said the term boycott was also not appropriate. “One which does not even exist, they don’t even need to be boycotted,” he said. However, soon after Nitish took oath as the CM, Mahagathbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav extended his greetings, but in a sarcastic manner. “I hope that the ‘chair’ does not become the ambition, and instead the government makes issues like public awareness, 19 lakh job promise of NDA, education, medicine and irrigation its priority,” read a part of Tejashwi’s tweet. The three Left parties also abstained from the ceremony. “How can we go and crown those who have not been voted by the people,” said CPI (ML) state secretary Kunal. Their spokesperson Kumar Parvez alleged, “They have formed the government by wrong means and have forcefully taken 20 to 25 seats.” Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha also cited the same reasons for skipping the Raj Bhavan ceremony. “They are forming this government after robbing the mandate,” said Jha. Even the five MLAs of Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM did not attend the event. AIMIM youth wing president Adil Hasan Azad said they were not invited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/oppn-boycotts-swearing-in-says-its-betrayal-of-mandate/articleshow/79252505.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||Patna||Bihar: Opposition boycotts swearing-in, says it’s betrayal of mandate||PATNA: The opposition Mahagathbandhan said the formation of NDA government in Bihar was betrayal of mandate and boycotted the swearing-in ceremony of Nitish Kumar as CM and other ministers on Monday. No representatives of either RJD or Congress or the three Left parties were present during the function held at Raj Bhavan. RJD, which has emerged the single largest party with 75 members elected to the 243-member legislative assembly, tweeted hours before the swearing-in ceremony: “RJD boycotts this oath taking ceremony. Mandate was for change and against the NDA. But this mandate was changed by ‘administrative order’. Go and ask the unemployed, farmers, contractual employees and niyojit teachers. People are angry because of NDA’s fraud. We are people’s representatives and we stand with them.” Lashing out at the NDA government, RJD’s state president Jagdanand Singh said the term boycott was also not appropriate. “One which does not even exist, they don’t even need to be boycotted,” he said. However, soon after Nitish took oath as the CM, Mahagathbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav extended his greetings, but in a sarcastic manner. “I hope that the ‘chair’ does not become the ambition, and instead the government makes issues like public awareness, 19 lakh job promise of NDA, education, medicine and irrigation its priority,” read a part of Tejashwi’s tweet. The three Left parties also abstained from the ceremony. “How can we go and crown those who have not been voted by the people,” said CPI (ML) state secretary Kunal. Their spokesperson Kumar Parvez alleged, “They have formed the government by wrong means and have forcefully taken 20 to 25 seats.” Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha also cited the same reasons for skipping the Raj Bhavan ceremony. “They are forming this government after robbing the mandate,” said Jha. Even the five MLAs of Asaduddin Owaisi-led AIMIM did not attend the event. AIMIM youth wing president Adil Hasan Azad said they were not invited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-boycotts-swearing-in-says-its-betrayal-of-mandate/articleshow/79254273.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||AAP seeks probe into links of OSDs||CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday accused the Congress government of patronising drug trade in the state, threatening to approach the high court in case the role of officers on special duty (OSDs) was not probed. Addressing a press conference, leader of opposition (LoP) Harpal Singh Cheema claimed that the alleged links of Gurdeep Singh, a former sarpanch of Rano village, who is also a former Youth Akali leader, with certain OSDs of the chief minister needed to be investigated. Cheema said chief minister Amarinder Singh had pledged to eradicate the menace of drugs in four weeks, but his government was now “providing security” to the drug peddlers. Cheema said since the chief minister’s office had been exposed through Gurdeep Singh, another Special Task Force (STF) had been set up to give a clean chit to his OSDs. Giving a 10-day ultimatum to the Punjab government, Cheema said if the state government failed to hand over the investigation to the investigation agency, the AAP would build pressure on it. Cheema said he would write to the chief justice of Punjab and Haryana high court, offering leads in the whole affair. Rubbishing the allegations, Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka said Cheema’s claims were irresponsible. “Congress has already acted against Rano and the party has nothing to do with him. AAP should clarify why Arvind Kejriwal offered an apology on the issue of drugs. The party has no stand,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aap-seeks-probe-into-links-of-osds/articleshow/79252490.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||Karnataka to get tallest statue of Hanuman||AYODHYA: The tallest statue of Lord Hanuman will be installed at Pampapur Kishkingha in Karnataka. This was announced by Swami Govind Anand Saraswati, president of the Hanumad Janmbhoomi Teertha Kshetra Trust, in Ayodhya on Monday. The seer made the announcement after meeting Acharya Satyendra Das, the chief priest of Ram Janambhoomi Mandir, in Ayodhya. The statue will be 215 meters high and will cost Rs 1,200 crore. Pampapur Kishkindha in Bellary district of Karnataka is said to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman. Saraswati told TOI that the Trust will take out a nationwide Rath Yatra to collect donations from general public for the statue. The Hanumad Teertha Khestra Trust will donate a Grand Rath to Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust. The Hampi-based Hanumad Trust, a private trust, plans to build the statue over the next six years The UP government will also install Lord Ram’s 221 meters tall statue in Ayodhya. Since Hanuman’s statue cannot be higher than his deity Ram, the statue in Karnataka will be 6 meters shorter than that of Lord Ram, said Saraswati Kishkindha is located on the outskirts of Hampi and is a Unesco Heritage Site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ktaka-to-get-tallest-statue-of-hanuman/articleshow/79253118.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
November 17, 2020||Vijayawada||Elaborate web on sandalwood trail||KADAPA: The woodcutters used by sandalwood smugglers are mostly tribals from Javadhu Malai Hills, Salem and Tiruvannamalai, are engaged by the masons who, in turn, report to transporters. Notorious smugglers are located in Red Hills of Chennai while cutters come from Salem, Tiruvannamalai and Krishnagiri region. “The woodcutters are experts in cutting. They have good physical strength and adapt to the hilly forest and carry logs. They hail from the area where forest brigand Veerappan was actively involved in cutting and smuggling of sandalwood,” says the Kadapa SP. One of the masons, hired by smuggler Mani, suffered burns in November 2 accident and was admitted to RIMS in Kadapa. Mani Sandayan of Salem district, belonging to Goundar (ST) community, said there were eight of them who came to Kadapa in a car from Salem and Tiruvannamalai districts. “Each coolie is paid Rs 500 to carry one kg of red sanders. The vehicle dropped us at a point near forest from there it took us two days to climb up the hilly forest around 25 km inside,” he told TOI. “One of our gang members, Sendhiran, conducted reconnaissance earlier and identified the location of trees, we reached the spot. We cut the logs and transported them back after two days. The same car picked us up and as we were heading back, we had an accident,” he said, adding , “we do not have information about the ladder of the smuggling racket.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/elaborate-web-on-sandalwood-trail/articleshow/79253123.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 17, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘M Sivasankar pushed to name ED targets’||KOCHI: A day before the designated court handling Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) cases is to pass its order on the bail petition filed by M Sivasankar, his counsel, on Monday, filed a detailed ‘arguments note’ claiming the IAS officer was pressured into naming some political targets of Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) choice. On refusing to fall in line, he was arrayed as an accused and arrested, the note said. It stated the ED's claim that Sivasankar had tried to influence a customs official was ‘trumped up and without any basis’. “Till date, the ED has not made any claim or statement before this court regarding the nature of communication made by the applicant or to whom the bail applicant (Sivasankar) spoke to … Thus the allegation is very vague and purposely designed to confuse and mislead the court in prejudicing the applicant,” the note said. Sivasankar’s counsel said that in April 2019 his client was requested by the key accused in the gold smuggling case, Swapna Suresh, to enquire with the Kochi airport food safety officer about quarantine procedures for food baggages. “The applicant (Sivasankar) had not made any attempt to contact the said officer, let alone try to influence him. It is worth mentioning that this was months before alleged smuggling had taken place and that too at a different place. This entire episode is now shaped into a different mould by the ED to propagate a false notion that the applicant has tried to influence the customs officer,” the note said. It claimed that Swapna’s statement to ED on November 10 implicating Sivasankar cannot be believed or relied upon. “It has to be borne in mind that such a statement given to ED by Swapna, if projected by ED as the agency's finding in the investigation, would benefit her as the case against her by NIA would stand doubted as now another central agency has found that the said recovered money was proceeds of crime from a totally different crime (Life Mission issue),” the counsel’s note said. It claimed that WhatsApp chats presented by ED as evidence were only half-truths which were mostly taken out of context. ED sources responded to the development saying the agency’s investigation has established Sivasankar’s involvement in the gold smuggling. “The WhatsApp chats between Swapna and Sivasankar prove his involvement in gold smuggling and receipt of kickbacks from the Life Mission project. Those chats were conveniently not included in the argument note submitted by Sivasankar in court,” a source said. Meanwhile, Sivasankar's counsel said ED was leaking information pertaining to the case to the press with the malicious intent of influencing his client’s bail petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sivasankar-pushed-to-name-ed-targets/articleshow/79251599.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Less than two days for KMC to clean up ghats for Chhath rituals||KOLKATA: With the authorities setting the Kali idol immersion deadline on November 18, KMC will have less than 48 hours to clean the major ghats along the Hooghly for Chhath rituals on November 20. Civic parks department officials said they were engaging additional manpower for the clean-up drive at major ghats, such as Bajekadamtolla (Babughat), Judges ghat, Nimtolla ghat, Bagbazar ghat and Takta ghat (Kidderpore), where a large number of Chhath devotees converge on for the rituals. Given the brief window, leaves of senior aofficials of the KMC parks department have been cancelled. While a majority of people from central Kolkata gather at Bajekadamtolla and Judges ghat, those from north Kolkata go to Nimtolla and Bagbazar ghats. “As the state has fixed November 18 as the last date for immersion of Kali idols, we will have practically less than 48 hours to keep the major ghats ready for Chhath devotees by Friday morning (November 20). It will be a challenging task and we will have to engage skilled labourers to wrap up the operation on time,” a KMC parks department official said. He added that senior officials and supervising officers of the parks department would have to forgo their leaves to get the work done. “We have entrusted our senior officials with the supervision of the cleaning operations at major immersion ghats along the Hooghly during and after Kali Puja and Chhath,” said Debasis Kumar, a member of the KMC board of administrators (BoA), who looks after the parks and square department.  KMC will also engage civic volunteers and take help of cops to ensure social distancing is maintained. “It will be a challenging task for us to make Chhath devotees fall in line and follow social distancing norms at the ghats,” said a senior parks and square department official. The civic authorities and KMDA have decided to discourage Chhath devotees from south Kolkata and fringe to gather at Hooghly ghats. Accordingly, the two bodies have been sprucing up big ponds and water bodies that are mostly located along the EM Bypass, Jadavpur, Garia, Tollygunge and Behala for the rituals. These ponds and water bodies are being readied as alternative venues to Rabindra Sarobar in south. “This year, we have found more ponds and water bodies compared to last year to enable thousands of Chhath devotees perform their religious and rites there without hindrance,” said a KMC official. Accordingly, a couple of large water bodies at Anandapur and some along E M Bypass are getting spruced up . Similarly, large ponds, like Ranidighi (Tollygunge), Layelka (Baghajatin) and the one at Patuli, are also being readied to accommodate devotees on November 20.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/less-than-two-days-for-kmc-to-clean-up-ghats/articleshow/79252508.cms||Saikat Ray
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||For Soumitra Chatterjee, hockey remained the first love||KOLKATA: While most youngsters in his age group loved football, Soumitra Chatterjee demonstrated a penchant for hockey as a student of City College. A student of the Bengali department, Pulu (Chatterjee’s pet name) was more interested in hockey and other games, but wasn’t quite keen on football. “We heard that he was a good sportsman who played several sports and was particularly good in hockey,” said Siddhartha Majumdar, a teacher of the college, adding, “None of Chatterjee’s teachers are around, but our institution is proud of him.” Majumdar said that during the institution’s 125th anniversary celebration, footballer P K Banerjee — another illustrious alumnus of the college — had mentioned Chatterjee’s interest in sports. “In the college publication, Banerjee fondly recollected their time, saying Chatterjee would be a regular at the football practice sessions, but only to watch from a distance,” said Majumdar. The actor’s classmate, Nityapriya Ghosh, a former PR executive, recalled the time they spent together during the recesses and between classes at Calcutta University. “He studied in the Bengali department while I was a student of English. Yet, we would frequently have long adda sessions where Pulu was the focus of our attention. He had tons of witty jokes to share, which were popular in his hometown in Krishnagore. But before he could earn his master’s degree, Pulu was forced to discontinue studies due to other responsibilities,” Ghosh said. He added that though both the actor and Anil Chatterjee were shortlisted by the All India Radio as broadcasters, Pulu finally got the job after Anil Chatterjee left to pursue his career in cinema. “Soumitra didn’t have to wait long either. Soon, he also left his job to join the movies when the shooting for ‘Apur Sansar’ began,” Ghosh said. Sandhya Majumder, a friend of the actor in Nadia’s Krishnagore — where he grew up — said he loved sour curd at the end of his meal. “But he never liked chicken or spicy food. I would cook for him whenever he visited Krishnagore. Once, he visited with his wife and the three of us enjoyed a long conversation while sipping tea in the late afternoon. Pulu visited me 15 years ago, but he called me two months ago to know how I was doing and asked if I needed anything.” Chatterjee’s home in Krishnagore was known as ‘Sudha Nilay’. According to some neighbours, Mac Arther, principal of Krishananagar CMS School, was Chatterjee’s first acting teacher. Chatterjee studied at the school till Class V before shifting to Howrah where he enrolled at the Howrah Zilla School. “He had appeared in the matriculation examination from the school in 1952. He was a meritorious student and a good athlete, interested in long jump and high jump. He would also regularly participate in acting and recitation programmes in school,” said principal Amol Kumar Sil. (Inputs from Ashis Poddar in Krishnagore & Rupak Banerjee in Howrah)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/for-pulu-hockey-remained-the-first-love/articleshow/79252504.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Give relief to flood-affected farmers: Cong||Hyderabad: Congress MLA T Jayaprakash Reddy on Monday sought to know why the TRS government is not giving crop damage compensation to farmers while it has spent Rs 500 crore on extending flood relief in Greater Hyderabad with an eye on ensuing GHMC elections. “Farmers have cultivated crops as directed by the government under the new regulated crop policy. Unfortunately, crops were damaged over several lakhs due to heavy rains and floods,” Reddy said. The Congress leader demanded that the state government pay a compensation of Rs 20,000 per acre for all varieties of crops damaged due to heavy rains. Reddy threatened that he along with farmers from Sangareddy would stage a demonstration in front of Pragathi Bhavan if the state government failed to extend compensation in three days. He also found fault with the government for coming out with a layout regularization scheme to raise revenues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/give-relief-to-flood-affected-farmers-cong/articleshow/79253146.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Lapses in valuation: KTU to issue show cause notice to 82 teachers||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University has decided to issue show cause notice to 82 engineering college faculties for serious lapses in evaluation of seventh-semester BTech examinations held in December 2019. Of the 2,08,226 students who appeared for the examination, 24,854 had applied for revaluation. While 627students got more than 25 marks in the revaluation, 30 students were found to be eligible for more than 40 additional marks in the recheck. As per university rules, revaluation fees is refundable if there lies a difference of 15 marks or more between the valuations. That being the case, 2,617 students are eligible for refund of revaluation fees. Initially, notices will be served to 57 teachers who have made a difference of over 15 marks in more than 15% of re-evaluated answer sheets. Explanations will be sought from 25 teachers who have recorded a difference of 10 marks in the first two valuations and the review. The university has introduced a system for students who fail in both valuation and revaluation. Of 25 answer scripts that were submitted for review, 18 students secured pass marks, the university authorities said. The syndicate which met on Monday approved the report and recommendations submitted by the examination sub-committee on the conduct of examination and valuation. As per this, supervisory committees consisting of senior teachers headed by principals will be formed at district levels. The university will also make use of the service of eminent teachers from other prominent universities and national institutes of technology to prepare question papers. At least 20% questions in all semesters will be prepared this way. Academic activities will be dismissed in colleges during the time of centralized valuation. Along with preparation of question papers, a precise and accurate evaluation scheme and a meeting of the faculties concerned before the start of the valuation process will also be made mandatory. In the mass exam cheating case reported recently in colleges using WhatsApp, the Syndicate has decided to file a complaint with cyber police based on reports from four colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/lapses-in-valuation-ktu-to-issue-show-cause-notice-to-82-teachers/articleshow/79251612.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Ed department releases Rs 164 lakh for establishing youth, eco clubs in government schools||LUDHIANA: Now, youth and eco clubs will be formed at government schools to empower students in sports, music and environment. Directions had been issued by secretary of school education, Krishan Kumar to form youth and Eco clubs in primary schools, middle schools and upper primary schools. To this effect, Rs 164.35 lakh had been released already for 994 primary schools, 191 middle schools and 344 secondary schools of the district. For 12,855 schools of Punjab Rs 1,956.45 lakh had been sanctioned, in the shape of grants to encourage the government schools in investing in arts, culture, music, sports and environment. Government schools had been instructed to form youth and eco clubs in the schools according to the guidelines issued for the same. As for the upper primary and secondary schools, school principal will be the chairman of the clubs, a senior teacher will be member secretary and other members include physical education teacher, science teacher, art and craft teacher, school management committee member and two senior students. The grants had been issued under Samagra education cell by the state project director and guidelines had been issued by the director general school education of Punjab. The schools can use the grant to buy sports equipment including kho-kho poles, volleyball poles and net, badminton decker sets, volleyball, football, javelin throw, shotput, basketball, among others. Schools can also purchase music system and music instruments like dafli, chimta , harmonium, dhol, sarangi and sitar as well as equipment like stand and sound systems. Davinder Singh Chhina, principal of GSS Smart School, Shahpur, said, “Youth and eco club will certainly help in upgrading government schools. Now, students can be inculcated with an environment consciousness as well as tune their skill sets in music, arts and sports.” District education officer, secondary, Swaranjeet Kaur told TOI, “To keep the school environment healthy, neat and clean, dustbins could be arranged and cleanliness the drive could be initiated; environment-friendly trees and fruit trees could be planted, compost pit could be made, kitchen garden and school gardens could be maintained, garden tools could be bought. Environmental awareness campaign could be initiated.” Krishan Kumar, the education secretary said, “Emphasis on youth and eco clubs, providing schools with sports and cultural equipment will definitely pave the way for the overall development of the government school students. This will in fact revolutionise government school system.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ed-dept-releases-rs-164-lakh-for-establishing-youth-eco-clubs-in-govt-schools/articleshow/79250881.cms||Mehak Jain
November 17, 2020||Kanpur||Girl killed, organs eaten in occult ritual; 4 nabbed in Kanpur||KANPUR: A youth and his accomplice allegedly hacked their seven-year-old neighbourhood girl to death in Kanpur’s Ghatampur area on Saturday, extracted her liver and lungs and presented them to the youth’s uncle and aunt to be eaten as part of a ‘tantrik’ (occult) ritual on Diwali so that the childless couple could have children. Police picked up the four accused as vital organs, including lungs and liver, of the child were missing and her family members alleged the murder could be result of occult practice. After interrogation of the two youths, police initially claimed the girl was killed by the duo for resisting their attempt to outrage her modesty. However, during sustained grilling, the youth Ankul broke down and confessed to have killed the girl with his friend Veeran as part of a human sacrifice ritual after being asked by his childless uncle and aunt. SP (Rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said the girl was brutally murdered late Saturday night. “We have detained Parshuram and his wife Sunaina besides Ankul and Veeran,” the SP added. Ankul confessed that his uncle and aunt had given them Rs 1,000 and asked them to abduct and sacrifice their neighbour’s seven-year-old daughter and bring her vital organs on Diwali night. The sacrifice was supposed to solve their problem of childlessness even 21 years after their marriage, said police. Sources said Parshuram had been approaching ‘tantriks’ and astrologers for the past few years. Ankul and Veeran saw the girl playing outside her house on Saturday evening. They lured her and took her to a desolate spot on the outskirts of the village. “They hacked the girl with a knife and extracted her liver, lungs and vital organs and dumped her body in fields. Before hacking her, the duo also assaulted the child sexually,” police said. Later, the two brought the severed liver and lungs and other body parts to Parshuram’s home in a polythene bag. The couple performed a ‘tantrik’ ritual by placing the body parts. Parshuram and Sunaina thereafter consumed the vital body parts. The couple pretended to be innocent during the subsequent investigation, but eventually admitted to their offence. The police have recovered a sharp-edged knife used in the crime. Also, police have launched a search to nab the ‘tantrik’ involved in the incident, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/girl-killed-organs-eaten-in-occult-ritual-4-nabbed/articleshow/79253150.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Sikh intellectuals should perioodically to delibrate on panth issues: Akal Takht jathedar||LUDHIANA: Jathedar of Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh organised an online meeting with Sikh intellectuals and retired officials to deliberate on various issues relating to religion, socio-economic challenges, education and NRIs. Gurmeet Singh, coordinator for World Sikh Intellectuals Council, gave a brief account of all participants and distinguished accomplishments of the jathedar. While inaugurating the virtual meeting, the jathedar mentioned that it is matter of great honour that we have world renowned Sikh intellectuals in nearly all major fields and they are willing to give their expertise and services to find solutions for the challenges facing the Sikh society and humanity. Daljit Singh, OBE awardee geneticist from UK, observed that according to Sikh tenants, politics is subservient to religion and not the other way around. According to him, Akal Takht is a supreme authority for Sikhs all over the world and was established for welfare of world community. He mentioned that Sikhism is community-based religion and promotes the well being of all strata of society. The prime aim of Sikhism is service, chanting the glories of God and distribution of wealth. Sardara Singh Johal, chancellor of Central University, highlighted the need for establishing a separate education fund to provide support for the bright Sikh students in getting technical education and skills for clearing civil services competitions so that they can contribute in Indian administrative set up. For this, local gurdwara committees should contribute some part of their resources, he added. According to him, the surplus land available with gurdwaras should be used as seed farms from where help can be provided to small and marginal farmers and farm labourers. “Today Punjab needs visionary statesmen rather than politicians,” he added. Participating from Switzerland, IAS officer Jogishwar Singh exhorted the sikh students to gain skills in domains of financial management, banking and journalism for economic well being of Sikh community and communicating the lofty ideals of Sikh religion to people all over the world. “We need to help Sikhs belonging to low caste groups and eradicate casteism from our society, as there is no place for casteism in our religion. Sikh youth residing abroad is very dedicated and energetic we need to further ,guide them about basic tenets of Sikhism,” he added. Speaking from Bangalore, IAS officer S Chiranjiv Singh mentioned that Sikh “Rehat Maryada” came into being in 1935 and there is a need to review it. The practice adopted by various sects should be relooked and uniform codes be formulated, he added. “Sikhism believes in humility, kindness and love for all creatures. Like Christians’ Pope , we should also raise our voices for protecting environment, equality for women and inclusiveness,” he said. S Navtej Singh, former ambassador to USA, said Sikh youth should feel proud of its rich heritage, values ,traditions and culture. He also said Sikh institutions should give top priority for providing specialised training to Sikh youth. Justice Jagmohan Singh appealed to Sikh intelligentsia and leaders to practice the Gurmat concept of ‘one sangat, one pangat’. S Partap Singh, former director general of police said the supremacy of Akal Takht can be protected by ensuring its autonomy. Avninder Pal Singh, director general of HRD planning council, Guru Gobind Singh Study Circle also said training courses and camps should be conducted for Sikh youth. A S Nanda, former vice-chancellor of Gadvasu talked about the importance of protecting environment and natural ecosystems and stressed the need for ban on crackers while celebrating Gurupurabs. In his concluding remarks, the jathedar stressed the need to continue these meetings at regular intervals and forming committees to find workable solutions to various challenges confronting the Sikh Panth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sikh-intellectuals-should-perioodically-to-delibrate-on-panth-issues-akal-takht-jathedar/articleshow/79250901.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Nagpur||Decomposed tiger carcass found in Maharashtra’s Gondia, many parts of body missing||NAGPUR: A tiger carcass with many body parts missing, or strewn in the vicinity, was found on farms in Gondia district on Sunday evening. The highly decomposed carcass was discovered at Lodhitola, a village about 140km from Nagpur. While post mortem could not be conducted due to the putrefied state of the carcass, forest officials have retained some body parts to probe the cause of death. Foresters suspect the carcass was lying there for last 10 to 12 days. At around 7pm on Sunday, forest officials came to know about the tiger’s carcass on the farm under Chutiya forest beat in Gondia range. The area was immediately sealed off with local forest employees reaching the spot. At daybreak on Monday, deputy conservator of forests Kulraj Singh reached the spot and a search of nearby farms started. Gondia wildlife warden (WW) Mukund Dhurve and former WW Savan Bahekar were also on the spot. Dhurve said, “One of the farmers had gone to his field and noticed the foul smell. He saw the tiger’s remains and informed officials. Only the tiger skin was there, as everything else was either decomposed or purposely removed.” What they found next points to the involvement of a group in disposing off the tiger’s body. Dhurve said, “Hardly 150 meters from the spot, we found sacks filled with various parts of the tiger’s body. It’s simply not possible for a single person to drag the body around, so more than one person was involved.” He added that the tiger seems to have been between 2.5 to 3 years old. “It’s difficult to confirm the gender considering the condition of the remains,” said Dhurve. Forest officials said the tiger’s remains were found in fields belonging to three separate owners. Despite continuing search in the area, the tiger’s head, one hind leg, tail and some nails could not be found. There was speculation that the tiger might have been electrocuted, but DFC Singh said so far nothing can be confirmed. “We are investigating it thoroughly and at least till the time of issuing our official statement in the evening, no such thing has come to our notice. We are questioning villagers and moving ahead with investigations,” said Singh. The tiger’s remains were cremated at the Pangli nursery around 1pm on Monday. Some of the body parts have been retained by officials for the purpose of a DNA test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-carcass-found-in-gondia-many-body-parts-missing/articleshow/79252557.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||I will transform Dubbak: M Raghunandan Rao||HYDERABAD: Newly-elected Dubbak MLA M Raghunandan Rao said he will continue with BJP untill he retires from politics and then be like senior leader Subramanian Swamy taking up issues relating to society. Interacting during a ‘Meet the Press’ programme here on Monday, he said there need not be any doubt about his political future. “BJP and I are like two sides of a coin,” he said. He added that when he was expelled from the TRS in 2013 he said that a only diamond can cut another diamond and he saw to it that the TRS tasted defeat in Dubbak. Raghunandan said that he did not promise that he will get central funds to the constituency. “After the TRS came to power, word was spread around that only the ruling party could grant funds. My constituency has been neglected for several years with all benefits going to the neighbouring VVIP constituencies of Gajwel, Siddipet and Sircilla. I will change that soon,” he said. “I got nearly 20,000 votes in 2018 elections and TRS got more than 60,000 votes this time. Yet, they have lost by a slight margin. It means that the anti-establishment factor is working,” he said. He again denied that the cash seized during the polls belonged to him. “Not just as an MLA but as an advocate I will be there for party cadre across the state,” he said. Talking about the GHMC polls, Rao said he would not divulge plans of national-level leaders but claimed leaders from other states would be monitoring the polls. He said they are banking upon votes of migrants settled in Hyderabad. He questioned why GHMC officials were withdrawing money from banks and handing it to beneficiaries instead of sending it directly into their accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-will-transform-dubbak-raghu/articleshow/79253162.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP now home to 8 Ramsar wetlands||LUCKNOW: After the Centre declared Agra’s Keetham Lake a ‘Ramsar site’, UP now has eight Ramsar wetlands. Of the 38 Ramsar wetlands in the country, eight are in UP. Keetham Lake is in Sur Sarovar Bird Sanctuary, Agra. It is the natural habitat of Sarus crane and spotted eagle. As many as six of the state’s wetlands—Nawabganj in Unnao, Parvati Aranga in Gonda, Saman in Mainpuri, Samaspur in Rae Bareli, Sandi in Hardoi and Sarsai Nawar in Etawah—were declared Ramsar sites in February. The upper Ganga river, the stretch from Brigghat to Narora, was declared the state’s first Ramsar site in 2005. A Ramsar site is a wetland designated to be of international importance under the Ramsar Convention signed in Iran in 1971. Ramsar status brings international attention to a wetland and also establishes the fact that a certain wetland meets international scientific and technical parameters. Ramsar status will supplement the state government’s efforts to notify wetlands in UP and ensure their conservation. Ramsar wetlands are a protected area already because of being a bird sanctuary. UP has around 1.2 lakh wetlands that lie outside forests and around 500 that lie within. According to the National Wetland Atlas that is based on satellite data, of the 1.2 lakh wetlands, at least 23,800 are more than 2.2 hectare in area and need conservation. However, going by revenue records, UP has at least 26,000 wetlands that are larger than 2.2 hectare. UP’s Wetlands Authority, notified last year, will prepare wetland atlas for the state, including the ones lying outside forest. Ramgarh Taal of Gorakhpur, which lies outside forest, is the first wetland which has been notified. Once wetlands are notified, they will be covered under the Wildlife Protection Act. Conservation efforts will also involve developing a connect between people and wetlands such as promoting eco-tourism, fisheries and other economic activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-now-home-to-8-ramsar-wetlands/articleshow/79253169.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Fear of 2nd Covid-19 wave, festive season keep students from campus||LUDHIANA: The government colleges re-opened on Monday after eight months with guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Attendance remained low in the government colleges. Bhaidooj and heavy rain in the morning were cited to be prime reasons behind the thin attendance at college. While a majority of private colleges had declared holiday due to Bhaidooj, government colleges remained open as no circular was issued by the Panjab University. The principal stated that as the attendance was not compulsory, many students did not turn up for classes. Gurpreet Sandhu, principal of Government College Girls said, “In first phase students of the final year were called and only 35 students were present for physical classes. For other classes, the online mode was preferred.” Gurpreet said, “We will wait for the orders from the authorities. I feel parents too are not allowing students to come. With the second wave of Covid-19 predicted, they are more worried. However, there will be a scope of improvement in attendance in a few days, especially in science stream where practical cannot be held online and students have to attend college.” Kamal Kishore associate professor of mathematics at SCD Government College said, “Only four students turned up in the mathematics department. Most of the students were confused about whether to come or not but may be students will be regular in two to three days. In fact, parents too are hesitant in sending students to colleges.” Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of SCD Government College, said, “Only 70 to 80 students turned up in the college due to bad weather and Bhaidooj. That made it five to seven class strength for each department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/fear-of-2nd-covid-19-wave-festive-season-keep-students-from-campus/articleshow/79250892.cms||Mehak Jain
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||No dengue cases reported from Ludhiana district on Monday||LUDHIANA: According to civil surgeon of Ludhiana, Rajesh Kumar Bagga no dengue cases were reported from Ludhiana district on Monday. The total number of dengue positive cases of the district remain at 1,809 and the total number of suspected patients is 2,516, he added. “The total number of suspected dengue patients in outer district is 493, out of which 408 are dengue positive. The total number of suspected dengue patients in other states is 57 out of which 48 are dengue positive. Of the total of 2,516 suspected dengue cases, 1,809 reported dengue positive,” health department officials said. “Today teams of health department visited 784 houses in Kot Mangal Singh, Guru Arjan Dev Nagar, ESI, New Kartar Nagar, Sant Vihar, Chandra Nagar, Jodhewal Basti, Madhopuri, Pink Vihar, Santokh Nagar, Shivpuri, Indira Colony to check for larvae. No larvae were found in these areas,” they added. Health department said the teams distributed health education pamphlets, posters, on dengue, Chikungunya, malaria fever and ways to prevent them. It added that till date teams have visited 1,10,715 houses out of which larvae were found in 975 houses. Health department officials said that till date the department teams have checked 1,75,529 containers out of which 1,049 containers have been found positive. They lso added that to date, a list of 532 positive containers have been sent to the municipal corporation for challan. Civil surgeon appealed to the people not to allow stagnant water in the coolers, containers, fridges tray, pots and tyres on the roof. He advised the people to wear clothes that cover the body completely and use mosquito repellent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-dengue-cases-reported-from-ludh-dist-on-monday/articleshow/79250907.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Cops, volunteers reach out to women, spread awareness||LUCKNOW: To spread the message of women empowerment, volunteers of Mission Shakti comprising police personnel reached out to women in various districts of the state on Monday. In Mathura, cops met women at markets, malls and religious places to instil a sense of security in them. They briefed women about Mission Shakti and told them how to contact police when in distress. A similar programme was organised in Balrampur where cops informed women and children about helpline numbers. Several teams were formed by the police department to spread information about Mission Shakti campaign in villages through traditional method of ‘munadi’. Special steps were taken by anti-Romeo squads to tighten noose around miscreants. In Amethi, anganwadi workers organised an awareness programme on prevention of child marriage. Through the programme, women were informed that child marriage was against the law and in violation of the fundamental rights of children. Webinars on women security were also held in all development blocks in Ayodhya under the aegis of Integrated Child Development Services in which over 350 people participated. Ration was distributed among women of self-help groups (SHGs) of National Rural Livelihood Mission (NRLM) and child development and nutrition department. An awareness programme was organised at Madarsa Arabiya Misbahul Uloom, Madarsa Anwarul Uloom and Madarsa Arabia Anjuman Islamia Unwal in Gorakhpur in which 73 people participated. Awareness programmes were also held in Sant Kabir Nagar, Baghpat, Lakhimpur Kheri and Gonda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cops-volunteers-reach-out-to-women-spread-awareness/articleshow/79253178.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP win in Dubbak one-time feat, real test ahead: Revanth||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress working president A Revanth Reddy termed the victory of the BJP in Dubbak as a ‘one-time wonder’. Alleging that the BJP’s claim of having emerged as an alternative to the TRS was a mere drama between the two parties, he dared Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy to order an inquiry into the alleged phone tapping of opposition leaders and scam in distribution of flood relief. He charged the TRS government with having distributed Rs 500 crore financial assistance in cash to the flood-affected families with an eye on GHMC elections. Congress would lodge a complaint with the ACB about the alleged corruption in distribution of flood relief by the officials and TRS leaders, he said. Revanth sought to ask why the BJP government at the Centre was not ordering an inquiry despite the TRS government borrowing huge amounts, projecting a revenue for the state which was actually not there. He said the BJP would never be able to consolidate its position in Telangana. “Getting candidates for all the 150 wards in the elections to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation would itself be a challenge to the BJP,” said Revanth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-win-in-dubbak-one-time-feat-real-test-ahead-revanth/articleshow/79253171.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Man held for killing wife in Telangana, dumping body in forest||HYDERABAD: Vikarabad district police arrested a man after he allegedly killed his wife and later set her body ablaze before dumping her remains in the Ananthagiri forest. Police said that the murder took place on November 5, but it came to light on Monday. Interestingly, after committing the murder the accused Prabhu, 32, lodged a complaint in local police station claiming that his wife Santoshi, 29, was missing. On Sunday, when locals cornered Prabhu, he confessed that he killed her. During the police investigation, it came to light that Prabhu, who is an alcoholic, used to frequently quarrel with his wife, as she used to take objection to his drinking. On November 5, the couple had an argument following which Prabhu beat Santoshi to death. He brought her body outside his house and set it ablaze. he dumped the body in Ananthagiri forest. He was arrested under section 302 (murder) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-held-for-killing-wife-dumping-body-in-forest/articleshow/79253180.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||3 die in ambulance accident||Hyderabad: Three persons who were travelling in an ambulance died after it had a head-on collision with a car at Maheshwaram on Monday. Maheshwaram police said that three persons Jangamma, Saiamma and Anand died on the spot while two others Manjula and Nagesh suffered grievous injuries. The injured are undergoing treatment in a private hospital. Police said that Jangamma (70), who had undergone treatment in a private hospital at Kothapet, got discharged on Monday. She was being taken in a mini ambulance to her residence in Nagarkurnool. When their ambulance reached Kothur gate, a car coming from opposite direction hit the ambulance. The incident took place at around 4 pm. There were four persons seated inside the ambulance and three among them died. The car driver Nagesh, and co-passenger Manjula escaped with injuries. They both were shifted to a hospital. A case was registered under section 304 a (negligence causing death) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/3-die-in-ambulance-accident/articleshow/79253186.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||Government to upgrade 119 major roads to improve urban connectivity||LUCKNOW: After making rural outreach through construction of roads under PM Gramin Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), the UP government has charted out a fresh plan to upgrade 119 major district roads to improve connectivity in urban areas. The move, according to a proposal moved by Public Works Department (PWD), is expected to cover 627 ‘majras’ (hamlets) as well. According to sources in PWD, the department has already received a proposal to upgrade 37 major district roads at a cost of Rs 1,097 crore. Besides this, PWD will provide road link in 181 hamlets at an estimated cost of Rs 218 crore, according to the proposal accessed by TOI. PWD is being financially helped by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) in construction of roads in rural areas. Official sources said in 2017-18, at least 326 hamlets were provided road links at an estimated cost of Rs 358 crore under Road Infrastructure Development Fund. An order issued by deputy chief minister and PWD minister Keshav Prasad Maurya said the procedures should be initiated before the end of current financial year. “The ongoing works should be expedited while the proposed projects be finalised as soon as possible and initiated at the ground level,” Maurya said in the order. In 2018-19, PWD had made proposals to provide connectivity to 620 hamlets and strengthen 31 major roads at an estimated cost of Rs 850 crore. Likewise, in 2019-20, as many as 230 hamlets were covered at a cost of Rs 232 crore, besides strengthening of 38 major district roads at a cost of Rs 688 crore. The total length of road project was to the tune of around 1074 km. The BJP government has been pushing forth its development agenda while focussing on road network in rural as well as urban areas. The decision to provide road linkages to hamlets is seen as yet another attempt to make inroads into rural areas ahead of UP assembly elections in 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-upgrade-119-major-roads-to-improve-urban-connectivity/articleshow/79253185.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Forest officials intensify operations to catch killer tiger, 12 search teams on ground||HYDERABAD: Search operations to nab the tiger that killed a 22-year-old tribal man at Deegada village of Kumarambheem-Asifabad district have been intensified. Forest officials say they have increased the number of search teams and are changing the live baits to lure the big cat into trap cages set up in the forest. With no sign of any pug marks in the last three days, officials suspect that the tiger might have left the area and migrated towards Maharashtra border which is around 5km away from the area where pug marks were spotted. “We have been monitoring continuously. Instead of seven search teams, we now have 12 teams deployed to look for any signs such as pug marks, scat, scratch marks on trees for to track its movement. We have also changed live baits in two trap cages from calves to goats to see if the constant bleating will lure the tiger,” said Shanta Ram, divisional forest officer (DFO), Asifabad. Forest department teams said that the pug marks which were found near the body of the tribal Siddam Vignesh were of a male tiger. “It is too early to label the tiger as a man-eater. Wild animals also attack when they feel threatened by the presence of strangers in their territory. But, the five-member committee which was formed has decided to capture it,” said an official. This was the first incident in two decades of a tiger killing a human in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forest-officials-intensify-ops-to-catch-killer-tiger-12-search-teams-on-ground/articleshow/79253199.cms||Moulika.KV
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||No pact with big parties for 2022 polls: Akhilesh Yadav||KANPUR: Cementing ties with his estranged uncle Shivpal Yadav, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav promised Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia (PSPL) founder a representation in the state cabinet if SP comes to power after 2022 assembly polls. Akhilesh also announced that SP will not contest from Jaswantnagar, the assembly seat from where his uncle Shivpal has been contesting all these years. Without taking names of Congress and Bahujan Samaj Party, Akhilesh also made it clear that his party will not go for any kind of alliance with big political parties. However, he said that he will keep options open for tie-ups with smaller parties. Akhilesh, who was in his home district Etawah on Saturday to celebrate Diwali, said, “I have said this on a number of occasions and today I am saying it again, we have given Jaswantnagar seat to Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party Lohia. Also, that we will make their leader a cabinet minister. Now, we expect that PSPL workers too should come forward and lend their full support in ensuring the formation of Samajwadi Party government in the state,” said Akhilesh on questions on alliance with political parties in upcoming 2022 assembly polls. He also attacked CM Yogi Adityanath led BJP government over insensitive behaviour by policemen with children of traders selling firecrackers in Bulandshahr. “Lok Bhawan in the state capital is made for people to sit and give good governance, but if they insult people and trouble them, then such people should be thrown out from Lok Bhawan,” he said. A number of Congress and BSP leaders and workers joined SP in the presence of Akhilesh on the occasion. “Every other day, leaders from Congress and BSP are joining Samajwadi Party, which is a good sign and will further strengthen the party,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-pact-with-big-parties-for-2022-polls-akhilesh/articleshow/79253194.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Tug of war starts over Chhath Puja ‘ban’ at public places in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Considering the record number of Covid-19 cases being witnessed daily, Delhi District Management Authority (DDMA) recently barred performing of Chhath Puja at public places and encouraged people to celebrate the festival in their homes. However, the decision has not gone down well and taken a political turn. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta argued that the biggest festival for Poorvanchalis couldn’t be left in abeyance. Demanding that Delhi government make alternative arrangements for worship, he said, “Under the special cleanliness campaign, the BJP-led municipal corporations have got the Chhath ghats cleaned. However, it is the responsibility of Delhi government to arrange for electricity and water and provide a disaster management team. The government should issue guidelines regarding Chhath in the same way as other festivals.” The Poorvanchal Morcha of BJP has announced that it will carry out a protest in front of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s house on Tuesday to demand the same. However, Aam Aadmi Party clarified that the decision to prohibit Chhath Puja at public places was taken in the interest of public health by DDMA, which is chaired by LG Anil Baijal. South Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Anamika Singh said that preparations at the ghats started around a month ago and the last minute decision to ban the festival would lead to chaos. “We should have been informed earlier. I have written to the LG to ensure that the festival is allowed in a regulated manner. We will continue preparations from our side,” she added. Most of the major ghats exist in east Delhi. Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, said that most Poorvanchali migrants are from lower-middle and middle-class strata and their houses are not large enough to perform the puja. “Banning large open spaces will only lead to chaos in colony parks and local open spaces. We should try to regulate the activity by ensuring that people pray and leave without crowding. Our preparation is complete and our teams will remain on standby,” he added. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that the traditions of this festival were unique and people who fasted regularly would repeat it again. “We should prepare more ghats and allow only 100-odd people at each location. I will be visiting key locations in north Delhi to see the cleaning operations,” he added. The private family affair of Chhath Puja has gradually developed into a grand community festival. Families now throng the Yamuna ghats to worship the Sun god, while makeshift waterbodies are made in parks and water tanks along Rajpath near India Gate. With more than 40 lakh Poorvanchalis out 1.47 crore registered voters, the number of ghats has also risen over the years. From just 72 in 2015, they shot up to 1,108 in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/tug-of-war-starts-over-chhath-puja-ban-at-public-places/articleshow/79252606.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||Maya replaces ‘Muslim’ UP BSP president with ‘MBC’||LUCKNOW: Shifting her party’s focus on most backwards for the 2022 UP state elections, BSP chief Mayawati appointed Bhim Rajbhar as the party’s UP chief, replacing former Rajya Sabha member Munquad Ali, who had been appointed in August 2019. Highly placed sources in the party said that the change in organization came after the party came up with an unimpressive performance in the recently concluded UP bypolls and Bihar assembly elections. Party supremo Mayawati held a meeting with senior party members on Thursday to discuss the election results and is learnt to have expressed displeasure at “certain communities” not voting for the party even though she “quit chief ministership for them”. Interestingly, Ali had replaced another OBC, RS Kushwaha on the post. He was the only Muslim office-bearer on a key post after the departure of Naseemudin Siddiqui, who has joined Congress. “The party is redefining its strategy for the 2022 UP state elections. While the bypolls results showed that the party's core dalit vote bank is intact, now the focus would be on upper castes and OBCs. The party will also draw up a strategy to deal with other Dalit outfits like Bhim Army,” said a party member. Mayawati announced Rajbhar’s appointment on Twitter. Rajbhar hails from Mau district from Azamgarh division. His entry comes at a point when BJP's former ally Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party headed by Om Prakash Rajbhar has broken off its alliance and challenged the ruling party in recent elections. In the Bihar elections, it joined the Grand Democratic Secular Front led by Upendra Kushwaha, of which BSP was also a part. Party insiders say that it will be an uphill task for the party to regain the confidence of OBCs, with Mayawati having failed to develop any proper OBC leadership. They also swung largely in BJP’s support during the past few elections. “Mayawati has also made a pitch for Brahmins, alleging that they have been unsafe under the current Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government, taking a leaf from her earlier social engineering experiment which helped her come to power in UP in 2007. However, all parties including Samajwadi Party are making a pitch for the Brahmin vote at this point,” said a party member. Mayawati is also learnt to have directed party workers to warn dalits against organisations like the Bhim Army, which upset its calculations in at least three seats in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-replaces-muslim-up-bsp-president-with-mbc/articleshow/79253213.cms||Neha Lalchandani
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Cop transferred after viral video||Hyderabad: A beat constable was caught on camera in Nagarkurnool district repeatedly threatening a group of youngsters for standing near a temple during the night. The constable was heard using filthy language. Hours after a video of the incident went viral, district superintendent of police Sai Shankar transferred the constable, Shiva Shankar, to the district police headquarters. The video came as an embarrassment to top police officials. The constable belongs to Nagarkurnool police station and was part of Blue Colts. On Sunday night, when a few youth gathered near the temple, two Blue Colts cops came there. As Shankar was being rude, one of the youth questioned him. “What wrong have I done? Why are you using filthy language?’’ the youngster asks the cop in the video. At one point, Shankar charges at the youth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cop-transferred-after-viral-video/articleshow/79253203.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chennai||13.75 lakh voters in Tamil Nadu above 80 years, largest electorate in Sholinganallur||CHENNAI: Woman voters continue to outnumber men in Tamil Nadu, according to the draft electoral rolls released on Monday. The total electorate in the state is 6.1 crore. There are 3.01 crore male voters, 3.09 women voters and 6,385 third gender voters. “In terms of largest electorate, Sholinganallur assembly segment tops the state with 6.5 lakh voters. Kilvelur in Nagapattinam district has the smallest electorate with 1.7 lakh voters,” chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo said. Except districts such as Kallakurichi, Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri and Kanyakumari, the remaining 34 districts have more women voters than men. In Chennai, there are 19.99 lakh woman voters and 19.39 lakh men, taking the tally to 39.4 lakh. The numbers may vary when the final roll is published in January, which would be the final for the assembly polls. Claims and objections can be made from November 16 to December 15. The election department also listed out 13.75 lakh voters in the state above 80 years, who may be given the option of postal ballot due to Covid-19. The election commission has facilitated postal ballot facilities for those who are 80 years and above and people with disabilities for the first time. In Tamil Nadu, Chennai (1.12 lakh), Salem (71,220) and Coimbatore (69,835) topped the districts in terms of high electorate in the age group of 80 years and above. “The election commission conveyed about postal ballot facility to these special category voters. It will be confirmed during elections,” said a source. The election department will hold special camps in designated locations on November 21, 22 and December 12 and 13. Forms for inclusion, deletion, modification and transposition of entries will be available in these locations and filled in forms could be submitted there. For inclusion, proof of address and age should be submitted along with the form. Aadhaar card may be submitted as proof of age. Proof of age is compulsory for applicants below the age of 25 years. Online filing can also be done on www.nvsp.in and https://voterportal.eci.gov.in. All those who will complete 18 years as on January 1, 2021, and those whose names are not included on the roll can apply for inclusion by filing Form 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/13-75l-voters-in-tn-above-80-years-largest-electorate-in-sholinganallur/articleshow/79252604.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Meerut||UP: As birds flock to Haiderpur Wetland for wintering, crackdown begins on illegal fishing||MEERUT: For the first time, intense police patrolling has begun in one of biggest Gangetic wetlands of UP -- Haiderpur Wetland -- that witnesses thousands of migratory birds every winter. A joint task force of UP Police and forest department is initiating this exercise to curb rampant illegal fishing taking place in the 1,200 hectare marshy expanse located on the western side of Bijnor barrage in Muzaffarnagar district. Newly acquired boats are being deployed for patrolling in areas hitherto inaccessible on foot. This comes weeks after chief wildlife warden of UP Sunil Pandey pulled up divisional forest officers (DFOs) of Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar for rampant illegal fishing taking place in the region. He had asked the local authorities to develop a task force on the lines of Tiger Task Force. "There have been rampant incidents of illegal fishing in Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar and there is a need for a dedicated task force to curb the practice. The DFOs must look into it," he had said. He was speaking at a meeting held soon after the dolphin census had taken place last fortnight. Interestingly, the Jal Safaris (motorboats) recently launched on the occasion of Gangetic Dolphin Day on October 5 to promote dolphin tourism came handy for the patrolling purposes. Abhishek Yadav, SSP, Muzaffarnagar, said, "Earlier, patrolling was difficult because of the dearth of equipment, including boats. Now, with their arrival, we are a step ahead of them (poachers and fishermen). Our joint teams are on the vigil now." The wetland is part of Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary spanning five districts of west UP. Fishing disturbs the birds that come there for wintering. Flock of birds including Gulls, Gadwalls, Coots, Brahminy ducks, a few Northern Shovelers, Northern Pintails, Wigeons and Common Pochards arrive in the wetland every winter. Besides, a few raptors like Black-eared Kite, Marsh Harrier and Peregrine Falcon too have been spotted in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/as-birds-flock-to-haiderpur-wetland-for-wintering-crackdown-begins-on-illegal-fishing/articleshow/79250111.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 17, 2020||Meerut||Engines of 51 stolen cars recovered from warehouses of a notorious car dealer in UP’s Meerut||Strap: The dealer's 2 sons were booked in June when 50 high-end stolen SUVs were found in Luckow Meerut: Engines of at least 51 stolen cars, some of them belonging to powerful high-end models, were on Monday recovered from warehouses of a notorious car scrap dealer in Meerut, whose sons were booked in June this after a similar cache was found in Lucknow. Police said that most of the cars were stolen from Delhi and NCR districts. Five stolen cars were also found from the residence of Haji Iqbal, a man infamous for shady car dealings which allegedly involved buying stolen vehicles and re-launching them into the market with fake documents. “A team of forensic experts corroborated that original bodies and engine numbers of three of the five seized cars were replaced by fake ones. After the forensic team’s finding, we registered an FIR and conducted searches at four warehouses and recovered engines of 51 vehicles,” said Iraz Raja, additional superintendent of police (ASP).The FIR was filed against Iqbal and his three sons-- Afzal, Abraar and Imran. Out of them, Abraar has been arrested while others are on the run.Police said that Abrar and Afzal were also named in an FIR after the recovery of 50 high-end stolen SUVs in Lucknow in June this year. Explaining the modus operandi, ASP Raja said, “The gang would procure vehicles lying in police stations after accidents. They would then transfer them on their names. Then the body and the engine number of the vehicles would be implanted on stolen vehicles of the same make.” The investigating sleuths said that efforts are now being made to trace the owners of 51 vehicles whose engines have been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/engines-of-51-stolen-cars-recovered-from-warehouses-of-a-notorious-car-dealer-in-ups-meerut/articleshow/79250113.cms||Piyush Rai
November 17, 2020||Meerut||Ganga mela goes green with 'patera' grass mats||Bijnor: Mats made of reeds, a wetland grass that grows abundantly in Bijnor district, will be rolled out at the five-day Ganga Snan Mela that begins here on November 30. Thousands of devotees come to the fair every year and pitch tents to stay.Hailing the decision of the organizers to opt for reed mats at the fair, environmentalist Mayank Mayur said, "Many devotees use polythene sheets to cover the floor in their tents and throw them on the river banks while leaving. But use of biodegradable reed mats is an eco-friendly solution. All devotees should use these mats."To meet the additional demand for these mats for the fair, the residents of over 21 villages along river Ganga, including Rawali, Shahzadpur and Dayalwala, are burning the midnight oil in mowing and collecting "patera" grass, as the reed is locally known, for weaving the eco-friendly mats. According to villagers, the reed mats can not only be used as floor covers but have been utilised to buttress the boundary of kuchcha toilets. These mats are in demand in Delhi, Haryana, Uttarakhand and even Maharashtra besides UP, said Naishad Ahmed, a contractor who supplies them to buyers both in UP and outside. The onset of winter sees a manifold rise in demand for these mats, said Ahmed. He explained that the cold winter in northern India often causes icicles to form on plants at night, damaging them. These reed mats come in as a handy low-cost cover to protect crops and vegetables from the cold and frost. They are also used to pack vegetables and fruits. Ahmed and other contractors purchase the reed mats at Rs 9-10 per piece and sell them for Rs 15-20. He estimated the reed mats fetch an annual business of around Rs12 crore in the district.Krishna Devi, a weaver at Rawali village, said, "We have been making reeds mats for generations. One person is able to weave 10 to 15 mats in a day." Another villager, Bhopal Kashyap, said, "We collect reed grass from khadar areas when Ganga water recedes and store it at home. Later, the family weaves the mats. The upcoming Ganga Snan fair is a boon for us."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ganga-mela-goes-green-with-patera-grass-mats/articleshow/79250121.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 17, 2020||Meerut||Furniture worth lakhs destroyed as store goes up in flames||Muzaffarnagar: A fire that broke out at a furniture store in the city destroyed furniture worth lakhs that was meant to be delivered to customers with weddings in their families. Several fire tenders took hours to contain and douse the raging fire.According to sources, fire broke out in a famous furniture showroom located in the industrial area under Civil Lines police station on Monday morning. The fire department pressed three fire tenders to control the fire. Furniture worth lakhs of rupees — some meant to be supplied for a wedding — turned into ash.Rama Shankar Tiwari, circle officer of the Muzaffarnagar fire department, said, “We have saved a lot of the furniture, but the owner of the showroom still suffered heavy losses. We’re trying to probe how the fire broke out in the showroom.”Local BJP MLA and state minister Kapil Dev Agrawal also reached the spot on hearing of the accident and inspected the area. He said, “The big was huge and the showroom owner suffered huge losses. I’m here to stand by his family.”In a similar incident on Diwali night, a Muzaffarnagar trader’s house in Gandhi colony had caught fire after a burning cracker fell on a curtain. It took several hours for the fire to be doused. According to sources, while the family of trader Gurbachan Singh Banga was with his family on the ground floor, a burning rocket fell on a curtain on the third floor and caught fire. Loss worth lakhs of rupees has been reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/furniture-worth-lakhs-destroyed-as-store-goes-up-in-flames/articleshow/79250118.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 17, 2020||Meerut||Notice to 10 Bijnor kolhus, asked to raise chimney height to 10m||Bijnor: At a time when air pollution has skyrocketed in the National Capital Region. UP Pollution Control Board has issued notices to 10 kolhu (jaggery-making units) owners in Bijnor district, directing them to raise the height of the chimneys of their establishments to 10 metres. With cane crushing season on, kolhus have begun operations. According to cane department sources, there are around 10,000 kolhus in UP and Bijnor alone accounts for 10% of them. These kolhus use sugarcane waste and leaves as fuel, causing air pollution.Therefore, the pollution control board has begun identifying kolhus having chimneys less than 10 metres high. JP Maurya, regional officer of PCB, explained, "We are identifying kolhus polluting the air. As of now, 10 kolhus whose chimneys are not upto 10 metres have been served notices. The smaller chimney causes more pollution than the taller one. Besides, we are checking pollution control devices set up in the chimney of the crusher. If anyone is found flouting the norms, he will be penalised."Maurya added that notice had also been served on a construction company which is building the Nagina road for failing to control dust from flying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/notice-to-10-bijnor-kolhus-asked-to-raise-chimney-height-to-10m/articleshow/79250123.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 17, 2020||Meerut||Unable to exit, Haryana man burnt alive after car accident||Muzaffarnagar: A man from Haryana, in his early 30s, was charred to death when his car rammed into a bus being towed away by a crane in UP’s Shamli.Locals said the man - yet to be identified - couldn't exit and was burnt alive inside the vehicle which within minutes engulfed in flames.The incident occurred, late on Sunday, on the Meerut-Karnal highway in Jhinjhana area of Shamli district. Police said the vehicle's registration number plate belongs to Panchkula.After the accident, emergency services rushed to douse the fire. The man's body was sent for postmortem.According to police, when they contacted the person under whose name the vehicle was registered, they found that he had sold the car a long time ago. In fact, the car was sold to several individuals within Haryana, the police said."We are trying to trace the man's identity, and investigating the matter. Action will be taken accordingly," Jhinjhana SHO Sarvesh Kumar said on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/unable-to-exit-haryana-man-burnt-alive-after-car-accident/articleshow/79250120.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 17, 2020||Meerut||'Drunk' cop lies on busy road during Diwali, video goes viral||Meerut: A UP Police sub-inspector (SI) Devendra Singh Bhadana posted in Saharanpur district was suspended after a video of him lying in the middle of a busy market, possibly drunk, went viral on social media.Taking cognizance, Saharanpur SSP S Channappa has suspended the SI. A departmental probe has been initiated against him.In the purported video, the SI could be seen lying on a slab with his uniform next to him during Diwali. An onlooker identified the SI and posted the video on Facebook."In the said case, Saharanpur SSP has suspended the SI with immediate effect. Further probe is on," Saharanpur police tweeted on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/drunk-cop-lies-on-busy-road-during-diwali-video-goes-viral/articleshow/79250115.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to open CP office in Siddipet district||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will inaugurate the newly-constructed Siddipet district collectorate and commissioner of police offices at Duddeda on the outskirts of the town. P Venkatrama Reddy, who on Monday took charge as collector of Siddipet, inspected the premises and said the CM would inaugurate the building and also the double-bedroom houses at Narsapur. Allotment of rooms for officials was completed on Monday. This is the first time KCR will visiting Siddipet after the Dubbak loss. Siddipet police said City Police Act would be enforced from November 16 to 30 as there would be no permission granted to stage dharna or rasta rokos. Commissioner Joel Davis said action would be taken against those who force shops to shut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-to-open-cp-office-in-siddipet-dist/articleshow/79253236.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP: CM Yogi Adityanath launches incense made of recycled flowers||GORAKHPUR: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday launched organic incense sticks made from flowers offered at Gorakhnath Temple promoting environment-friendly products by recycling of flowers. Speaking after the launch of ‘Shree Gorakhnath Ashirwad’ incense sticks on Sunday afternoon, the CM said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of converting waste into wealth is being realized by making incense sticks from the flowers offered at the temple. “These flowers were either thrown away or disposed of in rivers. This was hurting the faith of devotees and also polluting the rivers,” he said. “Besides giving respect to faith, this is also a big step towards women empowerment as these are being made by women. It is also a belief in our tradition that nothing is a waste on this earth and this is a testimony of this fact”, he said, while adding women making the incense sticks have already started earning Rs 4,000-5,000 per month. The incense sticks are being manufactured by the Mahayogi Gorakhnath Krishi Vigyan Kendra (MGKVK) with technical support from the Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (CIMAP), Lucknow. The production and distribution will remain in the hands of Gorakhnath Temple Trust. The flowers are dried and powdered in a machine and then mixed with wood powder. The paste is then coated on thin sticks and soaked into fragrance liquid and dried before being packed. “It is for the first time this flower recycling has been started at a temple in UP. Incense sticks are being made from flowers at Sai Temple in Shirdi and Vaishno Devi Temple. Soon, incense sticks will be made from flowers at Chandrika Devi Temple in Lucknow,” said CIMAP director Dr. Prabodh Kumar Trivedi. Soon ‘bel patra’ and basil leaves will also be used for making incense sticks, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-launches-incense-made-of-recycled-flowers/articleshow/79253226.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||One killed in clash; book accused under NSA, orders Yogi||LUCKNOW: A man was killed and several others injured in a clash between two communities in Chakeri area of Kanpur on Sunday night. Taking note of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed that the accused be booked under the stringent National Security Act (NSA), which allows preventive detention for up to a year. In a tweet, the CM’s Office said, “Instructions have been issued to immediately arrest the accused and invoke the National Security Act against them. A financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund has been announced for the aggrieved family.” Three persons have been arrested. Two policemen were sent to the lines for laxity and an inquiry has been ordered into the incident. The state government as announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh for Pintoo’s family. The incident was reported from Wajidpur locality of Jajmau. Trouble began when a Amaan was passing by a paan shop and stepped on a pouch of water lying on the road in which soiled his clothes. Amaan entered into a heated argument with a group of men standing at a paan shop. The issue was resolved on the intervention of the local elderlies. Later Amaan allegedly returned with a group of men and women armed with sticks and rods and attacked the group that he had entered into an argument with earlier injuring one Pintoo Nishad (25), a tannery worker, who later died. As a result, family members and neighbours of Pintoo then attacked Amaan’s family. Police however brought the sitation under control and three persons were arrested for Pintoo’s murder ASP, east, Rajkumar Agarwal said three accused, Sarfaraz Alam, Mohsin and Meeraj, have been arrested and NSA will be invoked against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/one-killed-in-clash-book-accused-under-nsa-orders-yogi/articleshow/79253237.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Agencies dither, Yamuna full of toxic froth||NEW DELHI: After the bizarre scene of Chhath devotees standing waist-deep in toxic froth in the Yamuna near Kalindi Kunj went viral last year and caused public outrage, a report on countermeasures was sought by the NGT-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee (YMC). However, a year on, the situation doesn’t seem to have improved at all. Such vivid scenes may once again be repeated this year with heaps of froth already accumulating near Okhla Barrage. Similar problems in the lakes of Bengaluru were eliminated by the authorities, but the multiplicity of authorities in Delhi makes the task much more difficult. Okhla Barrage is managed by the UP irrigation department. A senior Delhi Jal Board official said there were multiple reasons for foam formation. “Foam is produced when organic matter decomposes and releases fatty acids. Synthetic detergents are not biodegradable, so even they form foam under favourable conditions. The organic matter comes mostly from decomposing algae and plants,” added the official. Presence of hyacinth, untreated sewage and phosphates were the key factors behind the presence of surfactants. “When water released from the barrage is churned, forth formation starts. Froth formation is noticed after monsoon, but its visibility increases during winter due to low temperature,” the official said. Images of foam in the river had surfaced last August, leading to YMC issuing directions to both Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) to identify the cause of the frothing. DPCC, in its reply, stated that high phosphate levels, primarily due to the use of domestic detergents, were causing froth to form, especially where they were rising to the surface. “There is no froth formation during normal flow, but if there is a change in elevation or new water is introduced, phosphate rises to the surface, mixes with the water and creates foam,” an official said. Untreated sewage also adds to the woes. “There are 18 drains that discharge about 760 MGD wastewater into the Yamuna. Of these, 610 MGD is from Delhi and 150 MGD from Haryana and UP. Delhi’s 100 MGD untreated sewage comes from non-sewered and unauthorised areas. About 105 MGD untreated discharge reaches Okhla Barrage from Haryana through Najafgarh drain and 50 MGD from UP through Shahdara drain,” said an official. Hindon cut canal carrying waste water from UP also meets the river upstream of Okhla Barrage. “This canal carries pollutants from paper and sugar mills in Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Shamli and Meerut. They enter Hindon at Indira Kunj,” the official added. YMC recently held a meeting with UP government highlighting the sewage and industrial effluents entering Yamuna via Shahdara drain, which accounts for 15% of the river’s pollution load. The froth also reflects that the river is dead and the dissolved oxygen level is zero at Okhla barrage. As remedial measures, DPCC stated that long-term solutions included stopping industrial effluents and domestic sewage from entering the river. Short-term measures included removal of hyacinth in the Okhla pondage and use of bioculture-based foaming treatment on the lines of Bellandur Lake in Bengaluru. Watch Delhi: Toxic foam covers Yamuna at Kalindi Kunj||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/agencies-dither-yamuna-full-of-toxic-froth/articleshow/79252612.cms||Paras Singh
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP 112 catered to over 58k distress calls on November 14-15||LUCKNOW: The emergency service of Uttar Pradesh Police – UP 112 – attended at least 58,240 calls during Diwali festivities on November 14-15. Majority of complaints (47, 537) were related to drunken brawls and noise pollution which needed immediate police intervention. Another 8,876 calls were received in which medical help was sought. At least 1,168 calls were related to fire incidents. Calls related to online stalking and harassment were referred to Women Power Line 1090 and Women & Child Development departments based on the nature of complaints. Additional director general of police, UP 112, Asim Arun said, “On two days of festival, UP 112 maintained the response time of 8 minutes in urban areas and 10 minutes in rural areas.” He said the frequency of number of calls at UP 112 was at least 45% more than normal days but still the team delivered. “We had briefed all 32,000 workers on how to handle calls and situation emerging in such circumstances. All 4,500 police response vehicles (PRVs) were on the job,” said Arun. A senior official said in districts where firecrackers were banned, teams of UP 112 dissuaded people from bursting it. “In many cases warnings were also issued to those bursting crackers in prohibited areas,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-112-catered-to-over-58k-distress-calls-on-nov-14-15/articleshow/79253239.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Meerut||Former Haryana minister booked under Cow Slaughter Act in UP’s Saharanpur||MEERUT: A former minister in Haryana cabinet has been booked in UP’s Saharanpur under the Cow Slaughter Act after he allegedly opened fire at a herd of the animal from his stud farm. The FIR was filed against Nirmal Singh, a four-time MLA, on the basis of a complaint filed by a man belonging to the nomadic Van Gurjar community. Singh, who owns a stud farm on UP-Haryana border marked by Yamuna river, is alleged to have opened fire at the cow herd when it went into the stream to drink water near his property. The complainant, Maam Hussain, said, “The incident occurred on Thursday when I took my three cows for grazing near Yamuna. While the cattle were drinking water, Singh and his five associates opened fire at them. The FIR was registered on Saturday after a lot of convincing.” Hussain claimed that he still has one of the wounded cows in his possession. “There is no trace of the other two injured cows,” he said. Since the alleged firing took place from the Haryana side-- where the Singh’s farm is located-- police on the other side in Saharanpur were not keen on filing a case. But he was later booked under the UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act in the district’s Behat area. Singh has denied the allegations. “These charges are baseless. It is just an allegation and the FIR is also investigative in nature. I have a stud farm on the Haryana-UP border and we too have filed many complaints against cattle thieves, who often cross over and indulge in theft on our premises. We have several cows apart from horses and several of them are missing,” he said. A veteran Congressman since the 70s, Singh recently parted ways with the party. He was a four term MLA from Naggal constituency in Haryana apart from being a cabinet minister in the state. According to investigation officer in the case, Virender Singh, a sub-inspector in Behat area of Saharanpur, “We have booked Nirmal Singh under sections UP Prevention of Cow Slaughter Act. Investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/former-haryana-minister-booked-under-cow-slaughter-act-in-ups-saharanpur/articleshow/79250167.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||Mathura officials are ignoring Vrindavan Kumbh: Shrikant Sharma to CM||LUCKNOW: Energy minister Shrikant Sharma, who is also an MLA from Mathura, has written a letter to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, drawing his attention towards the apathy of the local administration towards annual Vrindavan Kumbh slated to be held between February 16 and March 28. Sharma said that last month when he had visited Mathura, he went to the Mela site and found the preparations unsatisfactory. He had cautioned the local administration about the slackness and told the officials to finish the work in time. But when the minister took a feedback from party workers and organisers of the event recently, he was told that nothing had moved since then and the preparations for the Vrindavan Kumbh were still very slow. “Even a warning by the minister to the district authorities did not make any impact,” said a source close to Sharma. After his repeated warning to the district magistrate and other authorities failed to wake them up, the minister on Monday wrote a letter to the chief minister drawing his attention towards the Vrindavan Kumbh and the poor response of the district authorities towards his warning in organising the event. Sources close to him told TOI that the energy minister would personally meet the chief minister soon to make a complaint against Mathura district officials and request him to ask the authorities for speedy action towards organising the mela. The minister said that thousands of tourists from India and abroad attend this historic festival every year and for their stay in Vrindavan, the district authorities have to coordinate with the mela officials for organsing the event. The minister in his letter to the CM also requested for coordination between the district authorities and the Vrindavan Development Council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sharma-to-cm-mathura-officials-are-ignoring-vrindavan-kumbh/articleshow/79253243.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 17, 2020||Chennai||Harbour only city constituency where men outnumber women||Chennai: There has been a drop of around 6,000 voters in the 16 assembly constituencies in core Chennai area, as per a draft electoral roll released by Greater Chennai Corporation on Monday. This was released in the presence of senior officials and representatives of recognised political parties. According to the civic body, the city had 39.46 lakh voters when the electoral rolls were released on February 14 this year. The latest electoral rolls, however, show 39.4 lakh voters — 19.99 lakh women, 19.39 lakh men and 1,015 from the third gender. The civic body also announced that they would be receiving applications for new voters as well as those willing to change their names, addresses and addition or deletion of names to the voters list from Monday till December 15. New voters who turn 18 as on January 1, 2021, can apply. Voters can also verify the electoral roll list at Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru-Vi-Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam and Adyar zonal offices. Egmore (1.86 lakh), Royapuram (1.84 lakh) and Harbour (1.73 lakh) constituencies have less than 2 lakh voters while Perambur (3.01 lakh) and Velachery (3.06 lakh) have more than 3 lakh voters. Harbour is the only city constituency where men voters outnumber women voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/harbour-only-city-constituency-where-men-outnumber-women/articleshow/79252646.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||10 lakh lit virtual diyas at Ram Janmabhoomi||LUCKNOW: While the lighting of over 6.6 lakh earthen lamps on the banks of Saryu in Ayodhya got the Guinness recognition, over 10 lakh devotees lit virtual diyas at the Ram Janmabhoomi through the specially designed three-dimensional website on the occasion of Deepotsav. The website, in fact, crashed only to be swiftly restored to assist lakhs of devotees to zoom into Ayodhya virtually and light up a diya on the eve of Diwali. This was the first Deepotsav which was organised by the UP government after the Supreme Court ruled in favour of a Ram temple at the disputed site. A government spokesperson said that the Deepotsav became an instant hit for not only creating a record in terms of lighting 6.06 lakh diyas but also because of high public participation through the website which was launched by the Uttar Pradesh government to allow devotees to mark their attendance at Ram Darbar.  “The entire Deepotsav became an instant hit because of mass participation,” said the spokesperson. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also participated in the event virtually. The portal, which was up on November 13, was used by scores of Ram Bhakts to show their faith and devotion to their deity. Devotees had the option to choose the lamps to be lit with oil or ghee. They received certificates and a thank you from CM Yogi Adityanath. Officials said that it was the downloading of the certificates which showed the quotient of success of the event organised under a shadow of pandemic even as the UP government followed the mandatory protocol. Congratulating devotees on achieving the feat, CM Yogi said that another record would be created next year. He said that the event also showed how a pollution-free digital Diwali can be celebrated for which people of Ayodhya and beyond should be specially complimented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/10-lakh-lit-virtual-diyas-at-ram-janmabhoomi/articleshow/79253249.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Army recruitment rally from December 7||LUDHIANA: An Army recruitment rally for candidates who had registered their names from Ludhiana district, Moga, SAS Nagar and Ropar will be conducted from December 7 to 22 at AS College, Kalal Majra, Khanna, under the aegis of ARO, Ludhiana. This rally will be organised for categories of soldier (general duty), soldier technical, soldier (clerk/storekeeper technical) and soldier nursing assistant. Director, recruiting, Col Sajeev N said, “Candidates are requested to download their admit card from their registered email IDs, along with Covid-19 negative certificate and they can enter the rally site from 7am and 10am. A total of 14,632 candidates have registered for the recruitment screening. These candidates shall undergo physical fitness tests followed by physical measurement tests. Detailed screening of documents will be carried out for physical and measurement test qualified candidates.” The director said that candidates must ensure to bring original documents including Aadhar card, education certificates issued by respective education boards, online residence/nativity certificate issued by the SDM/tehsildar, online caste certificate, character certificate, etc. among others. He also stated that no manual certificate would be accepted and Sikh candidates would carry their recent photographs with and without pagri. He said that the medical examination of such qualified candidates would be undertaken on the following day after physical screening. The director said that the candidates must report at the rally site by 6.30am on their respective screening days. He said candidates should download their admit cards from the website www.joinindianarmy.nic.in . He said that the common entrance exam (CEE) for successful screened candidates would be intimated during the rally. He said that the rally would be held amid all Covid-19 precautions. No candidate will report at the rally site one day in advance, friends/parents are not permitted at the rally site, all candidates will undertake RT-PCR test five days in advance and get a Covid-19 negative certificate signed by a government doctor. He said that candidates would have to adhere to all Covid safety protocols, including wearing face masks, gloves and hand sanitisers. Candidates attempting fraudulent enrolment will be prosecuted, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/army-recruitment-rally-from-dec-7/articleshow/79251710.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Cheaper Metro Neo replaces MetroLite||NEW DELHI: Delhi is likely to become one of the first major cities in the country to have a “Metro Neo” corridor, which is a rail-guided urban transport system with rubber-tyred electric coaches powered by an overhead traction system running on elevated or at-grade sections. The light transit system, which costs about 20-25% of a Metro and also has lower maintenance costs, is likely to come up between Kirti Nagar and Bamnoli near Dwarka, where a MetroLite corridor was proposed last year. While MetroLite also has a lower carrying capacity compared with Delhi Metro, it is a rail-based system and costs 40% of a Metro system. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had not only prepared a detailed project report (DPR), but also floated tenders for procuring MetroLite coaches. “For the Kirti Nagar-Bamnoli corridor, a decision was taken by DMRC’s board of directors to explore the possibility of implementing the Metro Neo technology and get a DPR prepared for it,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC. Dayal said the standard specifications for Metro Neo were issued by Union ministry of housing and urban affairs last week. “Further modifications may be made to the technical specifications of the rolling stock as well as other allied requirements for this corridor. Therefore, the tender for procurement of 29 MetroLite trains has been cancelled. The tender may be floated again based on changes in technical specifications in the future,” he added. While the 19km Kirti Nagar-Bamnoli MetroLite project was pegged at Rs 2,673 crore, the cost of a Metro Neo corridor would be around Rs 2,000 crore. The standalone corridor would connect Kirti Nagar interchange station, where Blue (Dwarka-Noida City Centre) and Green (Inder Lok-Brig Hoshiar Singh) lines of Delhi Metro meet with the high-speed Airport Express Line, which is also being extended from Dwarka Sector 21 to Dwarka ECC near Bamnoli. The Metro Neo system would have three-coach sets, with each being 12 metres long and 2.5 metres wide and a floor height of 300-350mm. Made of stainless steel or aluminium, the coaches would not only be smaller, but also lighter than Delhi Metro rakes. The average axle load would be around 10 tonnes instead of the usual 17 tonnes of Metro coaches. The rubber-tyred Metro Neo coaches would run on road slabs, which could be elevated or at-grade. When running at-grade, Metro Neo would have a dedicated lane separating it from road traffic with the help of a plinth, fencing or kerbs. There would be an Automatic Train Protection system with anti-collision feature and predefined speed limit. The stations, both at-grade and elevated, would be simple structures with no Automatic Fare Collection gates, X-Ray baggage screening, door frame metal detectors or other features associated with Delhi Metro. Metro Neo platforms would be simple, open and serve the functional requirement of exchange of passengers between the platform and the vehicle. Only bare minimum facilities like lighting, CCTV, public information system, etc would be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cheaper-metro-neo-replaces-metrolite/articleshow/79252650.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Two more corporation hospitals to be Covid care centres||NEW DELHI: A day after the Centre reviewed the surge in Covid-19 in Delhi and suggested using municipal hospitals for patients with mild symptoms, senior civic functionaries on Monday said that Tilak Nagar and Balakram hospitals could soon be converted into Covid care centres. This is expected to help the city deal with the recent spike in bed demand. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that “a review meeting has been called to ascertain which all units will be used for the purpose of treating mild-symptom patients.” “Balakram hospital is ready for being turned into a Covid care centre. We may not turn entire Hindu Rao Hospital into a Covid facility, but a separate block can be used for it. We are willing to provide all our facilities, but the government should also help us get our rightful funds,” the mayor added. Five of the biggest corporation healthcare facilities in the city are run by the north corporation with 980-bed Hindu Rao Hospital being the largest one followed by Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, Girdharilal Hospital, Rajan Babu TB Hospital and Balakram Hospital. A senior north corporation official said that Kasturba Gandhi Hospital was already accepting additional load of maternity cases due to Lok Nayak Hospital turning into a completely Covid-designated facility, while Rajan Babu housed multi-drug resistant TB patients. Hence, both the hospitals were unlikely to be used as Covid care centres, the official added. South Delhi Municipal Corporation has two colony hospitals in Tilak Nagar and Kalkaji. A senior health department official said that the Tilak Nagar hospital was more likely to be used as a Covid care centre. “It has 100 beds and preliminary preparations had already been made in May-June to use it as an isolation centre,” he added. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said that during the first wave, a large number of community centres had been handed over to Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to be used as corona isolation centres and the same could be equipped with necessary infrastructure and used again. “As soon as any demand comes from DDMA, we will make the facilities available to them,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-more-corpn-hosps-to-be-covid-care-centres/articleshow/79252663.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||CGST, SGST unearth bogus billing totalling Rs 760 crore||LUDHIANA: The past week in Ludhiana has turned out to be perfect Diwali week for both central GST (CGST) commissionerate, and state GST (SGST) department here as in just a span of three days both departments managed to unearth bogus billing totalling over a whopping Rs 760 crore involving forged input tax credit (ITC) claims of Rs 74 crore. These three cases by far are among the biggest ones busted in Ludhiana this year and interestingly, there are several firsts in these operations in which five accused were arrested. The major one being that these were the first arrests under the GST Act in Ludhiana, which has made both CGST and SGST empowered more than before. Secondly, this was the first action by the newly formed special investigation team (SIT) of the SGST, which has been entrusted with the task of detecting the tax frauds and tax evasion and reports directly to the deputy excise and taxation commissioner (DETC)-level official. As far as the cases busted by the CGST include, these were the first ones done with the help of the newly developed fraud detection tool by the GST Network (GSTN) called Business Intelligence and Fraud Analytics (BIFA). Speaking to TOI on the condition of anonymity, a senior official of the CGST department said, “This tool does in-depth data analysis of a firm, giving graphic details of the company’s entire business transactions and even genuineness of the purchases and sales among several other details. This way, it is helping the investigating officers to reach the conclusion about whether or not the firm has been involved in any wrongdoings and using this we can process information in a few hours for which earlier it used to take several days and even months.” Meanwhile, in a shocking revelation in the case busted by the SGST department in which bogus billing to the tune of Rs 350 crore was done by three accused, a network of bogus firms was created in the name of unsuspecting and poor people like daily wagers, auto rickshaw drivers, etc. to avail ITC of Rs 30 crore. The web of companies to do circular trading was created across five states in order to pass on the fraudulent ITC to the accused. According to sources, in one of the cases busted by the CGST a similar pattern of availing ITC had been followed, as owner of one of the firms shown in the registration, which had claimed forged ITC, had turned out to be a daily wager. Box – Recent arrests in bogus billing cases The cumulative total of bogus billing unearthed in three different cases busted by the SGST and CGST, Ludhiana, is about Rs 760 crore and the total ITC claimed by the accused in all cases combined amounts to Rs 74 crores roughly. Nov 12 - CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, busts a network of companies which committed bogus billing of more than Rs 158 crore and availed forged ITC of Rs 26 crore. One person was arrested in the case Nov 11- CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, busts a case involving bogus billing to the tune of Rs 252 crore, involving forged ITC of Rs 17.65 crore done by creating 14 firms. One person arrested in the case Nov 10 - SGST department, Ludhiana, busted a bogus billing network created by three persons who did bogus billing of about Rs 350 crore and availed ITC of more than Rs 30 crore. Three persons were arrested in the case||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cgst-sgst-unearth-bogus-billing-totalling-rs-760cr/articleshow/79251723.cms||Mohit Behl
November 17, 2020||Bareilly||Brothers & sisters exchange Bhai Dooj blessings with siblings in jail via recorded messages||BAREILLY: District jail authorities had a surprise for inmates on Bhai Dooj — they made arrangements for them to exchange blessings and greetings with their brothers and sisters outside. A special desk was placed in the city where siblings could deposit sweetmeats along with a video or voice message greeting for their brother/sister lodged in jail. In total, 937 inmates — 912 women and 25 men — used the facility. In Bareilly central jail, visitors were only allowed to deposit sweetmeats outside jail premises. No one was permitted inside to meet their siblings. Several women looked dissatisfied as they wanted to apply tilak on their jailed brother’s forehead and pray for them. In Shahjahanpur, angry sisters blocked the road outside district jail when they were not allowed to meet their brothers. Several women who had gathered outside the jail said they had arrived from far off villages and had no idea they would not be allowed to meet their incarcerated brothers to perform Bhai Dooj rituals. Eventually, after several sisters had already returned home disappointed, 79 women were permitted to speak with their brothers through intercom. Shahjahanpur jail superintendent Rakesh Kumar said, “There were clear instructions that visitors wouldn’t be permitted inside because of the pandemic. We know visitors were unhappy, but arranged so that they could talk over intercom.” Bareilly district jail superintendent Vijay Vikram Singh said, “This jail is located far away from the city, which is why we had started our desk where sweets and other ritual items could be deposited on November 14 itself. Visitors were able to record video or audio messages, which were shared with their siblings on our public address system.” Gayatri Devi, a visitor in Shahjahanpur, said, “When the government can conduct elections in Bihar, why can’t they allow people to meet relatives in jail? It’s really unfair and we’re extremely dejected. This is one of the biggest festivals for us, but we were not allowed to meet our brothers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/brothers-sisters-exchange-bhai-dooj-blessings-with-siblings-in-jail-via-recorded-messages/articleshow/79250995.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||Heavy snowfall in U’khand hills, rain in plains||Dehradun: Most of the higher reaches of the state received heavy snowfall on Monday, with all the Char Dham towns being covered in at least six inches of ice. Meanwhile, the plains, too, witnessed moderate rainfall since Sunday night. The meteorological department has predicted that a let up in the weather is likely from Tuesday. Regional meteorological centre director Bikram Singh said, “A spell of rain was predicted around November 15. While Nainital, Almora, Champawat, US Nagar and Pauri witnessed rainfall at isolated places, the other districts received moderate rains on Sunday night which continued well into the day. The next four days are likely to remain dry.” “Due to the rain and snow, the day temperature is likely to dip by two notches while there is no major change predicted at night,” he added. Singh further said that the rain spell would be “extremely useful” for farmers who are set to sow wheat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/heavy-snowfall-in-ukhand-hills-rain-in-plains/articleshow/79251004.cms||Kautilya Singh
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP government to set up loan camps to help MSMEs facing pandemic blues||LUCKNOW: The UP government is planning to organise a special loan disbursement camp for industrial units as part of its initiatives to give boost to economic activities which got slowed down during the Covid pandemic. Additional chief secretary, information and MSME, Navneet said the camp would be specially helpful for entrepreneurs who want to set up small industrial units and generate employment. “The state government aspires to scale up economic activities. Almost all industrial units in the state are in a working state with the help of labourers. Industrial units facing problems are being provided loans with the help of banks under ‘Atmanirbhar package’,” Shegal told reporters. He added that around 4,37,000 units have been provided with loan to the tune of Rs 10,850 crore. He said the state government is also trying to provide more employment opportunities. In the current fiscal year, around 6.30 lakh new micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSME) units have been provided loans worth Rs 18,348 crore. Sehgal said the state government was giving priority to procurement of paddy in the ongoing season. He said this year, 120 lakh quintal paddy has been purchased, which is three times the quantity bought last year. The government has also purchased 95,000 quintal maize from farmers, which is more than what was procured last year, Sehgal added. He said the government is trying to provide adequate and timely compensation to farmers. “CM Yogi has asked all the district magistrates to review paddy purchase at the district level,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-to-set-up-loan-camps-to-help-msmes-facing-pandemic-blues/articleshow/79253252.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||No Covid duty: Cops’ kin denied grant||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has rejected a request for granting Rs 1 crore as Covid compensation to the family of a deceased constable on the ground that he was performing routine, not Covid, duty. Yoginder Prashad Yadav died due to Covid-19 on July 7. He was deployed outside a quarantine centre in outer Delhi, said a senior officer. In November, his family’s request for the ex gratia payment was rejected. In a letter signed by SDM-II (headquarters), it has been stated that the deployment for Covid duty is a mandatory condition to be eligible for this compensation. In October, the government had rejected a similar plea for assistant sub-inspector Shesh Mani Pandey, who was posted with Crime Branch, on the same ground. His family claimed that the cop had gone to a crime scene where he contracted the viral infection. Pandey died in May. “Police officials do not have the luxury of working from home. Whether it’s manning barricades to enforce the lockdown or issuing challans for Covid violations, the cops are on the ground,” said an officer, adding that the refusal would be demotivating for the force. “In some cases, when people were found on the roadside and no one would touch them, we had rushed them to hospital. All duties done by police personnel during the pandemic are Covid duties. Our duty was to ensure that the government guidelines are duly implemented,” he added. The deceased ASI’s son, Krishna Kumar Pandey, said “The government announced the ex gratia but we were later told he was not on Covid duty. Our financial conditions are not that great.” His mother and brother had also tested positive and “could not even say their last goodbye to him”, Pandey said. “Delhi Police helped us during the tough time but the government should understand that the cops don’t have the luxury of staying at home.” The family of constable Amit, who was the first in the force to die of Covid, has also not been granted the compensation yet. “His son is four years old, his wife is due to deliver in a month. Each time we ask, they say the file is pending,” said Ravi, his brother-in-law. Despite repeated attempts, the government didn’t respond.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-covid-duty-cops-kin-denied-grant/articleshow/79271469.cms||Sakshi Chand
November 17, 2020||Ludhiana||Chhath Puja: Organisers told to regulate gatherings, follow norms||LUDHIANA: With Chhath Puja just four days away, the authorities concerned will allow the devotees to say their prayers on the sides of water bodies but in a regulated manner to ensure that Covid-19 related norms are followed. Chhath Puja is a prominent festival celebrated primarily in Bihar and in some parts of Uttar Pradesh and Nepal. It is observed to worship the sun god and seek his blessings for the peace and prosperity of the family. As the pandemic has affected the way festivals are being celebrated, the festivities this year are expected to be different as compared to the previous years. The district administration and police authorities said that they would request the organisers to avoid huge rush in view of Covid-19 scenario. Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said that they were allowing devotes near water bodies but added that, “We will persuade them to keep the gathering at a low level of not more than 50 persons at any place”. He added that they would have a meeting with them and persuade them to have a minimum gathering in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Aggarwal said that they had fixed a meeting with the main organisers of Chhath Puja on Tuesday evening and they would request them to celebrate the festival in a simple way. He added that they would be apprised about the government guidelines with the number of devotees, so that there were no chances of spread of disease. The senior police official said that to avoid gathering, no sound or DJ system would be allowed at the places where puja would be held and similarly, no food stalls or swings would be allowed. He added that the organisers would be asked to tell people that only those who were newly married or families with newborns would be allowed to go to the banks of water bodies for celebrations. They added that necessary security measures would be in place and authorities would check whether norms related to Covid-19 were being followed. The organisers have also said that they also do not want crowds during the festival this year. “In view of Covid-19, we are trying that a minimum number of people come to celebrate the festival. Also, we are planning to dig pits for water wherever there is such a provision or use wells wherever available for Chhath Puja. Even for those who will come to the banks of water bodies, we are asking them to wear masks in view of the current scenario,” said Ram Nath, one of the organisers. He indicated that since it was their main festival, they would use music systems. There are 8-10 places, including 3-4 along the Satluj, and some spots on the sides of Sidhwan Canal (between Shimlapuri bridge to south city), where the migrant community members celebrate Chhath Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chhath-puja-organisers-told-to-regulate-gatherings-follow-norms/articleshow/79251726.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 17, 2020||Bareilly||Burglars loot three houses on Diwali, steal valuables worth over Rs 11 lakh||PILIBHIT: Daring burglars broke locks of three houses in Ram Vatika colony under Sungarhi police station between 2am and 4am on Monday and stole valuables worth over Rs 11 lakh, despite district police’s claims of vigilant night patrolling. The CO of Pilibhit (city circle) Virendra Vikram has inspected the spots and rushed teams of fingerprints experts, special operation group and forensic cell along with the dog squad. A joint FIR was lodged against anonymous burglars under sections 380 (theft in dwelling house) and 457 (house-breaking by night to commit offence) of IPC, said Atar Singh, the concerned SHO. Of the three victims, Narendra Kumar Jain, a pesticide dealer who suffered a loss of around Rs 8 lakh, said he had left with his family for Pantnagar in Uttarakhand on Diwali night to take part in his niece’s ring ceremony, and had locked his house. Another victim, educationist Rajesh Kumar, said he had gone to his parent’s house in Barkhera with his family to celebrate Diwali. The burglars stole cash and gold ornaments valued around Rs 3 lakh, he said. Rajpal, a head clerk in the Pilibhit agriculture department, said he had gone to his in-law’s house in village Bhairo Kala under Puranpur tehsil along with his family, also for Diwali. He lost cash worth Rs 20,000 and a gold chain, he said. SHO Atar Singh said the burglars had turned a CCTV camera at Jain’s house upwards and disconnected halogen lights in their street, before committing the burglary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/burglars-loot-three-houses-on-diwali-steal-valuables-worth-over-rs-11-lakh/articleshow/79251005.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 17, 2020||Bareilly||Locals thwart DTR's stray leopard's bid to strike again, fear its return||BAREILLY: A leopard that is suspected to have killed three children in the villages around Dhaurahra range of Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR) since September 13 was spotted twice over the weekend. Residents claimed that they managed to foil two attempts to attack by the big cat and drive it away. They fear it will return. They informed the forest department. It has been two months since a leopard that strayed out of DTR has been prowling about and killed three children in the area in UP's Lakhimpur Kheri district. However, it has managed to elude capture by the forest department, that has set up live bait at three spots and installed camera traps at several places. Foresters are now awaiting permission to tranquilize it. They believe that the feline is refusing to take the bait because it may have been caged in the past. Achchelal, a resident of Belagadi village who reportedly sighted the leopard on Saturday night, said, “I saw the leopard near my house and alerted everyone. Otherwise it may have killed either my children or cattle." Anil Patel, divisional forest officer, said, “The leopard is quite cunning. Now, we will tie a goat (bait) outside the cage to attract it. Camera trap images showed that it came close to the cage but didn’t enter to kill the prey. We have established a temporary ‘machan’ to monitor is the movement. Locals are also alert. We are also trying to push the big cat back into the forest. There is sufficient prey there." Sanjay Pathak, field director, DTR, said, “We are continuously monitoring the area around the villages and trying to resolve the conflict without having to tranquilize the leopard. Tranquilizing sometimes may be dangerous for the big cat."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/locals-thwart-dtrs-stray-leopards-bid-to-strike-again-fear-its-return/articleshow/79251010.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||No Guns N’ Roses, but Nov rain sets new record in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: A sudden turn in weather conditions on Sunday midnight caused record rainfall overnight — highest in a single day in November in over two decades — in the city. It led to drop in temperatures and paved the way for shallow fog and chilly nights in the coming days. A thunderstorm accompanied by lightning and strong winds hit the city around midnight followed by rains that continued till Monday morning. Total 26.2 mm rainfall was recorded till 9am. The maximum temperature during the day was restricted to 25 degree Celsius, five degrees below normal. The storm also led to power cuts and uprooted trees and poles at some places. State Met director JP Gupta said a western disturbance (WD) that developed over Pakistan on Saturday and an induced cyclonic circulation over Rajasthan caused widespread thunderstorm and rains in north and northwest India. Many parts of west and central UP were lashed by thunderstorms and rains, he added. The two weather factors have turned weak and may cause scattered thunderstorms, but by and large, conditions would remain partly cloudy and dry on Tuesday. The moisture left behind by the rains and revival of northwesterly winds will lead to formation of shallow fog from Tuesday till the weekend, he added. The night temperatures may gradually fall by 4-5 degrees. November is not known for rains. In fact, in the past 20 years, November witnessed rainfall only in 2010, 2015, 2009, 2002 and 2001. The amount of rainfall was below 5mm, barring in 2007 and 2010 when 7.7 mm and 17.2 mm rain were recorded, in the entire month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-guns-n-roses-but-nov-rain-sets-new-record-in-city/articleshow/79253260.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Bareilly||UP man on tractor runs over son, 3, by mistake in Budaun||BAREILLY: A young couple in UP suffered unbearable heartbreak when their three-year-old toddler was inadvertently run over by a tractor driven by the father at Samaspur Kubri village in Zarifnagar area of Budaun district on Sunday. He was their only child. The incident occurred when Sunhare Lal, 25, was ploughing his field and Luvkush was sitting on the edge of the land. All of a sudden the boy came towards his father's tractor who was reversing it. The man didn’t see him and the little boy got stuck into the leveller attached. Sunhare was in a state of complete shock. Realising what he has done, he began crying uncontrollably, slapping himself. He couldn't save his only child's life. Sunhare later informed his wife Mamta Devi. Soon, the tragic news spread across the village. The child's body was cremated and no FIR was filed. Sunhare was married to Mamta four years ago and Luvkush was their only child. He was very fond of his father, who used to take him everywhere. “I don’t think we would ever get over this tragedy. My husband is cursing himself day and night. It was not his fault. It was fate that destroyed our lives. I am worried for my husband and trying to support him,” Luvkush's mother said. “We didn't receive any official complaint. The family was already disturbed after the death of their only son. We have recorded the statement of the locals and found it was an accident,” Zarifnagar SHO Ajay Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-man-on-tractor-runs-over-son-3-by-mistake-in-budaun/articleshow/79251018.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 17, 2020||Dehradun||Doon's lifeline Rispana river 'rejuvenated' only on paper||Dehradun: ‘Rispana Rejuvenation’, an ambitious project initiated by the state a couple of years ago, seems to be limited only on paper as the river continues to be a dumping zone. Locals are not just grappling with the stink but also the heaps of trash. Rispana is one of the two main rivers that feeds Doon. Illegal mining on the riverbed is also a huge worry. Residents and activists claim that not only the rejuvenation plan has failed to take off, huge walls near the riverbed erected as a part of another ambitious riverfront project a few years ago are "safeguarding" illegal mining activities and keeping the trash away from public sight. Reenu Paul, a conservation activist and lawyer, said, “The riverbed has become a hub for all kinds of illegal activities. Despite orders from the court, rapid human settlement and construction has taken place at the source of the Bindal river during the lockdown. The authorities must also put a check and discourage drinking water sources from turning into picnic spots.” Abhijay Negi from MAD, a social organisation, said, “We have been working with ministries and other government agencies for the revival of the Rispana river, but nothing much has been achieved. From household garbage to other filth and illegal mining - the damage to this perennial river is serious." Yashveer Arya, a resident of Canal road, said that the catchment area of the river carries tonnes of garbage. The river has also been notified as a tributary of Ganga but still "we are far away from any serious efforts to save these rivers which have been significant to Dehradun”, he added. Meanwhile, Ranveer Chauhan, vice-chairman of Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority, said, “The work under riverfront development programme will resume soon after certain MoUs are signed. Once the work resumes it will certainly benefit the existence of the river and put a complete ban on dumping of trash."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doons-lifeline-rispana-river-rejuvenated-only-on-paper/articleshow/79251026.cms||Abhijeet Singh
November 17, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Unauthorised structures in Visakhapatnam under civic body lens||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has shifted its focus to unauthorised structures in Vizag city. The civic body has razed many structures, unauthorised floors, sheds and staircases over the last few days. The GVMC’s survey had identified several hundreds of illegal structures in the city. The GVMC recently surrendered 11 town planning officials, who allegedly failed to discharge their duties in an effective manner, to the directorate of town and country planning to streamline the town planning activities of the corporation. On the other hand, some builders and citizens are also violating the approved plans and opting to construct additional floors or constructing penthouses without any approvals, said sources. GVMC commissioner G Srijana said that the civic body would not spare anyone. “The GVMC would take stringent action against those who encroach upon the open spaces, water bodies, parking places, master plan roads and construct illegal structures. Action would be initiated against those who go for additional floors or other constructions without obtaining any permission from the civic body,” said the commissioner. Many Vizagites attribute the spurt in the unauthorised additional floors or structures to the Building Penalisation Scheme (BPS), under which they can regularise their constructions in the next few years. For example, after the reintroduction of BPS in January, 2019, the scheme has attracted about 6,100 applications under GVMC limits itself, which is an indication of the trend in constructing illegal structures. The GVMC had approved the proceedings of about 5,200 applicants, while 187 applications were rejected. However, it was learnt that the scheme would not be reintroduced again. The same scheme had drawn about 23,000 applications in 2007-08 in Vizag city when it was first introduced. The GVMC, by disposing about 18,000 applications after rejection of some applications, had raked in about Rs 83 crore. The scheme was relaunched again in 2015. The GVMC had initiated the application inviting process in May 2015 and drawn 13,286 applications under the scheme before its end on January 31, 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/unauthorised-structures-in-vizag-under-civic-body-lens/articleshow/79251023.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 17, 2020||Jamshedpur||Bengali groups in Steel City to host condolence meet for Soumitra Chatterjee||JAMSHEDPUR: In remembrance of veteran thespian Soumitra Chatterjee, who passed away at Kolkata on Sunday, several Bengali organisations in the Steel City decided to hold a condolence meeting. Rakesh Roy of Bongo Bandhu said the meeting would be held with Covid safety measures soon. Soumitra, who was often called as 'Feluda of Bengali cinema', last visited Steel City, which comprises 35% Bengali speaking people, in 2015 to take part in the 40th-anniversary function of the Theatre Association of Jamshedpur (TAJ). The thespian also acted in the function. Earlier in 2008, Soumitra visited the city to promote the Bengali language among students at a function organised by the Jharkhand Bangabhasi Samanway Samiti Recalling Soumitra's visit, Abhaya Banerjee of the samiti said, "We were at first unsure if Soumitro babu would accept our invitation but to our surprise, he agreed readily to attend the function aimed at promoting Bengali in Jamshedpur and adjoining areas." Banerjee said Soumitro had taken a lot of interest in the samiti activities, including the efforts to provide education to women towards making them economically self-reliant. During his early years, Soumitra had also visited the city, including the Dimna lake, a tourist hotspot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/bengali-groups-in-steel-city-to-host-condolence-meet-for-soumitra/articleshow/79251914.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||Teenager facing Pocso case found dead in cooling pond||BOKARO: The body of an 18-year-old youth, Yash, was recovered from a cooling pond under Harla police station here on Sunday night. Police said the deceased had gone missing a day after a case under the POCSO Act was lodged against him on November 11. The officer in-charge of Harla police station, Jai Gobind Gupta, said, “We have identified the body. But the father of the deceased, Angul Ram, denied that the body was that of his son. So we have kept the body at the mortuary of the Bokaro General Hospital.” The police officer added that they were trying to ascertain whether the youth was murdered or if it were a case of suicide. Police sources said that after refusing to accept that the body was that of Yash, his father allegedly went to the house of the complainant and created a ruckus, accusing the latter’s parents of killing his son. Gupta said, “On one hand, the parents of the deceased are not identifying his body. And on the other hand, they are targeting the family of the girl who complained against the youth. We had identified Yash’s body based on circumstantial evidence.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/teenager-facing-pocso-case-found-dead-in-cooling-pond/articleshow/79251965.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||For some, Chhat will be a private affair this time||Ranchi: Amid the political controversy and protests over the state government’s guidelines for Chhat Puja, many Biharis here have already started preparations to observe the festival in a quiet and private way this year. Forty-something Sangeeta Devi, the wife of councillor Arjun Kumar Yadav, began cleaning the water tank at her home on Haider Ali Road in Kokar on Monday. She would offer the evening and morning arghya for Chhat on her terrace. “We have a concrete chamber on the terrace where we will store water and offer prayers. We have decided to keep the rituals restricted to family members only and shall not host any feast or distribute bhog on a large-scale,” said Devi. “Every year, several relatives residing outside Ranchi visit our house on Chhat but we are not hosting them this time,” she added. Devi also said that like her, many in her locality have decided to stay away from public water bodies in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. Another Ranchiite, Radha Sinha, who lives in an apartment in Doranda, said that following the state government’s Chhat guidelines, she is now considering to offer symbolic arghya in her balcony. “Luckily, we have balconies facing both east and west. So, we have decided to set up temporary structures there to store water and offer symbolic arghya,” said Sinha, adding that even if the state government hadn’t banned public gathering, they wouldn’t have visited water bodies to observe the rituals. She said, “Safety is an individual choice and we have decided to observe a low-key Chhat to continue the tradition.” Scheduled on November 20 and 21, the Chhat festival will be crucial for the state’s Covid fight. While the number of active cases in the state has come under the 3000-mark, authorities are keeping their fingers crossed over a possible second wave in December. While Durga Puja didn’t result in a major spike in cases and the effect of Diwali will be known in another fortnight, the state government is wary of religious congregation coupled with bathing at public ghats that are a part of Chhat rituals and may lead to worsening of the Covid situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/for-some-chhat-will-be-a-private-affair-this-time/articleshow/79251477.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||BJP calls Chhat rules ‘Tughlaq ki farman, demands rollback||Ranchi: Hours after the state government issued an order specifying the guidelines for the Chhat festival, opposition BJP on Monday termed it as “Tughlaq ki farman” which hurt religious sentiments and launched a stir. Ruling JMM and Congress, too, joined the chorus demanding relaxation of the rules. Chhat is scheduled on Thursday and Friday. In the afternoon, Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth, mayor Asha Lakra and other BJP members hold ‘jal satyagraha’ at Bada Talab against the government order, which banned arghya (offering and prayer to Sun God) at public waterbodies in the wake of Covid-19. Seth, who had also opposed the ban on firecrackers during Diwali, said, “The order is against public and religious sentiments.” The party’s state president, Deepak Prakash, termed the guidelines as unmindful and autocratic. Prakash, who is also the Rajya Sabha MP, said, “The order is against the Hindu festival. The government should roll it back and allow Chhat rituals at rivers and waterbodies with proper social distancing norms.” BJP spokesperson Pratul Shahdeo said the party will continue to protest against the order till it is rolled back.. “The order is a testimony of the Congress’s double standards when it comes to Hindu festivals,” he said. Former chief minister Raghubar Das said the government should allow Chhath rituals at ponds by amending the guidelines on the lines of the Bihar government. “I appeal to the government to change its order and allow people to offer morning and evening arghya in ponds,” he said. The saffron party also launched a social media campaign against the ban. After the widespread backlash, JMM and Congress have urged the Hemant Soren government to reconsider amending the rule. JMM general secretary Vinod Kumar met Soren to formally submit a memorandum, demanding the recall of the order. JMM MLA from Giridih, Suvidya Kumar, too, requested Soren to amend the rule. Meanwhile, Congress MLA from Godda, Deepika Pandey, in a video posted through her Twitter account, defended the state government claiming that the guidelines are in sync with the advisories issued by the BJP-led Union government for festivals. However, the party’s co-working president, Rajesh Thakur, said Congress is in favour of reconsideration of the rule. “We urge the state government to reconsider its decision. Chhath is an important festival in this part of the state and general sentiments should be respected. Indeed, Covid-19 is still not over but we also have to balance religion and cultural practices while observing safety measures. At the same time, we also appeal to the people to maintain utmost precaution and try to celebrate Chhath privately as much as possible to prevent the spread of the virus,” Thakur added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-calls-chhat-rules-tughlaq-ki-farman-demands-rollback/articleshow/79251610.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||Health experts back govt decision, say guidelines will prevent second Covid wave||Ranchi: Notwithstanding the protests by political parties, devotees and revellers, health experts in the state on Monday supported the state government in its decision to put a complete ban on offering arghyas in waterbodies for the Chhat Puja. The state health department also defended the government’s move saying the rules are aimed at safeguarding public health and to keep the Covid-19 virus at bay. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “The state government’s decision to ban Chhath Puja rituals at rivers, ponds, dams, lakes and other waterbodies has been taken after considering all aspects of the pandemic.” He further said, “We all know that use of masks, regular hand wash and social distancing are key to prevent the spread of the virus but it will be very difficult to enforce these measures at the festival. Public bathing is an integral part of the rituals with fixed timing for arghyas in the mornings and evenings. When the devotees take a dip, it would not be possible for them to wear masks.” Kulkarni added, “Even if a single infected person enters a waterbody, other devotees will be at extreme risk and could lead to a spurt in newly infected cases within a short span.” Public health experts and doctors cautioned that if the government makes any amends in the guidelines, it will prove catastrophic for state and another wave of coronavirus is highly likely. Public health expert and professor of community medicine at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims), Dr Devesh Kumar said, “I have always advocated for stringent steps during festivities. The guidelines for Chhat Puja are right and will help avoid the second and immediate wave of infection. We are upbeat after the Durga Puja as the new cases were low because of the proper implementation of the guidelines. Now, the Chhath Puja guidelines are a priority as enforcing social distancing on the occasion would be next to impossible.” Dr Kumar said, “The onset of winter will also increase the chances of infection and I strongly advise people to celebrate the festival within the confines of their homes for this year so that we can celebrate it together next year.” Head of Rims microbiology department, Dr Manoj Kumar, too, appreciated the government order and said, “We have seen a decline in the number of fresh infections even as several regions within the county and outside are experiencing a spike.” Dr Manoj, who conducts RT-PCR tests for Covid-19, also said, “I would urge people to celebrate the festivities within their homes as no one has understood this virus for certain so far and going for public bathing would be catastrophic.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/health-experts-back-govt-decision-say-guidelines-will-prevent-second-covid-wave/articleshow/79251582.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||No Rims doc will be allowed pvt practice: New director||Ranchi: Doctors at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims) will not be allowed private practice under any circumstance, said Padma Shri winner and noted neurologist Dr Kameshwar Prasad, who took over as the 16th director of the state’s biggest hospital on Sunday evening from acting director Manju Gari. Talking to TOI on Monday, Dr Prasad said, “Rims is the largest medical college and if the faculty members and doctors are involved in private practice, it will surely affect the institute as a whole. So, I will not tolerate any such practice. If someone has to pursue private practice, they should follow the footsteps of noted neurologist Dr K K Sinha who took voluntary retirement and started private practice. He was very successful too. But indulging in private practice on the sly will not be tolerated at any cost.” Dr Prasad is a resident of Hazaribag district and he passed MBBS from Rims in 1980. After graduating from Rims, he shifted to New Delhi to pursue higher degrees and had served as head of neurology department at AIIMS, Delhi, after donning many roles. On his priority as head of the institute, Dr Prasad said the primary focus will be on improving patient care as well as strengthening the academics. “I have been associated with AIIMS in New Delhi for more than 40 years and am well aware of the good as well as bad practices there. So, I would like to implement only the best practices so that we could fulfil the aspirations of the state’s residents to develop Rims as a regional AIIMS.” Dr Prasad added, “I will be focussing on developing the new trauma centre on the lines of the unit at AIIMS Delhi. I also have plans to start research work along with clinical facilities so that we could produce better doctors and create an academic environment for the students as well as the faculty members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-rims-doc-will-be-allowed-pvt-practice-new-director/articleshow/79251639.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||Chhath rules bring despair for some, others glad||Jamshedpur: Chhath Puja organising committees in the Steel City and the adjoining Adityapur have given mixed reaction to the Covid safety guidelines issued by the state government for the festival. Expressing displeasure on the order banning Chhath vratis from visiting water bodies such as rivers, ponds and reservoirs for performing rituals, several organising samitis have demanded the government to revise the guidelines. “These guidelines have angered the people. Devotees want the government to and issue revised guidelines,” said Kendriya Chhath Puja Aayojan Samiti, (KCPAS) president Anand Bihari Dubey. KCPAS, a parent body of the 139 Chhath puja samitis, said devotees are keen on visiting riverbanks for offering prayers. He said a delegation of the outfit will meet state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta to inform him about the sentiments of the people and request him to persuade chief minister Hemant Soren to make amendments to the guidelines. The Baroda Ghat Chhath Puja Samiti (BGCPS) said that it will be difficult to stop Chhath vratis from visiting the river as it is a part of the puja rituals for devotees to stand in the water to offer prayers. “We suggest the government regulate the number devotees visiting the river instead of stopping them completely,” said Subodh Jha of BGCPS. He added that their outfit has prepared a dozen temporary ghats in the area to help the vratis who would not like to visit the Kharkhai river to offer prayers. The Navyuvak Kali Evam Chhath Puja Samiti, (NKECPS) Adityapur, has welcomed the decision of the government. “The purpose of the guidelines is to avert the possibility of people contracting Covid by coming in contact with the crowd. Like Durga Puja and Diwali, Chhath should also be observed in accordance with the safety guidelines of the government,” said Purendra Narayan Singh of NKECPS. Adityapur II Chhath Puja Samiti functionary H K Dubey said devotees of the nearby colonies have been visiting their temporary Chhath ghat to offer prayers for the past four years and this year the number is likely to increase. “Devotees who would not like to take the risk of contracting Covid will come to our temporary ghat to offer prayers,” he said. Baba Baidyanath Seva Sangh, Mango, said the district administration will not allow crowding on Chhath and they will observe the festival according to the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chhath-rules-bring-despair-for-some-others-glad/articleshow/79251900.cms||B Sridhar
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand’s active Cov cases below 3k after 4 months||Ranchi: Jharkhand on Monday reported four Covid deaths, 166 fresh infections and 360 recoveries. With a dip in the new infections coupled with the high recovery rate, the number of active cases has dropped to 2,754, the lowest since July 18. The cumulative caseload now stands at 1,06,230 of which 1,02,548 have recovered, pushing up the recovery rate to 96.53%. Among the deaths, Ranchi reported two while Dhanbad and Dumka reported one each. While the toll has now reached 928, the mortality rate in the state stands at 0.87%. Of the new cases, 56 were from Ranchi alone while East Singhbhum reported 32. However, both the worst-hit districts also reported a high number of cured cases with 118 in Ranchi and 56 in East Singhbhum, bringing down the active cases to 513 and 910 respectively. There is also a considerable gap in the seven-day growth rate of the virus in the state (0.17%) and the national average of 0.42%. The doubling rate of the virus in Jharkhand is also 397.12 days as against the national figure of 167.07 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhands-active-cov-cases-below-3k-after-4-months/articleshow/79251858.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||Testing nos. plummet on festive weekend, experts concerned||Ranchi: Covid testing numbers in Jharkhand dropped by more than 50% during the weekend of festivities, raising concerns about cases going undetected or picked up late in the infection. While the slide in daily testing numbers started from Friday, it dropped to almost half of the daily average on Saturday and Sunday. Merely 10,186 tests were carried out on Sunday while the figure for Saturday was 13,919, according to the state government bulletin issued each day. A health department official told TOI that the state was clocking an average of 26,000-28,000 tests in November, which dipped to more than half through the weekend. “The testing drop in the Diwali weekend and it will be worrying if people have symptoms but are not coming forward to get tested,” said Dr Devesh Kumar, professor of community medicine at Rims, adding that officials have been given targets to increase the testing numbers. On being asked about the reasons for the low testing numbers, Kumar said: “People do not turn up at hospitals the way they used to before the festivals as they have apprehensions that if they test positive their houses will be sealed and they will not be able to celebrate.” Another official involved with testing in Ranchi said that the decline in number of tests and positive cases, the corresponding number of contacts traced too has dropped as neither people are turning up and the technicians too go on leave for the festivities. The state detected 154 and 129 positive cases on Saturday and Sunday, the lowest daily figure since July 12. “Testing usually drops by 20%-30% every weekend due to less number of rapid antigen testing. However, due to Diwali, it dipped further this time,” said Ashish Kumar, a consultant at Ranchi civil surgeon office. The state’s Covid-19 task force has particularly asked the local authorities to increase daily testing figures. A doctor in the taskforce said the state must increase testing numbers so that cases are picked up early and the transmission chain is broken. He said that complacency has set in with testing and the volumes need to be urgently ramped up. “We are not even using 50% of our testing capacity. Early detection and treatment is the key to reduce complications and deaths,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/testing-nos-plummet-on-festive-weekend-experts-concerned/articleshow/79251509.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 17, 2020||Goa||Goa: Bail denied to UP man who killed daughter for honour||PANAJI: A Mapusa court has rejected the bail application of a man accused of killing his daughter in an honour killing case last month. The court held that if let out on bail he could kill his deceased daughter’s lover. “The manner in which the death is caused shows as to how and in what manner the applicant has assaulted his own daughter, which prima facie shows his clear intention to cause the death,” the court stated. “There is also a possibility that he may threaten the witnesses and his family members,” the court held. As he is a native of Uttar Pradesh staying in rented premises in Goa, the court added that there is a possibility of him fleeing. The father submitted to the court that the death of his daughter was unintentional and it was only a correctional method to save her from a married man. The police inspector stated that the health centre lodged a detailed complaint stating that the father assaulted his daughter with cricket stumps causing her serious bodily injuries and she succumbed to them while undergoing medical treatment. Based on the complaint, the police registered a case of murder against the father and attached four broken pieces of wooden black colour cricket stumps. The incident took place last month and was witnessed by both his sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bail-denied-to-up-man-who-killed-daughter-for-honour/articleshow/79252739.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Not another lockdown in Delhi, says Satyendar Jain||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 on a rampage, Delhi’s business community was apprehensive about another lockdown, but health minister Satyendar Jain said on Monday that there was “no chance” of a second closure in the capital. He asserted that the third wave in the city had passed its peak. Delhi has seen nearly 90 deaths every day for a week, with the positive cases around a lakh this month. Jain on Monday said that the government was analysing not only the daily data, but also the weekly average, which indicated a downturn in Covid spread. Times ViewOver the past couple of weeks, Covid-19 cases have jumped in Delhi. The situation is expected to get worse in the coming weeks. While increasing the number of ICU beds is a good step to meet patients’ inflow, only social distancing and use of masks by all can stem the rise long-term. Safety norms must be strictly enforced.“There is no need to be worried by the absolute numbers and I can definitely say that the third wave of November has already passed its peak,” Jain said. “The positivity reached 15% in a single day recently but has not touched that figure again.” The minister also said that the lockdown was a learning experience that needn’t be repeated. “We learnt that you can get all the benefits of the lockdown simply by wearing masks,” he declared. “So, there is no chance of another lockdown.” Earlier, a worried Chamber of Trade and Industry appealed to the Centre and Delhi government against a lockdown. CTI convener Brijesh Goyal said rumours were rife about a closure and added, “Before Diwali, some markets were crowded, but now there is no reason for similar crowds in the markets. A lockdown, therefore, won’t prove effective.” Niranjan Poddar, president, Automotive and General Traders Welfare Association of Mori Gate, also argued against a shutdown. “There were 500 Covid cases in Delhi when the lockdown was announced. When it was relaxed, there were 10,000 cases,” noted Poddar. Due to the lockdown, tens of thousands of livelihoods were lost. “Closure of markets for the second time will cause huge financial distress to the business community and affect the government’s revenue collection. The economy is slowly getting back on track, so we should not derail it,” said a trader While Jain said people’s response was extreme — some were undaunted and did not follow preventive norms while others were too scared to venture out of their houses — the business community shouldn’t be blamed for the negligence of a few, said traders. CTI chairman Subhash Khandelwal assured that all market associations have been requested to ensure social distancing, masks, thermal screening and use of hand sanitiser.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/not-another-lockdown-in-delhi-says-satyendar-jain/articleshow/79253852.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||As mercury drops, Ghaziabad readies its night shelters||GHAZIABAD: A directive has been issued to departments to make proper arrangements in night shelters in the wake of the winter season. For each shelter home, a nodal officer as well as a caretaker will be appointed. Officials have been asked to make separate sleeping arrangements and prepare toilets for men and women.  The departments have also been asked to ensure that Covid-19 protocols like social distancing, sanitisation and personal hygiene are properly followed. Officials have been asked to distribute free masks and ensure daily sanitisation of night shelters.  At present, 30 such night shelters are functional across the district.  District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “Instructions have been given that adequate arrangements of night shelters for people belonging to the weaker section of the society should be activated with immediate effect. No person, especially those who have come to the city for medical treatment or employment, should sleep in the open.”  For shelter homes, the department concerned has been asked to ensure that mattresses, blankets, drinking water, toilets and kitchen, among others are available free of cost. Moreover, an adequate arrangement of bonfire around shelters should be made.  Pandey said a nodal officer and a caretaker for making proper arrangement have been deployed at each night shelter. The mobile number of the nodal officer and caretaker will be displayed outside the night shelter while senior officials will conduct surprise inspections to ensure that the officials and the facilities are in place.  The district administration has also decided to depute a magistrate and a police officer in each team for conducting surprise checks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/as-mercury-drops-ghaziabad-readies-its-night-shelters/articleshow/79252845.cms||Aditya Dev
November 17, 2020||Goa||‘NCP open to taking rebel MLAs but winnability important’||PANAJI: The NCP is not averse to inducting any of the 10 rebel MLAs who left Congress to join BJP, said NCP president for Goa Jose Phillip D’Souza recently. D’Souza did not deny ongoing speculations that some MLAs from the BJP camp were interested in jumping to NCP ahead of the 2022 state assembly elections. “Many people want to join NCP, but whether they will come or not, there is a time for everything,” said D’Souza when asked to comment about the speculations. “This is not the right time to make a statement, but I can say one thing, NCP will rise.” The state’s lone NCP MLA Churchill Alemao was more forthcoming. “If someone wants to leave BJP and come to NCP, we will look at the winnability. If someone wants to come from Congress, we will see their winnability,” said Alemao. When asked specifically if NCP would welcome any of the rebel MLAs from BJP, Alemao said, “I will say take him, why should we have a problem?” The two were speaking at a press conference to announce that the party supports the ongoing anti-coal agitation. Alemao said that though he has lent issue-based support to the BJP government, he does not support the move to increase coal handling in Goa. “The coal that is required in Goa can come, but beyond that we are not in favour of more coal,” said Alemao. “We will not allow coal to be brought to Goa for transporting to other states.” Former aviation minister and NCP leader Praful Patel will arrive in Goa on November 26 to inaugurate the new NCP office. NCP also criticised the state government for trying to restart classes. “The responsibility is of the schools to ensure the safety of the students and it is wrong to shift the responsibility to the parents. We request the government that if the students are being called to schools, then the government should take responsibility for their safety,” said D’Souza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ncp-open-to-taking-rebel-mlas-but-winnability-important/articleshow/79252865.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Foreigner out on bail allowed to renew his passport||PANAJI: A Jordanian national, who is out on bail in a drugs case, has been granted permission by a local court to renew his passport. The court directed the foreigner to book an appointment at the embassy of Jordan in New Delhi. It has also asked the investigating officer to make arrangements for a police constable who will carry the passport with him “without handing over the same to the accused”. The foreigner will have to bear the cost of taking a police constable from Goa to New Delhi. “The passport shall be produced before the embassy of Jordan in New Delhi for the purpose of renewal and shall be collected by the police constable himself from the embassy in New Delhi,” Panaji sessions judge Irshad Agha stated. “The passport may be handed over to the investigating officer who shall thereafter deposit the same before this court, after it is duly renewed,” the court further ordered. The Jordanian national filed an application for return of passport on grounds that his passport had expired and is required for the purpose of renewal. Public prosecutor A Mendonsa stated that he could run away after obtaining the passport. The high court recently issued notices to the state and union governments in a matter of foreigners who have been granted bail, but whose whereabouts are unknown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/foreigner-out-on-bail-allowed-to-renew-his-passport/articleshow/79252869.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Dumped garbage raises a stink at Goa's Kadamba plateau||PANAJI: A quiet spot on the hill at Azossim-Mandur — a south-eastern part of the vast Kadamba plateau — is being used by garbage contractors from outlying areas to illegally dump waste. Getting the garbage stink below, some locals walked up the hill to the isolated site and found bags of waste and other refuse dumped partly in an old quarry and other spots. The villagers also found a herd of cattle at the site, locally called ‘Parpatikodde’, and a cowshed under construction nearby.“The garbage, part of it being hotel waste and lots of it non-biodegradable, is found dumped in a pit and other places,” said Ramrao Wagh, a local politician who accompanied the locals. The waste-laden vehicles enter the hilly area from an isolated place in Neura, an adjoining village to the west. “The cowshed is just a cover up, the actual dumping is garbage collected from various hotels and panchayat bodies by a garbage contractor,” an activist alleged on social media. Pits are dug and waste is emptied in them and covered with mud. “Now even wet waste from South Goa hotels is being dumped at Batim and Mandur on leased property,” the activist alleged. A few months ago, Carambolim locals halted garbage trucks from the city elsewhere on the plateau. “If this continues, ground water not only in Azossim-Mandur but also Neura and other villages around the plateau may be polluted,” a villager said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dumped-garbage-raises-a-stink-at-kadamba-plateau/articleshow/79252871.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Don’t allow digging for gas pipeline: Vijai||Margao: Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai has urged the PWD not to grant permission to any agency for digging of roads in Fatorda constituency for the purpose of laying pipeline for supply of cooking gas. In a note moved to the executive engineer, Div VI, Fatorda, Sardesai wrote: “…Indian Oil Adani Gas Pvt Ltd has been entrusted the work of laying pipeline to provide piped cooking gas to consumers. However, in this bargain, all major and internal roads of Fatorda constituency will be destroyed. Furthermore, the financial condition of the state would not be able to meet the requirement of resurfacing these roads, which will cause great hardships to the residents of Fatorda.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-allow-digging-for-gas-pipeline-vijai/articleshow/79252877.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||GFP alleges BJP playing ‘Haj politics’||Panaji: The cancellation of Goa International Airport as the embarkation point for Haj pilgrims is yet another proof that BJP is against minorities, said Goa Forward Party (GFP). “This is a way of taking revenge against minority voters for denying the ruling side the South Goa seat in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections,” GFP president Vijai Sardesai said. “This is an anti-minority government.” Sardesai said that if GFP comes to power in the 2022 assembly elections, they will ensure that Goa is restored as an embarkation point for the Haj pilgrimage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-alleges-bjp-playing-haj-politics/articleshow/79252888.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Consult people before clearing projects: Kamat||Saligao: Opposition leader Digambar Kamat recently stated in Mapusa that projects such as the IIT and AIIMS are “welcome to Goa”, but before clearing such projects the government should hold talks and consult the people residing in these areas. The Margao Congress MLA criticized the BJP-led government for “bringing coal into Goa” which he said poses a serious health hazard to the people, especially with Goa reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic “This government has become insensitive to the problems of the people. On one side the government is saying “health is wealth”, while on the other side the BJP government wants to make Goa a coal hub,” said Kamat, while hitting out at the government over the three linear projects, which includes doubling of railway lines, four landing of highway and erection of a power transmission line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/consult-people-before-clearing-projects-kamat/articleshow/79252898.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: 11 out of 13 pollution hotspots saw spike in average AQI in October||NEW DELHI: Despite targeted and customised action plans being in place for Delhi's 13 pollution hotspots, most locations saw an increase in pollution levels in October and November this year. Eleven out of 13 pollution hotspots recorded an increase in average AQI in October as compared to last year while till November 15, the average AQI at 12 out of the 13 hotspots was higher as compared to the average AQI of entire November last year. Track the pollution level in your cityExperts said a combination of factors, including an early withdrawal of monsoon, early stubble burning and adverse meteorological conditions may have played a part in undoing focused efforts. Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) and Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) had, based on Delhi's average PM 2.5 concentration data, identified 13 locations in 2018, which had higher ambient PM 2.5 levels than Delhi's average. These 13 hotspots were: Okhla Phase II, Narela, Bawana, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Dwarka, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, R K Puram, Jahangirpuri and Ashok Vihar. TOI analysed CPCB and DPCC data gathered through Ambee, an environmental intelligence firm, at local level. More locations already recorded higher levels of pollution this yearTOI analysed CPCB and DPCC data gathered at local level and found October had higher AQI levels at 11 out of 13 locations, with only Dwarka and RK Puram recording a drop. While the drop in levels at Dwarka was minor, there was a substantial drop at RK Puram this year as compared to last year. The average AQI there dropped from 267 last year to 201 this year. The highest increase was seen at Vivek Vihar, where the average AQI was 227 this year as compared to 197 last year. The levels this year are also clearly higher, considering that Diwali was held in October last year and the pollution caused by it and the resultant average AQI at these locations was still lower than this year. Meanwhile, the data till November 15 this year has showed that 12 out of 13 hotspot locations are recording a higher AQI as compared to the entire November last year. Only Rohini has recorded a drop, falling from an average AQI of 275 last year to 261 this year. The data in November, however, may be impacted by the spike seen post-Diwali. The executive director, research and advocacy, at Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), Anumita Roy Chowdhury, said meteorological factors and external sources may have played a big role this year. “We saw early stubble burning. Also, winter has been drier this year with monsoon rain stopping much earlier. Last year, it was still taking place in October, which may impact data. We have also seen ‘severe’ days come much earlier this year while normally, you see that only after Diwali,” said Chowdhury. A DPCC official told TOI stubble burning has played a key role in increasing pollution levels, claiming that there was more action on the ground this year at these hotspots with fewer cases of garbage burning, dust pollution and pollution from other localised sources being reported. “A number of problems at these hotspots, like unpaved roads, have also been fixed. So, external factors are definitely playing a part. Farm fires this year are much higher than last year and also began early, which is impacting local data,” said the official. Akshay Joshi, CEO and co-founder at Ambee, says a comparative analysis indicates more locations have recorded high levels of pollution this year as compared to the same period last year. “Our data shows that areas such as Rohini and Narela have recorded an average PM2.5 concentration of above 200 this month. In a few areas, the average AQI in November (till date) is as high as 275. These numbers are nearly three times the safe limit. Despite specific action plans and measures, these areas and many other parts in the city continue to reel under severe air pollution, showing that whatever action has been taken so far is not enough,” said Joshi. “With the ongoing pandemic, this deterioration in air quality is very likely to create a surge in the number of coronavirus infections in the city as doctors have been warning,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-11-out-of-13-pollution-hotspots-saw-spike-in-average-aqi-in-october/articleshow/79253868.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 17, 2020||Goa||Ease procedures to avail compensation for destroyed fields: Surla ryots||329 words Bicholim: The Surla gram kruti samiti from Surla, Bicholim taluka, has urged the chief minister to ease the procedures for getting compensation due to farmers from the mining companies for destruction that had been caused to their farms due to mining silt. The body said that since 2007, only 57 of the 761 farmers have received compensation from the Rs3.66 crore deposited by the mining companies. The samiti members requested chief minister Pramod Sawant to appoint a special person to handle the issue, which won’t be affected even if the deputy collector is transferred, and that “rigid procedures” such as producing a succession deed be omitted. “The fund is with the government since 2007 and it has now grown almost double. I have personally briefed almost eight deputy collectors about the issues related to farmers in the village but while the discussions were being held they used to be issued transfer orders. I had to again narrate the entire matter to the new officer,” a samiti member Uday Natekar said, while demanding that the government should come up with some other way to sort out the issue, without asking for succession deed documents. “The money belongs to the farmers but still they are deprived of it only because they do not have proper documentation,” president of the samiti, Gokuldas Gaonkar, said. It may be recalled that 41 farmers from Surla village in Bicholim whose farms were destroyed due to mining silt were recently paid compensation. Sawant had handed cheques of Rs1 lakh each to the affected farmers. In 2004, the samiti and the village panchayat, on behalf of around 750 farmers, had filed a petition in the high court against nine mining companies claiming compensation for destruction of their farms due to mining silt. In 2007, the court ruled in favour of the farmers, directing the mining companies to pay compensation to them. Following the court ruling, the mining firms had deposited the amount with the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ease-procedures-to-avail-compensation-for-destroyed-fields-surla-ryots/articleshow/79252916.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Car runs over man on Southern Peripheral Road, driver flees||GURUGRAM: A pedestrian was killed and another seriously injured after being hit by a car on Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) on Sunday evening. Both the victims, 21-year-old Manjit Singh and Sunil, also in his 20s, are from Bihar and worked as plumbers in the city. While Manjit succumbed to his injuries the same day, Sunil is currently undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Sector 56. Manjit’s cousin Rajan Kumar, in his complaint to police, said he received a call around 5.45pm on Sunday that Manjit and another man had met with an accident near Ramgarh Chowk in Sector 66 and had been taken to a hospital. “When I reached the hospital, I learnt that my cousin has passed away while Sunil had been seriously injured,” said Kumar. Kumar then went to the spot and enquired about the accident. He came to know that around 4.20pm, when Manjit and Sunil were headed back home, a white i-20 (registration number HR26CK5027) came speeding towards them and hit them while they were walking on the roadside. After the collision, the vehicle turned turtle. The passersby took the victims to the hospital. However, the driver fled, leaving the car behind. Police have confiscated the vehicle and are trying to identify the accused. On the basis of Kumar’s complaint, an FIR was lodged on Sunday at the Sector 65 police station under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 279 (driving or riding on public ways in a rash or negligent manner), 304-A (causing death by negligence not amounting to culpable homicide) and 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/car-runs-over-man-on-spr-driver-flees/articleshow/79252919.cms||Shubhra Pant
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: AIIMS nurses threaten strike from December 16||NEW DELHI: The AIIMS nurses’ union has threatened to go on an indefinite strike from December 16 if their concerns are not addressed. A notice to this effect was issued to the administration last week, a source said. The nurses are demanding redressal of issues, such as abolishment of gender-based reservation in the recruiting process of nursing officers, enhancement of hospital accommodation and cadre restructuring review, among others. “The step was taken after much deliberation on November 10,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-aiims-nurses-threaten-strike-from-december-16/articleshow/79253870.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Goa||Vasco-Yesvantpur spl train from today||Panaji: South Western Railway will run a special train no. 07339/07340 Yesvantpur-Vasco Da Gama- Yesvantpur Daily Express from Tuesday, November, 17. Train no. 07340 will depart from Vasco at 9.20pm and reach Yesvantpur at 12.30pm. Train no. 07339 will depart from Yesvantpur at 2.30pm and reach Vasco at 6am. The train will stop at Margao, Sanvordem Curchorem, Kulem, Castle Rock, Londa, Alnavar, Dharwad, Hubballi, Haveri, Ranibennur, Harihar, Davangere, Birur, Arsikere, Tiptur and Tumakuru. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vasco-yesvantpur-spl-train-from-today/articleshow/79252929.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Muted Chinese reply to Pakistan's India allegations||NEW DELHI: Islamabad’s allegation that India is supporting terrorist activities in Pakistan evoked a muted response from China with the foreign ministry saying Beijing opposes all forms of terrorism. China also called on the international community and “regional countries in particular” to carry out counter-terrorism cooperation and safeguard collective security. However, China said CPEC, as a major pioneering project of the BRI, was important not only to the common development of China and Pakistan, but also to regional connectivity and common prosperity. CPEC passes through Gilgit-Baltistan which, as the Indian government says, is illegally occupied by Pakistan. Asked about Pakistan’s allegation of heavy firing by India along the Line of Control (LoC) resulting in four deaths, spokesperson Zhao Lijian urged Pakistan and India to exercise restraint, resolve differences through dialogues and work together to safeguard regional peace and stability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/muted-chinese-reply-to-pakistans-india-allegations/articleshow/79253819.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Drop car look-alike symbols: TRS to SEC||HYDERABAD: With some election symbols resembling TRS’ car creating confusion among voters, including the recent Dubbak bypoll, party representatives have urged Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) to remove symbols similar to their official symbol from the list of symbols in the upcoming Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. Telangana Planning Commission vice-chairman and former MP B Vinod Kumar, MLC M Srinivas Reddy, general secretary Bharat and MLA C Laxma Reddy met TSEC chief C Partha Sarathi on Monday and urged him to remove symbols similar to `car’ and requested him to take care while allotting symbols to independent candidates in ‘the civic elections. “As some symbols looking similar to car symbol are creating confusion among voters, we requested the SEC to remove such symbols. In the 2018 assembly elections, symbols like auto, truck and road roller cornered our votes by creating confusion among voters,” Vinod Kumar told the media. TRS leaders plunged into action as roti maker symbol allotted to independent candidate B Nagaraju in the Dubbak bye-elections dent the votes of TRS as it was reportedly similar to car symbol. The independent candidate stood fourth by getting about 3,510 votes. In this election, BJP candidate M Raghunandan Rao won with a margin of 1,431 votes against TRS nominee Solipeta Sujatha. The TRS leaders also asked SEC to keep a tab on social media postings during the GHMC election campaign. Vinod said some parties were resorting to false propaganda against the ruling party and trying to create communal disturbances. “Hyderabad is one of the top cities that maintain law and order in the country and known for communal harmony,” the TRS leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drop-car-look-alike-symbols-trs-to-sec/articleshow/79253871.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 17, 2020||Noida||Bhai Dooj a dull affair for Noida markets||NOIDA: Brothers and sisters across the city braved Covid fear and chronic pollution to venture out and celebrate the festival of Bhai Dooj on Monday. However, according to traders in the city’s markets, the siblings stuck to buying sweets and a few gifts for each other and it was a generally dull day for business. The rush on the streets was slightly high and markets moderately busy in the morning — which slackened by the evening. “The traders mostly sold jewellery, electronic goods, sweets, gift items and mobile phones. The rush of morning sales subdued by the evening as Bhai Dooj is primarily celebrated during the day. However, the back-to-back festivals have given us a good surge in business,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, convenor, Confederation of All India Traders Association (CAIT). “Those who got business during the festive season have made up for the financial losses incurred during the lockdown. We expect some more sale in December again, during the Christmas-New Year week,” Jain added. The restaurants, however, had a smaller turnout during the day. Unlike Dhanteras and Diwali, where almost all restaurants witnessed 50-70% footfall, the evening was a dull affair. “The Sector 18 area has around 150 restaurants, most of which are diners and eateries that provide home delivery. People came out, but it was not as busy as Diwali. The evening was dull,” said Varun Khera, head of the National Restaurants Association of India (Noida). The Noida Metro Railway Corporation (NMRC), too, did not register any increase in ridership on Monday and people were seen travelling in private vehicles and taxi services. “We went out for some shopping, but the excitement was not as high as it was during Diwali. We saw a crowd at some stores and eateries,” said Shilpi Singh, a resident. “The day had a usual ridership. There was no such increase. As it was an off-day, people may have used the metro to commute for festivities. However, it did not reflect in the ridership figures,” an NMRC source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/bhai-dooj-a-dull-affair-for-city-markets/articleshow/79252704.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||DME traffic to be regulated for load test on Hindon bridge||GHAZIABAD: Traffic on Delhi-Meerut Expressway is likely to be be regulated for about a week as the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) plans to conduct a load test for the Hindon river bridge. Officials said the test would be carried out towards the end of this month or in early December. The first such test on the stretch was conducted last month for the Hindon canal bridge and part of the road near the site had been shut, resulting in snarls, as most people were not aware of the development. Speaking about the nature of work, NHAI project manager Mudit Garg said: “Load testing is a mandatory process and is part of our safety audit. We install sensors on the bridge, which is then made to pass with loaded trucks. It helps us assess the wear and tear possibility of a bridge under heavy load conditions, along with the tensile strength. We have informed the traffic department well in advance that by the end of this month or in the first week of December, we plan to carry out the load test and a traffic management plan can be prepared accordingly to ensure minimum inconvenience to commuters.” When asked about congestion, Garg said that last month, the NHAI had little elbow room to manage the situation. “On the Hindon river bridge, we have ample space and closure of a part of the bridge for load testing can be managed well. It will take at least a week to conclude the test,” said Garg. Speaking about work on the expressway, Garg said 90% of the project, from UP Gate to Dasna, is complete and 80% work on Dasna to Meerut stretch is done. “The UP Gate to Pratap Vihar stretch is operational and the two over bridge on the stretch are operational. But work on the Chipiyana bridge is going to take time. We have finished 90% work on the 19.2km UP Gate to Dasna stretch while on the 31.8km Dasna to Meerut stretch, 80% of the work is complete,” Garg said. “We are working in three shifts and have increased manpower to ensure that we meet the December deadline.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/dme-traffic-to-be-regulated-for-load-test-on-hindon-bridge/articleshow/79252731.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Cheques stolen from bank, probe on||GHAZIABAD: When JP Agarwal, a businessman and retired superintendent engineer, sent his staff to deposit a cheque worth Rs 3.9 lakh into a bank’s drop box in Raj Nagar on October 12, little did he know that within three days he would lose all the money to one Jai Ram. Agarwal, who is a lubricant distributor, had asked his staffers to drop the cheque into a box at the Bank of Baroda’s (BOB) Rajnagar District Centre branch. “By October 28, I didn’t receive money. I then contacted the bank officials who informed me that they didn’t receive any such cheque,” he said. “When I contacted the company that gave me the cheque, I found out that it was encashed by someone else,” Agarwal added. The cheque, which Agarwal had received from a Noida-based firm, allegedly got cleared in the name of ‘Jai Ram’ on October 15. Agarwal then approached Kavi Nagar police station to lodge a complaint. Similar to this, three more similar incidents have been recently reported in Ghaziabad in the past few weeks. A few days ago, an FIR was registered against the manager and other officials of the bank’s Gandhinagar branch for allegedly stealing cheques from the drop box and illegally encashing them. Vinod Shukla, a local businessman, had deposited a cheque of Rs 1.75 lakh in Gandhinagar branch of BOB on October 27. When he did not receive money by November 3, he contacted the bank when he was told that someone stole his cheque from the drop box. “When I contacted my client, I came to know that the cheque was cleared on November 2 in the name of Karma Devi, whose account is in SBI’s Lalganj branch in Mirzapur,” Shukla said. “When I went to the police station to lodge a complaint against the fraud, I came to know that another person, Neemesh Goel, is also a victim of a similar fraud,” he said. Sihani Gate police station lodged FIRs in both cases under IPC sections 379 (theft), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record). Siddharth Yadav, another customer of BOB, also lost his cheque worth Rs 1 lakh from RDC branch. SP Yadav, the bank’s lead district manager of Ghaziabad, said they are helping the police with the investigations. Meanwhile, a senior official said a gang in Ghaziabad are stealing the cheques from drop boxes. “We are also checking the involvement of the bank officials,” he said. SP (city) Abhishek Verma said: “We have found some strong evidence against the culprits. We are also taking the help of Mirzapur police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/curious-incidents-of-missing-cheques/articleshow/79252702.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
November 17, 2020||India||Court extends police custody of Republic TV executive by a day||MUMBAI: The Esplanade court in Mumbai extended the police custody of Republic TV distribution head Ghanshyam Singh in the alleged TRP manipulation case by a day to November 17. Singh had been arrested in connection with the alleged TRP scam. Last Friday, while seeking further custody of Singh, the police had submitted before a city court that its investigation had revealed that certain cable operators were allegedly “paid” to show the news channel on more than one logical channel number on their cable networks to boost TRPs. On Monday, too, the prosecution wanted Singh’s police custody extended to enable further investigation, while Singh’s counsel argued for judicial custody, saying no further custodial interrogation was necessary. Read AlsoOpinion: Defending or condemning Arnab Goswami's arrestWhy it’s impossible to apply a single ethical standard. And Arnab himself has helped shred that standard The arrest of Republic TV founder and anchor Arnab Goswami on a charge of abetment of suicide has sparked a moral dilemma for journalists. Are they duty-bound to defend him for the sakeIn an earlier statement released by the channel, it had termed the arrest of Singh as one “born out of pre-scripted vendetta instead of evidence and facts”. The channel has denied any wrongdoing. Hansa Research Group Pvt Ltd, the complainant, had lodged an FIR in the TRP case at Kandivli police station alleging manipulation of viewership statistics. The FIR is registered against three channels and doesn’t name Republic TV, his lawyers had argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/court-extends-police-custody-of-republic-tv-executive-by-a-day/articleshow/79253885.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 17, 2020||Delhi||From ‘severe’, Delhi sees AQI dip to ‘poor’ in a day||NEW DELHI: A day after an overall “severe” Air Quality Index (AQI) at 435, the capital, at 221, saw a dip in AQI to “poor” category on Monday, stated data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The dip was due to evening showers on Sunday, followed by an increase in local wind speed, it added. Track the pollution level in your cityThe agency has forecast the spell of relatively clean air to continue for the next 48 hours. The AQI likely to touch “moderate” level in the next 24 hours, it added. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi, said, the northern plains saw light to moderate showers on Sunday, with snowfall in the mountains. With withdrawal of western disturbance, wind speed is likely to remain good. “On Sunday, wind speed touched 24 km/hr, and it was high on Monday too. A combination of rain and good wind speed has completely settled the pollutants and is allowing faster dispersal of local emissions,” he added. Delhi also saw a change in wind direction to easterly on Sunday, reducing the impact of stubble firerelated intrusion. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi’s air on Sunday was 4%, which fell to 1% on Monday. “Surface wind is north-easterly in direction and is energetic, which is very favourable for pollutant dispersion. A change in boundary layer wind direction is forecast for Tuesday afternoon, but since the fire-related emissions have reduced, significant impact is not expected,” said SAFAR on Monday. According to Early Warning System for Delhi, favourable meteorological conditions over the next 24 hours could push Delhi’s air into the “moderate” category, while it could be between “moderate” and “poor” the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/from-severe-delhi-sees-aqi-dip-to-poor-in-a-day/articleshow/79253879.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Covid surge in Delhi casts shadow on winter session||NEW DELHI: Amid mounting speculation about the schedule of the winter session of Parliament — where it will be delayed or even merged with the Budget session — due to the third Covid wave in Delhi, sources said at least in the case of Rajya Sabha, it won’t be a first, if the session is skipped or clubbed. The Upper House did not have winter sessions in 1975, 1979 and 1984, sources said. The Upper House had held six sessions in 1991, five each for seven years, four each for 31 years, three each for 27 years and two each in 1952 and again in 2008. In 2008, each session was held in two parts covering periods corresponding to budget, monsoon and winter sessions. In 2020, two sessions have so far been held. The Covid situation is showing no signs of abating in the capital with the winter season and lax public behaviour posing a serious risk of infection. The delayed monsoon session held in the midst of the pandemic had seen a rise in infections among MPs and Parliament staff with Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu himself coming down with the infection soon after the session. The session, which had to be cut short, was crucial due to a raft of pending legislations like the new labour codes and farm reforms and changes to the IBC. It is likely that the government will take a close look at urgent legislation and consider if it can be delayed by a couple of months. News agency PTI reported on Monday that the government is contemplating to hold a single extended session of Parliament instead of separate winter and Budget sessions. Quoting sources, it said nothing has been finalised and discussions are still in a preliminary stage. The winter session of Parliament usually starts from the last week of November or first week of December, while the Budget session starts from the last week of January and the Union Budget is tabled on February 1. The monsoon session, which was held from September 14 in midst of the pandemic, was cut short by eight days and concluded on September 24.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-surge-in-delhi-casts-shadow-on-winter-session/articleshow/79253902.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chennai||In a first in 182 days, fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai dip to below 500||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai dropped below the 500-mark for the first time in 182 days, while Perambalur became the first district in the state to record zero new cases in 24 hours. Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 infection rate continues to decline with 60% less new cases reported every day compared to last month. On Monday, a total of 1,725 people tested positive for the virus. The number was close to 4,400 on the same date last month. The state's Covid tally now is 7,59,916 - fourth highest in the country next to Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. TN also has the lowest number of active cases, 15,765, of the four states. The Chennai region continued to account for the maximum number of Covid deaths in the state. Of the 17 people who succumbed to the disease on Monday, 10 were from Chennai and its three neighbouring districts of Chengalpet (118 new cases), Thiruvallur (83) and Kancheepuram (79). Western TN remained the second worst-affected with one-fourth of the state's infection burden. Coimbatore (174 cases), the only district outside Chennai region to report cases in three-digit figures still, has managed to bring down the active cases count to 883 now. It was four times higher last month. Other districts in this region including Salem (74), Tiruppur (69) and Erode (64), which were hotspots too, have a recovery rate of above 95% this month. This was almost on a par with the state's recovery rate. On Monday, 2,384 patients across the state were discharged following treatment. In south and central TN, the infection curve is dropping flat at some districts such as Sivagangai (8), Tutitcorin (7), Ramanathapuram (5), Ariyalur (3) and Tenkasi (2) reported new cases in single digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/in-a-first-in-182-days-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chennai-dip-to-below-500/articleshow/79253913.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Erode||In a first in 182 days, fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai dip to below 500||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai dropped below the 500-mark for the first time in 182 days, while Perambalur became the first district in the state to record zero new cases in 24 hours. Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 infection rate continues to decline with 60% less new cases reported every day compared to last month. On Monday, a total of 1,725 people tested positive for the virus. The number was close to 4,400 on the same date last month. The state's Covid tally now is 7,59,916 - fourth highest in the country next to Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. TN also has the lowest number of active cases, 15,765, of the four states. The Chennai region continued to account for the maximum number of Covid deaths in the state. Of the 17 people who succumbed to the disease on Monday, 10 were from Chennai and its three neighbouring districts of Chengalpet (118 new cases), Thiruvallur (83) and Kancheepuram (79). Western TN remained the second worst-affected with one-fourth of the state's infection burden. Coimbatore (174 cases), the only district outside Chennai region to report cases in three-digit figures still, has managed to bring down the active cases count to 883 now. It was four times higher last month. Other districts in this region including Salem (74), Tiruppur (69) and Erode (64), which were hotspots too, have a recovery rate of above 95% this month. This was almost on a par with the state's recovery rate. On Monday, 2,384 patients across the state were discharged following treatment. In south and central TN, the infection curve is dropping flat at some districts such as Sivagangai (8), Tutitcorin (7), Ramanathapuram (5), Ariyalur (3) and Tenkasi (2) reported new cases in single digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/in-a-first-in-182-days-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chennai-dip-to-below-500/articleshow/79253925.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Salem||In a first in 182 days, fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai dip to below 500||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in Chennai dropped below the 500-mark for the first time in 182 days, while Perambalur became the first district in the state to record zero new cases in 24 hours. Tamil Nadu's Covid-19 infection rate continues to decline with 60% less new cases reported every day compared to last month. On Monday, a total of 1,725 people tested positive for the virus. The number was close to 4,400 on the same date last month. The state's Covid tally now is 7,59,916 - fourth highest in the country next to Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. TN also has the lowest number of active cases, 15,765, of the four states. The Chennai region continued to account for the maximum number of Covid deaths in the state. Of the 17 people who succumbed to the disease on Monday, 10 were from Chennai and its three neighbouring districts of Chengalpet (118 new cases), Thiruvallur (83) and Kancheepuram (79). Western TN remained the second worst-affected with one-fourth of the state's infection burden. Coimbatore (174 cases), the only district outside Chennai region to report cases in three-digit figures still, has managed to bring down the active cases count to 883 now. It was four times higher last month. Other districts in this region including Salem (74), Tiruppur (69) and Erode (64), which were hotspots too, have a recovery rate of above 95% this month. This was almost on a par with the state's recovery rate. On Monday, 2,384 patients across the state were discharged following treatment. In south and central TN, the infection curve is dropping flat at some districts such as Sivagangai (8), Tutitcorin (7), Ramanathapuram (5), Ariyalur (3) and Tenkasi (2) reported new cases in single digits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/in-a-first-in-182-days-fresh-covid-19-cases-in-chennai-dip-to-below-500/articleshow/79253926.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||India mounts diplomatic offensive against Pakistan dossier||NEW DELHI: Foreign minister S Jaishankar hit out at Pakistan as being an “egregious example of state-sponsored cross-border terrorism” even as the government aims to robustly counter Pakistan’s latest “terror dossier” gambit. Indian missions, particularly in the immediate neighbourhood, P5 countries and OIC countries, have mounted diplomatic moves to counter Pakistan’s latest effort to paint the terror tag on India. On Sunday, the MEA issued a spirited statement against a press conference by Pakistani foreign minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi. On Monday, Jaishankar, addressing the Deccan Dialogue at the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad, said, “We have, in our immediate neighbourhood, a particularly egregious example of state-sponsored crossborder terrorism. The world is gradually becoming aware of the global nature of international terrorism. Our relentless efforts have kept it in spotlight, bringing out related aspects like terror finance, radicalisation and cyber recruitment.” According to Indian diplomatic sources, the Pakistan government has been trying to push the “dossier” to audiences in Bangladesh. Similar activities have been reported by Indian missions in other neighbouring countries. Spokesperson of the Afghan foreign ministry Gran Hewad refuted Pakistan’s charges that India used Afghan soil to launch terror attacks inside Pakistan. “The allegation is baseless. We propose a UN commission to probe the root causes of terrorism in Afghanistan and to examine Pakistan claims,” the spokesperson said. Tilak Devasher, member of the National Security Advisory Board, tweeted, “Pakistan is back to playing ‘dossier-dossier’. Just as Pakistani foreign minister on November 14 revealed a dossier with ‘irrefutable evidence’ of Indian role in terrorism, Pakistan had handed over three similar dossiers with 'proof' to UN secretary general in October 2015. What happened to those?” Officials said Pakistan was trying to push the “Islamophobia” narrative in the UN, which they said was a thinly veiled attack against India, to claim that India’s diplomatic campaign against Pakistan-sponsored terrorism was little more than an anti-Islamic stand. Watch India mounts diplomatic offensive against Pak’s “terror dossier” gambit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-mounts-diplomatic-offensive-against-pakistan-dossier/articleshow/79253927.cms||Indrani Bagchi
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Keep 50% beds for Covid patients in Gurugram, all hospitals told||GURUGRAM: District magistrate Amit Khatri on Monday directed all public and private hospitals to reserve at least 50% of total bed capacity and 75% of ICU and ventilator beds for Covid-19 patients in view of the recent surge in cases. Officials said the dedicated Covid bed capacity will increase from the existing 1,800 to about 2,500, and the number of ICU and ventilator beds will go up from the current 382 to nearly 800.  Details about the availability of beds reserved for Covid patients will be uploaded on the GMDA portal. The move comes days after the NITI Aayog asked chief medical officers in the state to increase Covid bed capacity in their respective districts after Diwali, anticipating a spike in cases. Gurugram’s Covid tally is inching closer to the 40,000 mark. “After the NITI Aayog’s directions, we had asked the district administration to increase the number of beds,” said Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav. He added that the number of containment zones is also likely to go up from the current 141. Health officials said they plan to ramp up testing, from an average 4,000-odd tests daily to 5,000 by the end of this week. The number of tests conducted every day had come down in the past few days because of festivals, they added. In the last 24 hours, 3,501 tests were conducted. The city reported 546 new cases on Monday. The tally has now gone up to 39,933. With this, the number of active cases has increased to 5,749. In the past 24 hours, 3,501 tests have been conducted, of which 364 are rapid antigen tests while 3,137 are RT-PCR tests. Only 2,524 tests were conducted on Sunday and 2,716 on Saturday. Also, three more people succumbed to Covid-19 on Monday, taking the toll to 244 in the district. Of 244 people, 189 had comorbidities. “The containment zones are likely to increase this week due to surge in new cases. We have sent recommendations to the district administration to add 48 new areas as containment zones,” said Dr MP Singh, nodal officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/keep-50-beds-for-covid-patients-all-hospitals-told/articleshow/79253176.cms||Vishakha Chaman
November 17, 2020||Indore||IIM-Indore ranked fifth in Eduniversal rankings 2020||INDORE: Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Indore has received 5th rank in the Eduniversal rankings 2020 and 3rd position in the ‘4 Palmes of Excellence Category’ (which signifies top business school with significant international influence) in the Central Asia Region. Eduniversal, headquartered in Paris, is a global academic ranking agency specializing in higher education. The awards were announced at the annual Eduniversal 3-D World Convention (EWC) 2020. Professor Himanshu Rai, Director, IIM Indore said, “We are delighted to be on rank 5 in the Eduniversal rankings 2020, with 3rd position in the 4 Palmes of Excellence category. Now we will aim to get into the 5 Palmes category.” Ranking includes 1K best biz schools from 154 countriesThe ranking is conducted in three steps which includes the official selection of 1,000 best business schools from 154 countries. Rai said, “We already have more than 35 foreign collaborations and we look forward to providing contextually relevant and world class academics to our participants.” Every year, the Eduniversal Awards Ceremony awards the top 3 Business Schools from each of the 9 geographical zones. These zones include Africa, Central Asia, Eurasia and Middle East, Far East Asia, Latin America, North America, Eastern Europe, Western Europe and Oceania.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/iim-indore-ranked-fifth-in-eduniversal-rankings-2020/articleshow/79253924.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand bans Chhath festivites in public water bodies||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government has imposed a ban on organizing Chhath puja on the banks of ponds, lakes, dams, rivers and reservoirs across the state, stating that large congregations and sharing of space in water bodies would lead to a spurt in Covid-19 infections among devotees. The order, issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh around midnight on Tuesday, triggered a wave of resentment among devotees and lawmakers across party lines. The order, issued by the state department of home, jail and disaster management, said, “Due to the fixed timing of performing the rituals, it is not possible to stagger these huge congregations to ensure social distancing.” The order also prohibited setting up of stalls near the water bodies, illumination of Chhath Ghats and their barricading for devotees, bursting of firecrackers and hosting musical and cultural programs. It added: “The ritual of holy bathing in common water of rivers/pond/lake/dam/reservoir or any other water body and standing in water is a matter of serious concern as it will amount to sharing of water, thus enhancing chances of spread of infection besides causing contamination of water. Due to the very nature of rituals, it is not possible for people to observe the national directive of wearing face covers and masks while offering Arghya.” Setting their differences aside, legislators from the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Congress and office bearers of the opposition BJP voiced their displeasure and urged the government to reconsider a the order, putting the Hemant Soren government on the defensive. The four-day festivities, which involves worshipping the Sun God, begins on November 18. The office of chief minister Hemant Soren was flooded with letters from political outfits, lawmakers and messages from denizens urging the government to relook at the order. “The order was issued in adherence with the guidelines issued by the Centre and the World Health Organization,” rural development minister Alamgir Alam told TOI at the sidelines of an event hosted by Dhanbad based 99 Group of Companies in Ranchi’s Circular Road on Monday afternoon. While Alam backed the order, his party urged the state government to provide certain relaxations. JMM, Soren’s own party, cited the partial relaxations given to devotees participating for Kali Puja, Durga Puja, Eid, Sarhul and Easter and sought the same for Chhath. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth wrote a letter claiming: “Most of the revelers do not have the means to perform the rituals at their homes. It will hurt the sentiments of lakhs of revelers.” On November 11, Calcutta High Court had banned Chhath processions across West Bengal and allowed only two members from a family to enter a water body for Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/state-bans-chhath-festivites-in-public-water-bodies/articleshow/79259526.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 17, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand bans Chhath festivites in public water bodies||RANCHI: The Jharkhand government has imposed a ban on organizing Chhath puja on the banks of ponds, lakes, dams, rivers and reservoirs across the state, stating that large congregations and sharing of space in water bodies would lead to a spurt in Covid-19 infections among devotees. The order, issued by chief secretary Sukhdev Singh around midnight on Tuesday, triggered a wave of resentment among devotees and lawmakers across party lines. The order, issued by the state department of home, jail and disaster management, said, “Due to the fixed timing of performing the rituals, it is not possible to stagger these huge congregations to ensure social distancing.” The order also prohibited setting up of stalls near the water bodies, illumination of Chhath Ghats and their barricading for devotees, bursting of firecrackers and hosting musical and cultural programs. It added: “The ritual of holy bathing in common water of rivers/pond/lake/dam/reservoir or any other water body and standing in water is a matter of serious concern as it will amount to sharing of water, thus enhancing chances of spread of infection besides causing contamination of water. Due to the very nature of rituals, it is not possible for people to observe the national directive of wearing face covers and masks while offering Arghya.” Setting their differences aside, legislators from the ruling Jharkhand Mukti Morcha and Congress and office bearers of the opposition BJP voiced their displeasure and urged the government to reconsider a the order, putting the Hemant Soren government on the defensive. The four-day festivities, which involves worshipping the Sun God, begins on November 18. The office of chief minister Hemant Soren was flooded with letters from political outfits, lawmakers and messages from denizens urging the government to relook at the order. “The order was issued in adherence with the guidelines issued by the Centre and the World Health Organization,” rural development minister Alamgir Alam told TOI at the sidelines of an event hosted by Dhanbad based 99 Group of Companies in Ranchi’s Circular Road on Monday afternoon. While Alam backed the order, his party urged the state government to provide certain relaxations. JMM, Soren’s own party, cited the partial relaxations given to devotees participating for Kali Puja, Durga Puja, Eid, Sarhul and Easter and sought the same for Chhath. Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth wrote a letter claiming: “Most of the revelers do not have the means to perform the rituals at their homes. It will hurt the sentiments of lakhs of revelers.” On November 11, Calcutta High Court had banned Chhath processions across West Bengal and allowed only two members from a family to enter a water body for Puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-bans-chhath-festivites-in-public-water-bodies/articleshow/79251627.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Unhappy with Congress, former mayor Banda Karthika Reddy to join BJP||HYDERABAD: Former mayor and TPCC general secretary Banda Karthika Reddy is joining BJP soon. After rounds of consultations with saffron party leaders in the last few months and initiatives taken by Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy, the former mayor has agreed to join the saffron party in a week. Karthika’s husband and TPCC secretary Banda Chandra Reddy is also joining the BJP. The BJP leadership has approached us and invited us into the party. We will be joining the BJP soon,” Karthika confirmed to TOI on Monday. During the consultations with BJP, she sought an assurance for a ticket from Secunderabad assembly in the next elections. Senior party leaders are believed to have told her that the party would take care of her interests and it was then she had agreed to join the BJP without any condition. Party sources said the former first citizen of the city, who represented Tarnaka division, was not keen on contesting the upcoming GHMC elections and assured to work for the BJP in the city. Karthika held the mayor post for two years (of fiveyear term) between December 2009 and December 2011 as part of an alliance between Congress and AIMIM. She was also vice-chairman of all-India mayors’ council. She is reportedly unhappy with the Congress leadership for the last two years after she was denied a ticket to contest the 2018 assembly elections from Secunderabad constituency. The first woman mayor after formation of Greater Hyderabad had even criticised the party for fielding Kasani Gnaneshwar, who is not connected to Secunderabad, in the 2018 assembly elections. Chandra Reddy had worked in NSUI and BJP leaders feel the couple’s joining will boost the party’s prospects in Secunderabad assembly constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-unhappy-with-congress-former-mayor-banda-karthika-reddy-to-join-bjp/articleshow/79253929.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||Smoke cloud turned darker and heavier for citizens lungs this year: IITR report||LUCKNOW: Diwali this year was more taxing for the lungs than the last year. The average air pollution levels of six localities of the city were higher in comparison to 2019, revealed the IITR Ambient Air Quality report on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityHeaded by senior scientist GC Kisku, scientists recorded pollution levels in six localities a day before Diwali (Friday), on Diwali (Saturday) and a day after (Sunday). Every area recorded a spike in PM10 and PM2.5 levels on Diwali day. Overall, the average PM10 concentration of Lucknow this year on Diwali day was 604 micrograms, 68 units more than last year’s 536. Similarly, PM2.5 level was 402 this year, 56 units more than last year’s 346 micrograms. The PM2.5 level in Gomtinagar jumped by 153 units from 500 on pre-Diwali night to 653 micrograms on Diwali night. In Charbagh, PM2.5 level was 568 micrograms, Aminabad 537 and Alambagh 452. The PM10 concentration on Diwali night in Aminabad was 913.7 micrograms, 660 units more than pre-Diwali night. In Charbagh, PM10 level on Diwali night was 814.7 micrograms, Vikasnagar 771, Gomtinagar 647, Amausi 396, Alambagh 369 and Aliganj 315.7. These findings support TOI’s independent analysis of the pollution board data. However, air pollution levels this year was less than 2018 as fewer crackers were burst and wind cleared at a faster rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/smoke-cloud-turned-darker-and-heavier-for-citizens-lungs-this-year-iitr-report/articleshow/79253933.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||UP: Night of crackers dims clean air hope||LUCKNOW: The ban on sale and bursting of firecrackers on Diwali, imposed in view of deteriorating air quality, went up in smoke as residents flouted curbs with impunity. Track the pollution level in your cityThis prompted many to question as to where such a huge quantity of crackers came from when police had cancelled the licences of firecracker sellers and banned sale in the entire city. The ban was imposed on the directions of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) which said cities with a history of poor quality air should not allow firecrackers on Diwali. However, from sparkles, chakris and flower pots to rockets, bombs and chatai, people were seen bursting firecrackers on Diwali night. At least 1,081 SOS calls were received by UP 112 on November 14 and 1,264 on November 15 with complaints of inconvenience due to firecrackers, drunken brawls and accidents. About 31 fire incidents due to several reasons, including short-circuits and firecrackers, were reported. In two major incidents, properties worth lakhs of rupees were damaged. Besides, 10 burn cases due to firecrackers were reported at various hospitals. Many people with breathing problems and heart issues also came to the emergency units of hospitals. When asked from where they got crackers, many residents said they had last year’s leftovers or procured it from adjoining districts where there is no restriction on sale. “I usually purchase crackers from Kakori at least seven days in advance. The ban was imposed barely four days before Diwali,” said Shashi of Mahanagar. Sanjay Chaturvedi of Indiranagar said he bought crackers from Barabanki while Shahi Singh of Chowk said he got them from a dealer who, fearing losses due to the ban, sold him secretly at low prices. High court lawyer Nitin Mathur demanded that police should take strict action against those selling and bursting crackers. However, Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey maintained that not even a single shop was found open. “Either people purchased firecrackers prior to the ban or they got it from adjoining districts,” he said. The CP said in most of the cases complaints were made at which cops reached the spot and dissuaded people from bursting crackers. “We did not get any written complaint,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-night-of-crackers-dims-clean-air-hope/articleshow/79253920.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||SC junks plea on netas facing criminal charges||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday refused to entertain a plea seeking to declare as ‘null and void’ the  of those against whom charges have been framed for over a year for offences entailing punishment of five years and more. A bench headed by Justice L N Rao said the petitioner can pursue remedies for implementation of earlier judgement delivered by the apex court, which had in 2018 left it to the Parliament to make laws to ensure that persons facing serious criminal cases do not enter the political arena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-junks-plea-on-netas-facing-criminal-charges/articleshow/79253943.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal: BMHRC admits to 9 Covid deaths, or perhaps 13||BHOPAL: The BMHRC management has admitted to the death of nine gas-victims due to Covid in the isolation ward of the hospital meant for the survivors of the 1984 tragedy. The state government had showcaused BMHRC following a TOI report on the death of eight gas victims. The hospital’s report only adds to the confusion on the death toll as it has put the number at 13 in response to an RTI query. Following the TOI report, the gas relief department had issued a notice to BMHRC, seeking to know the number of gas victims who died in the hospital of Coronavirus. The hospital management had been evasive on the issue but in a letter to chief medical and health officer-gas relief, it has now admitted to the death of nine gas survivors in isolation ward due to Covid-19. The BMHRC management has given their names, age and gender — Rameshwar Dayal, 77, Fiza, 70, Nazim, 61, Maya Bai, 54, Ibadur Rehman, 50, Hema, 51, Sheikh Sharif, 61, Babar Ansari, 54 and Manohar Lal, 58. There are details of the condition of the patients when they were admitted to the hospital and how they were treated. 13 gas victims died of Coronavirus: BMHRC in RTI replyHowever, BMHRC's admission that it could not save nine gas victims from a Covid death has not settled the issue of how many 1984 survivors have died there of the virus. In response to an RTI query by an activist, the hospital management has disclosed that 13 gas victims have died of Coronavirus at the hospital till now. Co-convener of Bhopal Group for Information & Action (BGIA), Rachna Dhingra, had posted an online query for month-wise list of Covid-19 deaths at the hospital between March and October. The hospital replied, 13. After this, BGIA wrote to gas relief director Basant Kurre, drawing his attention to the anomaly, and urging him to find out the exact number of Covid deaths at BMHRC. Asked about this, Kurre said, “I have received a letter from BGIA pointing out the difference in death figures. Every Covid-19 death has to be reported to the state government. We shall ask the BMHRC management why there is a difference in the data given in the RTI reply and the one received by us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-bmhrc-admits-to-9-covid-deaths-or-perhaps-13/articleshow/79253935.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
November 17, 2020||Faridabad||No footpath: Walking on this road a risky affair||GURUGRAM: Residents of DLF-1 have raised concerns over the safety of pedestrians on Gurugram-Faridabad Road. They have demanded the construction of footpaths along the road from Bristol Chowk to Khusboo Chowk. According to the residents, the road is one of the key stretches in the city connecting many residential and commercial complexes in the area, including several blocks of DLF-1, DLF Silver Oaks and Qutab Plaza market. The absence of paved footpaths on the stretch has made it difficult and risky for many pedestrians, particularly women, children and the elderly, to walk to nearby markets or to reach the metro station, they said. Rahul Chandola, president of DLF-1’s H-Block RWA, said: “Our area is located near the neighbourhood market at Qutub Plaza. Sikanderpur metro station is also at a walking distance from our colony. But with no footpaths available, we are forced to walk on the margins of the road, risking our lives. Many senior citizens who enjoy going out for strolls have stopped going out as they got injured on the uneven edges of the road.” Residents said that they have been demanding the construction of footpaths on this stretch for the last two years, but to no avail. “More than 20,000 people live here. It’s a shame that there is no road safety for pedestrians in place. The authorities should make each and every road of the city safe for pedestrians,” Ravinder Yadav, president of G-Block RWA, said. He added, “We have made several representations to the authorities concerned as well as local representatives in the past demanding the construction of footpaths on both sides of the road from Bristol Chowk to Khusboo Chowk, but no relief has been provided to us.” Residents also said the unpaved sidewalk is generating a lot of dust, affecting their health. “People are compelled to move to nearby places by car, adding to emission and air pollution. This could be avoided if the authorities provide footpaths. Also, the problem of unauthorised parking of vehicles and illegal dumping of C&D waste would resolve,” said Malti Sawhney, general secretary of Silver Oaks Condominium Association. Meanwhile, an official from the public works department said the road was constructed under a build–operate–transfer agreement and is with the concessionaire till 2026. “There was no provision for footpaths. Anything added later will change the terms of the agreement, which needs government approval. If the civic body has a proposal, we will provide a no-objection certificate,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/no-footpath-walking-on-this-road-a-risky-affair/articleshow/79254107.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||No footpath: Walking on this road a risky affair||GURUGRAM: Residents of DLF-1 have raised concerns over the safety of pedestrians on Gurugram-Faridabad Road. They have demanded the construction of footpaths along the road from Bristol Chowk to Khusboo Chowk. According to the residents, the road is one of the key stretches in the city connecting many residential and commercial complexes in the area, including several blocks of DLF-1, DLF Silver Oaks and Qutab Plaza market. The absence of paved footpaths on the stretch has made it difficult and risky for many pedestrians, particularly women, children and the elderly, to walk to nearby markets or to reach the metro station, they said. Rahul Chandola, president of DLF-1’s H-Block RWA, said: “Our area is located near the neighbourhood market at Qutub Plaza. Sikanderpur metro station is also at a walking distance from our colony. But with no footpaths available, we are forced to walk on the margins of the road, risking our lives. Many senior citizens who enjoy going out for strolls have stopped going out as they got injured on the uneven edges of the road.” Residents said that they have been demanding the construction of footpaths on this stretch for the last two years, but to no avail. “More than 20,000 people live here. It’s a shame that there is no road safety for pedestrians in place. The authorities should make each and every road of the city safe for pedestrians,” Ravinder Yadav, president of G-Block RWA, said. He added, “We have made several representations to the authorities concerned as well as local representatives in the past demanding the construction of footpaths on both sides of the road from Bristol Chowk to Khusboo Chowk, but no relief has been provided to us.” Residents also said the unpaved sidewalk is generating a lot of dust, affecting their health. “People are compelled to move to nearby places by car, adding to emission and air pollution. This could be avoided if the authorities provide footpaths. Also, the problem of unauthorised parking of vehicles and illegal dumping of C&D waste would resolve,” said Malti Sawhney, general secretary of Silver Oaks Condominium Association. Meanwhile, an official from the public works department said the road was constructed under a build–operate–transfer agreement and is with the concessionaire till 2026. “There was no provision for footpaths. Anything added later will change the terms of the agreement, which needs government approval. If the civic body has a proposal, we will provide a no-objection certificate,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-footpath-walking-on-this-road-a-risky-affair/articleshow/79253416.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Never missing, say kin of ex-cop rescued from street||BHOPAL: Manish Mishra, a former cop found living like a destitute on the streets of Gwalior by his batchmates, was never ‘missing’, says his family, debunking reports going viral on news and social media. “He spent the last Diwali with us at our home. He is suffering from bipolar disorder ever since he got divorced and doesn’t want to remain with the family,” said his elder brother Umesh Mishra, an inspector posted in Guna district. “Manish was a courageous policeman who couldn’t handle his emotions after his marriage broke down. We were aware of his situation, but were helpless as he didn’t want to live with any of the family members,” said Umesh, adding that they knew Manish has been wandering between Shivpuri, Gwalior and Mandsaur district all these years. We were aware, but helpless: Cop kinA native of Shivpuri, Manish’s father was also in the police department and his sister worked with the foreign ministry. Manish was terminated by state police in 2006 after he went AWOL for over two years. Many officers believe that police HQ should have taken care of him, instead of sacking him, given that his absenteeism was the result of his mental condition. Manish was a 1999-batch sub-inspector. TOI contacted Dilip Gangrade, who was Manish’s TI during his probation period in Mandsaur. “I remember Manish as a courageous officer. In 2000-2001, he had raided a locality dominated by notorious criminals and confiscated 8kg drugs. Our station was given around Rs 35,000 as cash reward. It wasn’t a small amount of money in those days when rewards of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 were given for good operations,” recalls Gangrade, who retired as DSP from Khargone last month. “I lost touch with him after he moved on to his next posting. But I came to know that he turned into a wanderer. All I can tell is he was a good policeman in those days,” Gangrade added. A bearded and bedraggled Manish shot to limelight a couple of days ago when two of his batchmates spotted him on the roadside. Crime branch DSPs Ratnesh Singh Tomar and Vijay Singh Bhadoria were returning from duty on November 11, when they saw ‘a beggar’ shivering in the cold in Gwalior’s Lashkar area. They decided to stop and help. DSP Bhadoria offered him his jacket while DSP Tomar, who was wearing casual shoes, decided to give it to him. When they turned to get back to their car, the ‘beggar’ called out to them by their first names. Stunned, the DSPs questioned him and he identified himself as Manish. “We couldn’t recognise him because of his condition. The last time I met him was in 2006 after his termination. He stayed with me for a few days,” Tomar told TOI. Now, many of his batchmates have come together to help him. “We have spoken to doctors in Bengaluru and will get him treated there. Once he is cured, we will try to have his termination revoked,” Tomar added. Manish’s family denies allegations that they didn’t take care of him. “It’s not like that. We tried our best to keep him with us. Last Diwali, he was home, but went off again, saying he didn’t want to be a burden on us,” said Umesh, adding that they had taken him to the best hospitals but he refused to take medicines. “Let him calm down for a few days, I will meet him and bring him home. He has to overcome his past memories somehow,” he added. In fact, Manish was among the top 10 shooters in the 1999 batch besides being a good athlete. His last posting was in Datia in 2005. His father had tried to get him reinstated but without luck. ADG (admin) Anvesh Manglam said they are looking into Manish’s case. “I came to know about his status through media reports. I’ve asked the Gwalior SP to look into the matter,” he said. Mishra is now staying at a shelter in Gwalior. “He is cooperating very well. You can talk to him about anything other than his past. He became aggressive when his uncle came to meet him. We have consulted with a psychiatrist in Gwalior who said he will be back to normal if continues with his medicine and treatment,” said Vikash Goswami, who runs the ashram. TOI also contacted his first psychiatrist R B Gupta. “It’s a case of bipolar disorder and can well be treated. When his family used to bring him here, he used to drop his medications and run away. A broken marriage and stress of police duty could be some of the reasons behind his condition,” said Gupta. Interestingly, Manish was in news in Gwalior earlier also. “He was thought by locals to be a sadhu after he predicted some numbers and a businessman won the lottery. He wanted to take him home. Many people gathered around him without realizing who he was or what he was going through,” said a relative of Manish, requesting not to be named.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-never-missing-say-kin-of-ex-cop-rescued-from-street/articleshow/79253946.cms||P Naveen
November 17, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Charbagh most cacophonous on festival of lights||LUCKNOW: Charbagh was the noisiest locality in the city on Diwali night with noise levels recorded 84.3 decibels, not alone this it was also around 5 decibels noisier than the last year. Similiar was with Aminabad 79.3 decibels noise levels around 8 units noisier than the last year reveals the IITR Diwali noise pollution survey report.The noise levels were monitored between 07 a.m to 12:30 PM for 20 minutes at each location. The noise levels were above the permissible limits of 45 decibels in the night as set by the National Ambient Air Quality standards. As per the experts, the noise levels were the noise pollution levels were somewhat similar to the last year since crackers with high sound levels were burst during Diwali. Firecrackers with noise level more than 80 dB(A), may damage the eardrum and reduce our hearingability. High noise can induce temporary or permanent hearing impairment. In Vikasnagar the noise pollution levels were the same as that of last year recording 76.8 decibels. In four localities there was a marginal drop, Gomtingar was 2 units less noisy than last year with 73.5 noise levels. It was followed next by Indiranagar (77.7) around five units less, Aliganj 72.8 decibels around 6 units less, Amausi 72.2. The lowest noise pollution was recorded in Chowk with 71.6 decibel sound around seven-unit less noisy than last Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-charbagh-most-cacophonous-on-festival-of-lights/articleshow/79253949.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Chhath ban at Kolkata lakes to remain this year as SC refuses to stay NGT order||KOLKATA: The ban on Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar is very much on this year. On Monday, the Supreme Court refused to grant a stay on the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) order banning it at the former lake, sought by Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA). Last week, Calcutta High Court had extended the ban to the latter lake as well. Listing the matter for hearing on November 23, three days after the festival, the apex court questioned KMDA’s urgency in seeking to overturn the two-year NGT order and asked why it had not approached the court earlier. Justice Uday U Lalit said the matter would be heard in the court of Justice Rohinton Fali Nariman, where the matter had originally been listed. The counsels representing KMDA as well as respondent Subhas Datta agreed that the state government would have to implement NGT’s order after failing to do so for two years. “Until the court hears the matter next Monday and gives its verdict, the ban remains in place,” the KMDA counsel said. Justice Lalit rejected the KMDA counsel’s plea that vacating the ban before Chhath on Friday (November 20) would enable KMDA to regulate worshippers and avoid an outright violation, like in 2018 and 2019. In the absence of an interim application to vacate the ban, it would continue, he said. On November 10, Calcutta HC had said that additionally, Subhas Sarobar “will be totally out of bounds for Chhat Puja celebrations”. The court had observed that if no order was passed on KMDA’s petition by SC, the NGT’s order had to be implemented “without exception”. R Venkatraman, counsel for respondent Subhas Dutta at the apex court, told the court that it was the duty of the government authorities to ensure the implementation of a court order and not plead helplessness over its violation. “How can they regulate the devotees if they cannot prevent them from entering Rabindra Sarobar? It is the responsibility of the authorities to handle miscreants and prevent the violation of the court order,” he pointed out. KMDA had moved Supreme Court after the NGT summarily dismissed its petition to revise the order. No KMDA official was willing to come on record, though all acknowledged that they had their work cut out to implement NGT’s order, which KMDA had failed to do in the past two years, with just four days to go for the festival. “The NGT order disallowing Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar stands. Like last year, all measures will be taken to inform devotees to conduct the rituals at an alternative site,” said a KMDA official. Datta, whose petition before NGT in 2015 had led to the complete ban order in 2018, said the KMDA and the government had no choice but to implement the order this year. Bihari Samaj president Mani Prasad Singh, too, climbed down from his earlier stance that Chhath would be held at the lakes, when he appealed to members of the community to perform Chhath this year at home. “Chhath is a pious festival. There is no ritual that harms the environment. Some miscreants have in recent years adopted means of celebration with crackers and loud music, which is alien to our culture. I will appeal to my brethren to not head to Rabindra Sarobar until the case is resolved at Supreme Court,” said Singh. Morning walker and green activist Sumita Banerjee, who had first moved Calcutta High Court in 2013 on the need to conserve Rabindra Sarobar, felt it was inconceivable how the administration could find it difficult to secure just a lake, when it had managed bigger challenges, such as banning devotees from entering pandals for Durga Puja and exploding crackers during Kali Puja and Diwali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chhath-ban-at-city-lakes-to-remain-this-year-as-sc-refuses-to-stay-ngt-order/articleshow/79253111.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Foresters, greens lock horns over banyan tree shifting||GHAZIABAD: The forest department’s plan to chop off branches of an old banyan tree and replant it in a different location has angered local environmentalists. While foresters say the tree poses a danger to residents, as it has become weak and tilted on one side, environmentalists claim the tree is about 100 years old and shifting it would damage it. “The banyan tree in Jagdish Nagar area is very old and could easily come under the category of heritage trees as it is about 100 years old. But the forest department is planning to ‘translocate’ it,” said Ruchin Mehra, a city-based environmentalist. “As per our assessment, the tree is in good shape. But recently, the forest department chopped off its branches in an attempt to shift the tree. We suspect this is being done for the benefit of local traders who want the tree to go because that would create more space for them,” added Mehra. District forest officer Deeksha Bhandari, however, said the tree is not that old. “We got an assessment done and this particular tree is not 100 years old, as it is being claimed. The reason why we have decided to relocate it is because it has tilted on one side and poses danger to the residents. Water is seeping into the root and the trunk is becoming hollow. We fear that the tree may fall one day. There is a high tension wire right above. If the tree falls and the wire snaps, we fear that it will result in loss of lives and property,” Bhandari said. The forest department is in talks with the local wing of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), which will help shift the tree. Officials, however, could not say where they plan to replant it. “Translocation of trees is an accepted process. A tree is chopped and the area around its roots is cautiously dug up without damaging it. Then the tree is lifted with the help of a crane, shifted and planted in another area,” Bhandari said. “We have done it successfully earlier and have obtained the permission for it. We will go ahead with our plan.” Explaining what a heritage tree is, Bhandari said: “In August last year, the state government had directed us to identify trees that are a generation old. In other words, a tree that is at least 75 years old.” Bhandari said banyan, peepal and Ashok trees, which are known for longevity, mostly come under the heritage tree category. “In Ghaziabad, two banyan trees — one in Sikri area, which is said to be at least 300 years old, and another in Bamheta village, which is estimated to be around 100 years of age — and have been accorded heritage status.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/foresters-greens-lock-horns-over-banyan-tree-shifting/articleshow/79252840.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Blast at Danton fireworks factory, 4 hurt||Danton (West Midnapore): Four people were injured in a blast at a fireworks factory that rocked Danton in West Midnapore on Sunday evening. The asbestos roof of the factory was blown off. The injured are getting treatment at Danton rural hospital. Locals allegedly beat up Riyajed Mullick, in whose house the factory operated. Owners of factories in fireworks manufacturing hubs of Champahati and Nungi in South 24 Parganas are worried about unsold fireworks setting off similar blasts. “All of us manufacturers have huge stockpiles of fireworks that never got sold after Calcutta High Court banned their use on Diwali and Kali Puja this year. We are trying to locate a central storage facility where all our unsold stock can be stored,” said Sukhdeb Naskar, secretary of the Fireworks Manufacturers’ Union in Champahati and Nungi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/blast-at-danton-fireworks-factory-4-hurt/articleshow/79252911.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Dilip pushes for Guj growth model in Bengal, Hakim hits back||Barasat/Kolkata: Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh wants the Gujarat growth model replicated in this state, projecting for the first time another state as Bengal’s role model. Trinamool minister Firhad Hakim has spurned the same on the ground that Gujarat is “known for encounter killings”. “Didimani often accuses us of trying to turn Bengal into Gujarat. We will of course do that if voted to power. Youths will have jobs. They will not have to move out of Bengal. She won elections by winding up the Tata factory. What will youths do? Become beggars?” Ghosh said. “While they forced shut the (Tata) factory, BJP government in Gujarat gave it land in 24 hours,” he added. Trinamool senior Hakim hit back. “States like Gujarat and UP are known for encounter killings. Over 2,000 people have been killed. The Ishrat Jahan encounter happened in Gujarat. It doesn’t happen in Bengal. Here, an accused is produced in court,” he said. Hakim contested the Gujarat growth model saying that the government there was giving away land on a silver platter to corporates. “Gujarat offers land lease only to hand-picked corporate houses. Let me point out that the Nano unit in Sanand has been shut,” he said, adding that the MSME sector was doing “quite well” in Bengal. Ghosh also stressed on “Bengal’s downfall” after the Left Front was voted out of power. “Once a cradle of reputable scientists, doctors and engineers, the state is now churning out migrant workers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dilip-pushes-for-guj-growth-model-in-bengal-hakim-hits-back/articleshow/79252883.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Suvendu rally lined up, all focus now on East Midnapore||Kanthi/Behrampore: Tension is building up in East Midnapore ahead of Suvendu Adhikari’s Ramnagar rally on November 19, with both Trinamool and BJP planning a similar showdown in the area shortly. Ramnagar police have denied BJP permission to hold a rally the same day and also on November 21, when the Ramnagar R S Maidan has been booked for another rally. Rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu’s district outreach has given a new dimension to Bengal politics that, if unresolved, may throw up new equations in at least six districts — East and West Midnapore, Jhargram, Bankura, Purulia and Murshidabad. Murshidabad’s Hariharpara MLA Niamat Sheikh spoke his mind at a Trinamool rally held at Katabagan on Sunday in the presence of party district president and Murshidabad MP Abu Taher and district coordinator Asok Das. “Suvendu Adhikari, once Trinamool’s observer for Murshidabad, toiled hard to build the organization here. A host of MLAs and leaders from other parties joined Trinamool during this time. Now, those who are in touch with Suvendu are being labelled anti-party. Suvendu is still a Trinamool leader and minister. Let the party show him the door first, instead of carrying out a witch hunt,” Sheikh said. Like Trinamool’s Cooch Behar South MLA Mihir Goswami and Barrackpore MLA Shilbhadra Datta, Sheikh too hit out at election strategist Prashant Kishor. “Where was he when the party came to office in 2011? PK’s men are coming to districts and getting in touch with our adversaries who will never vote for us. He will remain responsible if the party faces reverses in the district in the upcoming polls,” Sheikh said while swearing by “mass leader” Mamata Banerjee. The TMC brass has reasons to believe that Suvendu has the backing of a section of party leaders across Bengal that feels let down in the present dispensation. According to sources, Suvendu made a call to a senior Howrah Trinamool leader, following which Kishor reached out to his place a week back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/suvendu-rally-lined-up-all-focus-now-on-east-midnapore/articleshow/79252930.cms||Suman Mandal
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||Bombs, bullets at Bhatpara Kali Puja event||Kolkata: A Kali Puja soiree at Bhatpara in North 24 Parganas turned into a battleground on Sunday night, with bullets and bombs leaving at least six persons injured. Locals on Monday morning put up a road block demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. However, no arrests have been made yet. According to sources, a local club was holding an event at Kankinara’s Mondalpara in Ward No.35 when a group of drunk youths passed lewd comments at the participating women. “As the Kali Puja organisers protested, the drunk men started creating a ruckus. Club members and locals got them out of the area. Later, they stormed into the soiree accompanied by armed goons and attacked the organisers. The goons opened fire in the air and hurled bombs,” said Ramesh Shaw, a local. As bombs and bullets flew, everyone scattered in panic and ran for cover. The injured were rushed to Bhatpara State General Hospital. “We tried our best to put up a fight. Local criminals were involved. We named some of them to the police,” said Robin Das, an organizer who was injured in the attack. A police team from Jagaddal police station came to the spot. “We got names of some of the accused and a raid is on to nab the culprits,” a senior police officer of Barrackpore commissionerate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bombs-bullets-at-bhatpara-kali-puja-event/articleshow/79252900.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
November 17, 2020||Indore||Madhya Pradesh cop's Gabbar act lands him in trouble||INDORE: Playing Gabbar has turned a police officer in MP’s Jhabua into a social media sensation — and earned him a departmental rap. A video has gone viral showing Kalyanpura police station in-charge KL Dangi deliver his version of the iconic Sholay dialogue on a loudspeaker. “‘Kalyanpura se pachas-pachas kilometer ki duri par jab bachcha rotaa hai to maa kehti hai chup ho ja beta, nahi to Dangi aa jayega (For 50km around, when a child cries, his mother tells him to be quiet or Dangi will come).” He wears camouflage fatigues and a military-style floppy hat. It’s not known if Dangi managed to scare off any criminal, but his superiors were definitely not amused. After the 15-second video went viral on Sunday afternoon, the inspector was handed a showcause notice. ‘Police not allowed to wear Army uniform, notice sent to cop’Police are not allowed to wear Army uniform. A notice has been issued to Dangi seeking an explanation within 24 hours on the entire episode. If he doesn’t reply, or his explanation is unsatisfactory, disciplinary action under service conduct rules can be taken against him,” ASP Anand Waskale told TOI. Dangi had gone to a site where a fair is held every year on ‘Duj’ (two days after Diwali). Thousands throng the fair but this year, the administration has refused permission due to the Covid-19 pandemic, said the ASP. Dangi, on the other hand, is going from Gabbar to detective, and carrying out his own investigation — into who ‘modified’ the audio. He denies saying the Gabbar dialogue. “I went to where the Duj mela is held every year to urge people not to gather at the site as permission has been denied this year. I appealed to them to maintain the law and order,” Dangi told TOI. He said that the viral video is an “edited one”. “We will launch an investigation to find out who edited the video and inserted the dialogue,” Dangi said, adding that a police official can wear camouflage uniform on “special duty”, as that in Naxal-affected areas like Balaghat. Jhabua, however, isn’t one. Watch Watch: MP cop warns people to maintain law and order in 'Gabbar' style||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/madhya-pradesh-cops-gabbar-act-lands-him-in-trouble/articleshow/79253955.cms||Sagar Choukse
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram: DTCP razes 15 illegal shops, seals 2 buildings in DLF areas, Suncity||GURUGRAM: The enforcement wing of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) has demolished more than 15 shops and sealed two residential buildings and six shops running illegally in DLF-2, DLF-5 and Suncity. District town planner (enforcement) RS Batth said the enforcement team had visited the area last week after complaints of encroachment from DLF-2 residents. The officials had also carried out videography of the area to maintain a record of the violations. “On Monday, a demolition drive was carried out at Dakshin Marg in DLF-2 with the help of an earthmover in the presence of around 50 police personnel. Around 15 illegal shops, dhabas and kiosks running without permission on residential plots were demolished. Apart from this, several kiosks placed illegally in the commercial complex in common areas were also removed,” Batth added. Residents of these areas have been complaining to DTCP about illegal dhabas in the area, which are not only violating building norms and causing traffic woes, but are also raising concerns over safety and security. The department had earlier issued notices to the property owners in the past, but they did not stop the commercial activities. The enforcement team also sealed three illegal shops running in the DLF-5’s Westend Heights residential society the same day. “These shops were running in the space designated for fire and electrical shafts in the stilt area of the complex,” said the official. Batth also visited Suncity township, where the residents had complained about illegal construction by property owners after procuring occupation certificates from the DTCP. “We have sealed two buildings in Suncity. The department has also recommended filing of FIRs against the violators,” he said. Apart from residential buildings, the enforcement team also sealed three shops in Suncity. DTCP had earlier cleared encroachment in corridors of the commercial area of the township, but some shopkeepers still violated norms and extended their shops in an illegal manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/dtcp-razes-15-illegal-shops-seals-2-buildings-in-dlf-areas-suncity/articleshow/79253347.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
November 17, 2020||Bhopal||Tiger found buried in Madhya Pradesh, killed by electric trap or fence||BHOPAL: A tiger carcass was found buried under sand in Shahdol district of Madhya Pradesh just three days after a tigress was run over on a highway in Panna, about 200km away. ‘Tiger State’ Madhya Pradesh has lost 24 tigers in the last 11 months, and 54 since last year. Forest officials say the Shahdol tiger seems to have been electrocuted by a trap set by poachers or an illegally electrified fence used by farmers to protect crops from herbivores. It had decomposed into a skeleton by the time it was detected by a forest patrol on Sunday near Jamunia village, bordering the Panapatha buffer zone of Bandhavgarh Tiger Reserve. The remains were autopsied and samples have been preserved for forensic analysis. The MP state tiger strike force is investigating the case in coordination with local authorities. Use of high-voltage e-fences by farmers grave concernThe use of high-voltage electrified fences by farmers living near the tiger reserve is of grave concern. It’s one of the major threats to conservation in central India as tigers move through inhabited corridors, including agricultural fields,” said an officer. More than 300 villages in Madhya Pradesh are prone to such conflicts, said the official, adding that the threat is highest near the core regions of protected areas where crop raids by wild animals are more frequent. Alarmed by a spurt in tiger deaths due to electrocution, National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) had in 2013 directed the Madhya Pradesh government to prepare an action plan. Forest divisions and non-forest areas with tiger presence and a history of cattle depredation were to be listed. National Tiger Conservation Authority had asked for a survey of electric lines passing through these areas, including tiger reserves, and wanted them insulated. The regulatory body asked the forest department to have a formal understanding with state electricity boards for periodic checking of transmission lines to prevent sagging and tripping, and replace exposed wires but nothing much happened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tiger-found-buried-in-madhya-pradesh-killed-by-electric-trap-or-fence/articleshow/79253984.cms||P Naveen
November 17, 2020||India||Looking at a new code for news channels: Javadekar||NEW DELHI: The government is examining ways to strengthen the regulatory mechanism for news media besides considering a new code of conduct for TV news channels, I&B minister Prakash Javadekar said on Monday. Addressing a webinar on the occasion of National Press Day, Javadekar made it clear that while the government did not want to interfere in news media, some regulatory issues were under his ministry’s consideration. “Freedom of press is being discussed again today and I said that the way press freedom is being attacked, that is not good… Press Council of India (PCI) is another mechanism of self-regulation. Though the head is appointed by the government, it has representatives of press owners, editors, journalists, photographers and parliamentarians. But people are demanding that the PCI should be given more powers. That is also being considered,” he said. Times ViewThe Vice-President’s words are comforting. But the real picture on the ground is quite disturbing and depressing. In recent months, many journalists have been summarily detained or arrested by state governments. Journalist Walter Lippman once said, “A free press is …an organic necessity in a great society.” Every democracy must remember that.Noting the absence of a Press Council-like body to regulate TV news even though he referred to the National Broadcasting Standards Authority as an institution where “anyone can complain to them and they even punish the erring channels”, Javadekar said, “But there are many channels that are not even members of that… and they have no restrictions… Such a system cannot exist...” He voiced similar concerns for digital and OTT platforms, which are governed neither by any PCI-like system, nor by any formal self-regulatory mechanism. The minister also said the I&B ministry was looking into ways to strengthen the TV ratings mechanism, adding that the government deliberately never interfered with BARC as advertisers and broadcasters were on the same page. “Now the time has come that we have to interfere... How to kill the possibility of manipulation, we have created a committee for it, and it will give a report soon on what is possible,” he said. In a written message, President Ram Nath Kovind lauded mediapersons as front-line corona warriors who played an important role in educating people and mitigating the impact of the pandemic. In a video-message, Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu condemned attacks on press freedom and said any such move was detrimental to national interests. Naidu said, “Democracy cannot survive without a free and fearless press.” Naidu, however, added that the media must be fair, objective and accurate in its reporting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/looking-at-a-new-code-for-news-channels-javadekar/articleshow/79253988.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||T M Thomas Isaac drags in Ram Madhav; prove that I met him, says Mathew Kuzhalnadan||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac added a new dimension to the CAG-KIIFB row by alleging that there is a Sangh Parivar-Congress conspiracy to thwart development in the state and destabilise the LDF government. The comptroller and auditor general (CAG) has in ‘leaked’ report questioned the legitimacy of foreign borrowing on the part of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) and KPCC general secretary and well-known lawyer Mathew Kuzhalnadan is fighting the case against KIIFB in the Kerala high court. Addressing a news conference in Alappuzha on Monday, Isaac alleged that Sangh Parivar leader Ram Madhav was involved in the decision to move against KIIFB. “It is RSS leader Ram Madhav, who gave the green signal for the case against KIIFB. After a meeting held at Rama Nilayam in Thrissur with Ram Madhav, a Swadeshi Jagaran Manch leader moved a case against KIIFB in the Kerala high court. KPCC general secretary Mathew Kuzhalnadan has acted as the axe of RSS conspiracy for destroying KIIFB and Kerala’s development,” Isaac said. In response, Kuzhalnadan told a news conference in Thiruvananthapuram that he was pained by Isaac’s baseless allegations and that the latter must be trying to divert public attention from the predicament of the LDF government. ‘Convinced about merit of the case’I’m a person who pursues law as a profession to earn my bread … I don’t inquire about the politics of my clients. I appeared in a case questioning the activities of KIIFB as I was convinced about its merit,” he said. Adding that he would continue to appear in the case, Kuzhalnadan said he had not even met the petitioner in person or talked to any RSS-BJP leader in connection with the case. “Isaac should tell people what he will do if he fails to prove his allegations against me,” he said. Kuzhalnadan also wanted Isaac to clarify if KIIFB had obtained all necessary approvals from the Centre to issue masala bonds at the London Stock Exchange at an exorbitant rate of interest. “The RBI has only given a no-objection certificate (NOC) to KIIFB. It has been categorically stated in the same NOC that all other necessary approvals should be obtained before issuing masala bonds,” he said. Isaac, on his part, refuted Mathew’s argument that he had only professional interest in the case. “I would like to know whether he will take the vakalath seeking to nullify the election of Rahul Gandhi? Will he take up the case for RSS if they approach him in the matter related to the Gandhi assassination comments of Rahul Gandhi,” he asked. Isaac also challenged Kuzhalnadan to reveal details he had regarding corruption in KIIFB. “He is the KPCC secretary and he should reveal the details,” he said, adding that the BJP-Congress joint agenda of destroying KIIFB is becoming clearer by the day. Meanwhile, former chief minister Oommen Chandy asked Isaac to stop blaming the previous UDF government for KIIFB’s failures. He said that during the UDF regime, loans were taken from within the country only. “Rs 10 cr was taken in 2002 and Rs 505cr in 2003. They were all paid back in 2008. But the LDF government sold masala bonds for Rs 2,150 cr in a foreign country by violating article 293(1) of the Indian constitution at 9.8% interest rate. After five years, Rs 3,195.23 cr has to be paid back’’, Chandy said. Chandy also pointed out that KIIFB had given clearance to projects worth Rs 60,000 cr while it could source only Rs 15,315cr during the last four- and-a-half years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/t-m-thomas-isaac-drags-in-ram-madhav-prove-that-i-met-him-says-mathew-kuzhalnadan/articleshow/79253992.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Noida, Ghaziabad to scale up antigen tests||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The surge in Covid cases in Delhi has prompted the Noida and Ghaziabad administrations to increase testing in areas bordering the capital. While both districts have decided to increase the daily target of antigen tests to 3,500 from 2,000, the number of RT-PCR tests — considered the gold standard — will remain the same. Noida currently has been conducting 1,000 RT-PCR tests daily while in Ghaziabad, the number is 1,100. The increase in the number of tests will also require the administrations to increase the number of health workers by 20-25%. The UP government has already instructed districts to scale up testing during the festive season. “Currently, we have 16 teams of two members each engaged for testing in Noida. With the November 12 order to intensify testing, we will now have to scale up our team by about 20-25%. We will make an assessment of the testing done on Tuesday and based on that, we will deploy more people on the ground. Our RT-PCR target of 1,200 tests per day will continue as before,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, the chief medical officer of Noida. The district magistrate said that Noida had adequate antigen kits but he would write to the government for more. “I have asked the CMO to send a letter for more antigen kits today (Monday) itself. We will aim for 3,500 antigen tests by Tuesday,” said Suhas LY, the Noida district magistrate. Officials said that apart from increasing the rate of antigen tests, Noida would also start a 100-bed private Covid hospital, which will increase the bed capacity to 1,000. But the officials, however, pointed out that the government should have increased the number of RT-PCR tests because tests using the rapid antigen method are often reported to have thrown up a large number of false negatives. Most governments have been focusing on antigen tests because they give out reports within hours. In Ghaziabad, too, testing will be scaled up in the border areas. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “A large number of people go to Delhi daily in connection with work. So, it has been decided to increase testing in such places. We are planning to set up separate teams for border areas and fix a daily target for them.” While intensive testing is underway in areas such as Indirapuram, Kaushambi, Kavi Nagar and Vijay Nagar, where maximum number of cases are being reported, there’s a move towards increasing the number of Covid beds in Ghaziabad. A meeting with IMA officials has been planned for Tuesday in this regard. For the upcoming Chhath festival on November 20, both Noida and Ghaziabad have appealed to residents to go for small gatherings at the ghats and instead celebrate at home. “After the festival is over, we will intensify our surveillance drives and contact tracing,” the Ghaziabad DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/noida-gzb-to-scale-up-antigen-tests/articleshow/79254004.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
November 17, 2020||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad to scale up antigen tests||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: The surge in Covid cases in Delhi has prompted the Noida and Ghaziabad administrations to increase testing in areas bordering the capital. While both districts have decided to increase the daily target of antigen tests to 3,500 from 2,000, the number of RT-PCR tests — considered the gold standard — will remain the same. Noida currently has been conducting 1,000 RT-PCR tests daily while in Ghaziabad, the number is 1,100. The increase in the number of tests will also require the administrations to increase the number of health workers by 20-25%. The UP government has already instructed districts to scale up testing during the festive season. “Currently, we have 16 teams of two members each engaged for testing in Noida. With the November 12 order to intensify testing, we will now have to scale up our team by about 20-25%. We will make an assessment of the testing done on Tuesday and based on that, we will deploy more people on the ground. Our RT-PCR target of 1,200 tests per day will continue as before,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, the chief medical officer of Noida. The district magistrate said that Noida had adequate antigen kits but he would write to the government for more. “I have asked the CMO to send a letter for more antigen kits today (Monday) itself. We will aim for 3,500 antigen tests by Tuesday,” said Suhas LY, the Noida district magistrate. Officials said that apart from increasing the rate of antigen tests, Noida would also start a 100-bed private Covid hospital, which will increase the bed capacity to 1,000. But the officials, however, pointed out that the government should have increased the number of RT-PCR tests because tests using the rapid antigen method are often reported to have thrown up a large number of false negatives. Most governments have been focusing on antigen tests because they give out reports within hours. In Ghaziabad, too, testing will be scaled up in the border areas. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said, “A large number of people go to Delhi daily in connection with work. So, it has been decided to increase testing in such places. We are planning to set up separate teams for border areas and fix a daily target for them.” While intensive testing is underway in areas such as Indirapuram, Kaushambi, Kavi Nagar and Vijay Nagar, where maximum number of cases are being reported, there’s a move towards increasing the number of Covid beds in Ghaziabad. A meeting with IMA officials has been planned for Tuesday in this regard. For the upcoming Chhath festival on November 20, both Noida and Ghaziabad have appealed to residents to go for small gatherings at the ghats and instead celebrate at home. “After the festival is over, we will intensify our surveillance drives and contact tracing,” the Ghaziabad DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noida-gzb-to-scale-up-antigen-tests/articleshow/79252804.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
November 17, 2020||Noida||Don’t lower your guard, says Noida district magistrate||From stepping up the “track-test-treat” approach to scaling up contact tracing and mapping of areas with high cases, Noida district magistrate Suhas LY lays down measures planned to tackle rising Covid cases in Noida. He also tells TOI about containment in areas neighbouring Delhi, where cases have been increasing by leaps and bounds. ExcerptsWith a spike in Covid cases in Delhi, what measures are being planned for Noida?Suhas: First of all, I’d like to extend the season’s greetings to all residents on the occasion of Diwali and other festivals. Over the past few months, we have learnt several things about the pandemic. One of them is that those who lower the guard have a high risk of getting affected by it. So, caution is extremely important, especially during the festival season and considering Noida’s proximity to other areas with high cases Will sampling, surveillance and contact tracing be ramped up on the ground?Suhas: Yes, we will step up our track, test and treat approach. The number of teams involved in tracking symptomatic patients would be increased and the focus would be on intensive and early tracking to keep the mortality low Will there be an additional focus on surveillance and testing in areas neighbouring Delhi?Suhas: Areas where cases are high are mapped regularly. As we gradually open up all activities, micro-containment strategies would be applied in keeping with the needs and government order The state government has directed that the rate of antigen tests be increased from 3,500 to 2,000 daily. What is the kind of manpower and the number of kits that will be required for this?Suhas: We already have one of the highest testing ratios per million in the state and NCR. More than a quarter of our residents have already been tested. Unlike other areas, GB Nagar has many private labs for testing patients. If we look at the positivity rate of samples collected from societies at large, it is on a par with other districts (less than 5%). But if we add the positivity rate from labs that do targeted testing, the numbers become higher. We will increase testing and try to identify all cases. The important thing is to keep the mortality rate to a minimum Are there plans to increase ICU beds?Suhas: Being home to tertiary care centres, GB Nagar has patients from neighbouring places too. We are regularly monitoring the situation and will take all necessary steps to ensure treatment facilities are available to residents all the time. For the time being, our bed capacity is sufficient What about Covid preparedness?Suhas: All activities in terms of hospital beds, experts for comorbid patients, increased check on home isolation patients, sampling drives and contact tracing would be intensified. I would request residents to follow the norms that have already been suggested for preventing Covid||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/dont-lower-your-guard-says-dm/articleshow/79252811.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Remarks on KIIFB part of CAG’s final report, not draft||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The findings against KIIFB is part of the final audit report of the comptroller and auditor general, to be tabled in the state assembly, and not its draft report as claimed by finance minister T M Thomas Isaac. This will mean that the breach of privilege charges raised against Isaac could become more serious as the report is supposed to be kept a secret till it is tabled in the assembly. The CAG officials concerned had submitted the final audit report of the state finances, which made scathing remarks on KIIFB, to the state government on November 6. Isaac lashed out at the CAG for its KIIFB remarks on November 14, saying the CAG had termed the KIIFB loans as unconstitutional and it had never said so in its last nine years of KIIFB audit. A statement from CAG to the press information bureau -- to be despatched to the media -- on November 11 also said the report was submitted on November 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-remarks-on-kiifb-part-of-cags-final-report-not-draft/articleshow/79253996.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Media mostly balanced in TJ coverage, says Centre in SC||NEW DELHI: The Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday that most mainstream media acted with responsibility in presenting balanced, factual reports on the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin and only a minuscule section targeted the minority community, accusing the event of spreading coronavirus during the initial days of the pandemic. “The majority of leading national newspapers of the country, including print editions such as TOI, HT and Indian Express have carried largely factual reports in this context. Online news portals such as Print and Wire have also undertaken objective reporting of events concerning the Tablighi Jamaat,” the information and broadcasting (I&B) ministry said. The Centre’s reply was in response to a PIL filed by Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind, which had accused the government of doing little to stop circulation of fake news targetting the minority community. The government said it had taken prompt action against fake news. “The ministry of electronics and information technology has issued directions for blocking 743 accounts or URLs in Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Instagram. Some of these URLs were related to Tablighi Jamaat and were communal in nature and were giving religious colour on corona issue and were anticipated to create a public order situation,” it informed the SC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/media-mostly-balanced-in-tj-coverage-says-centre-in-sc/articleshow/79254001.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Samples tested falls to 25,000, TPR stands at 10.8%||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Covid-19 was confirmed in 2,710 more people in the state on Monday as the number of tested in the last 24 hours fell to as low as 25,141. The day also saw 6,567 recoveries. Among the new cases, 2,655 are cases of local transmission and the source of infection of 269 remains untraceable. Meanwhile, 19 deaths have been confirmed as due to Covid, taking the death toll in the state to 1,889. Among the new cases, 39 are health workers and 55 have travelled to the state from outside. At present, there are 70,925 patients are under treatment for Coronavirus infection while a total of 4,54,774 people have so far recovered from the disease in the state. The test positivity rate as on Monday stood at 10.78%. Till date, a total of 54,98,108 samples have been sent for testing. Malappuram reported the highest number of cases, 496, followed by Kozhikode (402), Ernakulam (279), Thrissur (228), Alappuzha (226), Thiruvananthapuram (204), Kollam (191), Palakkad (185), Kottayam (165), Kannur (110), Idukki (83), Kasaragod (64), Pathanamthitta (40) and Wayanad (37). There are currently 3,19,262 people under surveillance across the state, of which 3,01,739 are isolated at their homes or institutional quarantine centres and 17,523 are in hospitals. As many as 1,815 people were admitted to the hospitals on Monday. One new hotspot each was declared in Idukki, Wayanad and Ernakulam districts as nine places were excluded. There are 600 hotspots in the state now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-samples-tested-falls-to-25000-tpr-stands-at-10-8/articleshow/79254009.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Comply with 26% FDI cap, govt tells digital media companies||NEW DELHI: Days after digital news media and streaming platforms were brought under the regulatory control of the information and broadcasting (I&B) ministry, the government on Monday directed digital media outlets to ensure compliance with the Centre’s September 2019 directive to bring foreign direct investment (FDI) limit under the 26% cap. The notice said that companies exceeding the 26% FDI limit have until October 15, 2021, to ensure compliance. All digital media companies, regardless of the extent of FDI, must also share details of their shareholding pattern, directors and shareholders, promoters and significant beneficial owners, and confirmation with regard to compliance with pricing, documentation and reporting requirements under the FDI Policy, Foreign Exchange Management (Non-Debt Instruments) Rules, 2019, and Foreign Exchange Management (Mode of Payment and Reporting of Nondebt Instruments) Regulations, 2019, with the I&B ministry within one month. Digital media outlets have also been asked to furnish their past and existing foreign and downstream investments, PAN details, latest audited and unaudited profit and loss statement, and balance sheets along with auditor reports. This, the ministry said, was part of enforcement of the 26% cap on foreign investments in digital media, notified on September 18, 2019. Companies with higher than 26% FDI will also need to inform the I&B ministry by December 16 the steps they intend to take to bring it under 26%, and seek approval to continue operations. Any fresh foreign investments will also need the Centre’s approval as per the requirements of the FDI policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/comply-with-26-fdi-cap-govt-tells-digital-media-companies/articleshow/79254017.cms||Swati Mathur
November 17, 2020||India||CBI books 16 for ‘defaming’ SC, AP HC judges||NEW DELHI/ AMRAVATI: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked 16 individuals for posting alleged defamatory material against Supreme Court and Andhra Pradesh high court judges on social media, taking over investigations from the state CID, officials said on Monday. CBI, on the orders of the Andhra Pradesh high court, has taken over the investigation in 12 cases registered by the state CID on the complaint of B Rajasekhar, the registrar general of the court, the officials said. On October 12, the high court directed the central agency to probe the case and submit a report to it in a sealed cover within eight weeks. The next hearing of the case is on December 14. The CBI office in Visakhapatnam registered the case under various sections, including 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation), of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and section 67 of the Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-books-16-for-defaming-sc-ap-hc-judges/articleshow/79254020.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kozhikode||Kerala: Hospital staffer arrested for rape bid on Covid-19 patient||KOZHIKODE: Atholi police on Monday arrested a hospital staffer for allegedly attempting to sexually assault a woman Covid-19 patient at a Covid hospital functioning at the Malabar Medical College (MMC) hospital at Ulliyeri in the district. The accused has been identified as Ashwin Krishna of Chelanoor. Police have slapped IPC sections 376 R/w 511, 354 and 354 D on him. The incident took place around 11.40pm on Sunday. The hospital management had suspended the employee after the incident came to light. MMC authorities said that the accused was working in the purchase section of MMC and was deputed for duty at the Covid hospital functioning in the nursing college building. The woman was admitted to the hospital after she tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday evening. Later, her parents too tested positive and were admitted at the same facility on Sunday. According to the woman’s complaint, the accused had taken her phone number from the hospital register and had sent her multiple messages over WhatsApp, following which she had complained to the duty doctors on Sunday. Though the accused later telephoned the woman, she did not attend the call. Her complaint said the accused came to meet her around 10.40pm and said that the doctor was calling her. But instead of taking her to the doctor, he allegedly took her to the unoccupied fourth floor of the building and pushed her out of the lift and attempted to rape her. The woman, however, managed to escape by quickly getting into the lift and reached the ground floor. Various political parties, including CPM and Congress, took out protest marches to the medical college on Monday demanding arrest of the accused. The state women’s commission has suo motu registered a case based on the incident and has asked the district police chief (Kozhikode rural) to submit a report. This is not the first such incident happening in the state. In September first week, police had arrested an ambulance driver for raping a 19-year-old Covid-19 patient inside the ambulance at Aranmula in Pathanamthitta district. In another incident in September, a health officer in Thiruvananthapuram was booked and suspended from service after a woman lodged a police complaint against him for allegedly molesting her when she visited his residence seeking a Covid negative certificate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/hospital-staffer-arrested-for-rape-bid-on-covid-19-patient/articleshow/79254026.cms||---
November 17, 2020||---||Both of Nitish’s deputy CMs are close to their predecessor Sushil||PATNA/ BETTIAH: BJP’s experiment with two deputy CMs in Bihar has given CM Nitish Kumar a pair of understudies cut from the same cloth, both in terms of political moorings and career trajectory. The most obvious commonality between 64-year-old Tarkishore Prasad, a staunch RSS man and four-time Katihar MLA, and Renu Devi, who has risen from being an insurance agent to Bihar’s first woman deputy CM, is that both are close to their predecessor Sushil Modi. Tarkishore, the older of Nitish’s two new deputies, was associated with BJP’s student wing ABVP before plunging into full-time politics in 1980. But it wasn’t until February 2005 that he was elected to the assembly for the first time. Tarkishore is counted among the most influential of BJP functionaries. In this election, Tarkishore won the seat for the fourth time by over 12,000 votes. Before being sworn-in as deputy CM, he was unanimously elected as the BJP Legislature Party leader. Soon after taking the oath of office on Monday, he said, “The entire team will work under the leadership of CM Nitish Kumar to put Bihar on the path to development and fulfil the dream of making it a developed state.” Like him, not for nothing is Renu Devi described in BJP circles as a “lambi race ki ghodi” (thoroughbred). In 1991, around the time L K Advani’s rath yatra was stopped by the then Lalu Prasad government at Samastipur, a young Renu was drawn to the VHP. A year later, she was made the district president of Durga Vahini, VHP’s women wing. As a successful Durga Vahini activist, Renu soon joined the BJP. Her political fortunes looked up when BJP shifted her to Bettiah in 2000. In 2005, Renu became a minister in the Nitish Kumar government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/both-of-nitishs-deputy-cms-are-close-to-their-predecessor-sushil/articleshow/79254039.cms||Ramashankar
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Gurugram cops to scan cameras on road TOI reporter was chased by stalkers||GURUGRAM: Police will inspect a 5km stretch from Mayfield Garden to Sector 55 on which a TOI reporter and her family were chased by three men in an SUV. The cops have already questioned the cabby who was driving reporter Shubhra Pant, her parents and a friend on Diwali night. A complaint related to the case has already been registered at Sector 50 police station. “We will take the cab driver along the route and look for CCTV cameras that are installed there,” a police officer said. The police will then scan footage from the cameras to identify the SUV and the three men who were inside the car on Saturday night. Pant and her family were returning after a Diwali dinner from Mayfield Garden when the three men, possibly drunk, chased them in an SUV. They drove in a zigzag manner, repeatedly shouting at the driver and signalling him to roll down the windows. Calls to the police helpline number did not help either, as they kept directing them to another line. There was not a single PCR van on the 6km stretch, which passes through the heart of the city. It was quick thinking on the part of the driver, who steered the car into a village, which helped stave off the stalkers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/cops-to-scan-cameras-on-road-toi-reporter-was-chased-by-stalkers/articleshow/79252934.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: ‘Decision on more pilgrims soon’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran has said that the government is open to the idea of allowing more pilgrims per day to Sabarimala temple. He said a decision will be taken in consultation with all departments concerned. “The temple revenue has been severely hit and it is known to everyone. At present, only 1,000 people are allowed a day. It is a fact that the mandala-makaravilakku festival season cannot be run with the revenue generated from the restricted entry of devotees. Hence, the government support will be there for the smooth conduct of the pilgrimage season,” said the devaswom minister. The minister said that there is no revenue from the temples under the devaswom board such that the salaries and pensions for the employees can be disbursed. Hence, the government will support the board like it did earlier. Meanwhile, devotees from Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu were the first to have darshan on Vrichikam 1 as per virtual queue registration. All the devotees who are coming for darshan are subjected to Covid-19 test at Nilackal. After reviewing the facilities and preparations made at the Sannidhanam, the devaswom minister said the pilgrimage is being conducted as per strict Covid-19 protocols and there will be no compromise on that. He said the police are ensuring that the social distancing is maintained at the Sannidhanam and also along the trekking path from Pamba to the hill shrine. Pedestal type hand sanitizer dispensers have been set up at 23 spots along the trekking path. At nadapanthal, special arrangements have been made to conduct disinfection at regular intervals. Thermal vaporisation fogging machines are being used for disinfection at Sannidhanam and surrounding areas. Meanwhile, the director of health services Dr R L Saritha convened a review meeting of the health department at the general hospital in Pamba. The hospitals at Nilackal, Pamba and Sannidhanam will function round the clock and will have facilities like casualty, lab and pharmacy. All these hospitals will have ICU facilities also to provide emergency care. Five emergency medical care centres have been set up along the trekking path between Pamba and Sannidhanam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-decision-on-more-pilgrims-soon/articleshow/79254041.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Faridabad||Pup that lived after coming under train in Faridabad finds home in UK||By Shahnawaz AlamGURUGRAM: Both her forelegs severed and her hind legs maimed — that’s the condition in which an RPF constable found a young stray dog on a railway track in Faridabad last year. Rocky, now three years old, had come under a train at Ballabhgarh railway station and almost bled to death. The constable, Chanderpal Tanwar, rushed her to a shelter home, run by People for Animals (PFA) trust, where she was operated on. Rocky battled for life over the next few months. Love from her rescuers and animal lovers, besides medical care, put the resilient dog on the path to recovery. Rocky was a fighter. With every passing week, she regained strength and her rescuers hope that she would walk again. Rocky isn’t just back on her feet now, she is also ready to fly. This Wednesday, she will board a flight to the UK, where a new home awaits her. PFA had made a video on Rocky’s miraculous recovery, also drawing attention to the deaths of animals in such accidents – the internet took the story well beyond Indian shores and humanity took over from there. A family in the Cotswolds expressed interest in adopting Rocky. Before she heads to the Cotswolds from the Faridabad shelter home, Rocky will stay for a while in London, under the care of Wild at Heart Foundation for further treatment of her legs. Ravi Dubey, president of PFA (Faridabad), said: “On October 19 last year, we received a message from RPF constable Chanderpal, who informed us that a puppy had come under a running train and was bleeding severely. Her forelegs were crushed. Rocky was brought to Aastha shelter home, where veterinary surgeon Dr Mahesh Verma examined her. Unfortunately, there was no alternative to amputating the legs.” Verma added, “Rocky had lost a lot of blood due to the accident and we had to transfuse blood. Her health started to recover gradually. She started to walk with the help of prosthetic legs and may not need further surgery. She can move around, eat from a bowl and freely play once again,” said Verma. Tanwar said he had acted instinctively in picking up the dog and rushing her to the vet. “We received information that an accident had occurred on the railway tracks. Upon reaching the spot, we found the dog screaming for help. We immediately took her to the animal rescue shelter. Thankfully, her life could be saved.” Rocky struggles to walk on her deformed limbs but has been coping well, using her hind legs and chin for balance. The Wild at Heart Foundation wants to ensure that all options are explored for Rocky’s treatment. “In March this year, Wild at Heart Foundation reached out to PFA and expressed ITS desire to provide better treatment to Rocky. They also promised to find a new home for her. The process to send her to the UK started in July. Rocky has completed all the formalities, including a rabies test, a clearance from the UK animal department, and a clearance from the animal husbandry ministry. She will finally board the flight on November 18 to the UK,” said Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/pup-that-lived-after-coming-under-train-finds-home-in-uk/articleshow/79254127.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Pup that lived after coming under train in Faridabad finds home in UK||By Shahnawaz AlamGURUGRAM: Both her forelegs severed and her hind legs maimed — that’s the condition in which an RPF constable found a young stray dog on a railway track in Faridabad last year. Rocky, now three years old, had come under a train at Ballabhgarh railway station and almost bled to death. The constable, Chanderpal Tanwar, rushed her to a shelter home, run by People for Animals (PFA) trust, where she was operated on. Rocky battled for life over the next few months. Love from her rescuers and animal lovers, besides medical care, put the resilient dog on the path to recovery. Rocky was a fighter. With every passing week, she regained strength and her rescuers hope that she would walk again. Rocky isn’t just back on her feet now, she is also ready to fly. This Wednesday, she will board a flight to the UK, where a new home awaits her. PFA had made a video on Rocky’s miraculous recovery, also drawing attention to the deaths of animals in such accidents – the internet took the story well beyond Indian shores and humanity took over from there. A family in the Cotswolds expressed interest in adopting Rocky. Before she heads to the Cotswolds from the Faridabad shelter home, Rocky will stay for a while in London, under the care of Wild at Heart Foundation for further treatment of her legs. Ravi Dubey, president of PFA (Faridabad), said: “On October 19 last year, we received a message from RPF constable Chanderpal, who informed us that a puppy had come under a running train and was bleeding severely. Her forelegs were crushed. Rocky was brought to Aastha shelter home, where veterinary surgeon Dr Mahesh Verma examined her. Unfortunately, there was no alternative to amputating the legs.” Verma added, “Rocky had lost a lot of blood due to the accident and we had to transfuse blood. Her health started to recover gradually. She started to walk with the help of prosthetic legs and may not need further surgery. She can move around, eat from a bowl and freely play once again,” said Verma. Tanwar said he had acted instinctively in picking up the dog and rushing her to the vet. “We received information that an accident had occurred on the railway tracks. Upon reaching the spot, we found the dog screaming for help. We immediately took her to the animal rescue shelter. Thankfully, her life could be saved.” Rocky struggles to walk on her deformed limbs but has been coping well, using her hind legs and chin for balance. The Wild at Heart Foundation wants to ensure that all options are explored for Rocky’s treatment. “In March this year, Wild at Heart Foundation reached out to PFA and expressed ITS desire to provide better treatment to Rocky. They also promised to find a new home for her. The process to send her to the UK started in July. Rocky has completed all the formalities, including a rabies test, a clearance from the UK animal department, and a clearance from the animal husbandry ministry. She will finally board the flight on November 18 to the UK,” said Dubey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pup-that-lived-after-coming-under-train-finds-home-in-uk/articleshow/79252951.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Kolkata||College student found hanging in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 23-year-old computer science student of a reputable private college in Anandapur reportedly ended his life by hanging from the ceiling fan of his PG room in Garfa on Monday afternoon. The student, Utkarsh Raj, originally a resident of Muzaffarpur in Bihar, was reportedly unsure about his career. He got a job during campus placement, but that was below his expectation, said police. Though the police are yet to find any suicide note, they said his two friends, Subham Goenka and Mohit Chowdhury — who are also final year students and stayed with him in the same PG accommodation — claimed that Raj used to speak to them about his frustration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/college-student-found-hanging-in-kolkata/articleshow/79254055.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||New Covid cases below 30,000; tally at a 129-day low||NEW DELHI: Two days after Diwali, India recorded the lowest number of fresh Covid-19 cases in 129 days, with the daily tally falling below 30,000 on Monday for the first time since July 13. The steep decline in the national count of cases over the past two days — Sunday’s number was 30,126 — can be attributed to low testing as well as Diwali festivities. On Saturday, the country had recorded more than 42,000 new infections. India reported 28,574 fresh cases on Monday, the lowest since 27,449 recorded on July 10. Meanwhile, Delhi recorded the highest number of fresh Covid-19 cases in the country for the second week running with Kerala in second place. The number of new Covid-19 cases in the capital rose to 46,876 last week (November 8-15), up slightly from 46,159 reported in the previous week. Kerala reported the second highest number of cases during the week at 39,471, although the count had fallen from the previous week’s tally of 45,979. In fact, the weekly Covid-19 count of cases shows a clear north-south divide. While cases have been falling across south India, numbers have been shooting up in most states in the north. On Monday, 451 deaths were recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-covid-cases-below-30000-tally-at-a-129-day-low/articleshow/79254050.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Ghaziabad||Air quality improves from severe to poor, but may worsen again today||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: After a spike in pollution levels during the Diwali weekend when the average Air Quality Index (AQI) in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad was close to 450 ("severe"), Monday saw a cleaner day. Although the air was "poor" in all three cities, the AQI was significantly low and was at 207 in Ghaziabad, 243 in Noida and 226 in Greater Noida. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Sunday, the three cities saw an AQI of 448, 441 and 417, respectively. "We will introduce GRAP regulations for pollution control after task-force orders. Till then, GRAP regulations for "very poor" AQI will continue to be in place. We are all working on the right side of caution," said Praveen Kumar, the regional officer, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Noida. Officials, however, said that the air quality might worsen on Tuesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted foggy mornings in the region for the week ahead. The maximum temperature in Noida was 27 degrees Celsius on Monday. The city recorded an average humidity of 79%. The maximum temperature in both Greater Noida and Ghaziabad was 26 degrees Celsius. The sky was partly cloudy on Monday but there was no rainfall. A clear sky is expected for a few days from Tuesday. The major contributor to the pollution levels over the weekend was PM2.5. Meanwhile, a day after an overall "severe" AQI at 435, Delhi also saw a dip in AQI to "poor" category on Monday at 221, stated data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The dip was due to evening showers on Sunday, followed by an increase in local wind speed, it added. The agency has forecast the spell of relatively clean air to continue for the next 48 hours. The AQI likely to touch "moderate" level in the next 24 hours, it added. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi, said, the northern plains saw light to moderate showers on Sunday, with snowfall in the mountains. With withdrawal of western disturbance, wind speed is likely to remain good. "On Sunday, wind speed touched 24 km/hr, and it was high on Monday too. A combination of rain and good wind speed has completely settled the pollutants and is allowing faster dispersal of local emissions," he added. Delhi also saw a change in wind direction to easterly on Sunday, reducing the impact of stubble fire-related intrusion. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's air on Sunday was 4%, which fell to 1% on Monday. "Surface wind is north-easterly in direction and is energetic, which is very favourable for pollutant dispersion. A change in boundary layer wind direction is forecast for Tuesday afternoon, but since the fire-related emissions have reduced, significant impact is not expected," said SAFAR on Monday. According to Early Warning System for Delhi, favourable meteorological conditions over the next 24 hours could push Delhi's air into the "moderate" category, while it could be between "moderate" and "poor" the next day. In Gurgaon, the AQI improved significantly after Diwali owing to rainfall and strong winds and reached the "poor" category with AQI recorded at 246 on Monday. The air quality was in the "severe" range on Sunday with an AQI of 425. This was considerably higher than Saturday's 358 and Friday's 324, both of which were in "very poor" category. According to officials in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, the air quality is likely to improve to "moderate" category on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/air-quality-improves-from-severe-to-poor-but-may-worsen-again-today/articleshow/79254087.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Noida||Air quality improves from severe to poor, but may worsen again today||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: After a spike in pollution levels during the Diwali weekend when the average Air Quality Index (AQI) in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad was close to 450 ("severe"), Monday saw a cleaner day. Although the air was "poor" in all three cities, the AQI was significantly low and was at 207 in Ghaziabad, 243 in Noida and 226 in Greater Noida. Track the pollution level in your cityOn Sunday, the three cities saw an AQI of 448, 441 and 417, respectively. "We will introduce GRAP regulations for pollution control after task-force orders. Till then, GRAP regulations for "very poor" AQI will continue to be in place. We are all working on the right side of caution," said Praveen Kumar, the regional officer, Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board (UPPCB), Noida. Officials, however, said that the air quality might worsen on Tuesday. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted foggy mornings in the region for the week ahead. The maximum temperature in Noida was 27 degrees Celsius on Monday. The city recorded an average humidity of 79%. The maximum temperature in both Greater Noida and Ghaziabad was 26 degrees Celsius. The sky was partly cloudy on Monday but there was no rainfall. A clear sky is expected for a few days from Tuesday. The major contributor to the pollution levels over the weekend was PM2.5. Meanwhile, a day after an overall "severe" AQI at 435, Delhi also saw a dip in AQI to "poor" category on Monday at 221, stated data from the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The dip was due to evening showers on Sunday, followed by an increase in local wind speed, it added. The agency has forecast the spell of relatively clean air to continue for the next 48 hours. The AQI likely to touch "moderate" level in the next 24 hours, it added. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi, said, the northern plains saw light to moderate showers on Sunday, with snowfall in the mountains. With withdrawal of western disturbance, wind speed is likely to remain good. "On Sunday, wind speed touched 24 km/hr, and it was high on Monday too. A combination of rain and good wind speed has completely settled the pollutants and is allowing faster dispersal of local emissions," he added. Delhi also saw a change in wind direction to easterly on Sunday, reducing the impact of stubble fire-related intrusion. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's air on Sunday was 4%, which fell to 1% on Monday. "Surface wind is north-easterly in direction and is energetic, which is very favourable for pollutant dispersion. A change in boundary layer wind direction is forecast for Tuesday afternoon, but since the fire-related emissions have reduced, significant impact is not expected," said SAFAR on Monday. According to Early Warning System for Delhi, favourable meteorological conditions over the next 24 hours could push Delhi's air into the "moderate" category, while it could be between "moderate" and "poor" the next day. In Gurgaon, the AQI improved significantly after Diwali owing to rainfall and strong winds and reached the "poor" category with AQI recorded at 246 on Monday. The air quality was in the "severe" range on Sunday with an AQI of 425. This was considerably higher than Saturday's 358 and Friday's 324, both of which were in "very poor" category. According to officials in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, the air quality is likely to improve to "moderate" category on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/air-quality-improves-from-severe-to-poor-but-may-worsen-again-today/articleshow/79254084.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Tidco houses allotment to be completed by December 20||AMARAVATI: After dilly-dallying for nearly two years, the state government has prepared a plan for allotment of houses built by Township and Infrastructure Development Corporation (Tidco). The government has directed district collectors and municipal commissioners to complete the allotment by December 20. Sources said that the reluctance of banks to grant loans to beneficiaries was the prime reason for the delay in handing over of housing units. “Municipal commissioners and officials of Mission of Elimination of Poverty in Municipal Areas (Mepma) have been asked to coordinate with the banks to finalise the bank linkage,” said municipal administration minister Botcha Satyanarayana. Tidco launched construction of nearly 5 lakh houses in G+3 apartment model during the TDP regime in urban areas. Although the then government wanted to hand over the housing units a little ahead of the general elections, it could not do so as majority of the structures were not finished by the time the election notification was issued. Sources said that basic structure of nearly 2.6 lakh houses was completed in different towns while the work on the remaining 2.4 lakh did not commence due to various technical issues, including pending land acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-tidco-houses-allotment-to-be-completed-by-december-20/articleshow/79254098.cms||Samdani MN
November 17, 2020||India||Study says 43% of children have antibodies of coronaviruses||NEW DELHI: Why are children less likely to become infected with SARS-CoV2? A recent study published in Science magazine says it could be that children already have antibodies to other coronaviruses and these antibodies may block SARS-CoV2, saving children from the new pandemic. A group of researchers at Francis Crick Institute in London, led by George Kassiotis, who heads the Retroviral Immunology Laboratory at the institute, reported that on an average, only 5% of adults have these antibodies, as compared to 43% of children. About one in five of the colds that infect children are caused by viruses from this family. Antibodies developed during these colds may help children fight SARS-COV2. Researchers assessed blood samples taken before the pandemic from over 300 adults and 48 children and adolescents and compared them with samples from more than 170 people who had been infected with the new coronavirus. The study showed many children, and some adults, carried one antibody in particular that can prevent coronaviruses. Now, researchers are planning to expand the study to examine it further. Since the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, different studies have shown that the infection affects children and adults differently. The number of children infected seems to be much lower than that of adults, even as children are usually a risk group for serious respiratory infections. Even in cases where children have got infected, the disease has usually remained mild.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/study-says-43-of-children-have-antibodies-of-coronaviruses/articleshow/79254094.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana crosses 2 lakh tally, 50% cases in just 60 days||CHANDIGARH: As Haryana recorded around two lakh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the last one lakh cases of the deadly virus have been added in just two months — from September 15 to November 15. During this period, not only were the highest numbers of cases reported, with an average of around 1,667 in a day, but also 1,000 deaths, with an average of around 17 in a day. However, it took around eight months for the state to reach these figures of two lakh cases, in which the first one lakh cases were registered between March 14 and September 15. During this six-month period, around 1,000 deaths were recorded. As for recovery, the state has witnessed the highest number of one lakh recoveries during the past 60 days, as around one lakh people recovered from the deadly virus from September 16 to November 16. According to the state health department officials, around 72% Covid-19 infected persons in the state are in home isolation and only those with severe symptoms are admitted in hospitals. Haryana additional chief secretary (health and home department) Rajeev Arora said there is a cycle, where cases first increase in districts sharing boundaries with Delhi and gradually spread to other parts of the state. “We are taking all kinds of precautions and fortunately our fatality rate is comparatively low. The situation is going to be like this unless some permanent solution is found. We are improving our infrastructure/ facilities to deal with it and staff is working round the clock,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-crosses-2-lakh-tally-50-cases-in-just-60-days/articleshow/79254115.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Thakkar gets bail from Mumbai court, may be freed today||MUMBAI: A metropolitan magistrate in Mumbai’s Esplanade court on Monday granted bail to Sameet Thakkar, a Nagpur resident, who was arrested by Mumbai police for his allegedly offensive tweets against Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray and his son, Aaditya Thackeray, also a minister, reports Swati Deshpande.The court directed his release on a cash bail of Rs 25,000 or PR bond of Rs 20,000.Chandansingh Shekhawat, his advocate, said Thakkar is likely to be released on Tuesday, after completing all formalities. Thakkar also appealed in the SC on Monday for immediate release on bail, with his counsel Mahesh Jethmalani contending that the Nagpur police had violated Thakkar’s fundamental rights by arresting and parading him in public. The Nagpur police had also tied him with a rope and had covered his face with a black hood while producing him before a local court, Jethmalani said. The case against him is of alleged obscenity and hate speech for social media post against the CM and Aaditya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/thakkar-gets-bail-from-mumbai-court-may-be-freed-today/articleshow/79254143.cms||Swati Deshpande
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Rain brings down pollution in Gurugram, air likely to improve further today||By: Akanksha Gupta GURUGRAM: The city air quality index (AQI) has improved significantly after Diwali owing to rainfall and strong winds and reached the 'poor' category with AQI recorded at 246 on Monday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe air quality was in the 'severe' range on Sunday with an AQI of 425. This was considerably higher than Saturday's 358 and Friday's 324, both of which were in 'very poor' category. According to the officials in the Haryana State Pollution Control Board, the air quality is likely to improve further to "moderate" category on Tuesday. Two of the four monitoring stations, Vikas Sadan and Gwalpahari, recorded AQIs in 'moderate' category, wheras Sector 51 and Teri Gram showed the quality of air in "poor" category. While the AQI was 158 in Gwalpahari and 155 in Vikas Sadan, it was 262 in Sector 51 and 266 in Teri Gram. Rainfall and high wind speed is one of the factor in the improvement of air quality of the city, said officials. However, the air pollution on the eve of Diwali and on the day of Diwali was also lower than last year. "The city air quality is expected to be better in comparison with the adjoining areas. The level of pollution before and after Diwali this year is lower than the neighboring cities because we had implemented an action plan rigorously. The deputy commissioner has monitored the implementation of action plan and the collective efforts of all the departments have brought the good results," said Kuldeep Singh, Regional Officer, HSPCB. "We are concerned about the public health and the environment for which we have engaged with RWAs and the residents have put their efforts and refrained from burning fire crackers. We have established control room for redress of air pollution complaints and provided toll-free number, whatsapp number, e-mail address, social media handles, Sameer apps and CM window to open channels for the public to bring the illegalities to our notice. We have also constituted a number of teams to be vigilant at night hours," Singh added. Meanwhile, a day after an overall "severe" AQI at 435, Delhi saw a dip in AQI to "poor" category on Monday at 221, stated data from Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The dip was due to evening showers on Sunday, followed by an increase in local wind speed, it added. The agency has forecast the spell of relatively clean air to continue for the next 48 hours. The AQI likely to touch "moderate" level in the next 24 hours, it added. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist, IMD, and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, Delhi, said, the northern plains saw light to moderate showers on Sunday, with snowfall in the mountains. With withdrawal of western disturbance, wind speed is likely to remain good. "On Sunday, wind speed touched 24 km/hr, and it was high on Monday too. A combination of rain and good wind speed has completely settled the pollutants and is allowing faster dispersal of local emissions," he added. Delhi also saw a change in wind direction to easterly on Sunday, reducing the impact of stubble fire-related intrusion. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), the contribution of stubble burning to Delhi's air on Sunday was 4%, which fell to 1% on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rain-brings-down-pollution-in-gurugram-air-likely-to-improve-further-today/articleshow/79254144.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Colleges, varsities reopen to low attendance in Haryana||GURGAON: Colleges and universities across Haryana resumed physical classes for the first time in the 2020-21 academic session on Monday. The attendance, however, remained significantly low on the first day. Officials in the education department attributed it to the festive season and the rising number of Covid-19 cases in NCR. As per the SOPs issued by the higher education department, institutions have drawn up a roster and limited the visit of each student to thrice a week. Online classes, however, are to continue until the Covid situation stabilises and fresh directives are issued by the Centre. “Colleges and universities across the state resumed their physical classes in a staggered manner on Monday. Due to the festive season, a few colleges are observing holidays but they will reopen soon too. We have had discussions with the deans and the college administrations and asked them to prepare a plan to rationalise the number of students visiting the campus on a single day. A strict compliance with the SOPs is a must and any dereliction will invite action,” said an education department official. While a few colleges opened on Monday, several others remained shut due to the holiday declared by Gurugram University. A few that did open did not even see 1% attendance. For instance, at Dronacharya Government College, only 20 students turned up. A brief counselling session was held in the open about the government’s plan to roll out a hybrid mode of education — online and offline — and Covid-related protocols to be followed. “The attendance wasn’t encouraging and will take time to improve. There could be several reasons, like the ongoing festive season.We have issued rosters and daywise plans to the faculty and the students,” said Pooja Khullar, the principal of Dronacharya Government College. Colleges have chalked out plans to ensure staggered entry of students on the campus to ensure physical distancing and make monitoring manageable. Some colleges are also planning to roll out the odd-even formula, in which students would be called on the basis of their roll numbers. “As and when the strength increases, we will divide the students in sections, with not more than 20 in each. Also, the classroom sessions are being planned in a way that each student visits the campus only twice a week,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/colleges-varsities-reopen-to-low-attendance-in-haryana/articleshow/79254145.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab doubling rate slips by 59 days in last 2 weeks||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s Covid-19 doubling rate, a vital parameter of the pandemic’s progress, has declined by 59.5 days in the last two weeks of coronavirus resurgence when the national average has gone up by 21.1 days. A lower doubling rate means faster infection. After the October drop, the caseload is on a climb once again since the beginning of November. From 2,518 cases reported in the seven days between October 24 and 30, the number moved to 2,983 in the first week of November and shot up to 4,213 in the second week. Punjab’s doubling rate has come down from 220.2 days on November 1 to 160.7 on November 14, while the national average went up from 125.5 days to 146.6 days. The Punjab health department noticed that the doubling rate had slipped in 15 of 22 districts. Between November 1and 15, it came down from 416 to 250 days in Gurdaspur, 476 to 236 days in Barnala, 290 to 169 days in Ludhiana, 497 to 322 days in Moga, 174 to 92 days in Mohali, 261 to 176 days in Nawanshahr, and 154 to 94 in Muktsar. Punjab Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said: “The cases have increased but the situation is well under control. All measures necessary to contain the virus are being taken.” The state’s daily testing figure has dropped in the last two weeks, and even though the ‘tests per million’ figure remains larger than the national average, the gap is fast shrinking. On November 1, Punjab conducted 5,385 more tests per million, which came down to 2,624 on November 15. The central government has expressed concern over the fall and had asked the state to take corrective steps. On November 15, the state collected only 3,979 test samples, lowest since June. A rising positivity rate in the last fortnight indicates that the virus transmission has picked up speed again in Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-doubling-rate-slips-by-59-days-in-last-2-weeks/articleshow/79254095.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Secretary-rank officer in Delhi under CBI lens for land grab||NEW DELHI: The CBI has registered three separate cases for alleged land grab in J&K in collusion with government officials, in which a secretary-ranked officer at the Centre is also under scanner, officials said on Monday. The cases were earlier probed by the State Vigilance Organisation and the CBI has taken over the probe on the orders of the J&K HC, they said. The cases relate to alleged land grab in Jammu and Samba districts, they said. “...the officers/officials of revenue department of district Jammu had conferred undue benefits upon the illegal occupants of the state land by intentionally ignoring the laid down provisions of the Roshni Act & rules, thereby conferring ownership rights of the state land wrongfully to selective undeserving persons and hence inflicted huge monetary loss to the state exchequer,” CBI spokesperson RK Gaur said. It is alleged that the land grabbing by undeserving elements defeated the purpose of Jammu & Kashmir State Lands (vesting of ownership rights to the Occupants) Act, 2001 aimed at generation of revenue for undertaking development works||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/secretary-rank-officer-in-delhi-under-cbi-lens-for-land-grab/articleshow/79254157.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Mufti opposes eviction of nomadic tribes, says result will be dangerous||SRINAGAR: Jammu & Kashmir Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti on Monday war ned the gover nment against evicting members of the Gujjar-Bakerwal community from forest areas in the UT, saying if they are harassed, the consequences would be dangerous. She visited the upper reaches of Pahalgam in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Monday and met people whose ‘dhoks’ (temporary shelters) were demolished by authorities as part of an anti-encroachment drive. “This is part of the illegal process started by the Centre in J&K after the abrogation of Article 370, under which the people, who live here like nomads — Gujjars, Bakerwals and whose forefathers have been living here for centuries, are being evicted,” Mehbooba said. She said after the Centre made changes in the domicile law, it wants to bring people from the whole country to J&K and evict its own residents. “This is not happening here (in Kashmir) only. If you see in Jammu, in places like Bhatindi, Sujwan, Chatta, wherever there is Muslim population, the Gujjars, the Bakerwals, they (government) pinpoint them and evict them. Where will the people go in winters,” she said. Describing the Gujjar-Bakerwal community as very loyal and peace-loving, she said, “They are being forcibly evicted. I want to tell the Centre not to harass them, otherwise you will have to face dangerous consequences”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mufti-opposes-eviction-of-nomadic-tribes-says-result-will-be-dangerous/articleshow/79254168.cms||---
November 17, 2020||India||Do you back Abdullahs’ & Mufti’s ‘anti-national stand’, BJP asks Cong||NEW DELHI: BJP on Monday attacked Congress for aligning with parties like National Conference and PDP, who have been campaigning for revitalisation of Article 370 and had expressed desire to seek China’s support and international intervention for solution of the Kashmir issue. Two days after Congress’s announcement that it had joined hands with PDP and NC for the forthcoming district development council polls, BJP twice denounced Congress in a space of five hours. “I want to ask Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi, do they want restoration of Article 370? Please tell the nation categorically and clearly, does Congress support annulment of pro people laws?” law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad asked at a press conference, attacking the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, a conglomerate of various J&K parties whose demands have drawn some support from Congress. The signatories to the Gupkar Declaration have appealed to the international community to take note of the situation in the Valley. Prasad highlighted the “anti-national” stand of NC member Farooq Abdullah in seeking China’s support for restoration Article 370, and PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti’s vow not to fly the tricolour unless she was allowed to unfurl the flag J&K used to have before extinction of its special status. Prasad took the field just hours after BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had lashed out at Congress for demanding the restoration of Article 370. Prasad said full restoration of Article 370 would also mean rolling back progressive and pro-poor laws which have been extended to the UT. He said earlier, women from J&K would lose their property rights if they married outside, and listed a whole slew of laws which could not be applied in J&K because of Article 370. The alliance of about 10 regional parties have demanded restoration of Article 370, a demand supported by some senior Congress members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/do-you-back-abdullahs-muftis-anti-national-stand-bjp-asks-cong/articleshow/79254194.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||Rs 40 lakh bond makes MBBS candidates rethink on joining Haryana government colleges||ROHTAK: After successfully cracking the prestigious National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) 2020 examination, Aanchal Devi was expecting to get a seat in the MBBS course in a Haryana medical college till recently. But the Haryana Medical Education & Research department’s November 6 notification making payment of Rs 40 lakh as service bond mandatory for fresh MBBS course students, has upset her plans. "I was getting a seat in private college last year, but didn’t take it due to the capitation fees. I decided to spend one year in preparing for NEET and get into a government medical college in Haryana. This time, I got a score of 609 in the entrance examination, sufficient to get a seat in a state medical college," said Aanchal. She said her family was shocked to find out that the state government had issued a notification asking fresh MBBS course students to pay an annual bond of Rs 10 lakh every year. "How does the state government expect students like me who come from middle-class families to pay this much," she asked. Ankush Siwach, another successful NEET candidate from Rohtak, said that he had secured 666 marks and opted for Rohtak PGIMS medical college during the first counselling. ‘1,500 med students graduate every year, govt jobs less’The new notification has made me rethink whether I should continue the course in the state medical college or opt out," Ankush said. On the state government’s plea that it wants to have doctors in government hospitals and service bond is mandatory for this, he said, "all MBBS students are ready to serve in government hospitals but there is no provision of job guarantee for students." He also pointed out that If the per annum fee was over 50,000 earlier, it has now increased to Rs 10 lakh/annum. Pankaj Bittu, a firstyear MBBS student at PGIMS Rohtak, said it is ironic that while the government is getting the bond signed from students, it recruits only 300-400 new doctors after every two or three years. "At least 1,500 MBBS students pass out every year from Haryana, but the government jobs are much less. The students who don’t get government jobs would unnecessarily be made to pay a bond amount of Rs 40 lakh with interest on it," he added. Dr RS Dahiya, ex-professor at PGIMS Rohtak urged social organisations to come forward to push the state government to roll back its decision to prevent the talent from going out of the state due to such harsh conditions for admission into the MBBS course. A senior professor associated with PGIMS Rohtak said the new policy will destroy medical education completely. "No meritorious student from the state and outside will dare to opt for an MBBS course in state medical colleges due to the condition of a Rs 40-lakh bond," said the doctor. The professor said this was an indirect way to privatise medical education so that only children of the elite would be able to afford it. "If the state government can’t retain talented and top-scoring students, it will directly impact its health infrastructure", he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/rs-40-lakh-bond-makes-mbbs-candidates-rethink-on-joining-haryana-government-colleges/articleshow/79254191.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||Hurricane Iota, maximum Cat 5 strength, makes landfall in Nicaragua||BILWI/ NICARAGUA: Iota made landfall Monday on Nicaragua's northern Caribbean coast as a maximum Category 5 hurricane, accompanied by catastrophic winds, rain and storm surge, a top meteorological official said. "This powerful hurricane Iota is already on the front line, it's already on land. At the moment, the eye of the hurricane is already touching the border of the Haulover coast" in the Caribbean, Marcio Baca, director of meteorology at the Nicaraguan Institute of Territorial Studies (INETER), told a press conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/hurricane-iota-maximum-cat-5-strength-makes-landfall-in-nicaragua/articleshow/79254134.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Business||Multiple suitors in race to acquire stake in BPCL: Govt||NEW DELHI: After months of pause, the BPCL disinvestment process finally got going with “multiple” players evincing interest in acquiring the government’s 53% stake in the oil marketing company. While the names of the companies that have submitted expression of interests (EoIs) were not disclosed, sources told TOI that three-four players were in the zone of contention, although Mukesh Ambani’s Reliance Industries, and global majors such as Saudi Aramco, BP, Total, ExxonMobil and Rosneft stayed away. “We have completed the first round, now the technical advisor (Deloitte) will evaluate the proposals and eligible players over the next two weeks or so,” department of investment and public asset management (Dipam) secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey told TOI. Based on current market price, the government can hope to mop up over Rs 43,700 crore if the transaction goes through. The successful bidder will also have to spend about Rs 23,276 crore to make an open offer for buying another 26% stake from the public. BPCL may turn out to be the first privatisation under the watch of the Narendra Modi government since it came to power over six years ago. Despite its stated policy, it has failed to complete any transaction with private players as lawmakers as well as civil servants have moved with added caution in the wake of multiple investigations, which in many cases continued until almost two decades after the sale. “Strategic disinvestment of BPCL progresses: Now moves to the second stage after multiple expressions of interest have been received,” finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman tweeted. Strategic disinvestment of BPCL progresses: Now moves to the second stage after multiple expressions of interest ha… https://t.co/3KK7rCOSqM— Nirmala Sitharaman (@nsitharaman) 1605530324000The second stage entails evaluation of EoIs to see whether they meet the prescribed financial and other criteria for shortlisting. In the next stage, the shortlisted entities will be asked for RFPs (request for proposals) and financial bids. But this may take months as the pandemic is making visits to plants, infrastructure and other assets difficult. Pandey, however, told TOI that this may not be a major worry as air routes have opened again and technology can aid the evaluation process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/multiple-suitors-in-race-to-acquire-stake-in-bpcl-govt/articleshow/79254288.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Business||Won’t sign free trade agreements, says government||NEW DELHI/ HYDERABAD: The government on Monday said it will not sign free trade agreements, which in reality were “trade deals with China by stealth”, with foreign minister S Jaishankar slamming some of India’s earlier treaties. A day after the signing of RCEP to create the world’s largest trade bloc, Jaishankar said that in the name of openness, India had allowed subsidised products and unfair production advantages from abroad to prevail in the country. Going ahead, whatever India decides now will determine whether the country will become a first-class industrial power or not in the future, he said. A year ago, India had walked out of RCEP, arguing that its interests were not being adequately protected, amid fears that the trade agreement will open the floodgates to cheap Chinese imports. The external affairs minister’s statement came even as the commerce department appeared to be more upfront in blaming the trade agreement with Asean members and suggested that the treaty allowed China to route its goods to India, using third countries. It also blamed the “flawed negotiations” during the UPA regime for the flood of imports. “India is already suffering huge trade imbalance and market distortions with these countries, that have negatively impacted domestic producers and the Indian economy,” a government source said. The department, responsible for trade negotiations, also reiterated the government’s stand on exploring agreements with the US and the European Union. “These are developed countries with large markets, and Indian products and services will actually be competitive here unlike Asean,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wont-sign-free-trade-agreements-says-govt/articleshow/79254325.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Business||NBFCs lose car loan market share on rate war by PSBs||CHENNAI: NBFCs are losing market share to banks in car and SUV financing and are shifting their focus to used cars, two-wheelers and commercial vehicles instead. A combination of capital constraints among NBFCs and renewed aggression from public sector banks (PSBs) has led to this situation, said auto financiers. In a bid to grow their retail portfolio, PSU banks are offering auto loans at 7.25% to 7.7% compared to NBFCs whose rates range from 8.75% to 11%. While State Bank of India (SBI) is offering auto loans starting from 7.7%, others are even cheaper with Central Bank of India offering loans at 7.25%, followed by Canara Bank (7.3%), United Bank of India (7.4%) and Indian Overseas Bank (7.55%). “In recent times, NBFCs have lost market share to PSU banks, which have become more aggressive and that includes Tata Motor Finance,” said Tata Motors group CFO P B Balaji. Unlike banks, NBFCs rely on wholesale funds. Banks are now going slow in lending to finance companies with RBI encouraging banks to take the co-lending model to take advantage of NBFCs’ network. According to M Ramaswamy, chief financial officer at Sundaram Finance, banks are flush with liquidity and can bring down rates. “We are facing pressure in some markets, depending on how aggressive they turn. It is a mixed bag for us — we mostly cater to individuals with higher risk profiles and because of our good ratings, our cost of funds has also come down. So, in certain regions, we have lost market share and in others, we have gained,” he said. Sundaram Finance saw a 20% gap in loan disbursements in the September-ended quarter, 2020. Cholamandalam Investment & Finance Company (CIFC) saw total disbursements decline by 30% year-on-year in its vehicle finance segment for the quarter-ended September 2020, according to research reports of brokerage firm Motilal Oswal. This excludes the tractor and construction equipment (CE) segments. Shriram Transport Finance disbursed ₹650 crore of loans, which was half of last year. Also, 97% of disbursements were in the used vehicle segment. “Our focus is on individual and small truck owners who prefer to buy used vehicles. Normally, banks do not lend to used vehicles because it is time-consuming, requires vehicle valuation and ownership transfer paperwork,” said Umesh Revankar, MD & CEO, Shriram Transport Finance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nbfcs-lose-car-loan-mkt-share-on-rate-war-by-psbs/articleshow/79254345.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Virus is back, Punjab’s doubling rate slips||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s Covid-19 doubling rate, a vital parameter of the pandemic’s progress, has declined by 59.5 days in the last two weeks of coronavirus resurgence when the national average has gone up by 21.1 days. A lower doubling rate means faster infection. After the October drop, the caseload is on a climb once again since the beginning of November. From 2,518 cases reported in the seven days between October 24 and 30, the number moved to 2,983 in the first week of November and shot up to 4,213 in the second week. Punjab’s doubling rate has come down from 220.2 days on November 1 to 160.7 on November 14, while the national average went up from 125.5 days to 146.6 days. The Punjab health department noticed that the doubling rate had slipped in 15 of 22 districts. Between November 1 and 15, it came down from 416 to 250 days in Gurdaspur, 476 to 236 days in Barnala, 290 to 169 days in Ludhiana, 497 to 322 days in Moga, 174 to 92 days in Mohali, 261 to 176 days in Nawanshahr, and 154 to 94 in Muktsar. Punjab Covid-19 spokesperson Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said: “The cases have increased but the situation is well under control. All measures necessary to contain the virus are being taken.” The state’s daily testing figure has dropped in the last two weeks, and even though the ‘tests per million’ figure remains larger than the national average, the gap is fast shrinking. On November 1, Punjab conducted 5,385 more tests per million, which came down to 2,624 on November 15. The central government has expressed concern over the fall and had asked the state to take corrective steps. On November 15, the state collected only 3,979 test samples, lowest since June. A rising positivity rate in the last fortnight indicates that the virus transmission has picked up speed again in Punjab. The positivity rate is the percentage of infected people out of the total tested. It had dropped below 2 in mid-October. R-value, the reproduction number at which Covid-19 or any other infection spreads, has also started to rise and is inching towards 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/virus-is-back-pbs-doubling-rate-slips/articleshow/79252339.cms||Vinod Kumar
November 17, 2020||Shimla||443 new cases raise Himachal Covid tally past 30,000||SHIMLA: Himachal Pradesh raced past 30,000 Covid-19 cases with 443 new cases on Monday, while eight patients succumbed to the virus. The surge has left the state government worried as hospitals and Covid care centres are now packed to capacity. The total number of positive cases in the state is now 30,156 while 443 patients have died.. While 10,000 cases have been reported in last around 25 days, the first 10,000 were reported in a period of around 75 days. The first Covid report in the state was on March 19 — of a 32-year-old youth who returned from Singapore and a 63-year-old Dubai-returned woman, both from Kangra district. There were more cases after that, but things remained under control. By May 3, Himachal had just one active case and was on the verge of becoming Covid-19 free, but then came the surge in cases. Till October 23, the state had reported 20,040 positive cases and 280 deaths due to the virus. By October 31, there were 22,059 positive cases and 312 deaths. In November alone, 131 Covid patients have died. In a matter related to spurt in Covid cases in the state, the advocate general had submitted before the Himachal Pradesh high court district-wise and hospital-wise vacancy position of beds in Covid hospitals and medical colleges. The HC had observed on Friday that sufficient ventilators are not provided in dedicated Covid hospitals and they need to be increased, as Bilaspur district had only four ventilators and in Sirmaur district only one. In a video-conference with officials from Shimla on Sunday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had expressed concern over the increase in number of Covid cases and deaths during the last few days. He said senior doctors must ensure at least three rounds of wards of Covid patients to instil confidence in the patients and that proper protocol must be adopted for treatment of asymptotic patients in home isolation. He had also directed that bed capacity of all Covid hospitals and care centres be increased to meet the requirement in case of sudden spike in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/revised443-new-cases-raise-hp-covid-tally-past-30k/articleshow/79252225.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||GFX with satraHaryana crosses 2L tally, 1L cases added in just 2 months from Sept 15||Chandigarh: As Haryana recorded around two lakh Covid-19 cases on Monday, the last one lakh cases of the deadly virus have been added in just two months — from September 15 to November 15. During this period, not only were the highest numbers of cases reported, with an average of around 1,667 in a day, but also 1,000 deaths, with an average of around 17 in a day. However, it took around eight months for the state to reach these figures of two lakh cases, in which the first one lakh cases were registered between March 14 and September 15. During this six-month period, around 1,000 deaths were recorded. As for recovery, the state has witnessed the highest number of one lakh recoveries during the past 60 days, as around one lakh people recovered from the deadly virus from September 16 to November 16. According to the state health department officials, around 72% Covid-19 infected persons in the state are in home isolation and only those with severe symptoms are admitted in hospitals. Haryana additional chief secretary (health and home department) Rajeev Arora said there is a cycle, where cases first increase in districts sharing boundaries with Delhi and gradually spread to other parts of the state. “We are taking all kinds of precautions and fortunately our fatality rate is comparatively low. The situation is going to be like this unless some permanent solution is found. We are improving our infrastructure/facilities to deal with it and staff is working round the clock,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/gfx-with-satraharyana-crosses-2l-tally-1l-cases-added-in-just-2-months-from-sept-15/articleshow/79252255.cms||Ajay Sura
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||SGPC president’s centenary event speech leaked?||AMRITSAR: Speech of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal to be delivered to mark its 100th anniversary year on Tuesday was allegedly leaked on the social media on Monday evening. According to the excerpts of the leaked speech, SGPC would construct a memorial, hold a ‘World Sikh Sammelan’ and a series of seminars in schools and college to mark the occasion. The social media post claimed that Longowal would deliver this speech on Tuesday during the main function scheduled to be held to mark the occasion at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall. Sources said the speech was leaked by a Sikh politico-religious leader, who was not only close to a Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) MLA but also a close confidant of the president of a Sikh seminary. He had also made a futile attempt to bring back an excommunicated Sikh leader back to the fold in the recent past. The speech was put on social media on the eve of the anniversary function to show his importance in SGPC as well as Akali circles. The content of the unconfirmed speech included 18th and 19th century Sikh struggle post the era of Gurus, construction of gurdwaras after victories over Delhi, Kabul-Kandhar and Ladakh, taking control of Gurdwara Chumala Sahib in Lahore from mahants on September 27, 1920, taking control of Gurdwara Babae Di Ber in Sialkot, Gurdwara Panja Sahib on November 19, 1920, and how the British encouraged Christian missionaries to damage Sikh religion. It also details the achievements of SGPC, including bringing the managements of all the historical gurdwaras under its umbrella, the Sikh Gurdwara Act, 1925, and the sacrifices made during gurdwara reforms movement. The unconfirmed speech of SGPC president also details the achievements of past SGPC presidents.  “We are not aware that the SGPC president‘s speech has been leaked by someone. It could be a mischief. We will look into it and if needed it can be rewritten overnight,” said a SGPC office-bearer who didn’t want his name published.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sgpc-presidents-centenary-event-speech-leaked/articleshow/79252313.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Congress MP alleges scam in Vande Bharat tickets||AMRITSAR: Alleging a scam in the sale of Vande Bharat Mission (VBM) tickets, Congress’s Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla has asked Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri to initiate a probe. He also demanded a reliable and flawless system to “prevent exploitation of gullible people at the hands of travel agents”. In a letter to Puri, a copy of which was released to media on Monday, Aujla claimed his office had received complaints that a few insiders in the national carrier Air India deliberately kept the inventory closed to help a few travel agents who overcharge for the tickets to various destinations including Australia, New Zealand and Canada. “It has been reported that the travel agents on some occasions even refused to supply the passengers with the original invoice and also hesitate to process the refund of the tickets to avoid suspicion,” alleged the MP, adding that such malpractices couldn’t happen without a nexus within the organisation. VBM flights were started to save Indians stranded across in the world, but it was turning out to be an exercise to mint money for a cash-strapped airline, alleged Aujla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cong-mp-alleges-scam-in-vande-bharat-tickets/articleshow/79252398.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||Ambulance cuts through 45cm snow to transfer critical Covid patients to hospital||Manali: It was an ordeal for an ambulance to transfer two critical Covid-19 patients from snow-bound Lahaul valley to Ner Chowk medical hospital in Mandi after cutting through 30 to 45cm thick snow on Monday. The Manali-Atal Tunnel-Keylong highway was blocked completely after heavy snowfall on Monday. Doctors had reported two critical cases in Keylong who were required to be shifted to medical hospital at Ner Chowk with help of 108 national ambulance service. The ambulance was not designed to run on such a thick layer of snow. The ambulance staff — pilot Manoj and emergency medical technician (EMT) Jay Lalita — had to risk their lives by attempting to push the vehicle on the snow as they had no other option. The ambulance managed to reach the Atal Tunnel but the real challenge was to cover the distance of about 13km from south portal of the tunnel till Solang. The area had 30 to 45cm of snow and the road had become very slippery at some steep places. Pilot had to put on snow chain on the tyres to get traction on the ice and snow. 108 ambulance service in-charge Ashish Sharma said the pilot and EMT did commendable job by transferring the patients to medical college despite heavy snowfall. “Pilot knew that the task was very dangerous. When the staff was told about the condition of the patients, they didn’t ask any question. It took a lot of effort for them to reach Solang valley. Pilot told me that how he had to put vehicle into its full power to negotiate Dhundi area,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ambulance-cuts-through-45cm-snow-to-transfer-critical-covid-patients-to-hospital/articleshow/79252290.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Business||Wholesale inflation rises to 8-month high of 1.5%||NEW DELHI: Wholesale inflation shot up to an eight-month high in October as food prices, particularly vegetables remained firm and manufactured products also hardened, prompting economists to say that rising price pressures may force RBI to hold interest rates. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Monday showed inflation, as measured by the wholesale prices, rose an annual 1.5% in October, higher than 1.3% in the previous month. It was flat in the year earlier period. The spurt was led by a surge in core inflation (minus food and fuel) to an 18-month high but the data also brought some cheer, with numbers pointing to a cooling in food inflation. But, month-on-month vegetable and food product prices remained firm. Core inflation shot up to 1.7% in October from 1% in September. Food inflation eased to 6.4% during the month from near 9.8% in September. Prices of cereals, fruits, egg, meat and fish, and other food articles recorded a month-onmonth decline in October 2020, contributing to moderation in the primary food inflation, economists said. But, prices of vegetables remained firm, rising an annual 25.2%, while potato prices soared 107.7% during the month. Prices of pulses also stayed firm at 15.9% in October. Economists have ruled out a rate cut for now due to building of price pressures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wholesale-inflation-rises-to-8-month-high-of-1-5/articleshow/79254377.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||13 Fazilka slum students get help from actor, gifted smartphones for classes||Bathinda: A nine-second video clip of small girl students asking for help as they are not able to attend classes for not having a smartphone made Bollywood actor Sonu Sood and his friend Karan Gilhotra reach out to them. In three days of sending a tweet through a video clip, requesting help for the 13 students from a slum area of border town of Fazilka, they all got smartphones. Gilhotra, a Chandigarh-based business from Fazilka, delivered the mobile phones to students on Sunday evening. The children study in government schools but are getting coaching from volunteers of NGO Robinhood academy under a shed of municipal committee. It is not the first that the duo has helped needy persons. During lockdown to stop the spread of Covid, Sonu and Gilhotra had helped many persons by making them reach their destinations. Anand Jain (24), who runs the Fazilka chapter of Robinhood Army and Academy along with many other youngsters, had made the tweet-video clip on November 12. The students say “Asi Robinhood academy ch parhde han. Corona karke saadia classa band ne, saade kol phone ni haiga asi lecture ni laga pa rahe. Please saadi help karo” (We studying in Robinhood academy. Our classes are off due to corona, as we do not have phones, we are not able to attend lectures. Please help us). The actor replied to the tweet, writing the mobiles are on the way and will be with you in three days. And it took exactly three days when Gilhotra reached the place where students are getting coaching with mobile phones. “We do not have any words to describe the happiness on the innocent faces of small students upon getting brand new smartphones,” said Jain. Gilhotra, who is chairman of PHD Chamber for Punjab, said, “We started standing by the needy persons during Covid-19 pandemic, when many migrants were unable to reach their destinations. Though Sonu Sood did all this from Mumbai, I tried to do it in Punjab, Chandigarh. From there on we felt that many students from underprivileged families are unable to get mobile phones to attend online classes and decided to help the needy. Apart from Robinhood academy students, phones have been provided to 10 students of another school and on Tuesday will provide some phones to students of a school near the border with Pakistan at Asafwala village.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/13-fazilka-slum-students-get-help-from-actor-gifted-smartphones-for-classes/articleshow/79252362.cms||Neel Kamal
November 17, 2020||Business||SBI MF’s Munot to be next MD of HDFC MF||MUMBAI: After months of speculation about who would replace HDFC Mutual Fund’s current managing director Milind Barve when he retires, the fund house on Monday finally announced that Navneet Munot, currently ED & CIO of SBI Mutual Fund, will succeed Barve. At present, SBI MF is the largest fund house, while HDFC MF is the second largest. Barve, a CA and an HDFC Group lifer who was also one of the founders of the fund house, is set to retire on January 31, 2021 after being in that position for over two decades. In June this year, HDFC MF had re-appointed Barve as its MD till January 2021. Prior to this reappointment, Barve had requested the board to relieve him at the end of his term on October 31. With the selection of Munot more than two months before Barve’s retirement, a smooth transition has been ensured, HDFC sources said. In a related development, an SBI MF release said Munot was leaving the fund house, the largest in the country now, to ‘pursue other opportunities.’ Prior to joining SBI MF, Munot, a CA and a CFA, had worked with Morgan Stanley’s India arm and spent over a decade with Aditya Birla Financial Services. Currently, he’s the chairman of the CFA society in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sbi-mfs-munot-to-be-next-md-of-hdfc-mf/articleshow/79254394.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||HP ambulance staff goes on mass leave, Esma in Shimla||Shimla: The ambulance staff of Himachal Pradesh is on mass leave of absence when the Covid-19 pandemic is at its peak in the state. Essential Services Maintenance Act (Esma) has been imposed in Shimla. Positive cases and the number of deaths have increased in all subdivisions of Shimla district. The ambulances are grounded when patients need to be shifted to Covid care centres and hospitals. Shimla district magistrate Aditya Negi had ordered on Sunday that only the 108 ambulance was fit to transfer the carriers of this highly contagious virus and those who die with it. But the crew says that fleets 108 and 102 will stay parked until a senior company officer is sacked. The chief medical officer says that GVK-EMRI (the joint venture of Gunupati Venkata Krishna and the Emergency Management and Research Institute that operates ambulances) has stopped taking calls to 108. The district magistrate said the mass leaves of absence during a pandemic will collapse the system of the transportation of patients and the dead. He said: “The 108 ambulance staff is covered by the Himachal Pradesh Essential Services (Maintenance) Act, 1973, which is to keep the emergency services running at all times.” The DM has prohibited the ambulance staff from going on mass leave of absence, agitations, or strikes, and warned them of legal action if they didn’t return to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hp-ambulance-staff-goes-on-mass-leave-esma-in-shimla/articleshow/79252393.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Chandigarh||445 new cases, 23 casualties reported in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: Punjab recorded 445 new Covid-19 cases while 23 people lost their lives to the virus on Monday. The overall tally of the state shot up to 1,42,082, while the toll has risen to 4,480 people. Of deaths reported in last 24 hours, seven people died in Ludhiana, four in Ropar and two each in Amritsar and Jalandhar. One death each was reported in Bathinda, Faridkot, Ferozepur, Moga, Mohali and Pathankot. In Mohali, 118 people were tested positive, 84 in Ludhiana, 45 in Hoshiarpur, 32 in Amritsar, 28 in Jalandhar, 23 in Bathinda, 20 in Patiala, 19 in Faridkot, 11 in Mansa, eight in Moga, seven each in Ropar and Barnala, six each in Sangrur and Kapurthala, four in Fazilka, three each in Ferozepur, Nawanshahr and Fatehgarh Sahib, two in Pathankot, and one in Gurdaspur. The state health department also removed 20 duplicate entries from the overall tally. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/445-new-cases-23-casualties-reported-in-pb/articleshow/79252402.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Have Covid symptoms? Go for RT-PCR test, say doctors||NEW DELHI: Overdependence on Rapid Antigen Test is a key factor for rise in critical illnesses due to Covid-19. Physicians say many people get tested using the RAT kits that give results quickly but have lower accuracy rate. "A 38-year-old patient was wheeled into the emergency of our hospital two days ago with severe symptoms of Covid. He was having fever, cough and breathing difficulty for a week and got RAT done. It came negative so the patient stayed at home despite worsening symptoms thinking it could be the seasonal flu," Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine at Apollo hospital, said. "If someone has a disease symptom, he or she should be tested using RT-PCR, which is more accurate," Dr Chatterjee added. In the last seven days, Delhi has conducted more than 3.4 lakh Covid tests. Of this, 34% was done using RT-PCR while the rest using RAT kits. Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a meeting on the Covid-19 crisis on Sunday in which, among others, a decision was taken to double the state's testing capacity. "We started with around 30-40 RT-PCR tests daily. Now, we are processing close to 300 samples in a day," the managing director of a South-Delhi based laboratory said. "Further augmentation in the RT-PCR testing capacity may require increased manpower, infrastructure and space, which isn't easy," he added. According to Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, which is conducting over 500 RT-PCR tests daily, pooled testing is one of the ways to boost capacity. It involves mixing several samples together in a 'batch' or pooled sample, then testing the pooled sample. "If a batch is negative, it means all samples are negative. If a batch is positive, we have to separately test all samples," he added. The US FDA suggests pooled testing when there is a low prevalence of cases. In Delhi, positivity rate is around 15% at present. "There is a major variation in the positivity rate of different labs. This could be due to quality control," said another senior doctor. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director of internal medicine at Max Saket, said that he has come across many patients who rely more on advisories circulating on social media rather than doctors themselves. "A patient refused to take steroids as prescribed because he had read somewhere that the medication could have certain side-effects. It leads to exacerbation of symptoms," Dr Tickoo added. Watch Delhi: Doctors advise people to take RT-PCR tests, not RAT||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-have-covid-symptoms-go-for-rt-pcr-test-say-doctors/articleshow/79254417.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Second phase of Gaadi-Off drive kicks in||NEW DELHI: The second phase of "Red Light On, Gaadi Off" campaign was launched by deputy CM Manish Sisodia and environment minister Gopal Rai at ITO on Monday. Sisodia said the appeal made by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to people to switch off the engines of their vehicles at red traffic signals was very successful in the last 25 days. He further claimed that while Delhiites largely followed the firecracker ban, it was flouted widely in the neighbouring states. While Covid-19 cases peaked at 8,500 last week, there was a declining trend over the past 2-3 days. "The first phase of the campaign was very successful as people realised that switching off the engine at red traffic signals could help the environment. Today, lakhs of people are contributing to the fight against pollution in this manner. The key goal is to bring down vehicular pollution. I'm sure this campaign is having a positive impact. The need of the hour is to identify all sources of pollution and bring them down," said Sisodia, while making an appeal that more people should join the second phase of the campaign. Rai said, "Lakhs of people participated in the campaign every day by switching off their engines. Looking at the situation and the massive participation of people, Delhi government is launching the second phase of the campaign. Though people are yet to adopt this habit, they are gradually working towards it. The second phase will continue till November 30." Referring to the Covid-19 situation, Sisodia said the numbers were starting to decrease again.  "Health minister Satyendar Jain says the situation will be under control within 8-10 days. I don't think another lockdown is required in Delhi. Till the time a vaccine is made to fight the novel coronavirus, we cannot predict the situation. But we are taking every possible step to tackle the pandemic," he added. The environment minister added that around 70% of Delhiites did not burst firecrackers this Diwali and a further improvement was expected next year. "Delhi government is working relentlessly to find a steady solution to combat pollution. After the ban, nearly 70% of the citizens did not burn any kind of firecrackers this Diwali. I hope that next year we will be able to improve the campaign and bring down pollution caused by firecrackers," added Rai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-second-phase-of-gaadi-off-drive-kicks-in/articleshow/79254426.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Business||States eye early tabling of finance panel report||NEW DELHI: State governments and other stakeholders are looking for an early tabling of the 15th Finance Commission’s report in Parliament, which will help the former plan their finances for the next financial year better. In recent years, the Centre has opted to table the report a day before the Budget. In fact, the Narendra Modi government went a step further and tabled the 15th Finance Commission’s first report and the Action Taken Report (ATR) along with the Budget on February 1. But unlike the past, when reports were presented towards the end or after the winter session of Parliament, the latest report (for April 2021 to March 2026) has been submitted to the President well before the winter session, which is typically held in December. On Monday, the commission presented its report to Modi. The 14th Finance Commission, for instance, submitted its report on December 15, 2004, while the ATR was laid in the House on February 25. Similarly, the 13th Finance Commission one submitted its report on December 30, while its predecessor did so on the December 17, with the ATR tabled in late February in both cases. The 11th Finance Commission, was different since its final report was submitted on August 30, 2000 with the ATR tabled in Parliament in mid-December. Given the massive tax shortfall and higher spending requirements due to the pandemic, most states are keen to know how the 15th Finance Commission has proposed to address the issue of devolution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/states-eye-early-tabling-of-fin-panel-report/articleshow/79254440.cms||Sidhartha
November 17, 2020||World||'More people may die': Biden urges Trump to aid transition||WILMINGTON: President-elect Joe Biden on Monday warned of dire consequences if President Donald Trump and his administration continue to refuse to coordinate with his transition team on the coronavirus pandemic and block briefings on national security, policy issues and vaccine plans. The remarks marked Biden's toughest comments to date on Trump's failure to acknowledge his election loss and cooperate with the incoming administration for a peaceful transfer of power. "More people may die if we don't coordinate," Biden told reporters during a news conference in Wilmington, Delaware. Biden and his aides - and a small but growing group of Republicans - have emphasized the importance of being briefed on White House efforts to control the pandemic and distribute prospective vaccines. The Trump administration is working on its own distribution plan, while Biden's chief of staff indicated his transition team will proceed with their own planning separately because of the obstruction. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said it's "absolutely crucial that the apparent president-elect and his team have full access to the planning that has gone on" for vaccine distribution. "It is no easy matter" to distribute a vaccine, Collins said, so "it's absolutely imperative for public health, that all of the planning that's gone on for which the current administration deserves credit, be shared with the new administration." Collins' remarks were echoed Monday by Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. Last week, a larger group of Republicans in Congress called on the Trump administration to allow Biden to begin receiving national security briefings. The outgoing president has refused so far to bend to pressure from Democrats or Republicans as he continues to dispute his loss to Biden, who has surpassed the 270 electoral vote threshold to become president and is leading Trump by more than 5.5 million votes nationally. Cooperation between the outgoing and incoming administrations, traditionally a key component to the peaceful transfer of power in the United States, takes on heightened significance this year because of the coronavirus pandemic, which is escalating dramatically heading into the holiday season. Biden called the vaccine distribution a "huge, huge undertaking," and said that if his team has to wait until he takes office to dig into the government's distribution plan, they'll be "behind, over a month, month and a half." Before taking questions, Biden outlined his plans to alleviate inequality and boost the US economy but said that any structural reforms depended first on reining in the pandemic and delivering more immediate relief. "Once we shut down the virus and deliver economic relief to workers and businesses, then we can start to build back better than before," he said. Biden has vowed to spend trillions of dollars to reinvigorate US manufacturing, expand health care coverage and combat climate change, among other priorities. But his chief priority remains controlling the pandemic, which is surging to record levels and forcing state and local leaders to implement new rounds of restrictions on local businesses. The president-elect has so far tried to sidestep difficult questions about whether he might support a short-term national lockdown to arrest the surge of coronavirus cases. Since defeating Trump, Biden has devoted most of his public remarks to encouraging Americans to wear masks and embrace social distancing measures. But members of his coronavirus advisory board have been more specific. One member, Michael Osterholm, recently suggested a four- to six-week national lockdown with financial aid for Americans whose livelihoods would be affected. He later walked back the remarks and was rebutted by two other members of the panel who said a widespread lockdown shouldn't be under consideration. Speaking Monday on "CBS This Morning," Osterholm was not asked about a potential lockdown, but he said the nation needs "a standard set of principles." "Right now, we don't have a standardized set so you're hearing all these governors and mayors are scrambling to try to find what is the right answer for us, and it would surely help all of them, and that's what I'm hearing from them, that we have a standardized set of recommendations and protocols," he said. Biden was asked Monday whether he would encourage leaders to look at potentially reinstating stay-at-home orders now that the pandemic is surging nationwide. He avoided answering directly and instead called on officials to embrace mask-wearing and criticized those who haven't. Before his Monday address, Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris held virtual meetings with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka, General Motors CEO Mary Barra and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, among others. The US economy has recovered from the pandemic-induced shutdowns this spring more quickly than most economists expected. The unemployment rate dropped a full percentage point last month to 6.9% and those who still have jobs - many of them working from home - have stepped up their spending on cars, electronics and home renovations. But much of the rebound was fueled by $2 trillion in stimulus money that has largely run its course. And there are signs that the ongoing increases in confirmed virus cases are making Americans more cautious about traveling and shopping. Consumers cut back on spending in early November, according to JPMorgan Chase, which tracks spending on 30 million of its debit and credit cards. Spending declines have been larger in some states with severe outbreaks, such as Iowa and North Dakota. Most economists support another round of stimulus funding, including loans to small businesses, extended unemployment benefits and support for states and cities. Congressional Democrats have previously backed another $2 trillion in aid. Sen. Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, has pointed to the falling unemployment rate as evidence that much less stimulus is needed. But on whether Biden should receive coronavirus briefings, many of Trump's allies on Capitol Hill remained dug in. "We've been working for the past year to make sure the vaccine will be delivered and it will be starting to be delivered probably in December, so he won't even be president of the United States when the vaccine starts," Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said in pushing back against Biden's comments. "He can be privy, but he won't have anything to do with it," Cornyn said. "I mean, I hope by the time he's inaugurated that we're going to be well underway."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/more-people-may-die-biden-urges-trump-to-aid-transition/articleshow/79254449.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||'More people may die': Biden urges Trump to aid transition||WILMINGTON: President-elect Joe Biden on Monday warned of dire consequences if President Donald Trump and his administration continue to refuse to coordinate with his transition team on the coronavirus pandemic and block briefings on national security, policy issues and vaccine plans. The remarks marked Biden's toughest comments to date on Trump's failure to acknowledge his election loss and cooperate with the incoming administration for a peaceful transfer of power. "More people may die if we don't coordinate," Biden told reporters during a news conference in Wilmington, Delaware. Biden and his aides - and a small but growing group of Republicans - have emphasized the importance of being briefed on White House efforts to control the pandemic and distribute prospective vaccines. The Trump administration is working on its own distribution plan, while Biden's chief of staff indicated his transition team will proceed with their own planning separately because of the obstruction. Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, said it's "absolutely crucial that the apparent president-elect and his team have full access to the planning that has gone on" for vaccine distribution. "It is no easy matter" to distribute a vaccine, Collins said, so "it's absolutely imperative for public health, that all of the planning that's gone on for which the current administration deserves credit, be shared with the new administration." Collins' remarks were echoed Monday by Republican Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska. Last week, a larger group of Republicans in Congress called on the Trump administration to allow Biden to begin receiving national security briefings. The outgoing president has refused so far to bend to pressure from Democrats or Republicans as he continues to dispute his loss to Biden, who has surpassed the 270 electoral vote threshold to become president and is leading Trump by more than 5.5 million votes nationally. Cooperation between the outgoing and incoming administrations, traditionally a key component to the peaceful transfer of power in the United States, takes on heightened significance this year because of the coronavirus pandemic, which is escalating dramatically heading into the holiday season. Biden called the vaccine distribution a "huge, huge undertaking," and said that if his team has to wait until he takes office to dig into the government's distribution plan, they'll be "behind, over a month, month and a half." Before taking questions, Biden outlined his plans to alleviate inequality and boost the US economy but said that any structural reforms depended first on reining in the pandemic and delivering more immediate relief. "Once we shut down the virus and deliver economic relief to workers and businesses, then we can start to build back better than before," he said. Biden has vowed to spend trillions of dollars to reinvigorate US manufacturing, expand health care coverage and combat climate change, among other priorities. But his chief priority remains controlling the pandemic, which is surging to record levels and forcing state and local leaders to implement new rounds of restrictions on local businesses. The president-elect has so far tried to sidestep difficult questions about whether he might support a short-term national lockdown to arrest the surge of coronavirus cases. Since defeating Trump, Biden has devoted most of his public remarks to encouraging Americans to wear masks and embrace social distancing measures. But members of his coronavirus advisory board have been more specific. One member, Michael Osterholm, recently suggested a four- to six-week national lockdown with financial aid for Americans whose livelihoods would be affected. He later walked back the remarks and was rebutted by two other members of the panel who said a widespread lockdown shouldn't be under consideration. Speaking Monday on "CBS This Morning," Osterholm was not asked about a potential lockdown, but he said the nation needs "a standard set of principles." "Right now, we don't have a standardized set so you're hearing all these governors and mayors are scrambling to try to find what is the right answer for us, and it would surely help all of them, and that's what I'm hearing from them, that we have a standardized set of recommendations and protocols," he said. Biden was asked Monday whether he would encourage leaders to look at potentially reinstating stay-at-home orders now that the pandemic is surging nationwide. He avoided answering directly and instead called on officials to embrace mask-wearing and criticized those who haven't. Before his Monday address, Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris held virtual meetings with AFL-CIO President Richard Trumka, General Motors CEO Mary Barra and Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella, among others. The US economy has recovered from the pandemic-induced shutdowns this spring more quickly than most economists expected. The unemployment rate dropped a full percentage point last month to 6.9% and those who still have jobs - many of them working from home - have stepped up their spending on cars, electronics and home renovations. But much of the rebound was fueled by $2 trillion in stimulus money that has largely run its course. And there are signs that the ongoing increases in confirmed virus cases are making Americans more cautious about traveling and shopping. Consumers cut back on spending in early November, according to JPMorgan Chase, which tracks spending on 30 million of its debit and credit cards. Spending declines have been larger in some states with severe outbreaks, such as Iowa and North Dakota. Most economists support another round of stimulus funding, including loans to small businesses, extended unemployment benefits and support for states and cities. Congressional Democrats have previously backed another $2 trillion in aid. Sen. Mitch McConnell, the Republican majority leader, has pointed to the falling unemployment rate as evidence that much less stimulus is needed. But on whether Biden should receive coronavirus briefings, many of Trump's allies on Capitol Hill remained dug in. "We've been working for the past year to make sure the vaccine will be delivered and it will be starting to be delivered probably in December, so he won't even be president of the United States when the vaccine starts," Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said in pushing back against Biden's comments. "He can be privy, but he won't have anything to do with it," Cornyn said. "I mean, I hope by the time he's inaugurated that we're going to be well underway."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/more-people-may-die-biden-urges-trump-to-aid-transition/articleshow/79254436.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Mumbai||50 lakh signatures received in anti-farm laws drive: Maharashtra Congress||MUMBAI: The drive of the Maharashtra Congress seeking scrapping of three new farm laws introduced by the Union government has received over 50 lakh signatures, its state unit chief Balasaheb Thorat said on Monday. The signatures will be handed over to the party's Maharashtra in charge HK Patil on Tuesday, a statement said. "The party agitation seeking revocation of the agricultural laws imposed by the BJP government at the Centre has received huge response from Maharashtra. More than 50 lakh farmers, agricultural laborers and workers have signed the petition," the statement quoted Thorat as saying. He said the party intends to collect over two crore signatures as part of the drive, which was launched on October 2. The Parliament passed the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 during its monsoon session.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/50-lakh-signatures-received-in-anti-farm-laws-drive-maharashtra-congress/articleshow/79254457.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Patna||Reds blow up community building in Gaya||GAYA: Suspected armed Maoists on Sunday evening blew up a community building at Bodhi Bigha village under the Dumaria police station area of the district. A portion of the building was badly damaged in the explosion. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi had inaugurated the hall last September which was constructed with a cost of around Rs 20 lakh. According to local sources, the Maoists carried out the explosion on the apprehension that a police station was going to be set up in the building. In fact, the building constructed with then JD(U) MLC Anuj Kumar’s fund had been on Maoists’ radar for a while. Gaya SSP Rajiv Mishra, who confirmed the incident said that the Maoists blew a portion of the community building by planting dynamite rods. He also denied that there were any plans to house a police station in it. According to the SSP, “It was the villagers who suspected that a garrison could come up, which may have agitated the Maoists. The Reds have left a pamphlet at the place of occurrence after which local police in coordination with the CRPF and the COBRA (Composite Battalion For Resolute Action) jawans have launched a combing operation in the area.” According to reports, activists of People's Liberation Group (PLG), the armed squad of the Maoists, numbering around 25, assembled near the community building at around 11 pm on Sunday and carried out the explosion by planting dynamite rods. They also left a pamphlet at the place of occurrence claiming responsibility of the incident. Through the pamphlet, they have demanded a sum of Rs two crore as levy from former BJP MLC Anuj Kumar Singh, who had joined JD(U) during the recently concluded Bihar assembly elections. In December 2019, the Maoists had blown up a portion of the house of Anuj Singh at Bodhi Bigha and had also beaten up the former MLC’s uncle. Meanwhile, ASP (operation), Dumaria SHO and the CRPF jawans visited the place of occurrence and the house of former MLC on Monday morning and started an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/reds-blow-up-community-building-in-gaya/articleshow/79254466.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Business||Demand for air purifiers shoots up||NEW DELHI: Demand for air purifiers is on fire in Delhi-NCR area and also in other top cities such as Bangalore and Mumbai as air quality deteriorates with the onset of winter. With cases of smog and pollution worsening across the impacted areas and spreading further, the sale of air purifiers has been going up, with instances of multiple devices across many homes. Work-from-home and stayat-home norms following the coronavirus outbreak has only intensified the demand for air purifiers. And, the demand is moving up across price points. While entry devices cost under Rs 10,000, the premium and high-technology ones sold by companies such as Dyson coming for over Rs 50,000 (top versions). “At Panasonic, we have seen a 5X increase in the sale of our air purifiers, which also help inhibit viruses. We are seeing maximum demand from north India,” Suguru Takamatsu, head of consumers sales division at Panasonic India, said. Panasonic claims its devices enhance the quality of indoor air by filtering out bacteria, viruses, dust, mites, pollens, allergens, and harmful particles, including PM 2.5. Rajeev Bhutani, senior VP for consumer electronics at Samsung India, said the company has seen a 1.5X growth in sales in September-October this year. “Compared to previous years, when demand started towards the end of October, consumers this year have been more cautious because of the current situation, leading to sales of both air purifiers and additional filters picking up early, in September this year. This demand is being led by the top eight metro cities. Additionally, we have seen demand coming from corporates as well as medical establishments such as dentists, doctors and pathology labs,” Bhutani said. What differentiates one air purifier from the other, and what makes the premium ones more effective? “Selecting the right kind of air purifier, tested for real homes, can help in creating a healthy home environment indoors. Our engineers prioritise the quality of intelligent sensing, whole machine filtration, and air flow projection to achieve uniform cleaning performance,” said a technical official at Dyson. Anshu Budhraja, CEO of Amway India, said, as per a recent study, indoor pollution is one of the major contributors to ill-health. Raghu Reddy, chief business officer at Mi India, said, there has been 100% growth in sales of Xiaomi air purifiers over the last year, with cities in northern India accounting for 70% of the sales. “The sales and demand for this category is directly proportional to AQI of a city, with Delhi NCR leading, followed by Bengaluru and Mumbai.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/demand-for-air-purifiers-shoots-up/articleshow/79254469.cms||Pankaj Doval
November 17, 2020||Gurgaon||No footpath: Walking on this road a risky affair||Gurgaon: Residents of DLF-1 have raised concerns over the safety of pedestrians on Gurgaon-Faridabad Road. They have demanded the construction of footpaths along the road from Bristol Chowk to Khusboo Chowk. According to the residents, the road is one of the key stretches in the city connecting many residential and commercial complexes in the area, including several blocks of DLF-1, DLF Silver Oaks and Qutab Plaza market. The absence of paved footpaths on the stretch has made it difficult and risky for many pedestrians, particularly women, children and the elderly, to walk to nearby markets or to reach the metro station, they said. Rahul Chandola, president of DLF-1’s H-Block RWA, said: “Our area is located near the neighbourhood market at Qutub Plaza. Sikanderpur metro station is also at a walking distance from our colony. But with no footpaths available, we are forced to walk on the margins of the road, risking our lives. Many senior citizens who enjoy going out for strolls have stopped going out as they got injured on the uneven edges of the road.” Residents said that they have been demanding the construction of footpaths on this stretch for the last two years, but to no avail. “More than 20,000 people live here. It’s a shame that there is no road safety for pedestrians in place. The authorities should make each and every road of the city safe for pedestrians,” Ravinder Yadav, president of G-Block RWA, said. He added, “We have made several representations to the authorities concerned as well as local representatives in the past demanding the construction of footpaths on both sides of the road from Bristol Chowk to Khusboo Chowk, but no relief has been provided to us.” Residents also said the unpaved sidewalk is generating a lot of dust, affecting their health. “People are compelled to move to nearby places by car, adding to emission and air pollution. This could be avoided if the authorities provide footpaths. Also, the problem of unauthorised parking of vehicles and illegal dumping of C&D waste would resolve,” said Malti Sawhney, general secretary of Silver Oaks Condominium Association. Meanwhile, an official from the public works department said the road was constructed under a build–operate–transfer agreement and is with the concessionaire till 2026. “There was no provision for footpaths. Anything added later will change the terms of the agreement, which needs government approval. If the civic body has a proposal, we will provide a no-objection certificate,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/no-footpath-walking-on-this-road-a-risky-affair/articleshow/79253413.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Survey to identify high-risk zones for more tests to control viral spread in Delhi||NEW DELHI: With Covid-19 cases surging, Delhi is likely to launch an exercise to identify high-risk areas and carry out steps to check the transmission of the novel coronavirus. Experts will consider active case load, transmission rate, positivity rate, prevalence of containment zones, among other factors, to identify areas where testing can be boosted. A house-to-house survey will be carried out in the flagged localities to screen people and initiate early detection and mitigation efforts. The modalities of implementing the decisions taken in the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal's review meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, including the house survey, are being worked out. According to a government source, field officials and employees of the municipal corporations will carry out the house surveys in high-risk zones identified by the experts. The government will also make the containment zones strategy sharper by reviewing the parameters of mapping such areas. Delhi currently has 4,430 active containment zones. The city is reporting 7,000- 8,000 new Covid cases every day, while the daily death count hovers around 95. Delhi government has described this surge as the third wave and is optimistic that it has already touched its peak and will decline now. Recently, the positivity rate crossed 15%, the highest after June. Among the 11 districts, South West has the highest containment zones at 740, followed by South (700), West (568) and South-East (505). With 142 sealed zones, North-East district has the fewest containment zones, just below North, which has 214 red zones. After June 21, when a new containment strategy on micro zones was implements, the capital has created 8,999 containment zones. The total such zones created since March is 9,333. In the review meeting on Sunday, it was decided that the number of RT-PCR tests would be doubled, though compared with the number a few months ago, the more reliable RT-PCR test with a high accuracy relative to the rapid antigen test is being used in much bigger numbers every day. On November 14, 19,635 RT-PCR tests were conducted on November 14. Increasing the use of more RT-PCR tests is expected to lead to accurate determination of Covid infection because Covid-positive individuals who test negative on the rapid antigen test often turn into unknown spreaders until their infected state is later established. A government official said that people identified for testing during the survey in high-risk areas will undergo RT-PCR tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/survey-to-identify-high-risk-zones-for-more-tests-to-control-viral-spread-in-delhi/articleshow/79254498.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 17, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai, Delhi differ on Covid-19 testing strategy: Officials||MUMBAI: Despite Mumbai and Delhi having almost the same positivity rate, civic officials here on Monday said the city does not require to increase its daily number of Covid-19 tests like in the national capital, which is witnessing a fresh wave of the infection. Testing strategies between the two cities also differ, the officials said, pointing out that while Delhi has adopted random testing methods, Mumbai is focusing on those showing symptoms or ones who are suspected to have come in contact with Covid-19 patients. They said currently Mumbai is logging less than 1,000 cases daily, while Delhi is witnessing a third wave with over 6,000-7,000 coronavirus cases on single days. Probably, this is because Mumbai followed a more cautious unlock strategy, wherein its lifeline - suburban trains - continues to be off-bounds for a majority of commuters more than eight months on as against Delhi's "liberal" attitude towards easing of curbs, said the officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Also, unlike the higher proportion of rapid antigen tests done in Delhi, Mumbai has relied largely on RT-PCR tests which are time consuming but considered more accurate, they said. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, BMC, said currently they are conducting over 10,000 tests per day, mainly RT-PCR, and they have adopted a targeted testing strategy. "We have been doing targeted testing instead of random testing since the beginning. "We are testing those who have Covid-19-like symptoms and those who are exposed to the virus (like health workers and transport staff)," Kakani said. Kakani said they have set up at least 10 free testing centres in each of the 24 civic wards and people also have an option of undergoing tests at private labs. "We cannot force people to undergo Covid-19 tests, unless they have any symptoms or they are exposed to the virus," he said. Mumbai has seen 16,85,287 Covid-19 tests so far as against 49,91,585 tests conducted in Delhi, according to BMC's dashboard. While rapid antigen tests (RATs) detect viral protein, the RT-PCR tests detect viral RNA or its genetic material. Low-cost RATs give results in 30 minutes. RT-PCR tests are more expensive and time-consuming than antigen tests. Mumbai has so far clocked a tally of 2,69,130 cases, while 10,555 patients have succumbed to the infection. On the other hand, Delhi has recorded 4,85,405 infections and 8,900 fatalities till now (as on November 15). According to the BMC's dashboard, Mumbai has per million tests of 1,29,562, whereas Delhi has 2,62,715, but both cities have a positivity rate of 15 per cent. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the Maharashtra government-appointed Covid-19 task force, Delhi has conducted more than 21,000 tests per day of which more than 50 per cent are antigen and the rest RT-PCR. Mumbai has mainly focused on RT-PCR tests, he said. "Testing is based on positivity rate and what is important is to do RT-PCR tests, which is the gold standard. "RT-PCR should be the general norm, while antigen should be reserved for people with very typical symptoms of Covid-19. If they test negative in antigen, then RT-PCR should be repeated on them," Pandit said. Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of the Covid-19 task force, said at present, Mumbai's daily count has dropped after witnessing a major peak in May and a minor high in September, while Delhi is witnessing its third peak. "There has been a surge in cases in Delhi as compared to Mumbai as the national capital has harsh winter and high pollution levels," Joshi said. Gradual unlocking process has also proved helpful for for the financial capital, he said. Joshi said though the number of tests done in Mumbai is less compared to Delhi, overall Covid-19 cases are also low in the western metropolis. However, Joshi warned of possibility of a surge in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai in the next 2 to 3 weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-delhi-differ-on-covid-19-testing-strategy-officials/articleshow/79254472.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||99 deaths reported in Delhi, new Covid cases under 4,000||NEW DELHI: The capital on Monday recorded 99 Covid-19 fatalities, the highest among all the States and Union Territories across the country. This is also the second highest death toll reported in the city so far. The highest (104) number of deaths due to Covid was reported in Delhi on November 12. In the last 16 days, more than 1,200 people have died due to the virus in Delhi, data shows. The increasing death rate comes at a time when ICU beds are difficult to find. According to data shared by hospitals on the Delhi Corona App, 88% ICU beds with ventilator support and 90% of ICU beds without ventilator support were occupied on Monday. There were no ICU beds available at Apollo, Max and Fortis, among others. "The absolute number of Covid-19 cases has gone up and so has the number of persons suffering from severe symptoms and those requiring ICU support. It's a serious crisis," said a doctor at RML Hospital. On Monday, Delhi recorded 3,797 fresh cases of Covid-19. The reduced number of fresh cases could be attributed to drastic reduction in testing numbers on account of festivals. Delhi conducted 29,821 Covid-19 tests - 11,810 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TrueNat and 1,8011 Rapid Antigen Tests - in the last 24 hours, of which 3,797 (12.73%) came positive. The total number active cases in the city has now reached 40,128, the third highest in the country, Maharashtra has maximum 85,363 active cases, followed by 71,628 active cases in Kerala. Of the total active cases in Delhi, 26,533 are under home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/99-deaths-reported-in-delhi-new-covid-cases-under-4000/articleshow/79254527.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||Trump lawyers withdraw on eve of key hearing in Pennsylvania election case||Three more lawyers representing US President Donald Trump's campaign have asked to withdraw from his lawsuit challenging the US election results in Pennsylvania, shaking up his legal team on the eve of a major court hearing. The lawyers - Linda Kerns, John Scott and Douglas Bryan Hughes - made the request in a court filing on Monday, adding that the campaign consented to their withdrawal. In a brief order on Monday night, the judge hearing the case allowed Scott and Hughes to withdraw but not Kerns. Harrisburg-based lawyer Marc Scaringi has joined the case and will be Trump's lead counsel. Scaringi and the three attorneys who sought to withdraw did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Scaringi on Monday asked the judge to postpone a hearing scheduled for Tuesday, saying he and a law partner "need additional time to adequately prepare." The judge quickly denied the request. Jenna Ellis, a legal adviser with the Trump campaign, said the change was routine. "The president announced Saturday that he has asked Mayor Rudy Giuliani to lead the national legal team, along with local counsel. Our substitution of local counsel is consistent with routine managing of complex litigation," Ellis said in a statement. The filing did not give a reason for the change, which came days after a prominent regional law firm, Porter Wright Morris & Arthur, also withdrew from the case. In a court filing on Thursday, lawyers at Porter Wright said it had agreed that its clients - the campaign and two registered voters - "will be best served if Porter Wright withdraws." Kerns said in a recent court filing that she has faced a torrent of harassing emails and phone messages due to her work for the Trump campaign. A federal judge in Williamsport will hear arguments on Tuesday in the Trump campaign's lawsuit, filed on Nov. 9, which seeks to halt the state's top election official from certifying Joe Biden, a Democrat, as the winner. The Trump campaign is filing lawsuits that are "borderline frivolous" and will not change the election's outcome even if successful, said Bruce Green, a professor of legal ethics at Fordham Law School. "It's doomed to fail anyway. So, does it really make a difference if another lawyer comes in? I think in most people's view, these cases are not being filed with any expectation that they'll prevail," Green said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-lawyers-withdraw-on-eve-of-key-hearing-in-pennsylvania-election-case/articleshow/79254544.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||Trump lawyers withdraw on eve of key hearing in Pennsylvania election case||Three more lawyers representing US President Donald Trump's campaign have asked to withdraw from his lawsuit challenging the US election results in Pennsylvania, shaking up his legal team on the eve of a major court hearing. The lawyers - Linda Kerns, John Scott and Douglas Bryan Hughes - made the request in a court filing on Monday, adding that the campaign consented to their withdrawal. In a brief order on Monday night, the judge hearing the case allowed Scott and Hughes to withdraw but not Kerns. Harrisburg-based lawyer Marc Scaringi has joined the case and will be Trump's lead counsel. Scaringi and the three attorneys who sought to withdraw did not immediately respond to requests for comment. Scaringi on Monday asked the judge to postpone a hearing scheduled for Tuesday, saying he and a law partner "need additional time to adequately prepare." The judge quickly denied the request. Jenna Ellis, a legal adviser with the Trump campaign, said the change was routine. "The president announced Saturday that he has asked Mayor Rudy Giuliani to lead the national legal team, along with local counsel. Our substitution of local counsel is consistent with routine managing of complex litigation," Ellis said in a statement. The filing did not give a reason for the change, which came days after a prominent regional law firm, Porter Wright Morris & Arthur, also withdrew from the case. In a court filing on Thursday, lawyers at Porter Wright said it had agreed that its clients - the campaign and two registered voters - "will be best served if Porter Wright withdraws." Kerns said in a recent court filing that she has faced a torrent of harassing emails and phone messages due to her work for the Trump campaign. A federal judge in Williamsport will hear arguments on Tuesday in the Trump campaign's lawsuit, filed on Nov. 9, which seeks to halt the state's top election official from certifying Joe Biden, a Democrat, as the winner. The Trump campaign is filing lawsuits that are "borderline frivolous" and will not change the election's outcome even if successful, said Bruce Green, a professor of legal ethics at Fordham Law School. "It's doomed to fail anyway. So, does it really make a difference if another lawyer comes in? I think in most people's view, these cases are not being filed with any expectation that they'll prevail," Green said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-lawyers-withdraw-on-eve-of-key-hearing-in-pennsylvania-election-case/articleshow/79254516.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||10 central teams to check private hospitals in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The ministry of home affairs on Monday constituted 10 multi-disciplinary teams to visit all private hospitals in Delhi to check the status of compliance of various directions issued by the Union health ministry and Delhi government to contain the spread of Covid-19. Union home minister Amit Shah had earlier convened a meeting on Sunday in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the capital. The meeting was attended by union health minister Harsh Vardhan, Delhi LG Anil Baijal, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and state health minister Satyendar Jain. The direction, among others, was given to ensure the availability of beds and medical infrastructure related to Covid-19 in Delhi. The teams were constituted by an order issued by the disaster management division of the ministry, which said that Delhi government would provide necessary logistic support, including transportation, and extend all cooperation for the visit of the teams to private hospitals. The Delhi government's health department will nominate a focal point to ensure the smooth conduct of visit and issue necessary directions to private hospitals to facilitate the visit. The teams will submit their reports by Wednesday. The 10 teams, each of which is headed by an official of deputy secretary rank and have two senior doctors, will visit a total of 114 private hospitals in the city. The dedicated multi-disciplinary teams will check if the availability of wards and ICU beds is as per Delhi government orders and whether the availability is being displayed on a real-time basis by the hospital through LED and through Delhi government's Corona Dashboard. The teams will check whether private hospitals are thoroughly observing the Covid discharge policy as mandated by the government of India and if there are any violations in the treatment protocol. The teams will also test the RT-PCR testing capacity of the hospitals, if available, the capacity utilised and the time taken for the test report to arrive. They will also check if critical patients are being referred to other government or private hospitals without ascertaining the availability in those hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/10-central-teams-to-check-private-hospitals-in-delhi/articleshow/79254569.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 17, 2020||World||Kamala Harris delivers first speech on US economy: Full transcript||NEW YORK: On Monday afternoon, America's first ever Indian and Black American Vice President-elect Kamala Harris delivered her first prepared remarks on the coronavirus - battered US economy. Harris spoke after meetings with industry leaders and took the stage ahead of Joe Biden. Below is the full transcript of Harris' first economy speech after the US 2020 election win. "President-elect Biden and I just met with some of our nation's business and union leaders. Together, they represent millions of workers across our country and some of America's leading technology, auto, and retail companies. We had an important conversation about the impact that this pandemic has had on workers - especially essential workers, frontline workers - who have risked their own health, and the health of their families, and many who have given their own lives, to keep us safe and keep our economy running. And we all know that this pandemic - and this recession - have hit communities of color particularly hard. Black Americans and Latinos are three times as likely to contract Covid as others and more likely to die. Native Americans are more than four times as likely to be hospitalized as others. And last month, the unemployment rate for Black Americans was almost twice the rate of others. And we also had a conversation about the impact this pandemic has had on our economy as a whole, from the Fortune 500 to the small businesses that so many communities rely on. Over the past few months on the campaign trail, the President-elect and I saw that impact firsthand. In state after state, we met with workers who shared their struggles with us. Essential workers who've had to stay on the job even as they worry about their family's well-being - and their own. Small business owners who are dipping into their own savings to make payroll and keep their doors open. And many others who've had to close their doors and fear never reopening at all. Their stories have stayed with us. And the President-elect and I are focused on building our country back better for them - and all Americans. As I said the night we won this election: now is when the real work begins. The necessary work. The good work. Of getting this virus under control, saving lives, beating this pandemic, and opening our economy responsibly while rebuilding it so it works for working people. And we will do it by protecting the health and safety of our workers. And by creating millions of good-paying union jobs - from auto and construction jobs, to domestic workers and caregiving jobs, to service and hospitality jobs. The road ahead will not be easy. But the President-elect Joe Biden and I are hitting the ground running. Because we all know; the challenges facing America today are great, the American people deserve no less, and we don't have a moment to waste. Now, it is my great honor to introduce President-elect Biden."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/kamala-harris-delivers-first-speech-on-us-economy-full-transcript/articleshow/79254627.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Pune||Pune cops arrest 47-year-old man with Mephedrone worth Rs 55,000||PUNE: The local crime branch of Pune Rural police have arrested a 47-year-old man near a toll plaza near Loni Kalbhor town, about 20km from Pune, and recovered about 7gm of synthetic drugs Mephedrone worth Rs 55,000 from him. A police team led by senior inspector Padmakar Ghanwat took the suspect Ashok Pujari currently residing at Katraj in Pune and hailing from Girgaon in Mumbai, on a tip-off. Ghanwat said that his team comprised of sub-inspector Shivaji Nanaware, police constables Rajendra Punekar, Vijay Kanchan, Dhiraj Jadhav and Akshay Navale were patrolling in Loni Kalbhor area, when they got a tip-off that one person would be coming near toll plaza on Pune-Solapur for selling some contraband substances. "We laid a trap and took Pujari into custody. We have found about 7gm of Mephedrone in his possession," Ghanwat said. He said that Pujari has been handed over to the Loni Kalbhor police for further probe, Ghanwat said. In the last month, the Pimpri Chinchwad police have arrested 14 people, including a Nigerian national and a man having links with the Chhota Rajan gang, and sealed a closed pharmaceutical unit at the Ranjangaon MIDC in connection with the recent seizure of 20kg mephedrone, valued at Rs 20 crore in international market.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-cops-arrest-47-year-old-man-with-mephedrone-worth-rs-55000/articleshow/79254649.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 17, 2020||World||Biden filling out top White House team with campaign vets||ATLANTA: President-elect Joe Biden is drawing from the senior ranks of his campaign to fill out an increasingly diverse White House leadership team. Sources familiar with Biden's initial decisions confirmed Monday that former campaign manager Jen O'Malley Dillon will serve as a deputy chief of staff, while campaign co-chair Louisiana Rep. Cedric Richmond and campaign adviser Steve Ricchetti will play senior roles in the new administration. Richmond will leave his Louisiana congressional seat to fill the White House job. The sources were not authorized to disclose internal discussions ahead of a formal staffing announcement expected for Tuesday. The new hires represent an initial wave of what will ultimately be hundreds of new White House aides hired in the coming weeks as Biden builds out an administration to execute his governing vision. The Democrat will be inaugurated Jan. 20. Late last week, Biden tapped former senior campaign adviser Ron Klain to serve as his chief of staff. O'Malley Dillon, 44, was the first woman to manage a successful Democratic presidential campaign. She is a veteran political operative who worked on both of former President Barack Obama's White House bids. Ricchetti worked as lobbyist for the health care industry, among others, before becoming Biden's chief of staff during the Obama administration. Biden's campaign was staffed with many alumni from Obama world and his administration is expected to be as well. Less clear is the shape of his Cabinet, which will be subject to Senate confirmation. Since winning the election earlier this month, the president-elect has been hunkered down with Vice President-elect Kamala Harris near his home in Delaware preparing for the business of governing. Biden will begin rolling out his higher-profile Cabinet picks in the coming weeks. Richmond, a 47-year-old African American, will take on a public engagement role in the Biden administration that will allow him to deal with Congress along with a focus on the Black community and other minority groups. Richmond's role will be like that of Valerie Jarrett in Obama's administrations, said two Democrats with knowledge of the hire. A former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus, Richmond was among Biden's earliest high-profile supporters and served as his campaign co-chair. Richmond was a key figure in helping Biden, a former senator and two-term vice president, leverage his own long-standing relationships with CBC members. The congressman, who was first elected in 2010 when Biden was Obama's vice president, was especially important in outreach to younger lawmakers who, like him, came to Washington later in the 77-year-old president-elect's career. Richmond has scheduled a Tuesday morning news conference in which he's expected to announce that he's leaving his congressional seat. Richmond established a strong relationship with House Majority Whip Jim Clyburn, claiming the South Carolina Democrat and highest-ranking Black member of Congress as a personal mentor not long after Richmond arrived in the House. Clyburn's endorsement of Biden ahead of the South Carolina primary was a seminal moment in the president-elect's campaign after his disastrous start in the Iowa caucuses and New Hampshire primary. Informed of the Richmond news on Capitol Hill on Monday, Clyburn said it was ``great.'' He described Richmond as ``very gifted, very energetic.'' Richmond remains friends with Republican House Minority Whip Steve Scalise from their days in the Louisiana Legislature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-filling-out-top-white-house-team-with-campaign-vets/articleshow/79254663.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Bhubaneswar||Class 6 girl walks 10km to file complaint against dad in Odisha||KENDRAPADA: A slip of a girl studying in Class 6 on Monday summoned the courage to stand up for her rights and the strength to trek 10km to the DM's office in Odisha's Kendrapada to claim the midday meal benefits her allegedly greedy father had usurped. On receiving the girl's written complaint against her father, Kendrapada collector Samarth Verma directed an official to not only arrange for direct transfer of benefits to her bank account, but also ensure that the money and rice her father had illegally claimed were handed back to her. Since the lockdown started, the government has been depositing Rs 8 a day in the bank account of each student — or that of a guardian in case the beneficiary doesn’t have one — besides providing 150g of rice daily under the midday meal scheme. While the girl holds a bank account, the cash equivalent of unavailed midday meal benefits had all along gone into her father’s account, she alleged. The father, with whom she no longer stays, had also been collecting rice in his daughter's name from her school. The girl's ordeal had apparently begun after her mother died two years ago and her father remarried. Since being shunted out of her home in 2019, she's been living with an uncle of hers. "As directed by the collector, we will deposit the money she is entitled to directly in her bank account and take action to recover the amount her father received in her name," Kendrapada district education officer Sanjib Singh said. "I have directed the school’s headmaster to henceforth provide her quota of rice only to her." Watch Odisha: Class 6 girl walks 10km to DM’s office, files complaint against father||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhubaneswar/class-6-girl-walks-10km-to-file-complaint-against-dad-in-odisha/articleshow/79254670.cms||Ashis Senapati
November 17, 2020||World||Trump aide comes close to recognizing loss, vows smooth transition||WASHINGTON: The US national security advisor on Monday promised a smooth transition to a new administration under President-elect Joe Biden as he came close to acknowledging the defeat of Donald Trump, who refuses to concede. Robert O'Brien, who coordinates all national security matters at the White House, said that the United States has had "peaceful, successful transitions even in the most contentious periods." "If the Biden/Harris ticket is determined to be the winner, and obviously things look that way now, we'll have a very professional transition from the National Security Council, there's no question about it," O'Brien told the Global Security Forum, a virtual conference held in the past in Qatar. Striking a magnanimous tone that is customary after US elections but has been absent so far from Trump, O'Brien said that Biden and Vice President-elect Kamala Harris "have very professional folks" capable of taking over and that he would stay quiet after the inauguration. "They deserve some time to come in and implement their policies; we may have policy disagreements," he said. Nearly two weeks after the November 3 election, Trump has insisted that he won and has made unsubstantiated claims of mass fraud even as Biden had unassailable leads in key states and a major edge in the popular vote. While Biden is set to take over on January 20 regardless of whether Trump admits defeat, the General Services Administration -- the usually low-profile agency that manages the federal bureaucracy -- has refused to certify Biden as the winner, denying him classified briefings and resources for the transition. O'Brien, a longtime Republican lawyer who earlier handled hostage affairs, also seemed to acknowledge the election results as he spoke of efforts to free Austin Tice, an American photojournalist missing in war-ravaged Syria. "We're doing everything we can to get Austin back," O'Brien said. "The president would like to see him back before he leaves office." A US official paid a rare visit to Damascus in August to seek information on Tice, about whom there has been little information since he was detained at a checkpoint on August 14, 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-aide-comes-close-to-recognizing-loss-vows-smooth-transition/articleshow/79254746.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||Two Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorists arrested by Delhi Police's special cell||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police's special cell is learnt to have arrested two alleged terrorists and foiled a major terror strike planned around Diwali. The duo belong to Jaish-e-Mohammed. The operation was conducted by DCP (special cell) Sanjeev Yadav. "On the basis of the information a trap was laid near millennium park, Sarai Kale Khan, Delhi and at about 10.15pm, two suspects, who are residents of J&K, were apprehended," DCP Yadav told the Times of India. The duo were identified as Abdul Latif Mir from Baramulla and Mohammad Ashraf from Kupwara. Both are in their early twenties. Pistols and cartridges were seized from them. They are being interrogated by a joint team of intelligence agencies and cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-jaish-e-mohammed-terrorists-arrested-by-delhi-polices-special-cell/articleshow/79254769.cms||Raj Shekhar
November 17, 2020||Amritsar||Chandigarh: Sonu Sood gifts phones to 13 slum kids||BATHINDA: A nine-second video clip of small girl students asking for help as they are not able to attend classes for not having a smartphone made Bollywood actor Sonu Sood and his friend Karan Gilhotra reach out to them. In three days of sending a tweet through a video clip, requesting help for the 13 students from a slum area of the border town of Fazilka, they all got smartphones. Gilhotra, a Chandigarh-based business from Fazilka, delivered the mobile phones to students on Sunday evening. The children study in government schools but are getting coaching from volunteers of NGO Robinhood academy under a shed of municipal committee. It is not the first that the duo has helped needy persons. During lockdown to stop the spread of Covid, Sonu and Gilhotra had helped many persons by making them reach their destinations. Anand Jain (24), who runs the Fazilka chapter of Robinhood Army and Academy along with many other youngsters, had made the tweet-video clip on November 12. The actor replied to the tweet, writing the mobiles are on the way and will be with you in three days. Watch Actor Sonu Sood gifts phones to 13 slum kids after plea for help in video||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/chandigarh-sonu-sood-gifts-phones-to-13-slum-kids/articleshow/79254755.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Former mayor Sampath Raj arrested||BENGALURU: Sleuths from Central Crime Branch on Monday night arrested former mayor Sampath Raj on charges of playing vital role in setting the house of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy on fire during east Bengaluru violence of August 11 night. Joint commissioner of police Sandeep Patil confirmed the arrest and said that the accused will be produced before a local court on Tuesday. Watch Bengaluru violence case: Ex-Congress mayor R Sampath Raj held||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-former-mayor-sampath-raj-arrested/articleshow/79254767.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 17, 2020||World||Pfizer to start Covid-19 immunization pilot program in four US states||Pfizer Inc said on Monday it was starting a pilot program for Covid-19 immunization in four US states to help refine the plan for the delivery and deployment of its vaccine candidate. The US drugmaker said it had selected Rhode Island, Texas, New Mexico, and Tennessee for the program because of their differences in overall size, diversity of populations and immunization infrastructure, as well as the states' need to reach individuals in varied urban and rural settings. "The four states included in this pilot program will not receive vaccine doses earlier than other states by virtue of this pilot, nor will they receive any differential consideration," Pfizer said in a statement. Pfizer last Monday released initial data on its vaccine developed with German partner BioNTech SE that showed it to be more than 90% effective. Earlier on Monday, rival Moderna Inc said its experimental vaccine was 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19 based on interim data from a late-stage trial, boosting hopes that vaccines against the disease may be ready for use soon. Both the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines use a new technology called synthetic messenger RNA to activate the immune system against the virus. Experts have raised concerns about the distribution challenges associated with Pfizer's vaccine due to its specialized storage requirements. Watch Covid-19: Drugmaker Pfizer to start immunization pilot program in four US states||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pfizer-to-start-covid-19-immunization-pilot-program-in-four-u-s-states/articleshow/79254798.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC refuses to halt GHMC poll process||HYDERABAD: Wondering whether some people are trying to enact a show off at the last minute to tell people they are champions of the weaker sections, the high court on Monday refused to stay the ongoing preparatory process for holding Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy said this while hearing a petition filed by Dasoju Sravan Kumar of Congress, seeking reservations to those politically backward communities which were scarcely represented in the political sphere. “The SC said so in its judgement delivered in K Krishna Murthy versus Union of India on May 11, 2010,” Kowturu Pawan Kumar, the counsel for the petitioner, said while urging the court to restrain the authorities from going ahead without identifying such politically backward communities. He sought a direction to separately identify the politically backward communities entitled to reservation in the elections and not merely follow the backward castes lists which were prepared for extending reservations in education and employment spheres. The Supreme Court had held in its judgment that the barriers to political participation were not of the same character as barriers that limit access to education and employment and as such the same list of backward communities cannot be relied upon. “Most Backward Communities (MBCs) are being deprived of the benefit of political reservation because the present provisions in the GHMC Act, 1955, do not allow any such space for MBCs,” he said. The bench turned critical towards the petitioner and questioned him as to why he was seeking implementation of the judgment at the last minute despite knowing the fact that this was pronounced by the apex court 10 years ago. “You should have screamed from the top of the roof to tell everyone that it is the duty of the state to implement this judgment and seek its implementation in the last few years. But you have not done anything of that sort. This last minute petition looks more like a clever political ploy and a highly motivated plea,” the bench said. The bench, while clubbing two more pleas that were filed with similar prayers, issued notices to the state, GHMC and the State Election Commission and adjourned the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-hc-refuses-to-halt-ghmc-poll-process/articleshow/79254921.cms||M Sagar Kumar
November 17, 2020||World||Hate crimes in US reach highest level in more than a decade||WASHINGTON: Hate crimes in the US rose to the highest level in more than a decade as federal officials also recorded the highest number of hate-motivated killings since the FBI began collecting that data in the early 1990s, according to an FBI report released Monday. There were 51 hate crime murders in 2019, which includes 22 people who were killed in a shooting that targeted Mexicans at a Walmart in the border city of El Paso, Texas, the report said. The suspect in that August 2019 shooting, which left two dozen other people injured, was charged with both state and federal crimes in what authorities said was an attempt to scare Hispanics into leaving the United States. There were 7,314 hate crimes last year, up from 7,120 the year before - and approaching the 7,783 of 2008. The FBI's annual report defines hate crimes as those motivated by bias based on a person's race, religion or sexual orientation, among other categories. Some of the 2019 increases may be the result of better reporting by police departments, but law enforcement officials and advocacy groups don't doubt that hate crimes are on the rise. The Justice Department has for years been specifically prioritizing hate crime prosecutions. The data also shows there was a nearly 7% increase in religion-based hate crimes, with 953 reports of crimes targeting Jews and Jewish institutions last year, up from 835 the year before. The FBI said the number of hate crimes against African Americans dropped slightly to 1,930, from 1,943. Anti-Hispanic hate crimes, however, rose to 527 in 2019, from 485 in 2018. And the total number of hate crimes based on a person's sexual orientation stayed relatively stable, with one fewer crime reported last year, compared with the year before, though there were 20 more hate crimes against gay men reported. As the data was made public on Monday, advocacy groups, including the Anti-Defamation League, called on Congress and law enforcement agencies across the US to improve data collection and reporting of hate crimes. Critics have long warned that the data may be incomplete, in part because it is based on voluntary reporting by police agencies across the country. Last year, only 2,172 law enforcement agencies out of about 15,000 participating agencies across the country reported hate crime data to the FBI, the bureau said. And while the number of agencies reporting hate crimes increased, the number of agencies participating in the program actually dropped from the year before. A large number of police agencies appeared not to submit any hate crime data, which has been a consistent struggle for Justice Department officials. "The total severity of the impact and damage caused by hate crimes cannot be fully measured without complete participation in the FBI's data collection process," the Anti-Defamation League's president, Jonathan Greenblatt, said in a statement. An Associated Press investigation in 2016 found that more than 2,700 city police and county sheriff's departments across the country had not submitted a single hate crime report for the FBI's annual crime tally during the previous six years. Greenblatt also said America must "remove the barriers that too often prevent people in marginalized communities - the individuals most likely to suffer hate crimes - from reporting hate-based incidents," a sentiment shared by other advocates. "The FBI's report is another reminder that we have much work to do to address hate in America," said Margaret Huang, the president of the Southern Poverty Law Center. Watch US: Hate crimes reach highest level in over a decade||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/hate-crimes-in-us-reach-highest-level-in-more-than-a-decade/articleshow/79254971.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||New vaccine breakthrough lifts global hope against pandemic||WASHINGTON: Global hopes of vanquishing the coronavirus pandemic were boosted Monday after a vaccine was found to be nearly 95 percent effective in a trial, bringing much-needed optimism amid surging infections and grueling new restrictions. The news from the US biotech firm Moderna comes after similar results were announced last week for a vaccine candidate developed by pharma giant Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech. Major stock markets surged Monday in response, building on a boom sparked by the Pfizer news one week ago. Top US infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci hailed the results, telling AFP that the data exceeded expectations. "The idea that we have a 94.5 percent effective vaccine is stunningly impressive," he said. Moderna, whose results stem from a clinical trial of more than 30,000 participants, expects to have approximately 20 million doses ready to ship in the United States by year-end. Yet with widespread availability of any vaccine still far off, governments around the world are clamping down with unpopular but life-saving restrictions on free movement, gatherings and business. In the United States, President-elect Joe Biden expressed frustration over Donald Trump's refusal to cooperate on the White House transition process, saying "more people may die" of coronavirus without immediate coordination on fighting the surging pandemic. The US is already the country worst-hit by the virus. Globally, infections have neared 55 million with more than 1.3 million deaths, and experts caution there are still difficult and dangerous months ahead. "A vaccine on its own will not end the pandemic," warned World Health Organization head Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus. Supply will initially be limited to healthcare workers and other vulnerable populations, which could offer major help to hospital systems but will "still leave the virus with a lot of room to move," he said. In hard-hit Europe, curbs have returned -- often in the face of protests -- from Greece to Britain, where Covid-19 survivor Prime Minister Boris Johnson was self-isolating out of precaution Monday after coming into contact with an MP who later tested positive for the virus. Sweden, which has drawn attention for a softer approach to combating the virus, decided Monday to ban gatherings of more than eight people for the first time. "It's going to get worse. Do your duty and take responsibility for stopping the spread of the virus," said Prime Minister Stefan Lofven. And in Germany, which began a new round of shutdowns earlier in the month, Chancellor Angela Merkel was pushing for tighter measures such as masks in all schools and smaller class sizes. While new cases were plateauing in Germany, daily numbers, officials said, were still too high. But Merkel said state premiers did not have any appetite to up the ante and introduce tougher curbs to bring down infection numbers. Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz announced over the weekend that the country was tightening restrictions to get spiraling infection numbers under control. Schools and shops will be shut from Tuesday until December 6. In neighboring Belgium, the government said it intends to make any coronavirus vaccine available free of charge. "The objective is to vaccinate at least 70 percent of the population," Health Minister Frank Vandenbroucke stated at a health conference. Infections in the United States, meanwhile, show no sign of relenting after one million new cases in less than a week pushed the total number to 11,190,611, with 247,116 deaths. The spikes have prompted new curbs in various states, while experts warn families against large gatherings for the upcoming Thanksgiving holiday. A stay-at-home advisory came into force Monday in the country's third-biggest city, Chicago; while New York, an earlier outbreak epicenter, was also trying to flatten a second curve. US markets shrugged off a resurgent Covid's potential economic impact, focusing instead on the vaccine news, with the Dow Jones and S&P 500 closing Monday at record highs. Responding to the Moderna vaccine news on Twitter, Biden hailed the breakthrough as hopeful but called for continued "social-distancing and mask-wearing." Trump, on other hand, tried to take credit for the advancement. "Please remember that these great discoveries, which will end the China Plague, all took place on my watch!" Trump wrote. But Fauci, who heads the National Institutes of Allergies and Infectious Diseases, warned it would be crucial to convince people to take the vaccine, particularly in the US, where anti-vaccine sentiment runs high. "A vaccine with a high degree of efficacy is of no use if nobody gets vaccinated," he said. Concerns of a resurgence also remain in parts of the world that have largely brought their caseloads under control. Canada, in the midst of a second wave, recorded 301,332 infections Monday with 11,000 deaths. Australia's Adelaide, which had not seen a significant outbreak in seven months, reported that a new cluster of 17 cases was linked to a hotel used to quarantine travelers returning from overseas. Authorities snapped back a roster of restrictions and suspended international flights into Adelaide. In Hong Kong, the government further tightened restrictions from Monday on the number of people in bars and restaurants, to guard against a spike. Watch Covid-19: New vaccine breakthrough lifts global hope||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/new-vaccine-breakthrough-lifts-global-hope-against-pandemic/articleshow/79255022.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||Strict new limits imposed coast to coast in US as Covid-19 surge continues||The city of Philadelphia and several large US states on Monday announced strict new limits on social gatherings and commercial activity to tamp down a coronavirus surge threatening to overwhelm healthcare systems and claim thousands more lives in the weeks ahead. New Jersey, California, Ohio and Pennsylvania's largest city joined a growing list of states and local jurisdictions re-imposing tough measures designed to blunt a nationwide spike in coronavirus infections and hospitalizations, following a summertime ebb. Health experts warn the coming holiday travel season and the onset of colder weather will only exacerbate the trend, with people more likely to congregate indoors. More than 70,000 Americans were hospitalized for treatment of Covid-19 as of Monday, the most ever at any time since the pandemic began, according to a Reuters tally of public health figures. The number of US infections documented to date surpassed 11 million on Monday, a little more than a week after crossing the 10-million mark - the fastest time it has taken for the national tally to grow by an additional 1 million cases. PHILADELPHIA GETS TOUGHIn one of the most aggressive actions taken to confront the looming crisis, Philadelphia officials on Monday ordered a ban on "indoor gatherings of any size in any location, public or private," except among individuals who live together. "We need to keep this virus from jumping from one household to another," city Health Commissioner Thomas Farley told a news conference. If the current rate of "exponential" growth in cases continues, hospitals will soon be strained to their limits and more than 1,000 people could die in Pennsylvania's largest city over the next six weeks, Farley said. In neighboring New Jersey, one of the hardest-hit states in the early phase of the pandemic, Governor Phil Murphy said he was ordering indoor gatherings of individuals from different households to limit to 10 people, down from 25, while the mandatory cap on outdoor gatherings will be lowered next week to 150 from 500. On the other side of the country, California Governor Gavin Newsom said he was applying "emergency brakes" to his reopening plan, citing a doubling in the daily number of COVID-19 cases reported across the state over the past 10 days. Under Newsom's announcement, commercial and social restrictions will be tightened starting Tuesday in 40 of the state's 58 counties, covering the vast majority of its 40 million residents. The crackdown means no indoor service in bars and restaurants and more restrictions on many other businesses and public gatherings. California is also strengthening its face covering guidance to require individuals to wear a mask whenever outside their home, with limited exceptions, Newsom said. OHIO & OKLAHOMAIn Ohio, where daily case tallies have increased by 17% and total hospitalizations by at least 25% in the past week, the state's health department issued a revised order to limit mass gatherings starting on Tuesday, Governor Mike DeWine announced. Oklahoma Governor Kevin Stitt announced a new 11 p.m. curfew for bars and restaurants starting on Thursday, while some 33,000 state employees will be required to wear masks at work beginning on Wednesday. New Mexico Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham urged residents to stay home for all but essential activities. "We face a life-or-death situation and we cannot fail to act," Grisham wrote on Twitter. Michigan and Washington state on Sunday imposed sweeping new restrictions on gatherings, including halting indoor restaurant service. The flurry of measures came as 40 states have reported record daily increases in Covid-19 cases this month, while 20 states have registered all-time highs in daily coronavirus-related deaths and 26 reported new peaks in hospitalizations, according to a Reuters tally of public health data. The United States as a whole has averaged more than 148,000 new cases a day, and 1,120 daily deaths, over the past week. MODERNA VACCINE 95% EFFECTIVEThe dire accumulation of grim statistics came amid a glimmer of hope with Monday's announcement by drugmaker Moderna that its experimental vaccine was 94.5% effective in preventing Covid-19, based on interim data from a late-stage trial. Together with Pfizer Inc's vaccine, which also was found to be more than 90% effective, and depending on the outcome of additional safety data and regulatory reviews, the United States could have two vaccines authorized for emergency use in December, with as many as 60 million doses available this year. Dr. Anthony Fauci, a top US health official, said the Moderna vaccine results were impressive but cautioned the United States could still go through a "dark winter" as Covid-19 fatigue sets in and people grow tired of restrictions. "It's a very serious situation," Fauci said on NBC's "Today" program. "But the fact that help is on the way should spur us even more to double down on some of the public health measures... We can do it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/strict-new-limits-imposed-coast-to-coast-in-us-as-covid-19-surge-continues/articleshow/79255085.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Delhi||42-year-old stabbed to death in Delhi after quarrel over drinking||NEW DELHI: A 42-year-old man was stabbed to death on late Sunday night by two men after he scolded them for consuming alcohol near his house in northwest Delhi's Jahangirpuri. The two men have been arrested. The deceased was identified as Rajesh and the two accused were identified as Rajkumar (22) and Deepak (23). According to police, a quarrel broke out between Rajesh and the two men when he found the duo eating and consuming alcohol near his house. "When Rajesh asked the two men to leave, they refused and that ensued an argument between them. The quarrel escalated and one of them took out a knife and stabbed Rajesh in his chest," said a senior police officer. Rajesh was rushed to Babu Jagjivan Ram Memorial Hospital where he succumbed to his wounds. Deputy commissioner of police (Northwest) Vijayanta Arya said, "We have registered a case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of Indian Penal Code and arrested two men in connection with the incident."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/42-year-old-stabbed-to-death-in-delhi-after-quarrel-over-drinking/articleshow/79255097.cms||---
November 17, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP’s ‘Change Hyderabad’ blitz to be launched on social media||HYDERABAD: ‘Change Hyderabad-BJP for Hyderabad’ will be the slogan splashed all across social media platforms by the BJP during the GHMC polls. The party will rope in social media activists and groups to create content on these lines. At a meeting held separately on social media campaign recently, the BJP top brass told them to compare the progress in Hyderabad in the last six years to the progress made in BJP-ruled states. Cities like Indore, Bengaluru and Mysuru, their development and parameters in urban development will be compared with Hyderabad. More than 750 specialised social media campaign workers will send the content to strengthen division-wise Facebook pages and Twitter accounts. “Failed promises of the TRS will be the highlight of the campaign,” a BJP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjps-change-hyderabad-blitz-to-be-launched-on-social-media/articleshow/79255112.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||Trump asked for options for attacking Iran last week, but held off -source||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump, with two months left in office, asked for options on attacking Iran's main nuclear site last week but ultimately decided against taking the dramatic step, a US official said on Monday. Trump made the request during an Oval Office meeting on Thursday with his top national security aides, including Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, new acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the official said. Trump, who has refused to concede and is challenging the results of the Nov. 3 presidential election, is to hand over power to Democratic President-elect Joe Biden on Jan. 20. The official confirmed the account of the meeting in The New York Times, which reported that the advisers persuaded Trump not to go ahead with a strike because of the risk of a broader conflict. "He asked for options. They gave him the scenarios and he ultimately decided not to go forward," the official said. The White House declined comment. Trump has spent all four years of his presidency engaging in an aggressive policy against Iran, withdrawing in 2018 from the Iran nuclear deal negotiated by his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, and imposing economic sanctions against a wide variety of Iranian targets. His request for options came a day after a UN atomic watchdog report showed that Iran had finished moving a first cascade of advanced centrifuges from an above-ground plant at its main uranium enrichment site to an underground one, in a fresh breach of its 2015 nuclear deal with major powers. Iran's 2.4 tonne stock of low-enriched uranium is now far above the deal's 202.8 kg limit. It produced 337.5 kg in the quarter, less than the more than 500 kg recorded in the previous two quarters by the International Atomic Energy Agency. In January, Trump ordered a US drone strike that killed Iranian military General Qassem Soleimani at the Baghdad airport. But he has shied away from broader military conflicts and sought to withdraw US troops from global hotspots in keeping with a promise to stop what he calls "endless wars." A strike on Iran's main nuclear site at Natanz could flare into a regional conflict and pose a serious foreign policy challenge for Biden. Biden's transition team, which has not had access to national security intelligence due to the Trump administration's refusal to begin the transition, declined to comment for this story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-asked-for-options-for-attacking-iran-last-week-but-held-off-source/articleshow/79255108.cms||---
November 17, 2020||World||Trump asked for options for attacking Iran last week, but held off||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump, with two months left in office, last week asked for options on attacking Iran's main nuclear site, but ultimately decided against taking the dramatic step, a U.S. official said on Monday. Trump made the request during an Oval Office meeting on Thursday with his top national security aides, including Vice President Mike Pence, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, new acting Defense Secretary Christopher Miller and General Mark Milley, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the official said. Trump, who has refused to concede and is challenging the results of the Nov. 3 presidential election, is to hand over power to Democratic President-elect Joe Biden on Jan. 20. The official confirmed the account of the meeting in The New York Times, which reported the advisers persuaded Trump not to go ahead with a strike because of the risk of a broader conflict. "He asked for options. They gave him the scenarios and he ultimately decided not to go forward," the official said. The White House declined comment. Trump has spent all four years of his presidency engaging in an aggressive policy against Iran, withdrawing in 2018 from the Iran nuclear deal negotiated by his Democratic predecessor, Barack Obama, and imposing economic sanctions against a wide variety of Iranian targets. Trump's request for options came a day after a U.N. watchdog report showed Iran had finished moving a first cascade of advanced centrifuges from an above-ground plant at its main uranium enrichment site to an underground one, in a fresh breach of its 2015 nuclear deal with major powers. Alireza Miryousefi, spokesman for Iran’s mission to the United Nations in New York, said Iran's nuclear program is purely for peaceful purposes and civilian use and Trump's policies have not changed that. "However, Iran has proven to be capable of using its legitimate military might to prevent or respond to any melancholy adventure from any aggressor," he added. Iran's 2.4 tonne stock of low-enriched uranium is now far above the deal's 202.8 kg limit. It produced 337.5 kg in the quarter, less than the more than 500 kg recorded in the previous two quarters by the International Atomic Energy Agency. In January, Trump ordered a U.S. drone strike that killed Iranian General Qassem Soleimani at Baghdad's airport. But he has shied away from broader military conflicts and sought to withdraw U.S. troops from global hotspots in keeping with a promise to stop what he calls "endless wars." A strike on Iran's main nuclear site at Natanz could flare into a regional conflict and pose a serious foreign policy challenge for Biden. Biden's transition team, which has not had access to national security intelligence due to the Trump administration's refusal to begin the transition, declined comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-asked-for-options-for-attacking-iran-last-week-but-held-off/articleshow/79255201.cms||---
