November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||New norms greet students on campus amid the pandemic||Colleges across the state reopened after a gap of seven months with the Karnataka government allowed state-run and private colleges to reopen from Tuesday. Colleges were shut for several months across the state due to the COVID-19 pandemic, forcing students and teachers to take the online route. While many colleges still continued to remain shut, some like St. Joseph's College, Autonomous, held examinations for third and fifth semester, as well as post graduate students. Close to 1000 students wrote their exams on Tuesday but had to go through a number of processes in order to write their exams on campus. "We have followed protocols set by the Government of Karnataka and the University Grants Commission (UGC). A task force, comprising 25 faculty members, has been set up, as per government orders, and all of us were involved at every stage. Students who couldn't write their exams today will be given another date to appear for examinations. As far as classes are concerned, the college administration is yet to take a call," said Kiran Jeevan, PRO for the college. Processes followed to allow students to appear for exams:1. Multiple booths setup on campus for verification.2. Temperature checks and sanitisation conducted. 3. Mandatory paperwork like consent forms signed by parents, COVID-19 test certificate, ID cards and more checked by authorities. 4. Social distance maintained while writing exams. 5. Masks worn at all times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/new-norms-greet-students-on-campus-amid-the-pandemic/articleshow/79268566.cms||Sandra Marina Fernandes
November 18, 2020||World||Islamists call off their anti-France protest after deal with government||ISLAMABAD: A far-right Pakistani religious political party called off its sit-in protest in Islamabad against the publication of caricatures of Prophet Muhammad in France after the government agreed to discuss its demands for downgrading diplomatic ties with Paris. Around 5,000 Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) protesters, led by its founder, firebrand cleric Khadim Hussain Rizvi, began rallying on Sunday on a main highway between Islamabad and the neighboring city of Rawalpindi, vowing to march on the French embassy. The protesters were chanting anti-France slogans, demanding the expulsion of the French ambassador. According to the group, it signed a deal with the government early on Tuesday to end the protest, after assurance from authorities to consider expelling the French ambassador to Pakistan and to boycott French goods. The agreement signed between the two sides has four points: One, the government will put the question of expelling the French ambassador to the parliament “within two or three months”. Two, the government “will not appoint its ambassador to France”. Three, that Pakistan will “completely boycott French goods on a government level”. Finally, amnesty to the dozens of TLP protesters who were arrested during the course of the protest. The agreement was signed by interior minister and federal minister for religious affairs, in the early hours of Tuesday. The TLP has held several protests in Islamabad on blasphemy-related issues in recent years. Considered a sensitive subject in Pakistan, conviction for blasphemy against Islam carries a mandatory death sentence. Accusations of blasphemy have increasingly led to mob violence or targeted attacks in Pakistan in recent years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/islamists-call-off-their-anti-france-protest-after-deal-with-government/articleshow/79270132.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
November 18, 2020||World||PoK-origin, anti-India peer quits House of Lords days before his expulsion||LONDON: PoK-born peer Lord Nazir Ahmed, a prominent figure at anti-India protests in Britain and frequently outspoken on Kashmir, has quit the House of Lords after more than two decades service, days before he was due to be expelled. A spokesman for the House of Lords said: “Lord Ahmed wrote to the Clerk of the Parliaments on 13 November to inform him he wished to retire from the House on 14 November. This was announced on Monday.” On Tuesday, the conduct committee of the House of Lords published its report into the conduct of Mirpur-born Lord Ahmed, 63, one of the first Muslim peers, which upheld the findings of the independent House of Lords Commissioner for Standards that he breached the code of conduct and the committee recommended that he be expelled. The report will be put to the House for approval on November 19 without debate. “We cannot speculate on why Lord Ahmed decided to retire. He informed the House he wished to do so after he had received the final report from the conduct committee on his case and appeal. This is the first time the committee has recommended the expulsion of a member,” a House of Lords spokesman told TOI. Under the House of Lords code of conduct members are required to “act always on their personal honour”. The Commissioner found that by sexually assaulting Zaman on March 2, 2017, then failing to take up her original plaint, and by lying about his intentions, Lord Ahmed was failing to act on his personal honour and was in breach of the code. The Commissioner found that he breached the code of conduct for “failing to act on his personal honour” in the discharge of his parliamentary activities by agreeing to use his position as a member of the House of Lords to assist Miss Zaman, also from PoK, who wanted help making a complaint to the Metropolitan Police about a faith healer whom she believed had exploited men and women. The report states: “Lord Ahmed knew that he was dealing with a vulnerable person undergoing treatment for depression… He nonetheless misleadingly induced her to visit him at his house under the pretext of offering to assist her… when his true motivation was to induce her into a sexual relationship.” In her evidence Zaman said: “My opinion of Pakistani men is low, after Lord Ahmed’s treatment of me. I do not trust Pakistani men due to his treatment.” In his appeal, Lord Ahmed claimed Zaman was in love with him and did not deny sexual relations had occurred, but said she had made false allegations after he broke off their relationship. He denied he had breached the code and said the findings would have devastating consequences for his personal life. He also claimed the Commissioner was “racist”. The conduct committee dismissed his appeal and recommended his expulsion. The report said: “The abuse of the privileged position of membership for a member’s own gain or gratification, at the expense of the vulnerable or less privileged, involves a fundamental breach of trust and merits the gravest sanction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/pok-origin-anti-india-peer-quits-house-of-lords-days-before-his-expulsion/articleshow/79270161.cms||NAOMI CANTON
November 18, 2020||India||Mehbooba says BJP thinks alliance for elections is also anti-national||SRINAGAR:Former J&K chief ministers Omar Abdullah and Mehbooba Mufti, whose parties National Conference and PDP, respectively, are part of the Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, have lashed out at Union home minister Amit Shah for saying the PAGD was involving foreign forces to intervene in Jammu & Kashmir. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti tweeted, “BJP’s stale tactic of dividing India by projecting themselves as saviours & political opponents as internal & imagined enemies is far too predictable now (sic). Love jihad, tukde tukde & now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of rising unemployment & inflation”. She added, “Fighting elections in an alliance is also anti-national now. BJP can stitch as many alliances in its hunger for power, but somehow we are undermining national interest by putting up a united front.” “Old habits die hard,” Mehbooba tweeted. She said earlier BJP’s narrative was that the “tukde tukde gang” threatened India’s sovereignty, and now they are using “Gupkar Gang” as a euphemism “to project us as anti-nationals”. “Irony died a million deaths since it’s BJP itself that violates the Constitution day in & day out,” Mehbooba tweeted. Omar Abdullah directed a sharp tweet at Shah, saying, “We are not a ‘gang’ Amit Shah ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought & continuing to fight elections, much to your disappointment.” He added: “Only in J&K can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democratic process. The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled ‘corrupt & anti-national’.” Omar said he understood Shah’s “frustration”. “He had been briefed that the People’s Alli||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mehbooba-says-bjp-thinks-alliance-for-elections-is-also-anti-national/articleshow/79270337.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 18, 2020||India||PM Modi speaks to US President-elect Biden||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to US President-elect Joe Biden on Tuesday, with both leaders reiterating their firm commitment to the strategic partnership between the two countries as they discussed their shared priorities and concerns over the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region. This was the first interaction between the two leaders after Democrat Biden defeated incumbent president Donald Trump in the US presidential election. "Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns - Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region," Modi said in a tweet. Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-U… https://t.co/Pp1m2sq77K— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605636480000The prime minister also congratulated US Vice President-elect Kamala Harris. "Her success is a matter of great pride and inspiration for members of the vibrant Indian-American community, who are a tremendous source of strength for Indo-US relations," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modi-speaks-to-us-president-elect-biden/articleshow/79270445.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||J&K creates land bank of 25k kanals for new industries||JAMMU: In a bid to boost economic activities like manufacturing and service, Jammu & Kashmir administration has transferred 25,000 kanals (1 kanal= 5445sqft) of state land to the department of industries and commerce. The move is in line with the Industrial Policy-2016, which envisaged the creation of a land bank of 20,000 kanals across J&K over a period of 10 years, with emphasis on locations outside urban areas. “Out of the total land transferred, 17,000 kanals is in Jammu division, whereas 8,000 kanals is in Kashmir division. This land bank consists of non-forest, non-agricultural primarily barren state land parcels,” an official said, adding: “It has been identified by revenue authorities in consultation with the industry department and shall be put to use for development of industrial estates over next few years.” Before 2018, the department of industries & commerce had established 49 industrial estates across J&K with a total area of 31,448 kanals. This new land bank will add to these existing industrial estates. The land in the industrial estates is allotted on lease basis through a proper process laid down in the industrial policy to carry out industrial activity. Out of the new land bank, no land patch has yet been allotted to any entrepreneur as the same is yet to be developed, which shall take some time. During the last two years, only 453 units have been set up on government land in J&K. These units have been allotted a total of 1,371 kanals of land on lease basis in industrial areas across J&K after following procedure and guidelines as prescribed in the industrial policy. With the announcement of industrial-friendly packages by the government of India, the region witnessed a spurt in industrial activity across J&K, which resulted in creation and expansion of new industrial estates at Samba, Udhampur, Rangreth, Khunmoh and Lassipora.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-creates-land-bank-of-25k-kanals-for-new-industries/articleshow/79270774.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
November 18, 2020||Chennai||This Chennaiite collects used cracker canisters to plant saplings||This year’s Deepavali may have gone by and the excitement of bursting crackers might have waned away for many, but not for Hafiz Khan, a Chennaiite who’s kicked about ‘bursting crackers’ of a different kind, called tree bombs. He along with a set of volunteers have been collecting Deepavali trash, mainly used cracker canisters, to plant saplings in them. “So far, we’ve collected around 81,000 of them from different parts of Chennai. The aim was to collect one lakh and use them. But the numbers are less this year. It looks like people have burst fewer crackers this year because of the pandemic,” says Hafiz. Hafiz, who is part of an organisation that grows man-made forests, adds, “Several volunteers, a few organisations, a few apartments and the city corporation have helped us in collecting used canisters.” According to Hafiz, canisters help in planting saplings in an eco-friendly manner. “Generally, in nurseries, saplings are planted in plastic covers. But they are non-recyclable. The whole idea is to move to more sustainable methods. We’ve tried out pots made of terracotta, cow dung, bamboo shoots, etc. But all those are expensive. This works out the best. We first thought about this idea last year after seeing thousands of canisters lying around on the roads. Last year, we used around 27,000 of them to plant saplings,” he says. Explaining how they make use of these canisters, Hafiz says, “These are made of recyclable paper and are sturdy. They hold up to 2kg soil and the saplings grow up to 4ft to 5ft in them, and are easy to transport. When you water them, the cardboard retains the moisture. Once the sapling is about 5ft, the cardboard is punctured and planted in soil. Since cardboard is paper, it turns into compost. And the roots will continue their journey in the soil where the plant is planted.” Hafiz says that a variety of seeds are sown in these canisters, and by next June they’ll be ready for planting outside. “People can come and get the saplings for free from our nurseries; we’ll also use them for our plantation drives,” he says. Benefits of planting a sapling in used cracker canister  1. Helps avoid used canisters going into dump yards 2. It’s an eco-friendly and cheaper option 3. Cardboard retains moisture 4. Holds up to 2kg soil in it 5. Sapling grows up to 5ft in it 6. Cardboard can be turned into compost||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/this-chennaiite-collects-used-cracker-canisters-to-plant-saplings/articleshow/79271104.cms||Ashish Ittyerah Joseph
November 18, 2020||India||PM speaks to US President-elect Joe Biden, congratulates him for his win||NEW DELHI: Prime minister Narendra Modi had his first phone conversation with US president-elect Joe Biden Tuesday night, setting the immediate priorities for the India-US relationship under the new president. In a tweet, Modi said, “Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-US strategic partnership and discussed our shared priorities and concerns - Covid-19 pandemic, climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region." Spoke to US President-elect @JoeBiden on phone to congratulate him. We reiterated our firm commitment to the Indo-U… https://t.co/Pp1m2sq77K— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605636480000According to an official readout, Modi warmly congratulated President-elect Biden on his election, describing it as a testament to the strength and resilience of democratic traditions in the United States. Climate change is back on the India US agenda under Biden. But equally important from India's perspective is the continuing focus on the Indo Pacific. Read AlsoBiden says looks forward to working closely with Modi on shared global challenges, including CovidUS President-elect Joe Biden has said that he looks forward to working closely with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on shared global challenges, including containing Covid-19, launching the global economic recovery and maintaining a secure and prosperous Indo-Pacific region, according to hisModi also went on to congratulate the new US vice-president Kamala Harris.“I also conveyed warm congratulations for VP-elect @KamalaHarris. Her success is a matter of great pride and inspiration for members of the vibrant Indian-American community, who are a tremendous source of strength for Indo-US relations." I also conveyed warm congratulations for VP-elect @KamalaHarris. Her success is a matter of great pride and inspira… https://t.co/6R0TnJycRk— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1605636516000The leaders agreed to work closely to further advance the India-U.S. Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, built on shared values and common interests. The leaders also discussed their priorities, including containing the Covid-19 pandemic, promoting access to affordable vaccines, tackling climate change, and cooperation in the Indo-Pacific Region. Watch PM has first conversation with US President-elect Joe Biden, congratulates him on win||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-speaks-to-us-president-elect-joe-biden-congratulates-him-for-his-win/articleshow/79271305.cms||Indrani Bagchi
November 18, 2020||India||Govt takes it slow on execution of Beant Singh’s killer||NEW DELHI: Adopting an unhurried approach towards Balwant Singh Rajoana, who was sentenced to death by a trial court in 2007 in the case relating to then Punjab chief minister Beant Singh’s killing in 1995, the Centre told the Supreme Court that “life is precious and death is irreversible”. Rajoana, who has not appealed against the Punjab and Haryana HC’s decision upholding his conviction and sentence in 2010, has moved the SC seeking commutation of his death sentence to life imprisonment, saying he had been in prison for the last 25 years and was living under the shadow of death since 2007. Rajoana and Jagtar Singh Hawara were awarded death sentence by the trial court for the bomb blast on August 31, 1995, which killed Beant Singh and 16 others outside the Punjab and Haryana civil secretariat. However, the HC had commuted Hawara’s death sentence to life imprisonment. In 2011, the CBI appealed against the HC order and sought restoration of death sentence for Hawara, who filed an appeal in the SC in 2013 challenging the HC order upholding his conviction in the case. Both the appeals were tagged on July 19, 2013. However, the last time the CBI appeal came up for hearing was on November 20, 2015, when the SC had agreed to return the case records to the additional district and sessions judge, Chandigarh, for facilitating trial of one Jagtar Singh Tara. Since then, the appeals have been in cold storage. Responding to Rajoana’s plea for commutation of death sentence to life imprisonment, the home ministry said since the appeal of Hawara, a co-accused of Rajoana, was pending consideration of the SC along with that of the CBI, the government has decided to await the outcome of the appeals. “Case of one death convict is not de-linked from the other and simultaneous execution of the death sentence is postponed till all convicts have exhausted all remedies. Life is precious and death is irreversible... It was decided to wait for the decision of the SC in the CBI appeal challenging commutation of death sentence of Hawara to life imprisonment by the Punjab and Haryana HC and Hawara's appeal challenging the conviction. The decision on the mercy petition in respect of Rajoana was kept pending," it said. “Mercy petitions in respect of Rajoana will be processed after the SC delivers judgment in the appeals,” it added. As many as 14 petitions seeking mercy for Rajoana were filed in 2012 before the President, including those by then Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. Four petitions, including those by Rajiv Gandhi Youth Federation and Bhagat Singh Kranti Sena, were filed opposing mercy to Rajoana. The home ministry said, “On the occasion of commemoration of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the mercy petitions received on behalf of Rajoana were examined. However, the competent authority decided that the case may be processed after the decision of the SC in the case of Hawara.” On Tuesday, Rajoana’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi told a bench of CJI S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that since his client had been in jail for 25 years, it was covered under the earlier rulings of the SC for commutation of death sentence to life imprisonment, more so since he has been on death row for the last 13 years. The SC adjourned the hearing for two weeks. The Law Commission of India in its 262nd report had said, “Death penalty does not serve the penological goal of deterrence any more than life imprisonment. Life imprisonment under Indian law means imprisonment for the whole life subject to just remissions which, in many states in serious cases, are granted only after many years of imprisonment.” The commission, in its report in 2017, had said the time had come for India to move towards abolition of death penalty||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-takes-it-slow-on-execution-of-beant-singhs-killer/articleshow/79272099.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 18, 2020||India||Cong now says it’s not part of Gupkar group||NEW DELHI: In what appears to be a rethink in the wake of BJP’s attacks that Congress was allying with “anti-national” forces, the opposition party on Tuesday said it was not a part of the Gupkar Alliance of Kashmir Valley parties and accused the saffron rival of spreading misinformation. Within days of being part of the Gupkar Alliance for the forthcoming district council polls in J&K, Congress did an about turn, possibly concerned over being tagged with the National Conference and PDP over issues such as internationalisation of the dispute with Pakistan and the role of third party negotiations. The remarks of NC leader Farooq Abdullah about seeking China’s help and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti about not holding the tricolour — both later amended their statements — deepened the unease in Congress over the likely fallout of such associations in the rest of India and even Jammu. Congress accused home minister Amit Shah of spreading lies about Congress which it said had a long history of sacrifices for the country. It said Shah was trying to wash his and his government’s hands off the Chinese aggression in J&K and Ladakh. Party spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, “Congress is not part of the Gupkar Alliance or People’s Association for Gupkar Declaration... Congress believes in democratic elections in J&K and that is why it is contesting District Development Council elections so that BJP can be exposed.” Congress leaders in J&K have said there is a seat sharing pact as part of the seven party front. Strongly refuting the allegations levelled by Shah, the state party unit said it was neither part of PAGD nor had participated in any of its meetings or deliberations. “Congress has entered seat sharing exercise at certain local places in various districts for DDC polls,” it added. Surjewala said it was time BJP answered why it ran a government for over three years with Mehbooba Mufti whom Shah was criticising today and how China managed to intrude into Indian territory in Ladakh. He said the home minister should answer who gave permission to the dreaded Masrat Alam to hoist the Pakistani flag in Srinagar in April 2015. He said Congress’s history was replete with sacrifices for the national cause, starting with Mahatma Gandhi and those of Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and Sardar Beant Singh. On the contrary, he said BJP and RSS had never accepted the tricolour and were aligned with the British empire during the freedom struggle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-now-says-its-not-part-of-gupkar-group/articleshow/79272338.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||First time since August, daily tests below 9 lakh for 3 days||NEW DELHI: Daily Covid-19 cases in India rose to over 38,000 on Tuesday after dropping below 30,000 the previous day but the number of tests conducted in the country continued to remain low for the fourth day running. There were 8,44,382 tests conducted in India on Monday, as per the covid19india website quoting ICMR data. For the first time in three months, the daily number of tests has remained below 9 lakh for three days running (Saturday to Monday). On Friday too, some 9.3 lakh tests were conducted. These numbers were far less than the average of 11.6 lakh tests achieved from Tuesday to Thursday last week and in many days in previous weeks. The last time the number of daily tests was below 9 lakh for three straight days was on August 15-17. Festivals (Diwali and Bhai Dooj) and the weekend appear to be the main reasons for the drop in testing. Predictably, during this period, daily cases have seen a sharp dip. While 44,550 cases were recorded on Friday, the numbers dropped to 42,107, 30,126 and 28,574, respectively, on subsequent days. On Tuesday, India recorded 38,738 fresh infections, a rise of more than 10,000 over the previous day. The death toll too rose to 477, an increase from the previous three days when 454, 426 and 451 deaths had been recorded. For the second day running, Delhi reported the highest count of cases as well as deaths in the country. The Capital registered 6,396 cases and 99 deaths. Kerala reported the second highest number of cases at 5,792, followed by Bengal (3,654) and Maharashtra (2,840). Bengal had the third highest daily toll of 52, behind Maharashtra (68). In Tamil Nadu, all districts except for Perambalur reported fresh cases. The state logged 1,652 infections, taking the total case tally to 7,61,568. However, public health experts expressed concern that the significant drop in new and active cases could partly be because of a fall in testing. Kerala, where the number of new cases has reduced significantly in November, could have a total caseload of 6.6 lakh cases by December 12, according to a new projection. In October, this was the number of cases projected for November 12. The state currently has recorded 5,08,257 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-time-since-august-daily-tests-below-9-lakh-for-3-days/articleshow/79272537.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Govt pins hopes on 5 Covid shots under trial in India||NEW DELHI: As the national expert group on Covid-19 vaccine firms up plans for procurement and distribution of shots, the Centre is betting on the five vaccine candidates that are currently undergoing clinical trials in India. The candidates include three that are in advanced stages of trials in India — the Oxford-AstraZeneca candidate for which Pune-based Serum Institute is conducting phase 3 clinical trials, Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin which is also in phase 3, and Russia’s Sputnik V which is expected to start phase 2/3 trials next week. Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul, who also heads the national expert group on vaccine administration, said all these vaccines were on easy platforms and availability of adequate doses as per India’s requirement was also assured. The other two candidates include Cadila’s shot which has almost completed phase 2 and a candidate by Biological E which is in Phase 1/2. The government said it was also watching the two global candidates from Pfizer and Moderna. However, it believes the cold chain requirements for Pfizer’s candidate pose a major challenge and its limited number of doses would not be enough to meet India’s demand. “To our knowledge, there is only one vaccine that needs to be kept in -70 to -80 degree Celsius temperature — which will be difficult for all countries as it can be an obstacle for any country to scale up distribution. But we are examining even that and, if needed, we will do whatever is required to get doses of even that to meet our requirement,” Paul said. However, he maintained that it would be difficult to meet India’s requirement with the Pfizer vaccine during the initial few months. India has estimated that around 30-crore people, including healthcare and frontline workers and people in high-risk groups like those older than 50, will get the vaccine in the initial phase. Watch Covid-19: Five vaccines under trial in India, 2 of them in 3rd phase, says govt||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-pins-hopes-on-5-covid-shots-under-trial-in-india/articleshow/79272601.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Omar, Mufti react, say it’s a legitimate political alliance||SRINAGAR: Omar Abdullah of National Conference and Mehbooba Mufti of PDP, constituents of the Gupkar Alliance, have hit out at Amit Shah for saying that the alliance was involving foreign forces to intervene in J&K. Mufti tweeted: “Love jihad, tukde tukde & now Gupkar Gang dominates the political discourse instead of rising unemployment & inflation”. She added, “Fighting elections in an alliance is also anti-national now.” BJPs propaganda is peddled day & night by pliable channels that dedicate their prime time debates to issues such as… https://t.co/qjQ2H2CWQm— Mehbooba Mufti (@MehboobaMufti) 1605631291000Abdullah posted: “We are not a ‘gang’ Amit Shah ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought & continuing to fight elections, much to your disappointment.” He added: “Only in J&K can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democratic process. The truth is all those who oppose the ideology of the BJP are labelled ‘corrupt & anti-national’.” We are not a “gang” Amit Shah ji, we are a legitimate political alliance having fought & continuing to fight electi… https://t.co/qehMPOj0i4— Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) 1605604331000Only in J&K can leaders be detained & called anti-national for participating in elections & supporting the democrat… https://t.co/0zPiar8aUb— Omar Abdullah (@OmarAbdullah) 1605604331000||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/omar-mufti-react-say-its-a-legitimate-political-alliance/articleshow/79272630.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 18, 2020||India||CBI arrests UP junior engineer for sexually abusing kids for 10 years||LUCKNOW: A 40-year-old junior engineer with the Uttar Pradesh irrigation department was arrested on Tuesday by the Central Bureau of Investigation for allegedly sexually exploiting children and peddling videos and photographs on the dark web to paedophiles worldwide. The accused, Ram Bhawan, exploited at least 50 children in the 5-16 age-group over a 10-year span in the Bundelkhand districts of Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur, a CBI official said. He was arrested from Karvi town of Chitrakoot, where he was posted. Within hours of this arrest, the irrigation department suspended him from service. During searches at his two residences in neighbouring Banda, the CBI seized eight mobile phones, Rs 8 lakh in cash, sex toys, laptops, and unearthed digital evidence of child sexual abuse material, the agency said. An FIR was registered against the accused in the Delhi special crime branch unit of CBI last week. Sources said the CBI will seek police custody as they believe he was not acting alone. Explaining the modus-operandi of the accused, a CBI official said he would lure children with electronic gadgets and flashy cellphones and later muzzle them with more gifts after abusing and filming them in the act. The accused would contact and share child sexual abuse material with paedophiles across the world on the cloud and darknet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-arrests-up-junior-engineer-for-sexually-abusing-kids-for-10-years/articleshow/79272725.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Patna||Covid death toll in Patna crosses 300-mark||PATNA: Altogether 513 new Covid-19 cases were reported in Bihar on Tuesday, taking the state tally to 2,27,946. Officially, five more deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,194. With three more deaths, the toll in Patna district mounted up to 302. However, the state has 97.04% recovery rate and only 5540 active cases. As per the health department data, three deaths were reported from Patna and one each from Banka and Gaya. Patna again had the highest number of 186 Covid cases, taking its tally to 39,547 so far. However, with 37,758 recoveries and 302 deaths, there are 1487 active cases in the district. Covid-19 cases reported from some other districts included Muzaffarpur (27), Gaya (19), Munger (18), Kishanganj (16), Katihar (16), Nalanda (14), West Champaran (12), Aurangabad (11), Bhagalpur (11), Nawada (11) and Purnia (11). The state health department stated that 1,25,651 samples were tested in the past 24 hours and 749 people recovered during the same time period. The government data apart, AIIMS-Patna reported eight deaths, including two from Patna district. One was an 80-year-old man of Bikha Chak and another a 72-year-old male from Bihta. Other deceased included a 46-year-old male of Saharsa, a 50-year-old male of Mahua, a 53-year-old male from Saran, a 62-year-old man of Rajgir, a 66-year-old woman of Laheriasarai and a 70-year-old man from Saran. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 11 new patients were admitted and the same number of people got discharged on Tuesday. There were 145 patients undergoing treatment in the hospital. Those admitted were also from different localities of Patna like Jakkanpur, Police Colony and Phulwarisharif. No deaths were reported from Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. While two Covid patients were admitted there, two were discharged also. The hospital has 16 patients undergoing treatment for Covid-19 virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-death-toll-in-patna-crosses-300-mark/articleshow/79269059.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 18, 2020||Patna||Bihar: New education minister an accused in BAU recruitment scam||PATNA: The state’s new education minister, Mewalal Choudhary, is an accused in a vigilance case lodged against him for alleged irregularities in recruitment of assistant professors-cum-junior scientists in Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) during his tenure as vice-chancellor of the institution from 2010 to 2015. The case is still pending in the court of ADJ-I in Bhagalpur and Vigilance Investigation Bureau is investigating it, as per the affidavit of Choudhary available on the Election Commission website. Charges have not been framed in the case yet, as per the affidavit. Vigilance sources said it had registered its own case against Choudhary and several other BAU officials after a preliminary inquiry. Chaudhary was elected from Tarapur assembly seat in Munger on a JD(U) ticket. Earlier, he was suspended from JD(U) after an FIR was lodged against him with Sabaur police station in Bhagalpur on February 21, 2017 by BAU registrar. A one-member inquiry committee of Justice (retired) Sayed Mohammad Mahfooz Alam of Patna high court, set up by the then governor-cum-chancellor of universities, had charged Choudhary with committing large scale bungling, favouritism, interpolation, manipulation, addition and subtraction in academic points of the candidates, changing the remarks and violating the provision of statute in selection of assistant professors-cum-junior scientists. It was on basis of this report that the FIR was lodged against Choudhary by registrar. However, Choudhary was granted anticipatory bail by the high court on August 22, 2017 on grounds that inquiry report didn’t contain any material to substantiate the charge that Choudhary had appointed his family members or relatives. Choudhary’s passport was also impounded on police request by authorities concerned on October 24, 2017. However, Chaudhary moved high court once again, which set aside the impounding order on August 20, 2019 on grounds that neither charge sheet was filed in the case nor court has taken cognizance of offences. “It can’t be said that a criminal case is pending against Choudhary,” the court had observed. When TOI tried to contact Choudhary, one of his personal assistants picked up the phone and said the minister was taking rest and would be available to speak on the matter only on Thursday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-edu-min-an-accused-in-bau-recruitment-scam/articleshow/79269607.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 18, 2020||Kochi||BJP to project Gopalakrishnan for mayoral post in Thrissur||THRISSUR: BJP state spokesperson advocate B Gopalakrishnan is among the nominees of the party for Thrissur corporation. As per the list of candidates announced by the state vice-president A N Radhakrishnan and district president advocate Aneeshkumar here on Tuesday, Gopalakrishnan will be contesting from Kuttankulangara division. Ironically, the sitting member of the division and party leader Lalithambika had demanded that she be given another opportunity to contest. Lalithambika, BJP’s mandalam vice-president, announced her decision to resign from the post following denial of seat to her. Gopalakrishnan, the party candidate for Thrissur assembly seat in the last election, himself was reportedly not keen to contest in the corporation election. But he accepted the decision of top Sangh Parivar leaders that senior members should contest local body elections to secure maximum number of seats. BJP had announced the list of 10 candidates for Thrissur corporation, besides Gopalakrishnan. With this, the party announced the names of all 47 candidates it is fielding in Thrissur. The BJP has allocated the remaining eight seats in the 55-member corporation council to BDJS, an NDA partner. Meanwhile, Congress on Tuesday announced a list of 11 candidates for the district panchayat. The party has finalized the names of all 22 candidates it will be fielding in district panchayat polls. In UDF, IUML will contest in three seats, and one seat each has been allocated to CMP, KC(M-Joseph), Kerala Congress (Jacob) and Forward Block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bjp-to-project-gopalakrishnan-for-mayoral-post-in-thrissur/articleshow/79269015.cms||T Ramavarman
November 18, 2020||Patna||One held for molesting & burning 20-year-old girl in Vaishali last month||PATNA: Exactly a fortnight after registering an FIR for allegedly burning a 20-year-old girl, Gulnaz Khatoon, for resisting molestation bid, Vaishali police made first arrest in the case on Tuesday. Police said the girl died during treatment at Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) on Sunday. The incident took place at village Rasulpur Habib under Chandpura police outpost of Desari police station area of Vaishali on October 30 night. Surprisingly, as per the FIR, a copy of which is with TOI, the girl’s statement (fardbayan) was recorded by sub-inspector Shailendra Sharma of Town police station at a private hospital in Vaishali within few hours of the incident, but the FIR was registered on November 2. The incident and delay in police action reported in a vernacular daily took a political turn when Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday morning: “Whose crime was more dangerous — One who committed this inhumane act or the one who hid it for advantage in election for laying foundation of ‘fake good governance’ over bad-governance.” The news report said police hushed up the matter to avoid disturbance during the state assembly election. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav retweeted the Rahul’s tweet saying the nation wants to know who is the king of jungle raj and where are those who had come from Delhi to Bihar for searching jungle raj in ‘LED light’. When contacted, Vaishali SP Maneesh told TOI over phone that Chandan Kumar (19) was arrested. “The girl alleged that Chandan, his father Vijay Rai and Chandan’s cousin Satish Kumar poured kerosene and burned her when she resisted their molestation bid. She also alleged that they used to molest her in the past, too,” he said. Maneesh said Chandpura outpost incharge Vishnudev Dubey, a sub-inspector rank officer, was suspended on Monday for dereliction of duty. He said investigation of the case has been handed over to an inspector after reviewing the case. He said a special investigation team constituted under Mahnar SDPO arrested Chandan. “Raids were on to arrest the other two accused,” he said. In reply to a query, he said the girl’s family had rushed her to a private hospital for treatment without informing the police. That’s why the matter came to light late and an FIR was lodged on November 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-held-for-molesting-burning-20-year-old-girl-in-vaishali-last-mth/articleshow/79269705.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 18, 2020||Business||Pandemic is live classroom for sensitive leadership||By Sujaya BanerjeeCovid-19 has been a change accelerator, forcing leaders — in business, education, politics — to make quick decisions, in unprecedented times that have no past benchmarks, while also being expected to solve problems in an ever-changing environment. We live in a world where we don’t have any control over the pandemic, which has infected many and impacted both lives and livelihoods. Where we also don’t have any control over basic human needs of financial security, safety, health, and social belonging. In a world of uncertainties, surely success cannot be defined by traditional growth yardsticks? In these black swan times, success will necessarily need to also be measured by the extent to which leaders reduced and eased the impact of this crisis on people, by making attempts to find human-centric approaches to solve problems. A pandemic affects people in profoundly personal ways, and many have experienced a change of lens through which we view the world — our life, our work, and business during these challenging times. Crisis has a way of also bringing out the extraordinary in leaders, especially the resilient ones who have attempted to bring a balance between command and compassion and understand the need to demonstrate both humility and humanity in these trying situations. The Covid-19 crisis is a leadership development opportunity like never before. Leaders who emerge stronger will be the ones who are ready and open to learn from this crisis. Compassion is not a soft skill, it’s a business skill To begin with, leaders need to know that showing people — whether customers, suppliers or employees — that you care is not a waste of time and definitely not inappropriate in the business environment. Many of us have for long believed that compassion has no place in the business world, that it can create a culture of excuses, mediocrity and bias. Can it have a place where we need uncompromising high performance? Humanity, sympathy and understanding is great, but where does compassion end and accountability start? How can we allow compassion at the cost of performance? Who must we show compassion to? If we show compassion to some and not to others, how would that be seen? How can we ever afford compassion for all? The empathy dilemma ensues, and many err on the side of dogged accountability — preferring to go by the rule book on expectations, irrespective. Compassion by itself often does not work well in business. But when we think fairly and combine it with accountability, it does. We need to think smarter on how to operate from compassion without compromising on commitments and results. This pandemic is showing us how to do this — learn to become more compassionate people in business. Besides, particularly in these trying times, being professional is not being cold, removed and driven only by facts and data. Acknowledging things are not normal is a great start and most leaders can in fact demonstrate empathy because the pandemic affects them too. Leadership is never easy, and the challenges today are multiplied by pandemic fatigue, lack of in-person face-to-face interactions and the pressures of responding to rapidly evolving customer needs that require agile responses. Additionally, leaders in organisations today can no longer rely on traditional management playbooks that involved setting challenging goals, measuring KPIs and over-seeing work activities. Success in 2020 involves new and humane interventions that recognise the fears and needs of employees. By shifting focus from performance and productivity alone, and adopting a more human-centric style, leaders can create future-ready organisations that are more empowered, engaged with greater loyalty from employees and opportunities to build innovation mindsets. Here’s what leaders can do to build and manifest a human-centric leadership and build future-ready organisations: * Build trust: This requires open, direct and honest communication that generates oxytocin — the trust hormone. Besides, letting employees know what is really going on with frequent and transparent communication, and trusting to beget trust can evoke greater employeeship, ownership and accountability to contribute across levels. * Lead with inclusion: Human-centric leaders understand and invest in the uniqueness of people and work hard at building psychological safety to enable each individual to feel safe to contribute. This requires truly knowing team members as individuals and the ability to create a culture of safety and contribution for all. * Lead with empowerment: Sharing power to empower, acknowledging talent across levels and enabling action for solutions closest to the problems builds agility and confidence and more leaders. Covid times are great opportunities to let people across the organisation shine. * Communication and team interactions: All human beings have an inherent desire to belong and engage with the community. Human-centric leaders make the opportunity for this through formal and informal connects like team lunches, one-on-one check-ins besides one-to-many conversations, an open office where anyone can approach the leader, and let’s walk & talk outdoor meetings. * ‘Humanocracy’ to replace bureaucracy: This is an opportune time to identify unnecessary bureaucracy and replace it with ‘Humanocracy’, like Gary Hamel calls it in his seminal book. When leaders face the prospect of operating with smaller teams and bigger decisions, multiple sign-offs and long-drawn processes can become onerous and time-consuming. Agility requires for decisions to be made based on best information available, while being open to change or improvise as more information comes along. Human-centric leaders are sensitive to these times and are working to build ‘Humanocracies’ within their organisations by questioning old ways of doing things. * Leadership of human connection is key: The pandemic and several technological changes have accentuated the need to reskill the workforce. Some jobs, as a result, are likely to get executed differently, while others will get eliminated. In order to deal with the many emotional and operational challenges that lie ahead in Covid times, leaders will need to re-think how to keep their teams inspired to contribute. Servant leadership is paving the way where human-centric leaders, who know how to care for the success of their businesses while also ensuring the well-being of employees, are leading the way more effectively. The need for human connectedness and compassion to manage unprecedented human challenges continues to increase as leadership has begun taking a new form. This, while the pandemic continues to be a live classroom on leadership, and its impact is visible like never before. (The writer is the CEO of Capstone People Consulting)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/pandemic-is-live-classroom-for-sensitive-leadership/articleshow/79271199.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Patna||Chhath: Admn chalks out traffic plan to avoid chaos in Gaya||GAYA: The district administration has chalked out a traffic plan to be followed during the four-day Chhath Puja in order to avoid traffic congestion in the town area. According to a press release issued by district public relations officer (DPRO) Shambu Nath Jha, the entry of goods carriers and other heavy vehicles will be banned in Gaya town from 12pm on Thursday till 2pm on Saturday. While the movement of heavy vehicles will be prohibited on Gautam Buddha Road from Thursday to Saturday, only two-wheelers will be allowed to ply on the stretch between Bata Mor and Tekari Road. Vehicles will also be banned on the stretch from Koiribari Mor to Vishnupad and Ghughari Tand Bypass to Gewalbigha. Besides, only the vehicles of Chhath devotees will be allowed between Tower Chowk and Ramna Road. Light vehicles, coming from Patna side, will enter the town area via Chhotki Nawada, Bageshwari Railway Crossing and Station Road and halt at Kandi Nawada on Gaya-Patna Road. On the other hand, vehicles from Nawada side will halt near Mehta petrol pump at Manpur. ‘Avoid huge gatherings’: Gaya district magistrate Abhishek Singh has urged the people to celebrate Chhath at home and avoid visiting the ghats due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He has asked the SDOs, BDOs and COs to identify the ghats and the ponds where a large number of people assemble every year and ensure that such gatherings do not take place this time. SSP Rajiv Mishra has directed the SDPOs and the SHOs to check the sale and use of crackers during the four-day festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhath-admn-chalks-out-traffic-plan-to-avoid-chaos-in-gaya/articleshow/79269003.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kanpur||Min Sadhvi Niranjan visits family of Pintu Nishad, hands over Rs 6L||Kanpur: Union minister Sadhvi Niranjan Jyoti and state minister Satish Mahana visited Wajidpur and met the family of Pintu Nishad, who was killed on Sunday night following a clash over a petty dispute between two communities. The ministers expressed grief and offered their condolences. Jyoti handed Rs 1 lakh in cash and a cheque of Rs 5 lakh to the aggrieved family. She assured them of strict action against the culprits. “We will ensure that the strictest punishment is meted out to the accused. by future generations.”The punishment will set an example for the future generations to remember,” she said. To recall, a 25-year-old man, Pintu Nishad, was killed while several others were injured in a clash over a petty dispute between two communities in Wajidpur area under Chakeri police station of the city on late Sunday night. Taking serious note of the incident, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had directed the district and police authorities to invoke NSA (National Security Act) against those involved in the violence. Pintu, along with his brother Sandeep, had accidentally stepped on a water pouch, and a few drops of water probably splashed on Amaan. Following this, Amaan had an argument with Pintu and Sandeep. Later, Amaan, accompanied by nearly a dozen aides, attacked the two brothers. Pintu, who sustained serious injuries, was later declared brought dead at Lala Lajpat Rai hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/min-sadhvi-niranjan-visits-family-of-pintu-nishad-hands-over-rs-6l/articleshow/79271465.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Business||NSE pays Rs 2,300cr to Karvy investors||TNN Mumbai: The National Stock Exchange (NSE) on Tuesday said that about 2.35 lakh investors who had stocks and money stuck with Karvy Stock Broking for over a year have been paid a combined Rs 2,300 crore as part of their settlement. All those Karvy Stock Broking customers who had outstanding of up to Rs 30,000 received their dues. This has been completed “under the guidance of Sebi” by transferring securities to respective clients, by invoking bank guarantees deposited with clearing corporations and by liquidating securities held by Karvy group companies, a statement by an NSE spokesperson noted. Since December 2019, Karvy Stock Broking’s trading terminals on NSE and BSE were closed under Sebi orders, which had left a large number of the brokers’ clients without any access to funds, securities or both, which were in the custody of the broker then. The focus was mainly on the settlement of small investors. “Investors with fund balances up to Rs 30,000 due from Karvy Stock Broking have been settled,” the NSE statement said. In August 2019, NSE had conducted an audit of the trading books of Karvy Stock Broking, which revealed that for years the broker has been diverting clients’ money to fund some of the group’s other businesses. The audit also found that Karvy Stock Broking was borrowing money by illegally pledging its clients’ securities with lenders. Part of those illegally pledged securities were taken over by NSE under Sebi’s directions and returned to the rightful owners. The current payment of funds and securities to Karvy Stock Broking’s clients is part of the same settlement process that was initiated last year. In between, as a fallout of the Karvy scam, the management of Karvy Fintech, which serviced several mutual funds, was changed with the company being rechristened KFintech. The Karvy group had also pledged its corporate headquarters to borrow money to settle its dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nse-pays-rs-2300cr-to-karvy-investors/articleshow/79271283.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Lockdown of markets: Will suffer heavy losses, say Delhi traders||NEW DELHI: With Delhi government recommending to the Centre to temporarily close a few prominent markets in the city due to the surge in Covid cases, traders are worried about facing huge losses in the coming days. Voicing apprehension, traders have asked the local administration to look for alternative ways to reduce crowds rather than close shops or entire markets. Some have suggested that shops be allowed to open on an odd-even basis or on alternate days. Others argued that the footfall was high during the festive season, but now things have become normal. Ashok Randhawa, president of Mini Market Traders’ Association, Sarojini Nagar, said, “We have come to know that Sarojini and Lajpat are among the markets where the government might impose restrictions on opening of shops or movement of visitors. However, this will result in losses to us.” “There was chaos in the market during the festive period due to heavy footfall and encroachment by hawkers. After action was taken against the violators, the situation became comparatively better. As things are pretty normal now, closing the market is not the solution to control the surge in Covid-19 cases,” added Randhawa. Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) has written to Union home minister Amit Shah and LG Anil Baijal saying the issue needs to be handled in a strategic way and pros and cons of shutting markets must be examined after consulting traders. CAIT secretary general Praveen Khandelwal said, “It is important to consult traders before taking any such decision as the livelihood of lakhs of businessmen and their employees are at stake. Even though CM Arvind Kejriwal says that the pandemic is being handled in the most effective way, the situation is getting worse day by day. We stand fully in solidarity with the government, but taking any step without consulting us will be counterproductive. Apart from regular goods, even supply of essential commodities will be hit hard.” Traders at Karol Bagh market fear losing customers during the peak season. Sanjeev Kapur, secretary of Beopar Mandal Ajmal Khan Road, said that retail markets or malls don’t face issues such as encroachment by hawkers like wholesale markets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-suffer-heavy-losses-say-traders/articleshow/79271496.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 18, 2020||Patna||Four-day Chhath festivities begin with ‘nahay-khay’ today||PATNA: As the four-day Chhath festival begins with ‘nahay-khay’ on Wednesday, three common food items – ‘chawal’ (rice), ‘chana dal’ (split Bengal gram) and ‘lauki’ (bottle gourd) – will be essentially available on the menu of most devotees on the first day. Devotees consume these items before undertaking the fast for Chhath as they are easily available this season and can be afforded even by the poorest of poor. Is there any special significance of eating these items before undertaking the fast for Chhath? Yes, the scientific community finds sufficient reasons for the consumption of these “ordinary” items on the occasion of Chhath. Most devotees are not quite aware of the fact that these items are highly nutritious and prepare them well for undertaking the fast. “All these edibles are easily digestible and nutritional and essential for pre-conditioning of the human bodies undertaking the fast,” said Patna Science College’s former principal Radha Kant Prasad. Chana dal is an extremely healthy food due to its high protein content relative to other vegetables. Its other nutritional benefits include providing a source of complex carbohydrates, important vitamins and minerals such as folate and iron and antioxidants. It contains as much as 25% protein, no cholesterol and virtually no fat, Prasad added. “Pulses are most nutritional when consumed along with a grain or cereal to provide a good source of methionine, the level of which is low in pulses. Hence, dal is consumed with rice,” said T P S College retired chemistry teacher Mahesh Chandra. Bottle gourd, which is consumed as a vegetable by most devotees on ‘nahay-khay’ day, helps maintain the sodium-potassium balance in the bodies of the devotees during their fasting. A single bottle gourd contains vitamin A, B and C, calcium, phosphorus, iron, sodium, potassium, niacin, magnesium and little traces of other minerals. Bottle gourd is loaded with Vitamin A which helps in bone growth, increase antibody and maintain and enhance skin’s health. Vitamin C protects the devotees from cold and cough as they have to remain in water for hours for worshipping the setting and rising Sun. “Bottle gourd has got very high content of water which protects the fasting devotees from dehydration,” said Patna University botany department senior teacher Birendra Prasad. Several devotees also consume radish which contains a number of nutrients, said Magadh University retired botany teacher Ramdas Prasad. “The benefits of eating radish are numerous. It keeps body hydrated and helps treat urinary and kidney disorders, regulate blood sugar levels in diabetics, prevent cardiovascular diseases, and also improve body’s immunity. It is also useful in preventing leucoderma and oral cancers, and in treating various respiratory disorders,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/four-day-chhath-festivities-begin-with-nahay-khay-today/articleshow/79268932.cms||B K Mishra
November 18, 2020||Patna||Mahboob Alam is ML legislature party leader||PATNA: Four-time Balrampur MLA Mahboob Alam was on Tuesday elected CPI (ML) legislature party leader. The party’s five-time MLA from Darauli assembly constituency, Satyadeo Ram, and Karakat MLA Arun Singh were elected deputy leader and chief whip of the party in the assembly, respectively. A decision in this regard was taken at a meeting of the CPI (ML)’s 12 elected MLAs here. Earlier, the party’s state executive committee had also held its meeting to discuss the present situation prevailing in the state. Among those who attended the legislature party meeting were the party’s general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, state secretary Kunal and other functionaries like Rameshwar Prasad, Rajaram Singh, Dhirendra Kumar Jha, K D Yadav, Meena Tiwari and seven candidates who had unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections. “Our party’s victory in the polls was the victory of popular movements that we conducted on various issues in the state,” Bhattacharya said. Bhattacharya also criticised CM Nitish Kumar for making Mewalal Choudhary the state’s education minister as the latter had been earlier implicated in a scam and was even removed from the JD(U). He demanded Choudhary’s dismissal from the council of ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mahboob-alam-is-ml-legislature-party-leader/articleshow/79269714.cms||Abhay Singh
November 18, 2020||Business||Sugar production soars, records 191% YoY growth||Chennai: A good rainfall in sugar producing belts of Maharashtra and Karnataka has resulted in a bumper production of the crop for the period ended November 15. Production in the current 2020-21 Sugar Season (October to September) was 14.1 lakh tonnes, compared to 4.84 lakh tonnes last year. As compared to 127 sugar factories which were crushing sugarcane last year, 274 sugar mills are crushing sugarcane this year, Indian Sugar Mills Association said in a statement.In Uttar Pradesh, 76 sugar mills have started crushing for this season producing 3.85 lakh tonnes of sugar, while in last year 78 mills produced only 2.93 lakh tonnes. “Unlike last year, owing to good rainfall and sufficient water availability in reservoirs across Maharashtra and Karnataka, as also better cane availability due to higher cane acreage and improved yield per hectare, crushing season commenced well in time during the last week of October’ 2020,” ISMA statement said.In Maharashtra, 117 sugar mills have already started crushing operations for the year. Last year’s season commenced very late — during the fourth week of November — due to drought like conditions and lesser cultivable area — by almost 48% — compared to current year. Similarly in Karnataka, 49 sugar mills were in operation producing 3.4 lakh tonnes, as compared to 34 mills which were operating and had produced 1.43 lakh tonnes.In Gujarat 14 sugar mills were crushing till November 15 (4 last year). Among the remaining states like Uttarakhand, Bihar, Haryana, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, about 18 factories have commenced their crushing operations and they have together produced 40,000 tonnes of sugar till November 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sugar-production-soars-records-191-yoy-growth/articleshow/79271215.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
November 18, 2020||Patna||For first time in history, no Muslim in Bihar ministry||PATNA: When the 17th Bihar legislative assembly will meet for its maiden session on November 23, there will be no member from the minorities, especially Muslim community, in the treasury benches. It is for the first time in the post-independence history of Bihar legislative assembly that no minister from the Muslim community would be among the cabinet ministers. All previous cabinets in Bihar, right from those headed by the first CM Shri Krishna Sinha to the last headed by Nitish Kumar himself, had at least one or more ministers from the Muslim community, old-timers recall. Moreover, the three previous coalition governments of the BJP-JD(U) headed by Nitish also had representation from the Muslim community. Khurshid alias Firoz Ahmad of JD(U) was the minority welfare minister in the last cabinet of Nitish. But Khurshid lost the recently concluded assembly polls from his Sikta seat. Some senior JD(U) leaders believe that CM Nitish Kumar did not appoint any minister from the Muslim community this time mainly because not a single MLA from the minority community won the assembly election from any of the four NDA allies — JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP — though they have 125 MLAs in the 243-member House. Neither BJP nor HAM(S) of Jitan Ram Manjhi or the VIP led by Mukesh Sahani had fielded any Muslim candidate in the recently concluded election. Though JD(U) fielded 11 Muslims among its 115 candidates, but all lost the election. Of the 11 JD(U) candidates, six were fielded in the Muslim dominated Seemanchal region where the Asaduddin Owaisi’s AIMIM won five seats. Also, the number of Muslim MLAs in the new assembly has reduced to 19 from 24 in the 16th House constituted in 2015. “Linguistic minorities, including Muslims, have around 18% population in the state. Muslims alone have around 17% population. It is very unfortunate that they have no representation in the new cabinet headed by Nitish ji,” Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha told TOI. When contacted, JD(U)’s minority cell state president Tanweer Akhtar said the successive governments headed by Nitish did a lot for the overall development and progress of Muslim community in the last 15 years. “But the Muslim community did not support even the 11 candidates from their community fielded by Nitish Ji. Muslim community did not do justice with the JD(U). Now, I am not in a position to request Nitish Ji to give any special attention for the cause of Muslim community. Muslims themselves have created such a situation that today they have no representation in the cabinet,” Akhtar told TOI on Tuesday. Watch Bihar cabinet: Nitish Kumar allocates portfolios, retains home||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/for-first-time-in-history-no-muslim-in-state-ministry/articleshow/79269526.cms||Madan Kumar
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Alumnus & TV professional to mentor students||LUCKNOW: When four students represented Lucknow University at a national-level debate competition way back in 1984, no one had then thought that they would hold top positions in their respective fields. One of them, AP Mishra, who was known for his communication skills and bagged third position in the debate, remained associated with the university in his professional life too. Assistant director (programme) at Lucknow Doordarshan, AP Mishra will return to his alma mater to help students polish their communication skills. As part of the centenary celebrations, Mishra will deliver a 100-minute online lecture for the students of mass communication and journalism. A Yash Bharti awardee, Mishra holds an experience of over three decades in the world of television and radio. In the lecture, he will share anecdotes of his campus days and how participation in the debate competition helped in shaping of his career and other LU students. “In the ’80s, debate competitions in the university were biggest attraction and one winning them became popular in various faculties. When I was in BCom first year in 1984, a debate competition was organized by the National Council of Cooperative Training. I represented LU and bagged third position nationally,” he recalls. “The most interesting memory about the competition was that all four students – Anwar Halim, Sumita Mishra, Anupama and I – who bagged various positions in the competitions are now heading either national or international organisations,” he added. “Haleem is Indian ambassador to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan, while Sumita is an IAS officer in Haryana cadre, Anupama is an IRS officer and I am with DD. LU was a place that made students all-rounder. They participated in extra- curricular and co-curricular activities and scored well in academics and achieved success in whichever field they stepped in,” he said. LU shaped his life both personally and professionally. The love of his life and now his wife, Shobha, met him on the campus while professionally his communication skills were honed here which helped him bag a job in radio and television.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/alumnus-tv-professional-to-mentor-students/articleshow/79272067.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 18, 2020||Patna||Sushil Modi was more a Nitish man than BJP leader: Shivanand Tiwari||PATNA: RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari on Tuesday fired a salvo at former deputy CM and BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), who was dropped from the new council of ministers led by CM Nitish Kumar. “Sushil Modi was dropped because he was more inclined towards JD(U) than his own party. His role had become less of a BJP leader and more of Nitish Kumar’s associate,” Tiwari said, reacting to the new council of ministers from which SuMo was dropped. He further accused SuMo of being “hungry for media attention” and not letting other leaders of his party rise. “I think that’s why BJP cut him off this time. He was not allowing other BJP leaders to rise. He used to speak on all topics daily and couldn't live without appearing in newspapers/TV channels,” Tiwari said on the possible reason for Modi's ouster from Nitish's cabinet. He, however, described himself as an old friend of SuMo. “I have no animosity with him. He is like my younger brother. But his personality used to reflect a lack of depth. I think this is the reason BJP leadership didn't give him a post in the state cabinet this time,” Tiwari added. SuMo couldn't be contacted for comments despite repeated attempts. The former state minister Tiwari had hogged the limelight last week for slamming Congress leader Rahul Gandhi for not devoting much time to the recently concluded assembly election campaigning in favour of Mahagathbandhan candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sumo-was-more-a-nitish-man-than-bjp-leader-shivanand/articleshow/79269684.cms||Ramashankar
November 18, 2020||Business||Government caps LVB withdrawals at Rs 25,000, RBI proposes merger with DBS||CHENNAI: In a joint operation, the Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday announced a plan to merge Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank India, minutes after the government imposed a moratorium on the beleaguered lender, limiting cash withdrawals to Rs 25,000 for a month. The proposed amalgamation with the Indian subsidiary of Singapore’s DBS Bank marks a shift in RBI and the government’s stand with a foreign bank being tasked with reviving an ailing old-generation private lender, instead of relying public sector players to takeover a problematic rival. Read AlsoLakshmi Vilas Bank shares tank 20% as RBI puts it under moratoriumShares of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) plunged as much as 20 per cent -- lower circuit -- on Wednesday after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) imposed a 30-day moratorium on the cash-strapped lender, restricting cash withdrawals at Rs 25,000 per month.Since March, when Yes Bank was placed under moratorium, this is the second instance of a bank requiring RBI intervention. Unlike developed countries, in India, the government and the banking regulator avoid letting a bank collapse and step in to avoid any systemic problems. Chennai-headquartered LVB that started in Karur, then a textile town in Tamil Nadu, has been under severe financial stress, with ballooning bad loans and in need of urgent capital infusion. LVB’s troubles started with the shift in focus from lending to small businesses to large players. In 2016-17, it intensified after it disbursed loans of around Rs 720 crore to the investment arms of Malvinder Singh and Shivinder Singh, former promoters of Ranbaxy, Fortis Healthcare and Religare, against Religare Finvest’s fixed deposits of Rs 794 crore. In September 2019, with the situation deteriorating, RBI had put in under the Prompt Corrective Action framework, limiting expansion and seeking additional capital, which it failed to get. First, its merger plan with Indiabulls did not find support from RBI, while subsequent discussions with Clix Capital were stuck over valuation. Last September, shareholders also blocked the appointment of a new CEO and seven directors at the AGM, deepening the crisis at the 94-year-old bank. Read AlsoHad demanded timely action from RBI on LVB, merger with a public sector bank: AIBEAThe umbrella body of bank unions AIBEA on Tuesday said it was demanding a timely action from the RBI on Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) as the regulator was aware about its financial condition for the last three years and said its demand for a merger with a public sector bank has not been accepted.With the crisis lingering on, the government and RBI decided to step in on Tuesday in what appeared to be a pre-planned exercise. Despite the monthly cap on withdrawals, LVB will continue to honour its commitment on various government bonds and other inter-bank payments. RBI also assured depositors that their interests were fully protected and there was no need to panic. Former Canara Bank chairman TN Manoharan has been appointed the administrator. Although the moratorium is in place till mid-December, RBI has sought feedback on the drat amalgamation plan before Friday with the process expected to be speeded up. Read AlsoThe rise and fall of 94-year-old Lakshmi Vilas BankThe proposed amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank of Singapore brings the curtains down on a 94-year-old institution, which was started by a group of enterprising men to promote trade in Western Tamil Nadu.As part of the revival strategy, DBS will invest an additional Rs 2,500 crore into LVB to support growth, RBI said. "The proposed amalgamation will provide stability and better prospects to LVB depositors, customers and employees following a time of uncertainty. At the same time, the proposed amalgamation will allow DBIL to scale its customer base and network, particularly in South India, which has longstanding and close business ties with Singapore," DBS Bank said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/govt-caps-lvb-withdrawals-at-rs25k-rbi-proposes-merger-with-dbs/articleshow/79271524.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Patna||Permission sought to run more local trains||PATNA: Even though railways is running a few pairs of MEMU trains on different routes, it has sought permission from the Railway Board to run more local passenger trains on various other routes falling under the jurisdiction of Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR). The Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association, Bihar Chamber of Commerce and other local bodies have made representations in this regard. According to Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar, railways has resumed MEMU passenger trains on the Patna-Buxar, Mokama-Patna, Gaya-Patna and Kiul-Gaya sections to cope with local passengers’ rush. Services of these trains were withdrawn following the lockdown due to the Covid-19 since March 24, he said. Railways has started running several pairs of MEMU passenger trains on a few select sections of the division. “Railways will run more local passenger trains in the division as soon as it gets approval from the Board,” he said, adding that railways allows local passenger trains while adhering to the Covid-19 health protocol and guidelines issued by the ministry of home affairs. According to Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association general secretary Nand Kishore Prasad, local passenger trains are the lifeline for many passengers commuting daily from different places to Patna Junction. These passengers are bankers, office-goers, state government employees and those engaged in private jobs in Patna. Thus, suspension of local passenger trains due to the lockdown had caused much difficulty to them, he said. One or two local passenger trains are hardly enough to cope with passengers’ rush during festive season, he said. The association’s secretary, Shoaib Quraishi, said railways must restore immediately the Patna-Buxar MEMU (63231/63232), Pt Deendayal Upadhaya Junction-Patna MEMU (63227/63228), Patna-Barauni MEMU via Patliputra Junction (63228), Patna-Jhajha MEMU (63208/63210/63212), Rajgir-Danapur MEMU (63339/63340), Sasaram-Patna passenger (53211/53212) and Islampur-Patna MEMU (63325/63326, 63327/63328) so that common people reach their respective workplaces in Patna and its adjoining places conveniently. Besides, railways must consider the association’s request to run more local passenger trains as the state government has not only started plying buses in the city, but it has allowed all other business establishments to function normally, he said. Over 50,000 people commute daily from different places to Patna. Several students’ wings have also urged the railway authority to restore normal run of local MEMU trains on the Rajgir-Patna and Sasaram-Ara-Patna routes so that they could visit Patliputra University office in Patna in connection with examination and admission related work, said a students’ wing leader Vikash Anand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/permission-sought-to-run-more-local-trains/articleshow/79269084.cms||Kumod Verma
November 18, 2020||Patna||‘Chhath Puja offers health benefits’||PATNA: The rituals performed by devotees during Chhath Puja have several health benefits as they represent a rigorous scientific process for detoxification, claim health experts. According to yoga expert Dr Prabhakar Devraj, the four-day festival, which is celebrated mostly in Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh, has been crafted in such a way that it offers great physical, mental, spiritual and social benefits to the devotees. Citing the WHO’s definition of health, he says, “It includes the physical, mental, social and spiritual well-being of a person.” Devraj adds, “Since Chhath is celebrated during the period of change of season from summer to winter, it acclimatizes the devotees to the temperature and protects their health by boosting immunity. As it is observed by women for the well-being of their children and families with great purity and religious fervour, it provides them with spiritual benefits. Besides, it offers mental benefits to them by calming their minds and reducing negative energies like hatred, fear and anger.” As far as the medical benefits are concerned, Chhath Puja has been designed in such a way that it involves maximum absorption of calcium and vitamin D into the body. “Vitamin D deficiency is a major problem today. Most Covid-19 patients lack sufficient amount of the vitamin which can be obtained by remaining in the sun for few hours,” says former state president of the Indian Medical Association, Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad. He also points out that fasting is a great immunity booster as it detoxifies the body. “Fasting is a way to give one’s digestive system a break and flush out the toxins. The body’s metabolism also gets improved,” he adds. Retired civil surgeon, Kumkum Prasad, says, “Taking a dip in water and exposing oneself to the sun during the four-day Chhath Puja increase the flow of solar bioelectricity that improves the overall functionality of the body. The festival also helps eliminate harmful bacteria and viruses from the body.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhath-puja-offers-health-benefits/articleshow/79269028.cms||B K Mishra
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||NMC issues SOPs for religious places||Nagpur: On Tuesday, religious places finally got their hands on the official reopening order from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation along with the standard operating procedures (SOPs). Though dated November 16, many religious places had not received the document on Monday even though almost all had reopened. The order signed by municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B states that timings of all religious places can be decided by the respective management committees. NMC has issued strict SOPs to ensure that devotees’ health is not compromised. The order says that every devotee visiting a religious place shall have to wear mask and observe Covid distancing. Management of the religious place will have to provide facilities like thermal scanning, hand wash and sanitizers on the premises. As an advisory only, NMC has requested people above 65 and those under 10 years of age to stay home. It also added that people with comorbidities and pregnant women too may stay home for their own safety. Entry of devotees has to be staggered so that crowding does not happen. It has been advised that minimum six feet distance be maintained at religious places. Touching of statues/idols should not be allowed, as per the SOP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-issues-sops-for-religious-places/articleshow/79270109.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 18, 2020||Patna||5-day 17th assembly session from Nov 23||PATNA: The newly formed state cabinet, in its first meeting held on Tuesday, decided to have five-day session of the state legislature from November 23 to November 27, sources said, adding that its detailed schedule has been sent to the Raj Bhavan for the approval of the governor. Governor Phagu Chauhan will address the joint session of the newly constituted 17th state assembly and legislative council on November 25, as per the cabinet decision taken on Tuesday, sources said. The newly elected members of the state assembly and legislative council are to be administered the oath of membership and the new assembly Speaker is to be elected by November 24, sources added. Sources also said the newly constituted state assembly will hold discussion on November 26 on the vote of thanks motion that the government will move on the governor’s address to the joint session of the state legislature. It will be followed by the reply by the government on the discussion held on the vote of thanks motion the same day. The five-day session will conclude on November 27 after the passage of the second supplementary budget by the House for the 2020-21 financial year. During the session, the House will also make obituary references to the departed lawmakers, if any. While the 243 members of the state assembly were declared elected on November 10 following the recently held three-phase elections, as many as eight members of the legislative council have also been elected from their respective teachers and graduates’ constituencies. Nitish Kumar became the state’s CM for the seventh time after the governor administered the oath of office to him on Monday. It included the five times he headed the NDA government. The governor also administered the oath of office to the 14 others as ministers – seven from BJP, five from JD (U) and one each from HAM(S) and VIP the same day. Pro-tem Speaker Sources said the governor might authorize either former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi of HAM(S) or nine-time MLA Hari Narayan Singh from the JD (U) to serve as the pro-tem Speaker of the 17th state assembly to administer the oath of membership to the newly elected MLAs so as to constitute the new House. The sources also said the government recommended three names to the governor to select as pro-tem Speaker. Besides Singh and Manjhi, the third name was that of Bijendra Prasad Yadav, who has been a member of the House for 34 years. It is the governor’s discretion as to who he selects to serve as pro-tem Speaker. This will be followed by the due process for the unanimous election of the new Speaker of the assembly, who, in the present situation, is slated to be seven-time BJP MLA from Patna Sahib and former minister Nand Kishore Yadav. That completed, the governor will address the joint session of the state legislature on November 25.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-day-17th-assembly-session-from-nov-23/articleshow/79269575.cms||Abhay Singh
November 18, 2020||Patna||Oppn not to boycottHouse proceedings||PATNA: The opposition parties led by RJD, which had boycotted the swearing-in of Nitish Kumar as CM and other ministers on Monday, has decided to participate in the five-day session of the state legislature beginning November 23. “We are people’s representatives and accountable to them. We will sit in the opposition and raise issues concerning common people in the state legislature,” RJD state president Jagadanand Singh said on Tuesday. Singh said the question of boycotting the proceedings of the House doesn’t arise. “We had boycotted the swearing-in ceremony as the government was formed by suppressing people’s mandate,” he added. Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha too said the party would not boycott the proceedings of the House. “We will not hesitate in raising the people’s voice inside the House. We will play the role of a strong opposition,” Jha said.,Former CPI MLA Ram Naresh Pandey said the newly-elected members of the state legislative assembly will take oath of office during the coming session. “They will officially become members of the House only after the completion of the procedure,” he added. The Mahagathbandhan comprising RJD, Congress and three Left parties had secured 110 seats against NDA’s 125 in the recently concluded state assembly elections. Meanwhile, the RJD has identified 19 constituencies from where they received complaints of anomalies in the counting of votes. “We are in the process of obtaining ample evidence to initiate legal action in this regard,” RJD Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha said. The margin of victory of NDA candidates in at least 11 constituencies was less than 1,000 votes. The CEO, H R Srinivasa, had earlier claimed that no anomaly was found during re-verification of postal ballots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-not-to-boycotthouse-proceedings/articleshow/79269589.cms||Ramashankar
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Draft policy cuts interest on late labour cess payment||JAIPUR: Reacting to the draft rules under the Code on Social Security, 2020 circulated by the Union labour and employment ministry for seeking stakeholders’ feedback last week, the construction industry in the state said the proposal to reduce interest rate on delayed labour cess payment to 1% per month from 2% will not be enough to resolve the past cases. Recently, the industry has been slapped notices worth over Rs 1,000 crore to clear cess dues going back to 2009, when the provision was introduced. As per the Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Cess Act, 1996, which came into effect in the state in 2009, the construction industry is required to pay 1% of the construction cost of a project as labour cess within 30 days of the completion of the project. Failure to pay the cess attracts an annual interest penalty of 24%. But representatives of the industry said the government did not actively pursue collection of the cess till 2015 and the construction companies were unaware of the liability. As the government became active, the new projects started paying it. But there are many old cases where the payments have not been made to the department. “The Union labour ministry has recognized that monthly interest of 2% on the delayed payment is too high and rightfully reduced it to 1%. But these cases are so old that the cumulative interest will be very high. Currently, the industry is passing through one of the tough times. Keeping this in view, the state government should introduce an amnesty scheme so that all the pending cases get cleared and also the state will be able to get funds at a time when the tax revenues have decreased,” said Anand Mishra, a leading builder in the city. In fact, CII-Rajasthan had drawn the attention of the government to the high interest amount. IT had proposed the industry department to take up the issue at the appropriate level and convince the government to reduce interest penalty to levels of prevailing bank rates. Industry representatives said that construction projects also involved joint ventures and after the completion of the projects, the partnerships have also ceased. “In these cases, it is very difficult to convince the partner to pay the past dues,” said a builder. Any construction, whose value is Rs 10 lakh is liable to pay the labour cess and it includes, residential projects, commercial buildings, hotels, hospitals, company buildings and individual houses. Recently, the government has also taken contractors in to the ambit of the liability. However, it is not easy to recover the money from people who have built houses worth over Rs 10 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/draft-policy-cuts-interest-on-late-labour-cess-payment/articleshow/79271494.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Business||AirAsia may exit India, end joint venture with Tata Sons||MUMBAI: Malaysian carrier AirAsia said on Tuesday that it is reviewing its India operations run in partnership with Tata Sons, signalling a possible exit from the world’s fifth largest economy, which it entered with high expectations six years ago. It also said that the India operations have been draining cash, adding to its financial troubles exacerbated by the Covid-related restrictions on global travel. AirAsia owns 49% in the India unit, which has been unprofitable from the beginning, while Tata Sons holds the remaining share of 51%. AirAsia’s review of its India operations follows its Japanese arm filing for bankruptcy. Last month, it had ceased flying in Japan citing high challenging operating conditions. “Our businesses in Japan and India have been draining cash, causing the group much financial stress,” said AirAsia Group president (airlines) Bo Lingam. “Cost containment and reducing cash burns remain key priorities, evident by the recent closure of AirAsia Japan and an ongoing review of our investment in AirAsia India.” Tata Sons has the first right of refusal for the minority stake owned by AirAsia in the India venture. It is in talks to buy out the Malaysian carrier after the latter expressed its reluctance to infuse fresh funds into the India joint venture, TOI reported in its October 5 edition. AirAsia India, which has a market share of 7% and employs over 3,000 people, posted a loss of Rs 317 crore in FY20. “We continually review our network to ensure we fly the most popular and profitable routes. Asean is where our brand and foothold is strongest and that’s where our immediate focus will lie,” said Lingam, indicating the Malaysian airline’s diminished interest in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/airasia-may-exit-india-end-jv-with-tata-sons/articleshow/79271376.cms||Reeba Zachariah
November 18, 2020||Business||The rise and fall of 94-year-old Lakshmi Vilas Bank||CHENNAI: The proposed amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank of Singapore brings the curtains down on a 94-year-old institution, which was started by a group of enterprising men to promote trade in Western Tamil Nadu. After bleeding for several quarters and unable to raise capital to fund its activities, the bank was limping and was desperately looking for a white knight. Multiple people evinced interest, but did match interest with funds. While RBI rejected the Indiabulls offer, Clix Capital offer was stuck on valuation issues. Clix Capital had valued their loan book at Rs 4,200 crore, while LVB valued it at Rs 1,200-Rs 1,300 crore, creating a mismatch of over Rs 2,500-Rs 3,000 crore. Read AlsoLakshmi Vilas Bank shares tank 20% as RBI puts it under moratoriumShares of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) plunged as much as 20 per cent -- lower circuit -- on Wednesday after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) imposed a 30-day moratorium on the cash-strapped lender, restricting cash withdrawals at Rs 25,000 per month.“We could not meet a middle ground, especially with such a huge gap,” said Shakti Sinha, RBI-appointed director at the bank. “If we put their lending loan books against the banking compliance, we felt there was a serious issue. We felt the 2/3rd of the loan book would fail the banking debts, in terms of collateral, risk-weighted assets, etc. However, with additional time we could have closed the deal,” said Sinha. Activist shareholders threw out the CEO and the auditors over poor performance. Since the ousting of LVB’s directors and CEO last September, the bank witnessed a withdrawal of deposits up to Rs 1,500 crore in the first three weeks. Sinha said “However, we did recover about Rs 1,000 crore in the last three weeks from one-time settlement and recoveries.” Started by a group of seven progressive businessmen of Karur under the leadership of V S N Ramalinga Chettiar in 1926, the objective of the bank was to cater to the financial needs of the people in and around the town who were occupied in trading businesses, industry and agriculture. Read AlsoGovernment caps LVB withdrawals at Rs 25,000, RBI proposes merger with DBSIn a joint operation, the Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday announced a plan to merge Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank India, minutes after the government imposed a moratorium on the beleaguered lender, limiting cash withdrawals to Rs 25,000 for a month.LVB’s present troubles started when it shifted focus to large loans loans amounting to around Rs 720 crore to the investment arms of Malvinder Singh and Shivinder Singh, former promoters of Ranbaxy and Fortis Healthcare, against fixed deposits (FDs) of Rs 794 crore made with the bank by Religare Finvest in late 2016 and early 2017. Religare was promoted by the Singh brothers. Religare later sued the Delhi branch of LVB after the bank invoked the FDs to recover the loans. The issue is in the courts. “For long, Karur was linked to two banks, Karur Vysya Bank and LVB. One is gone now. Needless aggressive lending to grab market share has resulted in this downfall,” said N Ravindran, a small trader. “As long as it was small it was working on a set mandate and was content. The aggression to grow killed it.” Watch RBI places Lakshmi Vilas Bank under moratorium, caps withdrawal limit||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/the-rise-and-fall-of-lakshmi-vilas-bank/articleshow/79271231.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 18, 2020||Patna||Chhath: Hospitals gear up to tackle emergencies||PATNA: The district administration may have urged Chhath devotees to avoid visiting Ganga ghats due to the Covid-19 pandemic, but government hospitals are gearing up for the four-day festival. The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) as well as the 23 primary health centres (PHCs) in the district have made arrangements for tackling any emergency situation. Patna district magistrate (DM) Kumar Ravi has directed the authorities concerned to depute medical teams at 92 ghats and four river ambulances in the Ganga for “exceptional circumstances”. “Covid-19 poses a high risk for people who take part in huge gatherings at ghats during Chhath. Hence, we are urging devotees, especially kids below the age of 10 years and elderly people, to celebrate the festival at home,” the DM told this reporter on Tuesday. According to Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, medical officers of the 23 PHCs have been directed to hold meetings with panchayat level representatives and local people and ask them not to assemble at ghats for celebrating Chhath. “As a precautionary measure, medical teams will be deputed at all the ghats and 36 ambulances kept ready at different places in the district. Besides, five special medical teams will rush to the spot from where an emergency is reported,” Dr Vibha said. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak also asked people to avoid large gatherings at ghats. “Our doctors and paramedical staff will be on duty in three shifts for three days from November 19. Four ambulances will also be ready for providing round-the-clock emergency services,” he said, adding that the hospital was under “red alert mode” for Chhath and all emergency medicines were available. PMCH principal Dr V P Choudhary pointed out that altogether 25 doctors would be on duty for tackling emergency cases. The NMCH and the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) are also ready to handle any type of emergency situation that occurs during Chhath celebrations. While NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh claimed that the hospital had “sufficient number of beds”, his IGIMS counterpart Dr Manish Mandal said, “We have planned to keep six beds ready for any emergency situation on Chhath.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/chhath-hospitals-gear-up-to-tackle-emergencies/articleshow/79268979.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav effect? Why Bihar BJP dropped Prem Kumar, Sushil Modi||PATNA: The sudden emergence of a young leader like Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who was dismissed as a greenhorn before the assembly election by the state BJP and JD(U), has seemingly forced the BJP national leadership to create space for a new crop of leaders from within its ranks in the state, BJP sources said. It is in this context that the apparent shunting of some senior state BJP leaders is seen as significant. For instance, former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi has been dropped from the cabinet and is in currently a limbo. So is Prem Kumar, an EBC leader who has been an MLA since 1990 and was a minister in the previous Nitish Kumar cabinets. Kumar has not been given a ministerial berth this time and is unlikely to be made the speaker even though his name is doing the rounds. However, the case of the party’s seven-time MLA from Patna Saheb, Nand Kishore Yadav, who is in running for the speaker’s post, is an aberration. Apart from being in the same age group, the only thing common among these three BJP leaders is they were all associated with the 1974-students’ movement led by Jayaprakash Narayan. “There seems to be no other apparent reason for the sidetracking of the Bihar BJP senior and eight-time MLA from Gaya Town Prem Kumar except for his age. The party’s central leadership is being seen as working on a plan to create a new crop of leaders in the state unit of the party,” a state BJP source said, adding, “A credible second and third-tier leadership has to be created.” Bringing up the Tejashwi issue the source further said, “Therefore, in a way, it can be said the Tejashwi-effect has started working on the party’s central leadership.” Before the assembly election, the central leadership foresaw a political vacuum in the state. “RJD chief Lalu Prasad was in the jail, Ram Vilas Paswan of LJP was seriously ill, and JD(U) seemed unable to go beyond a limit without the support of BJP or RJD. The central leadership saw a chance for the BJP,” he said. “The party saw the emerging vacuum and was desperate to fill it, but that did not happen. Tejashwi has singlehandedly managed to fill the void. Also, he is being seen as a future leader of the state,” he added. By corollary, the era of the crop of state BJP leaders who had risen through the ranks through their association with the JP movement against the Congress rule of then PM Indira Gandhi is seemingly over. For, Congress has been marginalized in the state. Given this backdrop, of the seven BJP ministers in the Nitish-led NDA government, five are fresh faces, except Mangal Pandey and Renu Devi. Incidentally, Nand Kishore (an old-timer and likely Speaker of the state assembly), Ram Surat Rai (fresh face) a minister now, and Union minister Nityanand Rai belong to the Yadav caste. They are likely to be projected as a counterweight to Tejashwi, but how far it would succeed remains to be seen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejas-effect-why-bihar-bjp-dropped-prem-kumar-sumo/articleshow/79269629.cms||Abhay Singh
November 18, 2020||Patna||Kidnapped Nalanda boy found murdered||PATNA: The body of a kidnapped 5-year-old boy was recovered from the outskirts of village Jalalpur under Karaiparshurai police station area in Nalanda district. The child, identified as Dilkhush Kumar, was kidnapped while playing outside his residence in the same village on Monday evening. Irate villagers attacked the policemen when they reached there and snatched a bolt action and another INSAS rifles from them. Those rifles were later recovered. Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar said old enmity between two families over land dispute was the reason behind the child’s murder. “Dilkhush’s great-grandfather had been to jail for allegedly killing a person from the rival family. The two families have a land dispute for the last several years,” the SP said. Nilesh said raids were going on since Monday night to recover the child soon after the boy’s family informed the police about the kidnapping with intention to kill him. “Police suspect he was murdered within an hour of being picked up from near his residence,” he said. The SP said additional police force has been deployed in the village and raids were being carried out to nab those involved in the child’s murder. “Some antisocial elements provoked the villagers, which led to their scuffle with the police team. One loaded magazine of a police rifle has been missing. We are trying to recover it,” he said. Karaiparshurai police station SHO Awadesh Kumar said both the snatched rifles were recovered when situation normalized in the village. “Prima facie it seems that the child was throttled to death. A deep hole was visible in one of his temples. Probably, he was stabbed in his head with a sharp-edged weapon,” he said. The SHO said Dilkhush’s father Shishupal Mistry had reached the police station to inform about the kidnapping. “He has named Bina Thakur, Chotu Thakur, Virendra Thakur, Satyendra Thakur and Sarju Thakur as accused in the FIR lodged in connection with his son’s kidnapping,” he said. He said all the accused and their close relatives had fled from the village and were evading arrest. “The body has been handed over to family after postmortem,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/kidnapped-nalanda-boy-found-murdered/articleshow/79269777.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: In a fortnight, 3-fold rise in bus operations at ISBTs||NEW DELHI: In a fortnight since the reopening of the three interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) of Delhi after seven months, the number of buses arriving from the neighbouring states has seen a more-than-three-fold increase along with higher footfall. Before the lockdown, 3,467 buses arrived in Delhi every day and the largest number — 1,636 — used to come at Kashmere Gate ISBT. While reopening the services, the transport department has put a cap of 50% on the number of buses as against the pre-Covid count. On Day 1 on November 3, the ISBTs — Anand Vihar and Sarai Kale Khan along with Kashmere Gate — saw arrival of 543 buses. On Tuesday, the number of buses from neighbouring states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand and Punjab was 1,783. The maximum number — 945 — arrived at Anand Vihar ISBT, which is right on the Delhi-UP border. Kashmere Gate saw arrival of 674 buses, while only 164 came at Sarai Kale Khan. Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC), which runs the ISBTs, has deployed a large number of personnel to ensure that all commuters undergo a thermal scan, apart from sanitisation of hands and baggage at entry points. A group of private guards deployed by DTIDC ensure that passengers maintain social distance while entering the ISBTs. While DTIDC is also trying to keep bus platforms clean and sanitised and ensure that alternate seats are kept vacant to maintain social distancing, many passengers at the Anand Vihar ISBT could be seen flouting the norms. Crowding was also taking place at the time of boarding. The number of passengers inside Anand Vihar ISBT and also outside, near the bus terminal across the road in Kaushambi in UP, has gone up in the past few days with many going to eastern UP and Bihar for Chhath Puja. The foot-over-bridge connecting these two terminals was extremely crowded on Tuesday. “We are taking measures to maintain social distancing. Though the foot overbridge is outside the ISBT premises, we will try to ensure social distancing there too,” an official said. A Covid-19 testing camp has been operational at the ISBT since early August. Similar camps have been opened at Kashmere Gate and Sarai Kale Khan ISBTs. On Tuesday, 3,195 covid tests were conducted at the camps, including 2,031 at Anand Vihar where six people were found positive, and 876 at Kashmere Gate ISBT where three people tested positive. At Sarai Kale Khan, 288 people were tested and nobody was Covid positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-a-fortnight-3-fold-rise-in-bus-ops-at-isbts/articleshow/79271521.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||24 to contest election from Lucknow division||LUCKNOW: For the upcoming biennial election for five graduate seats of the UP Legislative Council, a total of 24 candidates will contest from Lucknow division after three candidates withdrew their candidature on Tuesday. According to election commission, on December 1 over 74,000 registered graduate voters will choose their MLC among the 24 candidates for Lucknow division which comprise districts like Lucknow, Barabanki, Pratapgarh, Rae Bareli, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sitapur, Hardoi. Ranjan Kumar, the returning officer and divisional commissioner of Lucknow, said, “A total of 24 nominations were found to be valid after scrutiny. While papers of a woman candidate were rejected, a total of four women are contesting the election this time.” Out of the four women, 62-year-old Kranti Singh is the fifth grade passout. Among the 24 candidates, 73-year-old Baba Hardev Singh is a retired PSC officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/24-to-contest-election-from-lucknow-div/articleshow/79272072.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's Hindu Rao Hospital to admit Covid patients in 20-bed ward||NEW DELHI: North Delhi Municipal Corporation will start admitting novel coronavirus patients to Hindu Rao Hospital from Wednesday after converting its 20-bed ICU ward into a corona facility. Mayor Jai Prakash said the administration had also finalised the duty chart for three shifts at the ward, located at one corner of the 980-bed hospital. After inspecting the arrangements on Tuesday, Jai Prakash met medical superintendent Dr Anu Kapoor and other senior doctors. “Patients with serious symptoms will be kept in this ward. A room adjoining the ward will be used for keeping patients for a few days after they are discharged from here,” he said. The number of beds may be increased, depending on requirement, the mayor said. The move has come after the home ministry on Sunday suggested using municipal hospitals for Covid patients in the wake of the recent surge in cases in the capital. The arrangement won’t affect OPD services “unless we need to increase the number of Covid beds”, Jai Prakash said. The largest municipal hospital in Delhi was designated a coronavirus facility on June 14. However, on October 13, it was removed from the list due to low occupancy. The work is also on to reconvert the 100-bed Balak Ram Hospital into a Covid facility for patients with mild symptoms. The corporation, however, claims that Delhi government has not cleared its previous corona-related bills of Rs 4 crore. The government didn’t respond to the allegation. The mayor said the civic body had informed both lieutenant governor’s office and Delhi government about the tentative cost for arranging logistics and other facilities this time too. “We are always ready to serve people, but Delhi government should also provide funds to the corporation for arranging such facilities,” said Jai Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hindu-rao-to-admit-covid-patients-in-20-bed-ward/articleshow/79271533.cms||Vibha Sharma
November 18, 2020||Delhi||On a platter: 10-woman team cooks, delivers food to Covid-hit families in Delhi-NCR||NEW DELHI: In April, when anyone infected by the Covid-19 coronavirus was treated as an untouchable, Nisha Chopra’s husband tested positive. The family went into quarantine and the 42-year-old Chopra saw her children surviving on fruits for two weeks. The feeling of helplessness she experienced at the time spurred her to think of providing food for families affected by Covid. Today, she has a team of over 10 women who cook food every day for at least 100 families and delivers it to their doorsteps for free. The only thing the team asks for in return is a promise that the beneficiaries will help feed another family in their vicinity caught in similar difficulties. Times ViewAdversities often create heroes. These inspiring women seem to believe in the principle that service to humankind is service to God. The government must felicitate these Good Samaritans. It will further encourage others to follow.Speaking to TOI, Chopra said that her husband got infected at the outset of the pandemic and they had to go into isolation. “When I saw my kids struggle for food, I realised there would be so many other families facing the same problem. That’s when I decided to do what I could. I took some time and brought an adequate number of women on board to cook these meals. All of us do so in our own homes.” Three months ago, the programme took off. The word spread and people started reaching out to the group. Chopra was astounded at the plethora of phone calls she got. “We also got a few volunteers who helped with the distribution of meals, but many of them fell ill one after the other, and now I have myself taken up the responsibility of collecting food from different homes and then going out with a couple of volunteers to give them to those in need,” Chopra said. Though she and her team began by covering the entire Delhi-NCR area, the reduction in the distribution team has forced them to concentrate on south Delhi areas such as Sarita Vihar, Chittaranjan Park and also Noida and Faridabad. “However,” she added, “if someone in other locations desperately needs our services and asks us for help, we are able to send them food once a day, not twice.” Chopra said, “We do not charge the people anything for food. We only ask them to promise us that just as we helped them in their time of need, they too should come to the aid of the next family around them that requires assistance. However, we do not ask the elderly to do this because it will be tough for them.” Chopra, who runs an NGO in Faridabad, said that the group gives preference to households with elderly people and children. “We aim to feed at least 100 families per day, regardless of how many members are there in the families,” she said. “As soon as we have more volunteers and cooks, we will surely expand the food distribution to all of Delhi.” On why she does this, Chopra claimed, “There is a sense of complete satisfaction that I get when I am able to help Covid-19 patients who are in need of assistance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-a-platter-10-woman-team-cooks-delivers-food-to-covid-hit-families/articleshow/79271544.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||No Chhath puja at public places in Nagpur||NAGPUR: Chhath puja this year will not be possible at the city’s water bodies — Ambazari Lake, Futala, Gorewada Lake overflow point and Sakkardara lake — due to the shadow of Covid pandemic. The puja, which is celebrated by thousands of people from Bihar, Jharkhand and eastern Uttar Pradesh living in Nagpur, will begin on November 18. Last year, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had made arrangements for Chhath puja at the five lakes. “This year, no celebration is allowed due to Covid-19 scare,” said deputy municipal commissioner Dr Pradip Dasarwar. Senior BJP corporator Dayashankar Tiwari, who oversees NMC’s arrangements for Chhath puja every year, said people from Bihar residing in the city have decided not to celebrate the festival this year due to the pandemic. NMC appeals to the citizens to perform the rituals at home, he said. He said though no directives have been issued by the state government, the Chhath puja in water bodies will not be permitted. Due to the fixed timings of performing the rituals, it will not be possible to stagger congregations to ensure social distancing. “It is not possible to ensure the compliance of Covid-19 protocol of physical distancing while performing the puja in water bodies. So, the NMC too would not permit the puja in any water body to minimize the chances of spread of Covid-19 infection,” said Tiwari. National working president of Uttar Bharatiya Sabha Umakant Agnihotri too has appealed to the community not to perform puja at public places. He cited the ongoing infrastructure work by MahaMetro near Ambazari Lake which has left no space for parking of vehicles of devotees coming for Chhath puja there. “The current health scenario due to the pandemic mandates people to stay at home instead of participating in a puja with huge gatherings,” said Agnihotri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-chhath-puja-at-public-places-in-city/articleshow/79270120.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Ajay Maken returns to Delhi without meeting leaders in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: AICC general secretary Ajay Maken, who was in the state in connection with scheduled meetings with MLAs, senior Congress leaders and newly elected local bodies’ representatives, left for Delhi due to the sudden demise of minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal on Tuesday. Maken said the meetings would be rescheduled later. Replying to a question on the controversy over Kapil Sibal’s observation on Congress leadership, Maken said senior leaders, including chief minister Ashok Gehlot, have already expressed their views and there was nothing more to add. Maken, who was scheduled to attend the cremation of cabinet minister Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal at Sujangarh in Churu, decided against it on the advice of doctors due to his health conditions after recovery from Covid. Maken, who took over from Avinash Pande in August, met chief minister Ashok Gehlot the other day at his residence reportedly discussed the state party reorganisation and the much-awaited reshuffle of the council of ministers. The party state organisation is yet to reorganise after new party president Govid Singh Dotasra was appointed to the post replacing Sachin Pilot. There were also several vacancies in the government after sacking of some of the ministers in Sachin camp following his rebellion and now due to the death of a cabinet minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal. Besides appointments to various commissions and corporations are also awaited. Sources said now these appointments would be done only after the ongoing elections to the panchayat, local bodies are completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maken-returns-to-delhi-without-meeting-leaders/articleshow/79271553.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Goa to get India’s first green energy convergence project||PANAJI: India’s first convergence project to generate green energy for rural and agriculture consumption is set to come up in the state. Energy Efficiency Services Ltd (EESL), a joint venture of PSUs under the ministry of power, and Goa government signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on Tuesday to discuss the rolling out of the affordable clean power project. The project is expected to accelerate the usage of renewable energy sources in the country, Union minister of state (independent charge) for power and new and renewable energy R K Singh said, adding that the signing of the MoU “in some sense marks the beginning of a fresh green revolution”. He asked Goa to take the lead in this regard with all possible support by the Centre under the PM-KUSUM scheme. “With this initiative Goa is well on the path to becoming a green state,” he said. “The state has set a target to generate 150MW green energy in the next two to three years and will also set up 100MW solar power plants across the state,” power minister Nilesh Cabral said. The MoU was signed in the presence of Singh, Cabral, secretary ministry of power, Sanjiv Nandan Sahai, and other senior officers of the ministry. Cabral said that under the convergence project, 6,500 five-starred agriculture pumps will be distributed to farmers in the state and that in the next one year four LED bulbs will be distributed per house. The state will also provide solar cookers. “EESL will invest Rs 450 crore and the government will buy power at Rs 3.7,” the power minister said. He said that agreement will be in force for the next 25 years. When people are shouting about stopping coal transportation, with this MOU Goa is going in for green energy, Cabral said. “In future we will reduce the quantity of coal based power being brought to the state. Our target is to make Goa run on green energy,” he said. In Goa, EESL will install solar projects in a first of its kind large scale programme where vacant/unused land provided by village panchayats/electricity board will be utilised. The solar power plant will be installed with capacities ranging from 500KW to 2MW, depending on the size of the land. This will enable distribution companies to supply power during the day and reduce transmission losses. Under the MoU, EESL and the directorate of new and renewable energy (DNRE) will carry out feasibility studies and subsequent implementation of 100MW decentralised solar energy projects that will contribute in reduction of peak energy demand through deployment of energy efficient agricultural pumping and rural lighting thus contributing to overall sustainability. Approximately 6,300 agricultural pumps will be replaced with BEE star-rated energy efficient pumps and approximately 16 lakh LED bulbs will be distributed to rural domestic households. “When we started the PM-KUSUM scheme, this is what was in our mind, to restart a fresh green revolution in the agriculture sector,” Singh said. PM-KUSUM scheme supports installation of off-grid solar pumps in rural areas and reduces dependence on grid, in grid-connected areas. “This model is expected to be adopted by other states as it will reduce losses in terms of expenditure on water for the farm sector, which runs into tens of thousands crore rupees in several states. That preempts state spending on health, education, and other important sectors,” Singh said. The Union minister asked his ministry to look out for incentivising energy and groundwater saving by farmers. Together with the new rooftop solar scheme this will prove to be win-win for farmers and states, helping them to go green. Goa has no power plant of its own. It gets around 550MW from the central grid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-to-get-indias-first-green-energy-convergence-project/articleshow/79271547.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Constable, nine others held under Cow Slaughter Act||LUCKNOW: A police constable and nine others were arrested by Deoria cops for transporting bovine progeny in Mayil area of the district on Tuesday. Acting on a tip-off, police intercepted two trucks containing 53 cattle. The arrested persons were identified as police constable Deep Narayan, Asif, Iltaf, Shawab, Sonu, Ramesh Kumar, Mohammed Talim, Shaquil, Rafiq and Naseem. They were arrested on charges of cow slaughter under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act. An SUV, which was accompanying the two trucks, was also seized. SP, Deoria, Shripati Mishra told TOI that constable Deep Narayan was deployed in Ballia and was unable to explain his presence with the smugglers.Soon after the arrest, the constable was suspended by the Ballia police. SP, Ballia, Devendra Nath sent five constables from Ubhaon police station to the lines and ordered an inquiry by CO-rank officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/constable-nine-others-held-under-cow-slaughter-act/articleshow/79272078.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Covid-19: Close to 100 deaths for second day in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the country for the second consecutive day on Tuesday with 99 patients succumbing to the infection in the past 24 hours, the same number as on the previous day. The number of deaths in the capital has reached 7,812, while the total tally has crossed 4.95 lakh with 6,396 new cases recorded on Tuesday. In November alone, 1,300 people have died due to Covid-19 till date. The most deaths recorded in a single day (104) were on November 12. The increasing death rate comes at a time when ICU beds are difficult to find. According to the latest data shared by hospitals on Delhi Corona App, 90% ICU beds with ventilator support and 88% of ICU beds without ventilator support are occupied. There were no ICU beds available at Guru Teg Bahadur, Deen Dayal Upadhyaya, Max (Shalimar Bagh, Patparganj and Saket), Apollo, BLK and Manipal hospitals. Dr YK Misra, chief of clinical services at Manipal Hospital, Dwarka, said many patients could be dying due to lack of appropriate care. “There is a serious shortage of ICU beds across hospitals in Delhi. I get 20-30 requests daily for admission, but we have no beds available,” he added. Dr Sumit Ray, chairperson of critical care at the Holy Family Hospital, said they had 34 ICU beds and currently 38 Covid-19 patients requiring critical care were admitted there. “We are pooling resources from the non-Covid area to meet the increased demand,” he added. “The death rate has gone up in the current peak, also referred to as the third wave, compared with the peaks witnessed in June and September. This time around, we are seeing more seriously ill patients. Death rate is very high among people suffering from diabetes and obesity,” said Ray. An ICU specialist at Lok Nayak Hospital, which has 2,000 Covid-19 beds, said blood sugar levels shoot up to dangerous levels in diabetics. “Myocarditis or inflammation of the heart muscle is another complication seen in Covid-19 patients with severe symptoms, which is leading to a higher death rate,” she added. Dr Anant Mohan, professor and head of department of pulmonary critical care at All India Institute of Medical Sciences, said it was important to monitor blood glucose levels closely, especially in elderly and diabetic individuals, as steroids are known to cause an increase in blood sugar levels. “It can lead to ketoacidosis,” he added. Ketoacidosis is a serious complication of diabetes. According to American Diabetes Association, when body cells don’t get the glucose they need for energy, they begin to burn fat for energy, which produces ketones. “High levels of ketones can poison the body,” said the association. “It is important to keep pre-existing illnesses under control to reduce the risk of complications due to Covid-19,” said another doctor at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/close-to-100-deaths-for-second-day/articleshow/79271557.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 18, 2020||Goa||Goa finalises plan for waste management, will start from March 31||PANAJI: Taking another step towards doing away with non-biodegradable waste, the state government has finalised an action plan for plastic waste management and set March 31, 2021, as the target for its implementation. Urban local bodies (ULB) and village panchayats (VP) have been directed to adopt the ban on plastic in its bylaws and make provisions for penalties against offenders. Last year, on October 2, the state government notified the ban on use of single-use plastic in all its offices to serve as a model for others and CM Pramod Sawant had said at the time that the ban would be implemented statewide in a phased manner. As per the action plan prepared by the department of environment and climate change, ULBs and VPs have to put in place a system for door-to-door collection by March 31, 2021, and ready material recovery facilities by October 2021. In 2017, then CM Manohar Parrikar had announced his government’s decision to ban plastic bags from May of the following year. In the last two years, some municipalities had banned single-use plastic of less than 50 microns. However, due to lack of government backing and clear cut polices, enforcement was discontinued. The action plan while stressing on improving disposal of recyclable plastic waste has directed ULBs and VPs to seize banned plastic carry bags and impose fines on defaulters as per provisions of the Goa Non-biodegradable Garbage (Control) Act, 1996. The civic bodies have also been told to frame bylaws for plastic waste management and submit a monthly progress report to the department of environment and climate change. As per the action plan, the Goa Waste Management Corporation, which is already carrying out activities with regards to creating awareness related to plastic waste in educational institutes, will continue with the programme regularly. “Recycling, reuse, or alternative use of plastic waste can help reduce the amount of virgin plastic produced. Support will be provided for upscaling/recycling of single-use plastic items and promoting small scale or micro enterprises,” the action plan stated while urging the government to also discourage use of plastic products like folders, trays, artificial flowers and PET plastic water bottles in its various departments. The state government should serve as a model in the effort to combat single-use plastic by implementing the ban in toto in all government offices, the action plan stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-finalises-plan-for-waste-mgmt-will-start-from-march-31/articleshow/79271570.cms||Murari Shetye
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Two Jaish members nabbed, police say were planning strike in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Two alleged “highly radicalised” members of Jaish-e-Mohammed tasked with carrying out a strike in Delhi were arrested by Special Cell of Delhi Police from southeast Delhi’s Sarai Kale Khan on Monday night. After “proving their mettle”, the two men were reportedly to be extricated to Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (POK) for Fidayeen training. While no specified target had been given to the duo by their Pak-based handlers, the strike was allegedly to be conducted by “shooting at random people on the streets”. One of the handlers using the number +92310761**** was identified as Idris, a JeM commander and recruiter, a source told TOI. DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Yadav said the two men were identified as Abdul Latif Mir from Baramulla and Mohammad Ashraf Khatana (20) from Kupwara. They wanted to fight for a “free Kashmir” and restore Article 370, police claimed. The duo has been remanded to three days’ police custody for interrogation. Several audio, visual and text communication between the two arrested men and two Pakistani terrorists, which took place on Facebook Messenger and WhatsApp, are in police’s possession. The men were arrested by a special team led by ACP Sanjay Dutt and inspector Maan Singh, who had been tracking them after receiving a tip-off from a Deoband-based informer. The southwestern range got a tip-off that the newly recruited JeM terrorists would be coming to Delhi to go to UP for basic training. Singh got another input that the two operatives would come near Sarai Kale Khan and then go to Nizamuddin to stay for a short period before proceeding to Deoband. A trap was laid and the duo was arrested. “The role model of the accused is Maulana Masood Azhar. Mir’s Facebook account had Azhar’s photograph as his profile picture. He wanted to join JeM for Kashmir’s freedom and to spread Islam across the world,” Yadav said. About four months ago, Mir was allegedly contacted by a man called Aftab Malik from Lahore through Facebook messenger, who sought his WhatsApp number and called to inquire about his profile picture of Azhar. “Mir allegedly expressed his wish to join Azhar’s outfit and receive training. Mir and his associate had tried to cross the border thrice through Kupwara, Hyma and Keran, but failed due to tight vigil at the LOC,” said Yadav. Later, they came in contact with Pak-based JeM operatives through Malik, who promised to help them cross the border if they completed a task. “They were directed to come to Delhi and meet a person, who would send them to UP for getting basic training and arranging for their crossover to Pakistan. They procured arms and ammunition from an associate who was with them in their unsuccessful attempt to cross over to POK from Kupwara and came to Delhi,” Yadav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-jaish-members-nabbed-police-say-were-planning-strike-in-delhi/articleshow/79271574.cms||Raj Shekhar
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||‘UP, Uttarakhand taking up pending projects’||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath laid the foundation stone for a tourist guest house in Badrinath on Tuesday, a day after he and his counterpart in Uttarakhand, Trivendra Singh Rawat, got stuck in Kedarnath due to heavy snow. Yogi also requested the Uttarakhand government to renovate the cave in which Yogi Sundernath, a revered member of the Nath panth to which Yogi Adityanath also belongs, in which he performed tapasya. “Uttarakhand is a land where many saints have practised penance and Yogiraj Sundernath is one of them. His photograph has been put up next to Jagadguru Shankaracharya in Badrinath Temple and his cave is also close by. The Uttarakhand government should take steps to revive it,” he said. Yogi also promised that the UP government would complete the ongoing Bhagirathi Tourist Guest House construction in Haridwar before Haridwar Kumbh. “Badrinath is a revered place among Sanatan Hindus and lakhs of devotees visit the place each year. The Uttarakhand government has taken several steps to develop tourism in the state and facilitate devotees. Since Rawat ji came to power in Uttarakhand, several projects pending between UP and Uttarakhand have been taken up and many interstate disputes have been resolved amicably,” Yogi said. The guest house the foundation stone of which was laid by the CM is located in Chamoli district in Joshimath tehsil. “Once complete,” the CM said, “it will provide a lot of facilities to tourists from UP.” The guest house is coming up on 1 acre area at a cost of Rs 11.1 crore. UP Tourism Development Corporation is getting the work implemented by UP State Construction Corporation. It will have 40 rooms with double beds, dormitories for 22 workers and a restaurant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ukhand-taking-up-pending-projects/articleshow/79272084.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||‘Rajasthan CM’s Sibal remark proves infighting’||JAIPUR: BJP state president Satish Poonia on Tuesday said chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s reaction to Congress leader Kapil Sibal’s remarks on party leadership has proved that it was plagued by infighting and the party was in a desperate state. In an interview to a daily, Sibal was critical of the Congress leadership after the party’s poor showing in Bihar and complained about the lack of introspection in the past six years. Reacting to it, Gehlot on Monday tweeted that Sibal’s comments hurt sentiments of party workers across the country and going public with internal issues in the media was uncalled for. Poonia said, “After the Congress party’s defeat in various elections in the country, the chief minister’s statement in context to Kapil Sibal’s comments that the party’s internal issues should not be discussed in the media proves that the Congress is facing infighting.” He alleged that the Congress in terms of ideology, conduct and direction was zero. “I think the BJP’s slogan of Congress-free India will probably come true in the country soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cms-sibal-remark-proves-infighting/articleshow/79271578.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Skeleton of rape accused recovered from Pilibhit Tiger Reserve||PILIBHIT: The decomposed body — reduced to almost skeleton — of a 25-year-old rape accused booked on September 6 for kidnapping and rape of a 22-year-old woman was found in compartment number 69 of Barahi forest range of the Pilibhit Tiger Reserve (PTR) on Monday. The victim’s kin, however, accused the woman’s family of murder. Locals, meanwhile, blamed it on police saying timely action against the rape accused could have saved his life, and he would have not been murdered. Madhotanda SHO Ram Sevak on Tuesday said accused Anuj Kashyap, a resident of Ramkot village under Madhotanda police station, was booked on September 6 for kidnapping and rape of a woman in a village near PTR. The SHO said the skull was found detached from the neck, indicating amputation. Pilibhit superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav said, “Police have been looking for the accused for long. Even his father Jagdish Kashyap had no clue about his whereabouts.” Accusing forest department of laxity in patrolling and checking infiltration by villagers into the core forest area, locals said even in this case the body was not spotted by a patrolling team, but locals who had gone to the core forest area to collect firewood spotted the body and informed the victim's kin. Asked about laxity in patrolling and inaction against intruders, chief conservator of forest Lalit Verma said, “I will look into the matter and will seek PTR deputy director Naveen Khandelwal’s reply on all these issues.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/skeleton-of-rape-accused-recovered-from-pilibhit-tiger-reserve/articleshow/79269052.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 18, 2020||Varanasi||Journalist, wife beaten to death in Uttar Pradesh||VARANASI: A farmer, who also worked as a correspondent for a Hindi daily, and his wife were brutally beaten to death in Barwadih village under Kone police station in Sonbhadra district on Monday evening in an old enmity with a former village head. Victim Uday Paswan died on the spot while his wife Sheetla succumbed to injuries at a hospital in Varanasi on Tuesday. As the deceased had approached the Kone police for security in view of threat to him and his family, action has been taken against three cops. “Inspector Kone, a sub-inspector and a constable have been suspended in this connection,” said SP Sonbhadra Ashish Srivastava adding, “Five of six accused persons have also been arrested while the main accused, Keval Paswan, who is also former village head, is absconding.” Uday and his wife Sheetla, who had been demanding security in view of the threat, had gone to Kone police station on Monday morning to pursue his demand. After 4.30 pm he was returning to his village with his wife on a motorcycle when his rivals attacked them with sticks. Despite the cries of the couple, nobody came to help even as the assailants fled the scene after killing Uday on the spot and injuring Sheetla. On getting informatio,n Kone cops reached the spot and rushed Sheetla to a local hospital from where the doctors referred her to the Trauma centre of BHU in Varanasi in view of sharp deterioration in her health condition. The body of Uday was sent for postmortem. Srivastava said, “On the complaint of Uday’s son Vinay Paswan, a named FIR against a former village head Keval Paswan, his wife Kaushalya, sons Jitendra, Gabbar, Sikandar and his representative Ekhlaq Alam has been lodged under sections 147, 148 and 302 of IPC.” He added that except Keval, all other accused have been arrested while raids are continuing to nab the main accused. Regarding enmity of Uday with Keval and his family, Vinay informed police that his father was a farmer and also a correspondent with a Lucknow-based Hindi daily. Uday had a land dispute with Keval since long and cases had been lodged against both groups in 2016, 2018 and this year also. As police did not pay attention towards Uday’s complaints and demand for security for him and his family, Vinay said, “His father had also given a complaint in chief minister’s Janta Darbar in Lucknow. Despite directives issued from the CMO, the Sonbhadra cops did not pay any attention.” Srivastava said, “On detection of laxity performed by Kone cops action has been initiated against the police station in-charge and his subordinates while further investigation in this matter is ongoing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/scribe-wife-beaten-to-death-in-old-enmity-in-sonbhadra-village/articleshow/79270124.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Bhanwarlal Meghwal cremated with full state honours in Churu||JAIPUR: State social justice minister Master Bhanwarlal Meghwal was cremated with full state honours at his hometown Sujangarh in Churu district on Tuesday afternoon. His son Manoj lit the pyre amid the chanting of Vedic mantras. Meghwal (72) passed away at a hospital in Haryana’s Gurugram on Monday evening after suffering a brain haemorrhage in May. State Congress chief and education minister Govind Dotasra, transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas, power minister B D Kalla, labour minister Tikaram Jully and several MLAs paid floral tributes to Meghwal. Earlier in the day, the state council of ministers chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot expressed grief over the minister’s demise and observed a two-minute silence in memory of the departed soul. The meeting acknowledged the contribution of Meghwal to the state and stood. Governor Kalraj Mishra spoke to the minister’s son over phone and consoled him. Mishra said Meghwal was a popular leader and worked for the uplift of the marginalised sections of society. The state observed a one-day mourning and declared a holiday on Tuesday in respect of the departed soul. Meghwal represented the Sujangarh assembly constituency in Churu district and was a five-time MLA. He was a prominent dalit face of the Congress in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/meghwal-cremated-with-full-state-honours-in-churu/articleshow/79271569.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur Metro’s civil construction work completes one year||KANPUR: The civil construction work of Kanpur Metro project, being conducted by Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) Limited, completed one year on Sunday. If everything goes well, Kanpur too, like Lucknow, would be known as a Metro City by the end of next year. The foundation stone of the Kanpur Metro project was laid by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in presence of UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath on March 8 last year. The project had been envisaged in view of the traffic woes of the industrial city. Subsequently, on November 15, 2019, the construction work of the 9-km-long ‘Priority Corridor’, between IIT and Motijheel of Kanpur Metro Project was started by CM Yogi Adityanath in the presence of Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri. The first pier (pillar) of the Priority Corridor, being built between IIT and Motijheel, was ready on December 31, 2019. A total of 506 piers are to be prepared in the long primary section, out of which 294 piers have been completed so far. The casting of U- girders started in Lakhanpur casting yard on January 20 this year. Pier cap erection (construction) began on March 2, 2020. A total of 300 pier caps are to be kept in the nine kms long primary section, out of which 132 have been laid. The pier cap fits into the upper part of the Metro pier. UP Metro placed the first double T-girder for the concourse of IIT Metro station on July 25 this year. Within two- and-a half- year, UP Metro completed erection of 100 double T-girders. A total of 384 double T-girders are to be laid for the nine metro stations of the Priority Corridor out of which 165 have been placed so far. On August 11, 2020, U-girder erections started near IIT-Kanpur under the primary corridor in the presence of the chief secretary, Government of Uttar Pradesh. On the very first day, two U-girders were placed while the century of U-girder erection was completed within just 67 days. A total of 638 U-girders are to be placed in the primary section, out of which 142 U-girders have been positioned so far. UPMRC in a statement on Monday said that under the guardianship of Kumar Keshav, managing director, UPMRC, the team of the engineers has made several innovations with the object of delivering Metro services to Kanpurites within the stipulated time frame and set new paradigms for other Metro projects in the country. It stated that UP Metro used double T-girders to form the base of the concourse (first floor of the upstream station) of the Metro stations under Kanpur Metro project, which is used for the first time in the country with the prime object of speeding construction work and making better infrastructure. Further, to ensure that residents do not get stuck in traffic jams while construction work is in progress, UP Metro engineers introduced a new traffic management plan. “The Priority Corridor is being developed between IIT- Kanpur and Motijheel. Under this corridor, the barricading of the Metro corridor is narrowed after the completion of the construction activities at a particular location, the result being that the vehicles running on this route do not have to stop and the problem of traffic jam does not arise”, the UPMRC stated. UPMRC also claimed that Metro marshals work day and night to check traffic snarls. UP Metro has identified 25-30 spots on a regular basis where traffic jams are more likely to occur and where traffic diversion requires additional precautions. Around 50 Metro marshals are stationed day and night at all these places which help in keeping the traffic running smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-metros-civil-construction-work-completes-one-year/articleshow/79252833.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Pre-loaded tabs can be answer to issue of lack of network to students: NIT director||PANAJI: Students across the state, especially those in rural areas, are finding it difficult to keep pace with the online teaching sessions being conducted by their schools during the pandemic, connectivity being a major issue. To help at least one batch of Class X students from a rural government primary school to overcome this hurdle, director of National Institute of Technology (NIT), Goa, Gopal Mugeraya, said it has been decided that each of the 40 staffers of his institute will sponsor an electronic tab for such students from a rural government high school. He said if the tab is provided with pre-loaded educational material, then the students will be able to continue their studies even when there is lack of internet connectivity. Mugeraya, who is also a member of the committee on higher education on implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 for Goa, said he has suggested this measure in his report to the committee as well. “Goa’s government high schools have very good infrastructure as compared to other states. But the only hurdle students are facing is the lack of connectivity in some rural areas. To help at least some of them cope with this, each of my staffers will sponsor one tab to Class X students in any of the rural government high schools,” Mugeraya said. “We will provide them to any institute that is identified for us or the state government feels fit,” Mugeraya said. He said only the state government’s assistance will be required in providing or approving the educational material that can be loaded onto these tabs. “The cost of the tabs is not much and they can be provided at just Rs 4,000 each. I am sure there are many citizens in Goa, who will not mind sponsoring it too for one child to help him or her continue his or her studies. I have recently submitted my suggestions to former chief minister and the chairman on the committee on higher education for NEP implementation in Goa, Laxmikant Parsekar,” said Mugeraya. He said if willing citizens are encouraged for come forward to help, then the scheme can be implemented in Goa with no cost to the exchequer, while also fostering community involvement in government schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pre-loaded-tabs-can-be-answer-to-issue-of-lack-of-network-to-students-nit-director/articleshow/79271612.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 18, 2020||Goa||‘Goa aiming to reduce road accidents by 50% in a year’||PANAJI: The state government has set a target of reducing road accidents by half within a year, Union minister Shripad Naik said on Tuesday. “There is a lot of work to be done in terms of road safety in Goa and once each department pays attention, we can reduce the number of accidents in the state drastically,” he said. Naik was speaking after the road safety committee meeting held at the Panaji RTO, where issues related to road safety in Goa were discussed. Naik stressed on the need for the PWD to fill up potholes soon after the monsoon. Representatives from the departments of transport, excise, PWD, social welfare, among others, were present at the meeting, besides officials from the RTO, Kadamba Transport Corporation (KTC) and road safety NGOs. “The PWD is supposed to act quickly after the rains and take up works to fill up potholes. This can help bring down accidents. The loss of even one life is a great loss,” he said. “After we fix roads, we must improve the transport system and tackle stray cattle for the convenience of commuters, especially tourists. All departments must actively come together to resolve these issues.” The road safety committee meeting will be held once every three months. The MP of each district will chair the meeting henceforth. Road safety activist Roland Martins said there were 297 road accident deaths in 2019 and 178 people had died in road accidents over the past 10 months. He stressed on the need for enforcement and road engineering to reduce road accidents. “We are going to ask the directorate of panchayats to coordinate with cattle management organisations to tackle stray cattle and to reactivate local road safety committees. A file will be moved to set up a road safety fund. Signages and zebra crossings must also be put in place,” Martins said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-aiming-to-reduce-road-accidents-by-50-in-a-year/articleshow/79271600.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||RUBbed the wrong way, ROBbed of right too||Nagpur: Barely four days after the double-decker Wardha Road flyover and Manish Nagar railway overbridge (ROB) and underbridge (RUB) was thrown open to traffic, violations hamper the smooth flow of vehicles. Both do not support two-way traffic but that’s not stopping motorists. On November 13, the MahaMetro opened the Manesh Nagar RoB and RuB to ease traffic movement. While the project has up in good time, a mechanism was must to to check rash driving and traffic violations, according to motorists. There are no proper signages. No traffic cops have been positioned to direct motorists to take the correct route. Motorists are using the RUB and ROB to travel from Manish Nagar side to Wardha Road, which is prohibited. “The one-way violation is more during peak hours,” said Rohit Kumar, a resident of Manish Nagar. TOI visited the spot and found that traffic violations are rampant. Many vehicles are turning left at Manish Nagar ROB T-point. The ROB is only for vehicles travelling from Manish Nagar to Wardha Road. However, people coming from Ajni side slow down and then take a left turn to go towards Manish Nagar, which is prohibited. The RoB too is a two-lane structure and two-way traffic can be dangerous. So, MahaMetro has banned the usage of RoB as two-way traffic and instead allowed only one-way vehicular movement from Manish Nagar towards Wardha Road. Similarly, the RUB is a narrow two-lane structure. Motorists who want to reach Ajni side need to take the southern arm and take a longer route. To avoid the longer route, motorists have been travelling down the RUB against oncoming traffic. Mukesh Bankar, a Besa resident, said MahaMetro has provided two lanes on the RUB. “Similarly, it has provided a left turn on the Wardha road flyover. Both are closed and this has led to the confusion,” he said. DCP (traffic) Sarang Ahwad said he will look into the violations. “Directives have been issued to traffic police to take action,” he said. A MahaMetro spokesperson said traffic signages will be put up soon. “By Wednesday, all proper signages will be installed everywhere,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rubbed-the-wrong-way-robbed-of-right-too/articleshow/79270147.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Tourists start making bookings for Dev Deepawali in Varanasi||LUCKNOW: After breaking its own record of lighting diyas at the Ayodhya Deepotsav on November 13 to mark Diwali, UP government is now gearing to celebrate Dev Deepawali in Varanasi on November 30. With chief minister Yogi Adityanath having given the go-ahead for the celebration of the festival, the district administration has started work of sanitizing markets, boats and hotels. Representatives of the hotel association have said that with coronavirus cases showing a declining trend in UP currently, they are expecting footfall to increase by about 15% around the festival. President of Benaras Hotel Association Gokul Sharma said that hotels have been receiving several queries from tourists and bookings have also started taking place. “Arrangements have been made to completely sanitize hotel rooms, boats and markets. The hotel industry is confident that as soon as the central government starts granting visas, foreign tourists would start pouring in and the tourism industry will see a significant revival,” said a government spokesperson. Kirtiman Srivastava, tourism officer of Varanasi and Vindhyachal division, said that before the spread of coronavirus, about 3 lakh domestic and foreign tourists had been visiting the city but the number of tourists during the peak of the pandemic had reduced to zero. However, since August, the number of tourists has been increasing and in September, 5,025 tourists had visited the city. On Dev Deepawali, all ghats illuminate with diyas and an aarti is held at the ghat. The festival finds mention in Shiva Purana where it was celebrated to mark the day when Vishnu killed a demon named Tripura Sur who was troubling gods during the month of Kartik. After he was killed, the gods celebrated Diwali. It is believed that on this day, all the gods and goddesses are present at Varanasi’s ghats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/tourists-start-making-bookings-for-dev-deepawali-in-varanasi/articleshow/79272113.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: RTDC turnaround tales may curb privatisation calls||JAIPUR: With majority of the RTDC hotels continuing to report losses and prompting successive governments in the state to look at privatising the units, the path to revival has not got a fair chance to be explored. Among the 30 units, 26 of them being hotels, there are multiple stories of individual brilliance, sustained performances, steady recoveries and potential performers. While they form small segment of the lot, the view that the future of these hotels beyond repair cannot be the only conclusion, said a leader of RTDC employees association. Even though governments, apparently sensitive to the concerns of the employees, made clear that leasing out was not on the cards, a strategy for revival never took off in right pursuit, said Tej Singh Rathore, president of RTDC employees union. For example, hotel Ghoomer in Jodhpur, which reported a loss of over 9 lakh in 2014-15, has been increasing in profits since then. Its profits stood at Rs 83.70 lakh in the last financial year. Similarly, the Durg Café restaurant in Nahargarh palace has been making money after change of guards at the helm. From of loss of Rs 26 lakh in 2014-15, its profit has been increasing over the years, reaching 1.1 crore last financial year. “The turnaround of these units flies in the face of those who wanted to hand over these assets to private entities. In order to make their case, they would say RTDC units do not fit into the current market dynamism,” Rathore told TOI. He said the units which are making profits or trimming losses while increasing revenues do so even after the department has transferred much of the staff to the headquarters on reverse deputation. “There are hotels where the landline phone numbers given on the website do not work. The managers have been transferred but their names are still there. These are small things but covey a basic image of the hotel. These hotels can compete and become profitable if the government pays a little attention,” added Rathore. The marketing offices in other cities like Mumbai were closed by the previous government. After coming to power this government decided to open them again. But they are yet to restart operation because of logistic issues. Rathore said that these hotels are located at prime locations in various tourist destinations of the state and can easily become profitable if efficient officers are deployed. Cumulatively, RTDC has run up losses of over Rs 100 crore. While the employees say that the losses of the hotels are mainly because of the policy of the government, which is aimed at leasing out, others including the government feel that these hotels are no longer relevant in the current competitive environment. But Rathore said the turnaround of some of the units offers enough insights into why they cannot compete and survive with dignity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rtdc-turnaround-tales-may-curb-privatisation-calls/articleshow/79271605.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
November 18, 2020||India||Gupkar Gang going global, says Shah, slams Congress||NEW DELHI: Home minister Amit Shah on Tuesday attacked Congress for aligning itself with Kashmiri parties that have been campaigning for restoration of Article 370 and have sought help from China towards that end, and said Sonia and Rahul Gandhi owed an explanation to the nation. “The Gupkar Gang is going global. They want foreign forces to intervene in J&K. The Gupkar Gang also insults India’s tricolour. Do Soniaji and Rahulji support such moves of the Gupkar Gang? They should make their stand crystal clear to the people of India,” Shah said in a series of tweets in what marked a sharpening of BJP’s attack. The Gupkar Gang is going global! They want foreign forces to intervene in Jammu and Kashmir. The Gupkar Gang also i… https://t.co/hYmBcphoIm— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) 1605598417000Shah fired the volley amid signs of discomfiture in Congress over BJP’s attacks, as well as a rethink. Shah, who piloted the move for scrapping J&K’s special status, showed no mercy. Significantly, he also referred to the renewed effort by Pakistan and a section of Kashmiris to lobby foreign capitals against the Modi government’s move to dilute Article 370. Many believe the efforts will gather momentum in the US under a Biden-Harris leadership. Shah, however, asserted that the campaign would have no consequence. “Indian people will no longer tolerate an unholy ‘global gathbandhan’ against our national interest. Either Gupkar Gang swims along with the national mood or else the people will sink it,” he said. Jammu and Kashmir has been, is and will always remain an integral part of India. Indian people will no longer toler… https://t.co/sP9FvJMWQr— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) 1605598429000He also said restoration of Article 370 to its original form would push J&K back to the era of terror and turmoil. “They want to take away rights of Dalits, women and tribals that we have ensured by removing 370. This is why they’re being rejected by the people everywhere,” he said in a reference to the fact that Article 370 acted as a barrier against extension of laws against dowry, child marriages as well as corruption and for reservation for Scheduled Castes. Congress and the Gupkar Gang want to take J&K back to the era of terror and turmoil. They want to take away rights… https://t.co/QAomNzMJvi— Amit Shah (@AmitShah) 1605598424000This was the third major attack on Congress in the past 24 hours, and was being seen as an indication of BJP’s plan to corner the rival on the issue. A foretaste of what could be in the offing had come when BJP attacked former finance minister P Chidambaram for seeking restoration of Article 370. It ceased fire because Congress kept a safe distance from Chidambaram's stand. The opposition party's alliance with parties that are signatories to the Gupkar Declaration has given BJP a fresh opening to resume attack. Watch 'Gupkar gang going global', tweets home minister Amit Shah||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gupkar-gang-going-global-says-shah-slams-congress/articleshow/79272736.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||After success, Mati Kala Board to set up permanent shop||LUCKNOW: Buoyed by the success of the maiden exhibition of clay products ahead of Diwali, UP Mati Kala Board will now open a permanent outlet for the sale of such products in the city where visitors can go throughout the year. The Mati Kala Board had its first foray into marketing this Diwali when it held an exhibition at Khadi Bhawan, Lucknow, from November 4 to 14. The exhibition aimed to promote clay artisans of the state. Many of them were allotted stalls to sell their products that ranged from Ganesh Lakshmi idols to diyas, pots, terracotta and decorative items. Products worth around Rs 50 lakh were sold in 10 days at the venue. The event helped in branding and promotion of the board and the artisans. “We received a huge response. Now, there would be a permanent outlet selling clay products round the year in Lucknow,” said sources in the board. More details to the plan would be added once a budget is allocated for it, said sources. The outlet will have a range of items like crockery, vessels and those of home decor. The efforts of the board are directed towards making the market competitive for artisans which will not only improve quality of products but also fetch better price. The Mati Kala Board was established by the Yogi government in July 2018. Artisans making clay products for generations were given standardised dyes to make idols this time. The dyes were designed by empanelled artists. Besides ensuring supply of clay to artisans, the board also provided for training by empanelled sculptors so that artisans can use the dyes better. Additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said that more work will be done on quality improvement and branding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-success-mati-kala-board-to-set-up-permanent-shop/articleshow/79272130.cms||Neha Shukla
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Wife has right to know husband’s income: CIC||JODHPUR: In an important decision, the Central Information Commission (CIC) has held that a wife can seek information about the gross income of her husband through RTI. Turning down the denial of information to the complainant seeking information about her husband’s gross and taxable income, the CIC directed the income tax department of Jodhpur to provide the said information in 15 days from the date of order. It also rejected the argument that such information pertained to a third party and does not come under the definition of information under RTI. The decision was on an appeal filed by Rahmat Bano of Jodhpur after the IT department held that the information sought by her on her husband's income belonged to a third party. Speaking on the decision, her counsel Rajak Haider said, “The husband refused to share the information terming it to be personal.” Watch Wife entitled to know husband's income details: Central Information Commission||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/wife-has-right-to-know-husbands-income-cic/articleshow/79271617.cms||Ajay Parmar
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Ensure max construction workers get benefits: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed officials to launch a drive for new registrations of labourers under the Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board and renewal of memberships and ensure the benefits are extended to maximum eligible beneficiaries. Labour department officials said relief had been provided by the Board in fees for renewal and fresh applications till November 30, 2020 in light of the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. Currently, Uttar Pradesh has 65,92,852 registered workers, and membership of 32,58,152 of them has been renewed. Workers in the age bracket of 18-60 years, who are employed for more than 90 days in a year, are eligible for membership, said an official of labour department. The government has included 40 processes under construction activity, so that workers involved in any of them can register and avail benefits. Labourers can get themselves registered on the web portal of Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board or through Jan Sewa Kendras.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ensure-max-construction-workers-get-benefits-cm/articleshow/79272125.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Man dies in Tamil Nadu shooting, murder case on 80-year-old||DINDIGUL: A day after being shot at by an 80-year-old man in a land dispute in Palani, P Subramani, 60, died of injuries at the government Rajaji hospital in Madurai on Tuesday without responding to treatment. The victim had suffered injuries to his abdomen when theatre owner S Natarajan fired at him, and the bullet was removed by surgeons in a two-hour operation. According to doctors, Subramani died due to blood loss and damage to internal organs caused by bullet injury. Following the death, section 307 (attempt to murder) case registered against Natarajan was changed to 302 (punishment for murder). He was also booked under 294 (b) using obscene words and 27 (1) of the Arms Act and remanded to judicial custody. ‘Purchased firearm 40 years ago’According to a police officer, the .32 caliber licensed revolver used by Natarajan was US-made and purchased 40 years ago. M Palanisamy, 74, who also took a bullet in his waist, was stable after it was removed at the Palani government hospital. A police officer said that Subramani was the first to be shot at. He was clad in saffron dhoti and white shirt in the shooting video, which went viral in social media. It was a dispute over 12 cents of land in Palani town between Natarajan and Ilangovan, a farmer, that took a violent turn on Monday. A lower court order had favoured Ilangovan following which he started clearing the land along with his relatives. Incensed at this, Natarajan, who had appealed against the order in a higher court, picked up a quarrel before opening fire. He fired three rounds, of which the first one did not hit anyone, but the other two hit Subramani and Palanisamy. The firearm along with the remaining two live bullets was seized. Police have also collected empty casings from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-dies-in-tn-shooting-murder-case-on-80-yr-old/articleshow/79267922.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Covaxin phase-3 trials with 1,500 participants start in Goa today||PANAJI: Phase-3 trials of India's first indigenously-developed Covid-19 vaccine candidate, Covaxin, are scheduled to begin at Redkar hospital in North Goa on Wednesday, with 1,500 volunteers. “These will be the largest-ever clinical trials in the country for the Covid vaccine, conducted by Bharat Biotech in association with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR),” said Dr Dhananjay Lad, director, Crom Clinical Research, the agency selected to conduct the trials. The trial will be conducted over a period of two months, and participants will receive two shots of the potential vaccine. So far, more than 500 volunteers have registered, and Lad is confident many more will register. “The second dose will be given on the 28th day after the first,” said Lad. Across the country, 25,500 candidates will receive shots of the vaccine in these phase-3 trials. In the first two phases, the efficacy of the vaccine was tested on a hundred candidates, Lad said. Although many called in wanting to participate, he said all couldn’t be given the shot because of the small sample size of phase-1 and phase-2. “The third phase of the clinical trials will have larger participation, wherein the efficacy and safety of the vaccine will be examined," he said. Anyone over 18 and below 65 is eligible to participate in phase-3. Unlike in the first two phases, in which only healthy candidates with no comorbidities were selected, the final phase accepts all kinds of participants, thanks to a different protocol. “We are now accepting all kinds of patients, even people having kidney disease and diabetes,” he said, adding that three officials of Bharat Biotech and ICMR will be in the state to attend the trials and examine compliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covaxin-phase-3-trials-with-1-5k-participants-start-in-goa-today/articleshow/79271615.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rape accused grew beard to avoid detection: Kotwali police||JAIPUR: The rape accused who set ablaze the woman who had registered a case against him had changed his looks to escape being detected by the locals when he came back after being on the run for six months. While the woman is undergoing treatment, the main accused was shifted to RUHS after testing positive for Covid-19. The 35-year-old woman was set on fire in Walled City on Saturday by a person who she had accused of rape around six months back. Police have arrested four persons in the matter while the victim is undergoing treatment though she continues to be in a critical condition. The case was registered at Kotwali in Jaipur and the main accused Lekhraj along with three of his relatives was arrested. Yeshwant Singh, SHO, Kotwali, “At this stage it cannot be said if the accused pre-planned the attack, but when he was arrested, he had grown a beard so that locals cannot spot him and alert the police. Before this accused was always clean shaven. Although we had taken him on remand, questioning was incomplete as he was diagnosed with Covid. We will again take him on remand when he is discharged.” According to officials, the woman and the accused were neighbours and apart from the rape charge, cops found no other dispute which could be the reason behind crime. She had registered a case alleging that accused had raped her one year before FIR was lodged. Court had issued an arrest warrant for Lekhraj as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rape-accused-grew-beard-to-avoid-detection-cops/articleshow/79271614.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Protesters agree to cremate teen who was killed in firing||JAIPUR: The family of a teenager, who was killed in firing over a family rivalry in Sawai Madhopur on Monday, sat on an agitation demanding prompt arrest of the accused on Tuesday. Locals even blocked the railway tracks alleging that police failed to act timely when it was informed about the accused’s presence in the village. After daylong talks, the protest was finally called off in the evening. Vikesh Meena was shot dead by one of the seven accused who were named in the FIR. Sawai Madhopur SP Sudheer Choudhary said, “There was a rivalry between the families of the accused and victim for past few years over multiple issues. On Monday morning, the accused fired at the victim’s house due to which he died.” Sources claimed that a woman from the victim’s family had eloped with the accused’s family member which was also a reason for bad blood between the two. After the incident, the victim was referred to Jaipur, but died before he could reach here. His family refused to cremate the body till the accused were arrested and sat on the road close to the village blocking traffic. “Apart from monetary compensation, the family was of the opinion that although local police was informed about the accused being in the village, he was not prevented from executing the crime,” the SP added. On Tuesday, MP Kirori Lal Meena reached the railway track where few protestors were sitting and became part of the 11-member delegation that was supposed to talk to police and district administration. After being assured of prompt arrest of the accused as well as maximum compensation from victim’s relief fund, the protestors agreed to cremate the body after more than 36 hours of agitation. They also cleared the railway track and sources claimed that a complaint by the railway police has been registered against the protestors for blocking the tracks. Apart from this, the family of the victim will also be provided security and in case negligence of the police is proved then action will be taken against the concerned cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/protesters-agree-to-cremate-teen-who-was-killed-in-firing/articleshow/79271613.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Greater Hyderabad mayor post reserved for woman||HYDERABAD: The seat of the first citizen of Greater Hyderabad has been reserved for woman in the general category. The post of mayor of Greater Hyderabad for a woman will continue for two terms starting with GHMC 2020 elections. This reservation was fixed in January 2020 before polls to municipalities and municipal corporations excluding GHMC and a few other corporations. Presently, the GHMC mayor’s post is reserved for candidates from the BC community. Ram Mohan of the ruling TRS is the mayor. However, the reservation of wards which were fixed in 2016 elections to the civic body are being continued for the GHMC 2020 polls too. Consequently, as the population of Scheduled Tribes and Scheduled Castes is less in Greater Hyderabad, two wards have been reserved for ST candidates including one general and oe for women and 10 for SC candidates with 5 each for general and women respectively. Though the opposition BJP and Congress and various BC welfare associations were demanding that the reservations for BCs should be enhanced from the present 33.33 per cent to 42 per cent as there is scope to do it while being well within the overall 50 per cent quota cap directive of the Supreme Court, the TRS government has gone ahead with 33.33 per cent quota for BCs in GHMC-2020 polls too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mayor-post-reserved-for-woman/articleshow/79270148.cms||Roushan Ali
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: 30% rise in occupancy of Covid beds around Diwali||JAIPUR: Bed occupancies in Jaipur’s dedicated Covid-19 hospitals increased by almost 30% around Diwali. In the past 12 days, 514 Covid patients have been admitted to the 46 dedicated Covid-19 hospitals in the city. The top private and corporate hospitals are already fully occupied; now the government-run hospitals too are seeing increased number of patients. Eight corporate and private hospitals did not have any bed, reserved for Covid-19 patients, vacant. On Tuesday, 2,240 patients were undergoing treatment for Covid-19. Wherein, on November 5, just 1,726 patients were hospitalised for Covid-19. Jaipur is witnessing its worst Covid-19 outbreak in November. Out of 2,425 beds with oxygen support, 811 are occupied and out of 878 ICU beds, 553 are occupied. Of 285 beds with ventilator support, 144 are occupied. In Covid-19 hospitals, 63% of ICU beds remain occupied, which was 56% on November 5. While occupancy of beds with ventilator support has increased from 62% to 66% in the past 12 days. A senior health department official said, "Though more patients are getting admitted to the hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, we have sufficient number of beds available for the purpose. There is no shortage of beds and other facilities for Covid-19 patients." As many as 811 patients are occupying beds with oxygen support. On November 5, the number of such patients was 570. In the past 12 days, the city has seen 42% increase in occupancy of beds with oxygen support. Doctors said that patients who complain of breathlessness and experience dip in oxygen saturation level are put on oxygen support. The patients have to try hard to get a bed in the hospital of their choice as some of the top corporate and private hospitals are running with full occupancy. Meanwhile, the city is witnessing surge in Covid-19 cases as in the past two days, 1,022 persons were tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/30-rise-in-occupancy-of-covid-beds-around-diwali/articleshow/79271618.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana govt seeks immediate elections, SEC obliges||HYDERABAD: All it took was a letter from Telangana government asking for immediate conduct of GHMC elections, which made the state election commissioner to issue the poll notification on Tuesday. Sources said the ruling TRS also took advantage of the reports that the second wave of Covid-19 is likely and pressed for a snap poll. Following the amendment in the GHMC Act, the SEC has to conduct the elections in consultation with the state government. The Forum for Good Governance (FGG) said holding elections in a hurried manner goes against the very democratic norms. FGG secretary M Padmanabha Reddy told TOI, “Legally, the SEC has the powers to announce an election schedule. The question here is why are the elections advanced 70 days before the date of expiry of the present civic regime.” The term of the civic body ends on February 10, 2021. The SEC could have conducted elections one week or ten days ahead of it. “For nominations and withdrawals, very less time is given. Three days for nomination and one day for withdrawal is ridiculous. Political parties have to prepare and release election manifestos. Now, there is no time for it. There is no justification for advancing polls,” he said. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathi said there is an amendment to GHMC Act according to which SEC has to issue election dates in consultation with state government. The government has sent a letter asking for immediate issuance of notification. “The rule says withing three months before expiry of term, elections can be conducted. As it is in purview of law and with consultation of the state government, the schedule has been issued,” he said.  Legally, the SEC has powers to announce an election schedule. The question here is why are the elections advanced 70 days before the date of expiry of the present civic regime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-seeks-immediate-elections-sec-obliges/articleshow/79270159.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Virtual fairs of clay, ODOP products attract 35 countries||LUCKNOW: This Diwali, the state government’s one district, one product (ODOP) scheme and ‘Mati Kala fair’ were big hits. It was for the first time that a virtual fair for ODOP products was organised in any state. It had 572 stalls of products from all districts. As many as 35 countries participated in it and 57,000 people showed interest in purchasing the products. Apart from Bhadohi’s carpet, chikankari, brass, silk, leather and wood-carved products were in demand. Apart from this, the state government’s Mati Kala Board had organised a 10-day fair in which products worth around Rs 50 lakh were sold. Due to the encouragement in the form of training, advanced tool kit, pug mill, modern furnace, electric spinning wheel and spray machine provided by the board, the skilled hands brought clay to life in the form of Lakshmi, Ganesh idols, designer lamps and other products. Different clay products were sold at other places also. According to the earthen products traders of Gorakhpur, more than 1 crore clay products were sold there around Diwali. Sculptor Krishna Kumar said that the board’s initiative had acted as a catalyst. It has made a lot of difference to trade, he said. Amarpal, another empanelled sculptor, said, “February to April is the best time to make these products. The period from April to the onset of monsoon is the most suitable time to dry the finished product.” Additional chief secretary, MSME, Navneet Sehgal said that the branding of these products has taken place due to the virtual fair and every class connected with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/virtual-fairs-of-clay-odop-products-attract-35-countries/articleshow/79272132.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||TRS will win 104 wards in GHMC elections, says Talasani Srinivas Yadav||HYDERABAD: Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav said the TRS would secure 104 municipal divisions of 150 seats in the GHMC elections. He said the party would announce candidates for the GHMC elections on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, the minister said the party had got 99 seats in 2016 elections and would get more seats now. “We will seek the votes from the people on developmental works done by the Telangana government in the past five years. Thousands of crores worth infra and other works were taken up in the city and Hyderabad has been transformed into a global city. We are confident that people will repose faith in the TRS,” Srinivas Yadav said.  The by-eleciton result will not have any bearing on the GHMC elections, he said. “Even during the floods or Covid-19, the TRS government and party workers helped the people, not the opposition leaders,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/we-will-win-104-wards-says-talasani/articleshow/79270153.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s recovery rate surpasses 93% mark||NAGPUR: Vidarbha reported 13 deaths on Tuesday. These include Nagpur 6, Gadchiroli 3, Bhandara 1, Wardha 1, Chandrapur 1, and Akola 1. Total Covid toll of the region reached 5,773 and case fatality rate to 2.71%, which is still higher than state and national average. On the other hand, the recovery rate continued to improve. On Tuesday, 945 patients recovered against 847 new cases. Out of total 2,12,246 cases till date, 1,97,563 have already recovered. With this, recovery rate surpassed 93% mark on Tuesday and now nearing the national average of 93.42%. New cases came from Nagpur 263, Chandrapur 127, Gondia 96, Bhandara 87, Buldhana 66, Gadchiroli 53, Yavatmal 52, Wardha 40, Amravati 30, Akola 27, and Washim 6 while recoveries came from Nagpur 211, Bhandara 174, Chandrapur 170, Gadchiroli 81, Buldhana 76, Amravati 67, Wardha 65, Yavatmal 38, Gondia 26, Washim 21, and Akola 16. Now, 8,859 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha region, which is about 4% of the total cases reported till date. At least 50% of these patients are recovering in home isolation. Yavatmal: The district recorded 52 new patients on Tuesday, which worried the officials after the decline shown in the last few days. There are 299 active patients under treatment in the district. Of the 10,808 cases so far, 10,101 have recovered and got discharge from hospitals. There was no death on Tuesday, so the district’s toll remained at 360. The district administration has allowed the authorities of worship places to keep them open as per the guidelines of the state government. Amravati: The district did not report any Covid death but 30 new cases took the caseload to 16,972 on Tuesday. Recovery rate continued to climb with 95.7% with 67 recoveries taking the total count to 16,243. There are 358 active cases, including 200 in home isolation. Wardha: A 85-year-old man from Deoli died during treatment on Tuesday taking the toll to 226. Total 40 new cases were detected while and 65 recoveries were registered in the district. The new cases were from Wardha (32), Deoli (4), Hinganghat (2), Selu and Arvi (1 each). The number of cases in the district has reached 7,062 and 6,420 recoveries. Active positive patients under treatment are 416 here. Chandrapur: Tuesday witnessed detection of 127 new cases and lone Covid death in the district. There were 170 discharges during the day. The total caseload now stands at 17,844 while the death toll has climbed to 275. The total recoveries now counts to 15,422, while 2147 people are under treatment. Gadchiroli. Three deaths due to Covid-19 were reported in the district on Tuesday taking the toll to 73. Deceased include a 79-year-old man from Gadchiroli, 56-year-old man originally from Chandrapur and a 50-year-old heart patient man from Gadchiroli rural. While 53 new patients were detected in the day, 81 recovered. Out of 6,971 total cases reported till date, 6,469 have already recovered and 429 are under treatment. Gondia: Total 96 new cases were reported while 17 patients got discharge on Tuesday. Total cases reached 10,920 with 10,185 of them recovered and 145 dead due to Covid-19. Now, 590 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: In last 2 days, total 87 new cases were reported in the district while 174 patients recovered. A patient died on Tuesday taking the Covid toll to 234. Now, out of total 9,602 cases, 8,731 have already recovered while 637 are under treatment. Akola: Total 27 new Covid cases were reported while 16 got recovered in the day on Tuesday. Akola also reported a death of 70-year-old patient. This took total caseload to 8,777, recoveries to 8,169 and deaths to 285. Akola was the only district in Amravati revenue division to report Covid-19 death on November 17. Now, 323 patients are under treatment. Washim: Six new Covid patients were reported, while 21 patients recovered in the day on Tuesday. Now, the district has 5,907 cases, with 5,593 of them recovered and 144 deaths due to Covid-19. Washim has 170 patients under treatment, which is lowest in all 11 districts in the region. Buldhana: With more than 800 tests done in the day, Buldhana reported 66 new cases of Covid-19. With 76 patients recovering, total number of recovered patients reached above 10k mark here on Tuesday. Now, the district has 10,559 total cases, 10,031 recoveries and 132 deaths due to Covid-19. Total 396 patients are still under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-recovery-rate-surpasses-93-mark/articleshow/79271620.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC body’s term to end in February 2021||HYDERABAD: State Election Commissioner C Partha Sarathi said the term of the present elected body in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation will expire on February 10, 2021. Section 7 (1) of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act stipulates to hold elections to the civic body of the city within three months before the expiry of term, he said. Article 243-U (3) (a) mandates the State Election Commission to hold elections to the urban local bodies before the expiry of the term, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-bodys-term-to-end-in-february-21/articleshow/79270162.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||26-yr-old microbiologist dies in Gondia of Covid||Nagpur: Dr Rohini Gajbhiye, a 26-year-old microbiologist from Nagpur, who was serving at Gondia Government Medical College and Hospital, died of Covid on Monday night. She was in the forefront of tackling Covid since many days. Recently, Gajbhiye was moved to Bai Gangabai Women’s Hospital in Gondia where she was pursuing PG diploma in child health. Sources at Gondia GMCH informed that Gajbhiye was at the Covid hospital as per schedule for more than two months and must have got infected while working in the OPD of the paediatric ward. In GMCH, regular RT-PCR tests of all doctors are conducted as per protocol. On November 5, Gajbhiye tested negative on RT-PCR. Laid low with fever later, Gajbhiye got herself tested again on November 13 when she was confirmed positive. Gajbhiye was immediately admitted and her treatment started. On Monday, she suffered a cardiac arrest following which she died, said sources. GMCH Gondia dean was not available for comment. Gajbhiye is Vidarbha’s first resident doctor to die on Covid duty. Earlier, four senior doctors in government hospitals had died in Vidarbha due to the virus. More than 35 doctors, including five paediatricians, in private set-up have died of Covid so far in the region. As per the state health department’s record, 144 health care workers, including doctors, have succumbed to the virus. Dr Avinash Bhondwe, IMA state president said that as per their records, 62 doctors have succumbed to Covid so far. “We don’t have a detailed list of deaths in government hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/26-yr-old-microbiologist-dies-in-gondia-of-covid/articleshow/79271625.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Air quality index ‘satisfactory’ in Jaipur after 40 days||JAIPUR: The city’s air quality improved drastically on Tuesday and touched the ‘satisfactory’ level after 40 days. The last time the city recorded such a level of ambient air quality was on October 8. The city's air quality index (AQI) value was 98 on Tuesday, down from 205 on Diwali. Earlier, doctors were apprehensive that the city’s air quality might worsen after Diwali, which could have had an adverse impact on health of patients, who had recovered from Covid-19, and those who were already suffering from chronic lung diseases. Following this, the state government had imposed a ban on crackers. But since Diwali, the air quality has been continuously improving. On Diwali (November 14), it was poor, but for the next two days it improved and has now touched the satisfactory level. A senior health department official said the advisory committee on Covid had anticipated that the rising air pollution could spread Covid cases faster. The health department officials had advised people to take precautions to avoid the risk of infection before Diwali. The ban on firecrackers, which was partially effective, helped to maintain the air quality, which did not deteriorate to the level of severe on Diwali and the next day in the city. According to health experts, the hailstorm and rain a day after the festival also helped to improve the air quality. While comparing the AQI with 2019 Diwali, the index this year was 48.4% less at police commissionerate. The AQI was 411 on Diwali in 2019, but it fell to 212 this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/air-quality-index-satisfactory-in-city-after-40-days/articleshow/79271628.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Centre, UP govt to expedite work on Sonbhadra airport||LUCKNOW: Air connectivity in Uttar Pradesh has received yet another thrust with the Centre and the state government joining hands to expedite construction of an airport in Sonbhadra under the regional connectivity scheme (RCS). The state government has also decided to give a facelift to Bareilly and Chitrakoot airstrips by making provision of higher power load for them. The plan to develop Myorpur (Sonbhadra) airport comes after the Union ministry of environment gave in-principle approval to the conversion of land use of over 0.6 hectare of forest land for construction of a terminal building near Myorpur. In a communique (dated November 13) sent to director, UP civil aviation, Surendra Singh, the department of civil aviation said the Centre’s approval for land use conversion was received on October 9 after which the state government has decided to deposit around Rs 5.8 lakh as part of the agreement. The terminal is proposed to be built close to the existing airstrip which is 1.4 metre long and 25 metre wide and being currently used for small aircrafts. The new route which is being planned is Lucknow-Myorpur- Chitrakoot-Myorpur-Lucknow. The upcoming airport is proposed to have an apron area, a lounge and a boundary wall. “The airport is proposed to be taken up by RCS which focuses on unserved areas,” a senior official in civil aviation department said. As per the communique, the amount sanctioned by the state government would be spent as per the rules framed during lockdown period earlier this year. The department would also ensure that funds are not sanctioned under any other scheme of the state government. The amount would be used as per requirement and it would not be kept under the public ledger account (PLA) of any bank account. The director of civil aviation department would be required to submit a fund utilization certificate to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/centre-up-govt-to-expedite-work-on-sonbhadra-airport/articleshow/79272142.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur records 400 Covid-19 deaths, cases breach 40,000 mark||JAIPUR: The city reported its 400 Covid-19 death after two more persons succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours. Across the state, the virus claimed 11 more lives which took the casualty count to 2,089 on Tuesday. Jaipur also breached the 40,000 mark in cumulative cases after 484 persons were found infected taking the oveall tally to 40,046. With Covid cases are on the rise, principal secretary (health) Siddhartha Mahajan held a video conference with the state’s chief medical and health officer and other senior health officials directing them to ensure availability of enough oxygen supply, increase the number of beds when required and keep enough medicines to deal with increase in number of Covid patients. The health department is anticipating that ases might rise by mid-December. A senior health department official said, “A video conference was conducted in which directions have been issued to ensure availability of oxygen for Covid treatment to increase the number of beds for Covid patients in hospitals when required and also to keep monitoring the pandemic situation.” On August 2, Jaipur had reported its 200 Covid deaths and it took more than three-and-a-half months to doubling it. In the last 24 hours, 2,194 people tested positive taking the state’s overall tally to 2,30,180. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (484), Jodhpur (317), Alwar (247), Ajmer (180), Kota (147), Bikaner (122), Nagaur (94), Bharatpur (87), Udaipur (86), Bhilwara (67), Pali (55), Sawai Madhopur (39), Sikar (33), Tonk (30), Jaisalmer (25), Jhunjhunu (23), Dungarpur (20), Jhalawar (17), Bundi (16), Chittorgarh (15), Jalore (15), Churu (11), Karauli (11), Sriganganagar (8), Pratapgarh (8), Banswara (7), Baran (7), Barmer (7), Dholpur (6), Rajsamand (6) and Hanumangarh (4). Jaipur reported two deaths taking its toll to 400, Jodhpur reported two fatalities taking its toll to 207, Sikar reported two deaths taking its toll to 69, Ajmer 159th, Kota 118th, Pali 80th, Churu 31st and Karauli reported its 17th Covid-19 death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-count-deaths-400-cases-40k/articleshow/79271623.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: TRS marshals 100 leaders for campaign||HYDERABAD: As many as 100 TRS leaders, including ministers, MPs, MLAs and MLCs, will join the campaign for the December 1 polls. Senior leaders and elected representatives will be made in-charges for each municipal division. While TRS working president KT Rama Rao will take care of overall responsibility of the party during the GHMC elections, the party leadership is also planning to appoint a coordination committee. TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is holding a crucial meeting with MLAs, MLCs and MPs on Wednesday to discuss the campaign strategy. The CM asked the ministers to coordinate with elected representatives from the districts and attend the meeting. Soon after the meeting, the party is likely to announce the names of candidates and in-charges for each division. In Dubbak by-election, finance minister T Harish Rao and Medak MP Kotha Prabhakar Reddy led the poll campaign. Since the TRS is taking the GHMC elections prestigiously, both KCR and KTR are closely monitoring every aspect of campaigning. Party sources said ministers will be made in-charges for each of 24 assembly constituencies in Greater Hyderabad. They will coordinate with the local MLAs, candidates and other leaders. “KCR will guide us on issues that need to be highlighted during the campaign and how to tackle the opposition parties’ allegations. We will counter BJP’s allegations on city floods and expose the Centre’s attitude towards the state government. The government has taken up several developmental works and announced sops like property tax rebate that will be highlighted during the campaign,” a TRS leader said. Party sources said plans are afoot to hold roadshows by KTR. KCR is likely to address a public meeting but the date is yet to be finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-marshals-100-leaders-for-campaign/articleshow/79270170.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||In a 1st, Mumbai development plan makes space for women||MUMBAI: Cities have historically been built with no particular care or thought in its design and planning for women. But Mumbai has become the first Indian city to have an urban plan with a gender-specific focus—land reservations for physical-social infrastructure designed to meet women’s needs. An entire chapter titled ‘Gender, Special Groups and Social Equity’ was added by BMC to the city’s Revised Draft Development Plan (RDDP) 2034 which proposes a “departure from gender blindness to gender mainstreaming”—after women activists, academics and architects banded together to challenge the absence of a gender lens in urban planning—approved and notified by the state government in 2018. In an immediate payoff, the BMC has made around 90 land reservations across the city for social provisions that address women’s needs out of which the construction for two—an adhar kendra for skill development in Sion-Koliwada and a child care centre in Goregaon—are already nearing completion while a multipurpose rental housing for working women in Antop Hill, Goregaon West and Bhandup; and two old-age homes for elderly women in Goregaon East and Bhandup West have already been designed and waiting to begin the bidding process. The movement to bring gender concerns to the city’s built environment has been a long, arduous but worthwhile journey dating back to 2013 when women’s groups had lobbied with the then municipal commissioner demanding gender inclusion in the planning infrastructure. However, their hopes were thwarted when the city development roadmap— released in 2015—remained silent on the need for a female perspective. A letter signed by 50 activists, women’s groups, politicians, architects and planners appealed yet again to the chief minister and municipal commissioner prodding the CMO to appoint a revision committee. “The CMO’s rejection of the draft DP 2034 gave us an opening to intervene and it had to be seized. The process took not less than 50 months and the inclusion was a huge step forward in challenging inequalities and empowering all women, especially the marginalised,” recounts Nandita Shah of Akshara Centre that steered the gender inclusion campaign. With women in the workforce as the pivot, the revised urban design now seeks to address other aspects of inclusion too such as housing, transport, education, healthcare, and safety to alter the overall landscape for women in the city. “What is significant is that the planned infrastructure for women is not a pilot in one small area of the city but will cover all 24 municipal wards across Mumbai. In its scope and depth there’s no parallel in any other Indian city plan,” added Shah. While the spatial planning to bridge gender gaps aims at supporting more young and married women in the workforce, their option to live independently, residential foothold, and skill building avenues, what could be a real game-changer are the land reservations BMC has made to make it a reality. The civic body has made multiple space reservations of 1000 sq m plot size to build ‘multipurpose housing for working women’ in 18 wards where offices or institutions of higher learning exist. The housing plan will include a complex of single and double rooms on rent, dormitories, emergency shelter for women suffering domestic violence and guest rooms for women who travel to the city for work. Space has been allocated for a ‘neighbourhood care centre’ in 23 electoral wards that could either be a standalone child care facility of 500 sq m or a multipurpose space of about 1400 sq m to accommodate child care, common work area, a reading room, and anganwadi. Then there are ‘adhar kendras’ designed to facilitate entrepreneurial training to poor women for which space of about 500 sq m has been allocated in 13 wards around markets, railway stations and on the main roads “to ensure visibility”. That apart, the development plan proposes old-age homes and care centres for elderly women, 10 percent reservation in hawking areas, homeless shelters, and exclusive toilet blocks in every ward with drinking water, changing room and resting space for naka and domestic workers. Sangita Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner (planning) pointed out: “Our priority is to make Mumbai friendly and safe for women especially the single, married and elderly. Although the pandemic has slowed down a bit of the planning, it has also exposed how vulnerable women can be in the city after we found a German woman loitering about homeless when she ran out of money for accommodation and saw many housewives and housemaids thrown out of their homes with nowhere to go.” To make it immediate and sustainable, Hasnale stressed on the need to rethink common facilities and commercial activities in the time of social distancing and the urgency to set up creches for working mothers and help women cultivate skills for gainful employment. “Not traditional cooking and sewing but commercial skills like motor training or plumbing.” After the gendering of the city’s development blueprint, a gender advisory committee was formed in May 2019 under BMC’s planning department. With former IAS officer Chandra Iyengar as its current chairperson and a core team comprising architect Shimul Javeri Kadri, urban planner Prachi Merchant, academician Amita Bhide, lawyer Manisha Tulpule apart from Shah and Hasnale, the committee will organise consultations with various stakeholders, lead research and innovation, monitor and evaluate the processes and ensure that a budget is allocated by the municipal corporation. “We’ve created an SOP and framework of approval and presently formulating policies for each of the facilities in terms of which agency can run it, what they can charge and conditions for its operation and maintenance,” explained Shah, adding that the committee is also deliberating on architectural designs that allow “plenty of sunlight, fresh air and community building” to make these spaces warm and nurturing for women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-a-1st-mum-devpt-plan-makes-space-for-women/articleshow/79272192.cms||Mohua Das
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Jana Sena throws hat into GHMC poll ring||HYDERABAD: Hours after the GHMC poll schedule was released on Tuesday, actor Pawan Kalyan announced that his party, Jana Sena, will contest the elections. In a statement, he said: “In view of demand from party workers and as there is follower base in the city, party will contest the election (GHMC).” Union minister of state for home affairs, G Kishan Reddy, said they would “talk to Jana Sena”, indicating a possible pact. Sources said the actor might even campaign for the polls. BJP sources said the modalities of the pact with Jana Sena might be placed before party’s national secretary Bhupender Yadav, who is expected in the city on a two-day tour, to guide the party. Meanwhile, Telangana TDP president L Ramana announced that their party would contest the election independently. He said: “We will contest independently, wherever we have strong candidates.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jana-sena-throws-hat-into-poll-ring/articleshow/79270203.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: SEC notification takes fizz out of poll petitions in HC||HYDERABAD: Initial euphoria over a series of petitions questioning alleged discrepancies in poll-related arrangements became subdued by Tuesday afternoon with news of SEC issuing an election notification reaching the high court. Though several advocates questioned drastic reduction in reservation for SCs and STs, non-implementation of rotation mode in respect of these reservations, return of ballot system for GHMC polls, retention of two-child norm etc and even obtained court’s nod for urgent hearing on Tuesday, none of them was heard in virtual court in the forenoon session before a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B Vijaysen Reddy. Their pleas might be heard in days to come, but there might not be much enthusiasm about outcome in those pleas, legal observers say. Result of these pleas might have some impact in future elections and hence sudden loss of interest, they reasoned. Added to this was a petition filed by All India Majlis-E-Inquilab-E-Millat calling itself as AIMIM (Inquilab) seeking registration with SEC. SEC rejected application as it was sounding similar to AIMIM. Justice Challa Kodanda Ram asked it to reconsider the plea because political parties coming out with similarly sounding names was not uncommon.  All India Majlis-E-Inquilab-E-Millat filed a plea calling itself AIMIM (Inquilab) seeking registration with SEC. SEC rejected the application because it was sounding similar to AIMIM||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-notification-takes-fizz-out-of-poll-petitions-in-hc/articleshow/79270251.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||336 sub-inspectors promoted in civil police; 654 so far this yr||LUCKNOW: The UP government promoted 336 sub-inspectors to the rank of inspector in civil police on Tuesday. Senior officers said that the promotions will encourage the policemen to work harder. The state government has so far promoted 654 sub-inspectors posted in different wings of the police to the post of inspector in the current year. Recently, CM Yogi Adityanath had given promotions to 6,500 personnel including provincial armed constabulary (PAC), civil police and different wings of the state police. Additional director general, UP police recruitment & promotion board, Renuka Mishra said that there were 835 posts to be made for inspectors in civil police. However, on the basis of all the set parameters including seniority only 336 personnel qualified for them. She said that 654 promotions from sub-inspector to inspector have also been done in different wings of the police including radio headquarters, motor training division and confidential department. Mishra said that her staff headed by Bageshwari Mishra, a section officer, worked round the clock so as to complete the mammoth task and promote all the police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/336-sub-inspectors-promoted-in-civil-police-654-so-far-this-yr/articleshow/79272165.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||19 in fray for grad constituency polls, 7 withdraw||Nagpur: On the last day of withdrawal of nominations for graduates’ constituency polls for Nagpur division, seven candidates withdrew their forms. It included mayor Sandip Joshi’s namesake who was contesting as an independent candidate. Others are Dharmesh Fusate, Gokuldas Pande, Shivaji Sonsare, Sacchidanand Fulekar, and Ramrao Chavhan, all independents along with Kishor Warbhe of Lokshakti party. With these withdrawals, now 19 candidates are in the fray for one seat. There was also a namesake of Maha Vikas Aghadi’s (MVA) candidate Abhijit Wanjari, but his nomination was rejected as he failed to meet the eligibility criteria of minimum of 30 years age. The polls would be held on December 1 from 8am to 5pm and counting would take place on December 3, as per the schedule announced by the Election Commission of India (ECI). Both favourite candidates — Joshi and Wanjari — have started their campaigning in full swing. They’re moving to all six districts in the constituency and meeting the voters with their supporters. While the BJP would be keen to regain the seat, the MVA would be trying its best to get it back after a long time. Others like Vidarbha statehood protagonist Nitin Ronghe and Senate Parivartan Panel’s Prashant Dekate, also the Nagpur University Senate member, are trying to increase the vote count by meeting various people from different communities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-in-fray-for-grad-constituency-polls-7-withdraw/articleshow/79271648.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 18, 2020||Ajmer||Schools, colleges to remain closed till November 30 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government on Tuesday extended the date for reopening of educational institutions, including schools, colleges and coaching institutes, from November 16 to November 30. On November 1, the home department had issued an order to keep educational institutions closed till November 16. Now it has been extended till November 30. The government is treading cautiously on opening schools at this juncture as Covid cases are rising. The government is expecting virus cases to spike after the Diwali festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/schools-collegesto-remain-closedtill-nov-30-in-raj/articleshow/79274569.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Soon, CR set to offer online luggage and parcel booking||Nagpur: The Central Railway (CR) is set to offer passengers facilities to book luggage and parcel online and also through mobile app, making journeys more comfortable and hassle-free in the coming days. The system, once made functional, would ensure the luggage and parcels are picked up from the doorstep and delivered at the destination. The CR has entered into an agreement with Bookbaggage.com, an online company from Gurugram, earlier this month for operating the luggage and parcel handling system. It is estimated that this tie-up will generate Rs5.50 lakh non-fare revenue for the current financial year. Sources in the railways stated that advanced software will be used to operate the system. The online parcel and luggage booking system is being now lauded as the 10th innovation introduced by the CR authorities this year for passenger convenience. At present, similar facilities are being offered only in Delhi and for privately run train Tejas Express, it’s learnt. Senior divisional commercial manager, CR, Krishnath Patil, said the online company would soon begin the operations. “Once operational, the online booking system would end the days when luggage and parcel bookings were done only physically, often leading to queues and delays,” said Patil. “Now, passengers can complete the parcel and luggage booking from their mobile phone app from anywhere. There would be no need for them to come to the railway station. Even the consignments would be picked up and delivered at the doorstep,’ he said. It’s learnt the app will also have tracking facility. The company has also pledged with the railways to ensure every luggage or parcel is sanitized before packing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/soon-cr-set-to-offer-online-luggage-and-parcel-booking/articleshow/79271676.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Schools, colleges to remain closed till November 30 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government on Tuesday extended the date for reopening of educational institutions, including schools, colleges and coaching institutes, from November 16 to November 30. On November 1, the home department had issued an order to keep educational institutions closed till November 16. Now it has been extended till November 30. The government is treading cautiously on opening schools at this juncture as Covid cases are rising. The government is expecting virus cases to spike after the Diwali festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/schools-collegesto-remain-closedtill-nov-30-in-raj/articleshow/79274568.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||BJP will do well despite early GHMC elections: G Kishan Reddy||HYDERABAD: Alleging that the SEC has played into the hands of Telangana Rashtra Samithi, the Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday said that it would perform well despite the very limited period available for the polls. Addressing a press conference along with senior leaders, Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said the SEC’s hurried announcement of the poll schedule was forced on it. “It is not a ‘bangaru Telangana’ (golden) but appears to be a ‘kangaru (confused) Telangana,” he said. The minster said the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi was responsible for Metro Rail not covering the Old City areas despite the three corridors. “The TRS should tell people as to what it has done for the city in the last six years,” he said. Exuding confidence of BJP doing well in the GHMC polls, he said Dubbak result would repeat in the December 1 elections also. He said the ruling TRS party’s unholy nexus with the AIMIM in the elections would be exposed and the BJP would apply brake to the car (TRS) ride. He said the party is yet to zero in on the mayoral candidate. “We will announce the name of the candidate once we decide,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-will-do-well-despite-early-civic-elections-kishan/articleshow/79270271.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||27 in fray for Amravati teachers’ MLC election||Amravati: Twenty-seven candidates are in the fray for one seat to Maharashtra Legislative Council from Amravati division teachers’ constituency, which is going to polls on December 1. On the last day of withdrawals on Tuesday, one of the 28 candidates, an independent Sayyad Rizwan Sayyad Feroz, withdrew his nomination. The 27 in fray include sitting MLC Shrikant Deshpande of Shiv Sena, Dr Nitin Dhande of BJP, Dilip Nimbhorkar of Lokbharti, Anil Kale of Baliraja Party and others. All others are independents representing various teachers organizations. They are Abhijit Deshmukh, Arvind Tatte, Avinash Borde of Vijucta, Aalam Tanvir Sayyad Nizam Ali, Upendra Patil, Prakash Kalpande, Satish Kale, Kiran Sarnaik, Nilesh Gawande, Mahesh Daware, Dipankar Telgote, Pravin alias Pandurang Vidhale, Rajkumar Shriram Appa Bonkule, Chandrashekhar alias Shekhar Bhoyar, Mushtaq Ahmed Rehmaan Shah, Mohammad Shakil Abdul Ajij Quereshi, Vinod Meshram, Sharadchandra Hinge, Shrikrushna Thakare, Vikas Sawarkar, Sunil Pawar, Sangita Sachindra Shinde-Bonde, the only woman in the fray from Shikshak Sangharsh Sanghatana, and Sanjay Asole. The constituency is spread over five districts of Amravati division — Amravati, Akola, Washim, Buldhana and Yavatmal. It has 35,622 voters, including 26,059 male, 9,562 female and one others. Amravati district has the largest 10,386 votes followed by Buldhana 7,484, Yavatmal 7,459, Akola 6,480 and Washim 3,814. Total 28 candidates had filed 65 nominations. All but one were found valid. Counting of votes will be held on December 3 at Vilasnagar godown on 14 tables for which duty has been assigned to five collectors and 170 officers, returning officer and divisional commissioner Piyush Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/27-in-fray-for-amravati-teachers-mlc-election/articleshow/79271667.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Schools, colleges to remain closed till November 30 in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The state government on Tuesday extended the date for reopening of educational institutions, including schools, colleges and coaching institutes, from November 16 to November 30. On November 1, the home department had issued an order to keep educational institutions closed till November 16. Now it has been extended till November 30. The government is treading cautiously on opening schools at this juncture as Covid cases are rising. The government is expecting virus cases to spike after the Diwali festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-collegesto-remain-closedtill-nov-30-in-raj/articleshow/79271670.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh government to slap notices on 27 officials for links with slain don||LUCKNOW: The Uttar Pradesh government is all set to initiate action against 27 officers, who had links with slain gangster Vikas Dubey, prime accused in the Bikru massacre. The action is being initiated on recommendation of the three-member Special Investigating Team (SIT) constituted by chief minister Yogi Adityanath to probe covert and overt ties of officials in police and administrative machinery with the don. Talking to reporters, additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said, “we have ordered action against officers named by SIT, who were involved in dealings with the gangster Dubey”. Of 27 officers against whom action was being initiated, 19 have served in Kanpur at various levels of district administration, including a PCS officer currently promoted to the IAS cadre. The remaining eight officers have been associated with revenue department during their Kanpur stint. Prominent among those in the list are two additional district magistrates, city magistrate, sub-divisional magistrate and three tehsildars along with revenue department inspectors. The departments in which these officials were posted have been told to initiate penal proceedings, beginning with issue of showcause notices. Last week, the government suspended former Kanpur police chief Anant Deo Tiwari on recommendation of SIT, which was constituted on July 11. In its 3,200-page report submitted to the government on November 4, it had recommended action against 75 officials, including 40 policemen for their direct or indirect association with the slain don.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-slap-notices-on-27-officials-for-links-with-slain-don/articleshow/79272183.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||BJP threatens stir over MVA failure to reduce power bills||Nagpur: Opposition parties are incensed over failure of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government’s decision not to reduce power bills of domestic consumers during the lockdown months. The parties have charged the government with fooling common people through false promises. BJP general secretary and former energy minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule has threatened to stage agitations across the state over the government’s failure to reduce power bills. “It is due to internal differences between Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena, the consumers are suffering. The energy minister belongs to Congress and hence the other two parties have blocked his proposal,” he said. “Raut is saying that power companies are reeling under huge debt. However, money for the bill waiver was to be provided by the state government and not these companies. The government could have easily sanctioned the required amount,” said Bawankule. “We had demanded waiver up to 300 units. The government did not agree. It promised waiver up to 100 units, but even this is not being provided to people,” he further said. City BJP president and MLC Pravin Datke said this (MVA) government was formed to exploit poor people. “Many farmers are yet to get loan waiver. They are being told that they will get money for soyabean they sold in January. I have doubts whether government employees, who died due to Covid, will get any compensation. If MSEDCL or its contractors try to disconnect anybody’s connection, BJP workers will physically prevent them from doing so. Bawankule was also energy minister. Look at the difference between him and Raut,” he added. Pratap Goswami, organization secretary of AAP, said people are yet to get over the economic losses caused due to Covid lockdown. “Financial equations of lower and middle class are yet to return to normal. Shiv Sena had promised power bill waiver in its election manifesto. If they don’t want to listen to us, let them fulfil their own promise,” he added. “This government is anti-poor and anti-middle class. There is no difference between this government and the previous one. Even otherwise, Shiv Sena is a common factor in the two governments,” said Goswami.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjp-threatens-stir-over-mva-failure-to-reduce-power-bills/articleshow/79271692.cms||Ashish Roy
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Commemorative coin for Lucknow University on centenary year||LUCKNOW: Lucknow University will now boast of a commemorative coin of Rs 100 on its centenary year and become the third Indian varsity after Mysore University and Banaras Hindu University to bag this honour. The coin will be released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who will virtually join the varsity’s foundation day celebration on November 25. He will also release a coffee table book and stamp on the occasion. Hammered out of silver, bronze, copper and nickel, the coin has been minted at the Government Mint in Mumbai and would be a precious asset in the Lucknow University’s treasure trove. Renowned numismatist Sudhir Lunawat of Bikaner said, “The Lucknow University will be the third varsity in the country to receive a commemorative coin on its 100th year. This will be a noncirculating coin and will have ‘Lucknow University Centenary Celebrations’ engraved in English and Hindi along with the year, 1920-2020, and university’s logo of ‘Light and Learning’ at the centre.” Lunavat said, the coin has a composition of 50% silver, 40% copper, 5% nickel and zinc. It will have a 44mm diameter and weigh 36gm. Days after release of the coin, connoisseurs can purchase the coin online at spmcil.com — official website of Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Ltd. Lucknow University vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said, “The coin, stamp and coffee table book of the university will be virtually released by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on November 25. This won’t be just a coin, but an invaluable historic and memorable piece and a symbol of varsity’s 100 years of excellence.”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/commemorative-coin-for-lu-on-centenary-yr/articleshow/79272195.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Red hot: Delhi Metro's oldest line gets glitter back||NEW DELHI: If you haven’t travelled by Delhi Metro’s Red Line since the urban train services resumed in September, chances are you wouldn’t recognise the stations on the corridor now. Constructed nearly two decades ago, these had started showing signs of aging — and the lockdown was the opportune period for a massive overhaul. The Shahdara to Tis Hazari section of the Red Line (Rithala-Shaheed Sthal) was the first to be commissioned by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation on December 25, 2002. By June 3 three years later, the corridor had connected Dilshad Garden on the Delhi-UP border with Rithala on the fringes of northwest Delhi. In August 2018, TOI had reported how age had caught up with Delhi Metro’s showpiece corridor. The signs were visible: plaster peeling off at many stations like Dilshad Garden, Mansarovar Park, Seelampur and Shahdara, seepage-damaged walls, broken tiles, tainted stairs, cement falling off the walls and dust-covered floors. Compared with Delhi Metro’s newer corridors, the pioneering Red Line looked drab and neglected, and didn’t offer the same commuter experience as its younger counterparts. The closure of train services due to the Covid outbreak gave DMRC time to complete the overhaul started last year. Of the 21 stations on the corridor in Delhi (the Red Line was extended up to Ghaziabad last year), refurbishment of 11 major stations is almost complete and the effect is already visible. “The rest of the stations are also undergoing the same process though on a smaller scale because the wear and tear wasn’t major at these 10 stations,” a DMRC official said. The Jhilmil and Mansarovar Park stations have got a completely new look with louvres fixed on the front facade and glazing work carried out on both the front and rear facades. Mansarovar Park was arguably the Red Line’s worst station. Being almost attached to the Shahdara flyover on GT Road, its main entry point is below the flyover, which is a dark and dank area. The service road next to the entry point remains choked with e-rickshaws and was, till two years ago, marked by breakage and missing tiles. The station is almost unrecognisable now, thanks to the new facade and the complete repainting of the exteriors and the interiors. The station has also acquired a ‘baffle ceiling work’, giving it a more contemporary look. Stations like Inderlok, Shastri Nagar, Pratap Nagar and Pulbangash have seen false ceiling repair work or replacement. A large number of stations on the corridor have been completely repainted and in the case of Dilshad Garden, Jhilmil, Welcome and Shastri Park, the roof sheets and the trusses that support them have received an extensive paint job too. Retro plating of the platform surface has been carried out at the Dilshad Garden and Jhilmil stations, which see significant footfall, apart from granite flooring and vitrified tile cladding at Mansarovar Park. Kota stone and tactile flooring work have been installed in at stations like Inderlok, Shastri Nagar, Pratap Nagar and Pulbangash. While most of the areas outside the station premises doesn’t fall under DMRC’s purview, the company has still carried out external redevelopment work at Mansarovar Park, Inderlok, Shastri Nagar, Pratap Nagar, Pulbangash, Welcome, Seelampur and Shastri Park. At the busy Dilshad Garden, Jhilmil and Mansarovar Park stations, the parking lots have been renovated too. “The maintenance of the Red Line poses more challenges than the other lines because many stations on this line are at ground level, which results in the being more exposed to dust,” the official added. “Many stations are near low-lying areas, which sometimes result in sewage and rainwater entering the premises.” The DMRC official said that the company would continue taking up such exercise across all the corridors as and when necessary. “The Yellow Line (Samaypur Badli-HUDA City Centre) and Blue Line (Dwarka-Vaishali/Noida City Centre) corridor stations will now be taken up for revamp when the need arises,” he said. “In fact, six stations of Blue Line in the Noida segment are already undergoing refurbishment at this juncture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/red-hot-oldest-line-gets-glitter-back/articleshow/79271720.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||CBI arrests UP junior engineer for sexually abusing kids for 10 years||LUCKNOW: A 40-year-old junior engineer with Uttar Pradesh irrigation department was arrested on Tuesday by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for allegedly sexually exploiting children and peddling videos and photographs on the dark web to paedophiles worldwide. The accused, Ram Bhawan, exploited at least 50 children in the 5-16 age-group over a 10-year span in the Bundelkhand districts of Chitrakoot, Banda and Hamirpur, a CBI official said. He was arrested from Karvi town of Chitrakoot, where he was posted. Within hours of this arrest, the state irrigation department suspended him. During searches at his two residences in neighbouring Banda, CBI seized eight mobile phones, Rs 8 lakh in cash, sex toys, laptops and unearthed digital evidence of child sexual abuse material, the agency said. An FIR was registered against the accused in the Delhi special crime branch unit of CBI last week. Sources said, CBI will seek police custody as they believe he was not acting alone. Explaining the modus-operandi of the accused, a CBI official said he would lure children with electronic gadgets and flashy cell phones and later muzzle them with more gifts after abusing and filming them in the act. The accused would contact and share child sexual abuse material with paedophiles across the world on the cloud and darknet. A scrutiny of emails revealed he was allegedly in touch with scores of paedophiles in India and abroad and skirted Internet traffic monitoring despite uploading dark content for over a decade. Sources in CBI said Ram Bhawan sought telecom nod for accessing cloud network for expanding his database of videos and clips. The darknet used by the accused to sell and share child sexual abuse materials refers to a hidden network within Internet that can only be accessed with specific software configurations and is used to exchange pornographic content or engage in illegal activities. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect their privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/je-held-for-sexually-abusing-50-kids-in-up/articleshow/79272205.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Punjab: Woman accuses LIP chief of rape, fraud||LUDHIANA: A woman, 45, has accused Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) chief and MLA Simarjit Singh Bains of raping her and threatening to kill both her sons if she complained against him. She has also accused the MLA’s brother, Karamjit Bains, a realtor and a woman worker of LIP of helping him. The MLA has refuted the allegations. After she lodged a police complaint — in which the MLA and the realtor are accused of fraud, too — on Monday, an inquiry was marked to joint commissioner of police (rural) Kanwardeep Kaur.  The woman, a resident of Ludhiana, said, “After the death of my husband, I was unable to pay the EMIs of our house loan. As a result, the bank officials were harassing me. In April 2019, during a Lok Sabha election campaign, I met Simarjit Singh Bains, who advised me to sell the house. Through him, I met a realtor who sold the house. The realtor gave me Rs 4.50 lakh and bought me a plot in a village here.” As she wanted money, she asked the realtor to sell the plot and give her cash. “The realtor was giving less amount, so I sought Bains’ help. Bains asked me to come to his office. There, he raped me in his cabin. He threatened me against speaking about it and asked me to stay in touch with him. Bains then called up the realtor and asked him to give me Rs 5,000,” she added. The woman said when she met the realtor to get the amount, he also pressured her to stay in touch with Bains to get more money. “Thereafter, the MLA kept calling me to his office and the house of a woman LIP worker, who lives nearby. There, he raped me several times. The MLA’s younger brother, Karamjit Bains, also threatened me and sent me lewd messages,” she added. Terming the allegations baseless and false, the MLA said, “The woman had come to me, seeking help in selling her house, so that she could get some money. I asked the realtor to help her. But in September, she lodged a complaint with the ADCP against the realtor, saying he had raped her and duped her of money. At the time, the police investigated the case and made the realtor give Rs 60,000 more to the woman. She then gave a written apology and withdrew the complaint.” “Now, she has lodged a complaint against me with the same allegations to get more money. The Congress has hatched the conspiracy to malign my image and to affect my ‘Punjab Adhikar Yatra’ for water conservation. The complaint was filed and made viral on social media on Monday – the day I started the yatra. The truth will come out soon,” the MLA added. On Tuesday, the complainant met joint CP Kanwardeep Kaur. Kanwardeep Kaur said, “We will verify the allegations of the complainant. She has submitted some proofs, which will be checked.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/woman-accuses-lip-chief-of-rape-fraud/articleshow/79269194.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Rains lead to cotton rotting on plants, bollworm attack||Nagpur: After low rates, cotton farmers of the region are being dogged by a major incidence of rotting bolls and pest attack. Extended rains have led to cotton bolls rotting on the plants, rendering a lot of the produce useless. This has been followed by infestation of pink bollworm, which even in the normal course occurs during the October-November period. However, farmers say the incidence is higher than other years leading to losses in output. Farmers complained they have already suffered major losses in soyabean, the second major crop of the region, as excess rains have hit the output. Officials of the agriculture department admitted to TOI a crisis is brewing due to boll rotting. They said the losses have crossed economic threshold limit (ETL) in a number of pockets. ETL is the benchmark for losses. If the occurrence crosses ETL, it means the damage is enough to dent the farmers’ income. In some pockets, as much as 30% to 40% of bolls have rotted, said the officials. Manish Jadhav, a cotton grower from Mahgaon taluka of Yavatmal district, shared pictures of damaged crop. Farmers have begun demanding compensation for losses due to pests and rotting bolls, he said. Jadhav claimed that almost 90% of his cotton crop has been damaged. “The farmers of the area could not reap beyond the first round of picking in September. After that bouts of rainfall led to cotton bolls rotting, leading to a pest attack too,” he said. Amol Bagate, a cotton grower from the same taluka, said farmers have begun plucking out the plants to prevent further losses as there is hardly any crop left. “Rotting bolls is a major problem this year. Farmers have reported white pests on the decayed bolls and cotton plants,” said Kishore Tiwari, chairman of Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swavalamban Mission (VNSSM). “The white pests are of the saprophytic category that survive on dead plants. These are like scavengers. The problem has been reported in entire cotton growing belt of Vidarbha,” said an agriculture department officer requesting anonymity. This was also confirmed by a team from Central Institute of Cotton Research (CICR), the source said. The rains prevented spraying of pesticides on the cotton crop, which led to higher incidence of bollworm, added another officer of the department. Sharadrao Patil from Mahgaon says only negligible output is expected from his five acres of holding under cotton cultivation. “Both rotting and bollworm attack have led to equal losses,” he said. Meanwhile, rates of cotton have slightly improved for the better grade touching Rs5,200 a quintal. This is being attributed to the shortage due to losses. As against this, the minimum support price (MSP) is at Rs5,800 a quintal. Veteran farm activist Vijay Jawandhia said, “The average rate is still in the range of Rs4,800 to 5,100. MSP procurement has begun in some of the centres.” Jawandhia said if farmers get MSP it would only help them cover the losses in soyabean.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rains-lead-to-cotton-rotting-on-plants-bollworm-attack/articleshow/79271698.cms||Shishir Arya
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Fewer farmers ended life during lockdown||NAGPUR: Even as the Covid-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown aggravated troubles for the common man, suicides by farmers have actually reduced in this period in Nagpur district. During the lockdown from March till date, only 12 farmers have ended their lives, as per the RTI reply by the district collector’s office. The reply filed by collectorate’s public information officer Vivek Gawande to activist Abhay Kolarkar’s queries informed that 20 farmers have committed suicides this year from January 1 to October 31. Last year, about 56 of them had ended their lives due to problems like continuous losses due to nature’s vagaries and mounting debts. In 2018, the number was 36. According to Kolarkar, government apathy can be gauged from the fact that out of 20 deaths, it has handed over compensation to only two of the families till October 31. While 15 proposals are pending for enquiry, three were found ineligible to get the compensation. If data of the last 15 years is taken into account in six districts of Nagpur division, over 4,000 farmers have ended their lives as per government records. The farm activists blamed flawed policies of the government for continuous suicides by farmers. They said no concrete steps were taken to address the plight and perennial problems faced by them like crop failure over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fewer-farmers-ended-life-during-lockdown/articleshow/79271735.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Celebrate Chhath Puja at home, follow Covid protocol, urges Uttar Pradesh govt||LUCKNOW: The state government has urged devotees to celebrate Chhath Puja at home this year due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, the government is making all arrangements at ghats to ensure that those who come can do so safely and all Covid prevention protocols are followed. Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi issued an advisory to district administrations and police on Tuesday night making puja organisers responsible for ensuring all Covid protocols are followed strictly. Ghats and ponds will be cleaned by local bodies and district administration will make arrangements to facilitate puja. Use of mask and physical distancing should be enforced strictly at all programmes for which district administrations would hold meetings with Chhat committees and organisers to ensure proper coordination. Police and administration officials must be deputed at ghats and puja sites to ensure security and maintenance of law and order, said Awasthi. Ambulance with medical teams have to be stationed at all major puja sites and proper lighting, public address systems and CCTV cameras should be installed along all ghats where puja takes place, he added. Toilets and changing room facilities must be provided for women near ghats and barricading must be done to ensure people do not wade into deep waters. Earlier at a press meet, additional chief secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad said, “Though the Covid situation has improved, cases are on the rise in several districts. The festive season triggered movement of people into the state and the risk of pandemic spread looms.” Urging people to remain cautious, Prasad said, “Though most festivals are over, Chhath is round the corner. In wake of the present circumstances, it will be good if people stay away from ghats for Chhath puja and perform rituals at home.” Earlier, Bhojpuri Samaj also appealed to people to observe Chhath rituals at home instead of going to ghats or water bodies. Meanwhile, 1,455 fresh cases on Tuesday took the state’s Covid-19 tally to 5.14 lakh and 1,838 recoveries in past 24 hours took the count to 4,84,692. The pandemic toll reached 7,412 with 20 deaths in the past 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/celebrate-chhath-puja-at-home-follow-covid-protocol-urges-govt/articleshow/79272242.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Pressure reduces on non-ICU Covid beds in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The discharge rate of Covid patients has gone up further in November. A total of 69,350 patients have been discharged from hospital on the first 17 days of November. With an average daily discharge of close to 4,300 patients, the rate has reached 92%. With another 4,388 patients being sent home on Tuesday, the total number of patients discharged crossed the 4-lakh mark (4,03,340). This has eased off the pressure on non-ICU beds slightly. Hospitals, however, continue to reel under Covid ICU bed crisis. For example, the 660-bedded Medical College Hospital Kolkata (MCHK) that remains in high demand because of its tertiary care services had 140 beds vacant on Tuesday. Sources said that in addition to high discharge rate, less number of patients are now seeking treatment for Covid as majority of them prefer to stay in home isolation. “Pressure has reduced a little on non-ICU beds, but ICU beds are still under pressure. Most patients are coming to hospital for treatment only when they have respiratory distress and need intensive care. Hence there is no respite from ICU bed crisis,” said Indranil Biswas, medical superintendent and vice principal, MCHK. With an average daily discharge of 1,169 patients in July the overall discharge rate in the state stood at 69% in July-end. The number of daily average discharge went up to 2,770 and 3,049, respectively in August and September. At the moment, 4,000-plus patients are being discharged on an average daily this month. “No doubt the pressure on non-ICU beds has gone down slightly. But ICU and ITU beds availability is still an issue that is because these patients need a long hospital stay. But general ward patients can be discharged once they are free of symptoms for a few days, according to discharge guideline,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO, Peerless Hospital. On Tuesday, the hospital had 10 beds vacant, all being general isolation beds. The 160-bedded Covid facility at Belle Vue had 59 beds vacant on Tuesday, while 45 out of 195 beds at Medica Superspecialty Hospital were vacant. “Even till October-end, it we would have zero vacancy on almost all days. Any vacant bed would get filled up within hours of some patients being discharged. But currently we have a few general beds empty,” said an administrator of a private hospital off EM Bypass. “There is a gradual rise in availability of non-ICU beds. Currently, close to 200 beds are vacant in our hospital out of the total 425 beds. We had recently converted 50 general beds into ICU beds,” said a source at CNCI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pressure-reduces-on-non-icu-cov-beds/articleshow/79270327.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
November 18, 2020||Madurai||Postings through backdoor can’t be regularised, HC||Madurai: Observing that back-door appointments cannot be regularized, as equal opportunity in public employment is a Constitutional mandate, the Madras high court dismissed a plea moved by a temporary vocational instructor of a government school seeking to regularise his service. The petitioner, G Jeyapal was appointed as part-time consolidated pay vocational instructor grade II, by parents teachers association (PTA) at a government school in Madurai district. Though the petitioner was working continuously from 1998, his service was not regularised and hence he moved the HC Madurai bench in 2014. Justice S M Subramaniam observed that the court is of the considered opinion that regularization or permanent absorption cannot be granted in violation of rules in force. Regularization is to be granted to the employees only if the initial appointments are made in accordance with the rules and by following the procedures contemplated. The judge observed that appointments made through back-door method cannot be a ground to seek regularization and if such appointments are regularized, then the right of equality is denied to all the candidates, who are all aspiring to secure public employment through an open competitive process. The judge observed that the equality clause enunciated in the Constitution is to be followed at the time of dealing with irregular appointments. The appointment made irregularly or illegally cannot be regularized nor be confirmed. The judge noted that the petitioner was not appointed in accordance with the rules and he was initially appointed by the PTA, which is an association constituted for the welfare of the parents as well as the students studying in a particular school. The judge said that the association is not an authority to appoint teachers in government schools. Since the petitioner has not established any acceptable ground for the purpose of considering the relief, the judge dismissed the petition citing that it is devoid of merits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/postings-through-backdoor-cant-be-regularised-hc/articleshow/79271716.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 18, 2020||Madurai||HC directs idol wing CID to file final report in theft case||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the idol wing CID to complete investigation into the case registered after the theft of idols from the Chitra Radha Vallabha Perumal Temple at Kuruvithurai in Madurai district in 2018.Taking note of the fact that the case is pending from 2018 and the final report is yet to be filed, justice J Nisha Banu also directed to file a final report in this case within two months.In the petition, A Sureshkannan, executive officer of the temple, stated that four panchaloha idols were stolen by some unknown people in October 2018. The Kadupatti police had registered a case, which was subsequently transferred to the idol wing CID.The petitioner stated that the stolen idols were recovered in a damaged condition by the officials and kept at the chief judicial magistrate court at Kumbakonam. After he filed a petition, the CJM granted interim custody of the idols for performing pujas at the temple.Though the idols were recovered and few accused were arrested five months after the theft, no steps were taken by the officials to file the final report. Hence, the petitioner moved the HC Madurai bench. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-idol-wing-cid-to-file-final-report-in-theft-case/articleshow/79271723.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Madurai||Court denies bail to man arrested in murder case||Madurai: The Madurai principal sessions court has dismissed the bail plea of a man who was arrested in connection with a murder case in Madurai district. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Vignesh who was arrested by the Nagamalai Pudukottai police on October 11. The petitioner’s counsel stated that Vignesh’s name was included in the FIR based on the confession given by the other accused. The petitioner, who is an auto driver was called by the other accused to take an injured person to a hospital. The petitioner was no way connected to the offence and a false case was registered against him, he argued. The public prosecutor submitted that due to previous enmity a person Deva was murdered on October 9. They had taken the body in the petitioner’s auto and dumped it in the Thuvariman irrigation tank. Madurai principal sessions judge G Ilangovan said that based on the information furnished by the public prosecutor, it is seen that the petitioner is also actively involved in the occurrence as he along with other accused transported the body of the deceased person. Taking into account the role played by the petitioner in this incident, the judge dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/court-denies-bail-to-man-arrested-in-murder-case/articleshow/79271732.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Six-year-old granddaughter of MP Rita Joshi succumbs to burns||PRAYAGRAJ: In a tragic incident, the six-year-old granddaughter of Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Allahabad, Rita Bahuguna Joshi sustained severe burns on Monday evening and died at a city hospital late night even as the family had made all preparations to airlift her to Delhi for advanced treatment and care. Kiya, the daughter of BJP MP’s son Mayank had sustained serious burns on Monday evening while playing with diyas and was rushed to a private hospital in the city. She, however, breathed her last late on Monday night. BJP MP’s media in-charge Abhishek Shukla told TOI that Kiya had sustained severe burns while playing at her maternal grandparents' Ponappa Road residence in Cantt area on Monday evening. Kiya had sustained 60% burns, said doctors of the private city hospital where she was immediately rushed for treatment. The family had made all arrangements to shift the critically injured girl to Delhi through air ambulance for advanced treatment and care on Tuesday morning, but her condition worsened late night and she passed away, said Shukla. The cremation was held at the electric crematorium in Daraganj and the ashes were immersed in the Ganga.Meanwhile, senior BJP leaders, including Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, BJP MP (Phulpur) Keshri Devi Patel, cabinet minister Nand Gopal Gupta, BJP MLAs Ajay Bharti and Neelam Karwariya, former governor Keshri Nath Tripathi, leaders from Samajwadi Party and Congress visited Joshi’s house at Minto Road to express condolence and consoled the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/six-year-old-granddaughter-of-mp-rita-joshi-succumbs-to-burns/articleshow/79272282.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid snatches 3 lives, infects 92||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana lost their lives to Covid-19 and 92 tested positive on Tuesday.Chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district casualties included a 73-year-old woman of Kitchlu Nagar, who died at SPS Hospital; a 64-year-old man of Majri village in Khanna, who passed away at Rajindra Hospital, Patiala; and a 26-year-old man who died at a Moga hospital.The day also saw four outsiders succumbing to the virus here. They were residents of Bathinda, Hoshiarpur, Barnala and Ferozepur.With this, the district toll tally has increased to 870 and that of outsiders to 352.Dr Bagga said on the day, 105 positive reports were received. Of these, 92 were of Ludhiana residents and 13 of outsiders.The district cases include 27 contacts of positive patients, one health-care worker, 17 from OPD, 35 from flu corner, three severe acute respiratory infection cases, and nine through tracing process.The district case count is 21,580.So far, 19,932 patients (92.36%) have recovered.On Tuesday, 1,175 samples were collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-snatches-3-lives-infects-92/articleshow/79269244.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Sealing notice coming to property tax dodgers||Times News NetworkLudhiana: Festival season over, the municipal corporation will tighten the screws on the property-tax defaulters. Since reminders didn't work, the dodgers will now get a sealing notice.The zonal commissioners have orders to recover the dues. Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal passed these instructions in a Monday meeting. The zone-wise collections are being matched with the target set every January. Last year, the MC had failed to meet the property-tax collection target of Rs 100 crore, and this year's target is even steeper at Rs 130 crore.One of the officials said the team will send the sealing notice to five defaulters in each block every week and do a regular follow-up. Every week, more defaulters will get the sealing notice and if they fail to clear the dues, their premises will be closed. The city is divided into 37 blocks and the number of notices is kept small for the sake of easy recovery. MC superintendent Vivek Verma said: “First, we are trying to catch hold of the defaulters who haven't paid their tax in years. The sealing campaign will start now." The zonal commissioners will make recovery plans for their jurisdictions.The MC has recovered Rs 34 crore of water and sewerage tax, while last year's recovery was only Rs 12 crore till this time. The officials claimed since they had changed the recovery pattern, the recovered amount had also increased. This year, the consumers received bills for the entire year instead of for six months. A 10% rebate on early payment also attracted them.Mayor Balkar Sandhu said, “We did not take strict action against the defaulters in the previous months due to the pandemic. But not now. If people want development in their areas, they should pay the dues.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sealing-notice-coming-to-property-tax-dodgers/articleshow/79269249.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Microwave arms used by China at LAC? Fake news, asserts Army||NEW DELHI: The Army on Tuesday dismissed as “fake” a few online media reports emanating from China that the People’s Liberation Army had used microwave weapons to force Indian soldiers to retreat during the ongoing military confrontation in eastern Ladakh. Jin Canrong, a professor of international relations at Renmin University in Beijing, has been quoted as saying in the media that the PLA turned two strategic hilltops occupied by Indian soldiers into a “microwave oven”, while firing directed energy weapons (DEWs) on August 29. He claimed Indian troops on the two hilltops began to vomit and were forced to withdraw, allowing the positions to be retaken by Chinese soldiers without an exchange of conventional fire. Read AlsoModi hints at bold Pangong action that got India the edgeIn an acknowledgement of Indian troops claiming the heights on the south bank of Pangong lake in late August, Prime Minister Narendra Modi indicated the action gained the country crucial bargaining leverage in the confrontation with China. Though the PM did not name China, his reference in his“It’s a fake, ludicrous claim, part of the continuing psychological operations from across the border. PLA does not seem to have recovered from the shock of our troops occupying multiple Kailash range heights on the south bank of Pangong Tso-Chushul on August 29-30,” a senior Army officer said. India’s military confrontation with China in eastern Ladakh is into its seventh month now, with over 50,000 soldiers each from the two armies, backed by howitzers, tanks and missile systems, remaining deployed in the high-altitude region. Though military and diplomatic talks are under way, the exact modalities and sequencing of the proposed disengagement are yet to be finalised. Watch Reports of PLA using microwave weapons against Indian soldiers 'fake', claims Army||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/microwave-arms-used-by-china-at-lac-fake-news-asserts-army/articleshow/79272795.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||‘Job scam’ surfaces, NU admin yet to act||Nagpur: An alleged job racket in appointment of Class III staff in Nagpur University has surfaced with a forged appointment letter being circulated on social media. The fonts and contents closely resemble the university official communication letters, indicating hand of an insider. The letter has forged signature of director of examination and evaluation Prafulla Sabale, while the victim has been assigned clerical post at NU’s new administrative building Jamnalal Bajaj Block, off Ambazari bypass. Surprisingly, the university administration has not initiated any action against the perpetrators so far. Vice-chancellor SR Choudhari didn’t respond to TOI’s messages. As per the purported appointment letter, the candidate has been offered a salary of Rs20,500 per month and Rs36,000 after completion of probation period of one year. The letter also carries stamp and seal of assistant registrar from confidential section while it also mentions a copy has been sent to VC Choudhari. It also claims that a recruitment drive was conducted for filling up vacant posts and that out of all the applications received between October 13 and 15, one Vilas Naik has been selected. The candidate has been asked to join training, after completion of which he would be made permanent employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/job-scam-surfaces-nu-admin-yet-to-act/articleshow/79271749.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Madurai||Gandhigram institute initiates export trials on ISI-certified neem soap||Dindigul: The Gandhigram Rural Institute (GRI) has initiated trials for export of its indigenous ISI-certified neem soap. Once the trials for quality and other parameters come out successful, the institute will begin exporting them.Gandhigram received its first export orders from Fair Trade Forum India (FTFI) to be distributed to the stakeholders of the EU/ STREE projects across the country. Managing trustee of the Gandhigram trust, V K Shivakumar, said they are planning to further improve the technology and reach other markets through SIPA (South Indian Producers Association) and KVIC.“Though the order is placed by the EU, this will be only for internal consumption within India. They will consider the export orders depending on the quality that is being tested,” Shivakumar said. Shivakumar also said that the soap manufacturing initiative of the trust was first taken by Dr T S Soundaram and other managing trustees in 1979, as a model for strengthening village industries.Self-help groups were formed and they collected the neem kernel for manufacturing the soap, which uses only vegetable and rice bran oils. All the soaps prepared in Gandhigram are as per the BIS standards IS 288-1983.“Only rural women are employed in the manufacturer of the soaps, to empower them. We also created Gandhigram sales representatives who are selling these products in rural areas at affordable prices,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/gandhigram-institute-initiates-export-trials-on-isi-certified-neem-soap/articleshow/79271750.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Trichy||Down to no new cases for two days, Perambalur readies for second wave||TRICHY: When the state health department declared zero fresh cases of Covid-19 in Perambalur district on Monday, it was a first in the state, but not many in the district were surprised as it has been reporting cases in single digit for the past one month. The number was nil on Tuesday too, raising much expectations after several months into the pandemic. Officials clarified that this did not mean that Perambalur district has become Covid-free though its positivity rate now stood at 37th among the districts. The administration has now intensified preventive measures anticipating a second wave of Covid-19 post-Diwali. They are also awaiting the results of the sero survey to ascertain whether the herd immunity has set in. The survey was done in seven clusters, two each in Arumbavur and Poolambadi and one each in Perambalur, Kalpadi and Kariyanur to ascertain the presence of antibodies in people. In all, 30 houses each were selected in the clusters. Though the survey was completed between October 19 and October 22, the result is yet to be declared by the state government. The officials pointed out that no fresh cases were reported in the district on several days between November 1 and 16 though the media bulletin showed single digit cases till Sunday. There were no cases on November 1 too and thereafter in single digit till November 7. Similarly, there were no cases on November 9, 11 and from 12 to November 16. This was because those shown in the bulletin were Perambalur residents working in other districts and getting treated there. Monday happened to be the first day when not a single native of Perambalur, including those residing in other districts, tested positive. “Even though cases have been coming down in recent weeks, we have not reduced the measures. In fact, our machinery has ramped up work by intensifying sample collection and testing. It gained pace in the past one week in order to avoid the entry of infection through migrant labourers from other states and crowding of people during Diwali,” deputy director of health services (DDHS) Dr M Geetharani said on Tuesday. She said special checks have been conducted at two bus stands and one market area asking people with symptoms to check their health condition. The public health department has been keeping an eye on migrant labourers who entered the district to work for two major companies. Expressing displeasure over people letting off their guard, Geetharani said people should now increasingly adhere to safety norms. The public health department, police and revenue have booked 799 cases till November 16 and collected a fine of Rs 1,59,800 till Monday for not wearing face masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/down-to-no-new-cases-for-two-days-perambalur-readies-for-second-wave/articleshow/79271746.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Posh south Kolkata complex takes C-zone count to 3||KOLKATA: Two floors of a residential complex located in south Kolkata — with Lake Market at one end and Mudiali at the other — is the latest entrant to the city’s Covid containment list. This is the first time since October 7 that the number of containment zones in the city has touched three, the latest list on Egiye Bangla website has revealed. The zone — located on Raja Basanta Roy Road — has brought the focus back to an area in south Kolkata that was earlier a part of city’s containment zone list. KMC sources said with active cases less than 10, they decided to declare the two floors as containment zones. “The area is located close to the vegetable market in the Lake Market area. It is a posh area with multiple dwelling units. Hence the decision to make a containment zone. However, we are hoping that this block will come out of the list soon,” said a KMC coordinator from Borough 8. The area falls under Ward 87. The fresh addition comes barely a week after a significant portion of Satyen Park in Thakurpukur was brought under the list after that area reported 60-odd active cases at that time. The police said that following the present containment policy, the area has not been barricaded. “The residents are cooperating. We are ensuring that our officers are on rounds and that we help out the residents as and when required,” said an officer. Tollygunge police sources said that all three containment zones in the city have a few things in common — all have markets and hospitals located close to them. “A large section of residents do go out on work from here. But it is also a place where several outsiders come to the area for work. It is ironic that it was Raja Basanta Roy Road and Mudiali that, almost six months ago, showed the way to rest of south Kolkata by following all physical-distancing norms is back as a containment zone,” said Pallabi Chatterjee, a data analyst. Deep Majumdar, a trader, wondered if the market too was a contributor. “In the initial days, everyone was careful. But as time passed, the people forgot about the threats. People came to the market without even wearing masks. It is the residents now who are suffering,” said Dasgupta. With Chhath and Jagaddhatri Puja still to be celebrated later this month, cops and KMC are extremely careful in finalizing the containment zone list. “Discussions take place at the local ward, borough and police station levels each day. But, only those that meet our stringent criteria will be brought under the list. We want to be absolutely sure that it is a necessity,” said an officer. The new list, overall, will bring relief to Borough 10 residents nearby as there were talks to add a couple of addresses to the list even till a week ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/posh-south-kol-complex-takes-c-zone-count-to-3/articleshow/79270392.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Shawl buyers warm up to city, traders jubilant||Ludhiana: The local shawl industry that had caught cold in the lockdown period, is turning a corner. Lately, it has been witnessing a good flow of customers from other states. Traders in Mochpura Bazaar, which is one of India’s biggest shawl markets, said maximum customers were visiting from Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, West Bengal, Assam and Bihar. A large number of shawl’s street vendors, too, have started coming back to the market.Until recently, only traders from nearby states visited Ludhiana. This is the first time that those from far-off states are also coming and the reason is inability of the commission agents to visit those remote areas for order bookings. In the absence of trains, traders from nearby states have been using personal vehicles or taxis to reach Ludhiana and take along as much goods as they can carry. Those from far-off states are coming by air. Though local traders reported that orders were not big, they were still happy to see the situation gradually improving. Mohammad Yusuf, a Kashmiri who sells shawls in Punjab, said, “We have started a little late this year as for months we remained at our homes because of the lockdown. Now, with the change in weather, me and my friends have purchased the stock from Mochpura. For the next few months, I will stay in Patiala for business and keep coming to Ludhiana for purchases.” Pradipta Podder, a shawl trader who had come from Kolkata, said, “This year, the business suffered a big jolt due to lockdown, as hardly any agent from Punjab was able to visit West Bengal for taking orders. Those who came did not have adequate samples as there was not enough production happening at that time. Due to weather change, demand for shawls has started picking up in the North-Eastern states. So I first flew to Amritsar and then came to Ludhiana by road to purchase the shawls. By visiting here myself, I have not only got huge options but also a good discount.”Arun Seth, MD of Sun Woollen Industries, said, “The lockdown changed the entire matrix of our trade. This is the first time in decades that such a large number of our customers are coming directly to Ludhiana and Amritsar to make purchases. Earlier we had to visit other states for booking orders and only 2% of our buyers came to Punjab. During the past seven months, the shawl business was almost reduced to zero from being one of the biggest sectors in Punjab. Finally, things are looking up and we are hopeful of covering a fraction of our losses. Though non-movement of goods and passenger trains is proving to be a hindrance, we are getting cooperation from our customers who are managing to come in their own vehicles or taxis. Those who can’t carry orders with them are getting the goods booked via transports.” According to Arvinder Singh Chini, president Naya Mohalla Shawl Association, “Traders in Mochpura Bazaar are jubilant as after such a huge gap customers are turning up in such large numbers. Though the quantum of orders is not big, we feel it is far better than sitting idle and incurring losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/shawl-buyers-warm-up-to-city-traders-jubilant/articleshow/79269265.cms||Mohit Behl
November 18, 2020||Madurai||Tamil Nadu: Pressure on university to restore Arundhati Roy’s book in syllabus||TIRUNELVELI: Representatives of various political parties and organisations condemned the decision of the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University (MSU) to withdraw ‘Walking with the Comrades’ authored by Arundhati Roy and urged that the book be included again in the syllabus. They submitted a petition to the vice-chancellor of the university K Pitchimani on Tuesday in this regard. The representatives including Tirunelveli MLA A L S Lakshmanan (DMK), DMK Tirunelveli central district president Abdul Wahab, CPI (M) district secretary K G Baskaran on behalf of Kalvi Urimai Pathukapu Kootiyakkam (consolidation for protection of education rights) stated that the removal of the book from the 3rd semester postgraduate syllabus of English Literature course, is undemocratic, against the freedom of expression and law. They said that the book has been authored by a renowned award-winning writer who is recognised world over for her progressive thoughts and was published by a leading publisher (Penguin). The book that would sharpen social, economic and political view of students though literature and has not been banned in any country including India and accused the VC of spontaneously acting with a political intent. Talking to reporters after submitting the representation, the representatives said that it is not appropriate for the institution to budge to a religious or political body such as the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) on whose representation the book was removed. Tirunelveli city police strengthened security arrangements at the varsity to ensure law and order. Vice-chancellor Pitchumani told TOI refused to respond on the varsity’s course of action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/parties-urge-msu-vc-to-restore-roys-book-in-syllabus/articleshow/79271753.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Rice scam: 4 Pungrain officials, miller held||Times News NetworkLudhiana: The economic offences wing of the district vigilance bureau has arrested four employees of Pungrain (Punjab Grain Procurement Corporation Limited) and a mill owner on the charges of embezzling the rice they were supposed to send to the Food Corporation India (FCI) after milling.Eight people were booked based on an inquiry. Those arrested are Pungrain district manager Rakesh Kumar Bhaskar, junior auditors Manjeet Singh and Jasbeer Singh, supervisor Narinder Kumar, and Rajinder Kumar, owner of Hambranm's Laxmi Rice and General Mill. Rajinder’s wife, Sunita, brother, Pawan Kumar, and Pawan’s wife, Saroj Bala, are on the run.EOW deputy superintendent of police Karamvir Singh has said that the rice was embezzled between 2010 and 2011 when accused Rakesh Bhaskar was manager at the district food supply corporation in Ludhiana. The officers have to send the rice for milling before it goes to the FCI. The chosen mills must have finished at least 60% of previous year's milling work. A committee is formed and official orders are issued to decide that.Another condition of allotment is submitting the security amount. However, in 2010, the Hambranm unit had milled only 43% of the rice and failed to submit security. Despite that, the accused officers alloted it more rice next year, without forming a committee or issuing any orders. The allotment was based on forged papers, which came to light in Pungrain's warehouse audit. Quintals of rice, worth Rs 5 crore, was missing.The case was registered under the Prevention of Corruption Act and sections 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 471 (using a forged document as genuine), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rice-scam-4-pungrain-officials-miller-held/articleshow/79269276.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Regularisation of PRN colonies in Jaipur to take time||JAIPUR: Plot owners of around 63 colonies falling under the Prithvi Raj Nagar (PRN) scheme will not be able to procure lease deeds anytime soon as the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) will organise regularisation camps after receiving nod in the empowered committee meeting. In these colonies, the housing societies have illegally developed plots on the facility area (open spaces, parks, stadium). Now, a proposal will be tabled in the empowered committee seeking guidance to regularise these colonies. As per the mandatory rule, a society owner has to develop a society in 60:40 ratio. While, plotting should be done on 60%, remaining 40% should be reserved for roads, parks, open space to develop water tank, etc. An official said, “The housing society owners have developed plot on the area which was earmarked to develop facilities in Master Plan 2011.Residents of these schemes will remain deprived of facilities even after regularization of the scheme due to unequal development as no land is left to develop the facility. A writ petition, 1554/2000 on this matter was also filed in the high court. The proposal has been tabled in the empowered committee to take the opinion,” he said. The JDA has also tabled a proposal to seek directions on regularisation of residential plots situated on 80 feet wide roads in PRN scheme. Recently, the civic body has decided to give only commercial lease deeds on plots situated on 80 feet road. However, there are many owners who are utilising the plots for residential purpose and do not want to spend extra to seek commercial lease deeds. The JDA will also directions to regularise colonies situated on ‘mandir mafi’ land. There are more than 50 colonies in PRN scheme which are developed on this land. “The Supreme Court had issued many orders regarding regularisation of colonies on ‘mandir mafi’ land. A proposal has been forwarded to seek legal opinion after examining all the orders, lease deeds will be given to the plot owners,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/regularisation-of-prn-colonies-to-take-time/articleshow/79271766.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Edu dir too violating UGC fiat on promotions: Teachers’ body||Nagpur: After slamming joint director of higher education Mahesh Salunkhe over teachers’ promotions, National Forum for Quality Education (NFQE) has alleged that director of higher eduction Dhanraj Mane too is sitting on UGC directive for the last four months. Aggrieved over delay in conducting career advancement scheme (CAS) interviews and assigning a nominee, the NFQE has again written to University Grants Commission (UGC) asking the apex body to intervene in helping the NET/SET teachers from Nagpur division get their legitimate right. The UGC pay-scale section had issued directions to the director at Pune on July 2. “Because the director is violating UGC directive, the joint directors too are emboldened to ignore the teachers’ demands,” said NFQE secretary Kushal Mude. Joint director Salunkhe has been insisting that there was no delay on his part and all promotions were duly cleared as per norms. Salunkhe also maintained that he had presented himself as joint director nominee on the CAS panel in the absence of suitable teacher. Mude said as some of the joint directors and director are not adhering to the UGC’s July directive, we have again written to the apex body seeking intervention. The NFQE has also moved the additional chief secretary (higher and technical education) Rajiv Jalota as the alleged violation pertains to citizens’ charter as per a government resolution. Mude said they have also sought strict action against both Mane and Salunkhe over their reluctance to expedite promotions. The NFQE has taken a strong stance against the joint director in its earlier letters to the authorities. In their latest letter to the UGC and Jalota, the teachers’ body has gone a step further and accused a “nexus” in holding back due promotions. “Despite meeting eligibility criteria, NET/SET teachers are targeted, harassed arbitrarily by director in nexus with regional joint directors. These officials are reckless and don’t hesitate to violate UGC norms and state GR. We have time and again pointed out these CAS violations, but due to dubious nexus with joint directors, the director didn’t take any action (sic),” the letter reads. Mane didn’t answer to TOI’s messages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/edu-dir-too-violating-ugc-fiat-on-promotions-teachers-body/articleshow/79271763.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 18, 2020||Madurai||Rain exposes Madurai city’s famed water mgmt system||Madurai: A week after Madurai bagged a national award for water management from the Union jal shakti ministry, rains have exposed the city’s vulnerability as inundation and flooding in many parts have raised concerns over the water management system.Earlier on Tuesday, minister for cooperatives, Sellur K Raju and officials inspected the affected areas after heavy rain lashed the city on Monday. “It has been decided to create wells at a cost of Rs 30 lakh to store the rainwater and then pump it out,” Raju said.The minister, who visited one of the worst-affected areas connecting Vanamamalai Nagar, Duraisamy Nagar and Velusamy Nagar in ward number 76, said that some parts of the city had gone below the road level due to developmental activities. “Funds would be sanctioned immediately and two wells would be created on these roads, which would in turn be pumped into the Krithumalnathi channel,” he said.The minister, who was accompanied by corporation commissioner S Visakan, said that the civic body had taken stock of buildings which are in a dilapidated condition, and notice issued to the owners.District collector T Anbazhagan inspected the Anantha Nagar Keelapangadi Petchikulam panchayat and directed the public works department (PWD) officials to ensure that the supply channels to the tank be cleared and ready to carry excess water due to rain.He said that 27 places in the district have been identified as vulnerable spots and all steps had been taken to ensure that they did do not experience flooding. “Shelters to house people in case of emergencies are also ready,” Anbazhagan said. Meanwhile, DMK’s Madurai central MLA, P T R Palanivel Thiagarajan in a tweet said that the condition of roads in his constituency - referring to the flooded Masi Streets near the Meenakshi temple - was due to the smart city scam in the state. He rued that not a single elected representative was consulted prior to the beginning of smart city works.The two days of rain resulted in Madurai district recording an average rainfall of 33.11mm with the highest rainfall of 60.5mm recorded at the Madurai airport. It was followed by Viraganur (57mm), Tallakulam (52mm), Sholavandan (51mm), Madurai South (45.6mm), Idayapatti (45mm), Andipatti (40mm), Vadipatti (39mm), Thirumangalam (37.6mm), Usilampatti (31.2mm) and Melur (30mm).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-exposes-madurai-citys-famed-water-mgmt-system/articleshow/79271759.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||One up on opposition, TRS goes for early polls to GHMC||HYDERABAD: With its proven formula of taking the opposition parties by surprise and giving very little time for them to prepare for an election as it did in 2018 assembly polls, ruling TRS has once again fallen back on its successful formula by announcing early elections to the GHMC and leaving the BJP and Congress gasping for breath. The term of the present GHMC council ends in February 2021. The TRS has done its homework having completed about three to four surveys on performance of its candidates (party corporators) and even told them to go ahead with their campaigning. Only 15 to 20 corporators were told to stand down. Whereas, Congress and BJP are still in the process of receiving applications from ticket aspirants and shortlisting of candidates. The opposition parties are now planning to release the list of their candidates in a phased manner and the first list is expected by Wednesday. Political analysts said by going for an immediate election, the TRS wants to gain the advantage of not giving time to the opposition parties for selection of strong candidates, sufficient time for campaigning and enter into an alliance or understanding with others and also prevent defections of its leaders to other parties. “Many leaders and parties thought the TRS may not go for GHMC elections immediately after Dubbak result and also in the wake of criticism over handling of the flood situation in the city. But, the party preferred to go to people in the hope that they would favour the party in the civic body elections,” K Nageshwar, former MLC and political analyst, told TOI. He said political parties have to be ready to face the election at any time. Interestingly, speculations about advancing the GHMC elections have been doing the rounds for over a month now. TRS working president KT Rama Rao, during a party leaders’ meeting recently, had indicated that the elections might be held before the schedule as the State Election Commission (SEC) has powers to hold elections three months before the schedule. SEC chief C Partha Sarathi, in one of the election preparatory meeting, said the election schedule would be released any time after November 13. But, the government officials said the elections would be held in January 2021. “Though the TRS and government had dropped several indications on holding elections towards the end of the year by announcing sops, going for a spree of inaugurations and holding a series of meetings with party leaders, the opposition parties have failed to act and get ready for the elections,” political analyst S Nagesh Kumar told TOI. He said the ruling party will have an advantage as the SEC has to consult the state government before finalising the poll schedule. “The TRS wants to cut its losses as there will be impact of Dubbak bypoll result and recent floods on the GHMC elections,” Nagesh Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-sticks-to-surprise-element-leaves-very-little-time-for-oppn-parties/articleshow/79270391.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Gang loots 3 ATMs near airport, on Kona E-way, NH-6||KOLKATA: A gas-cutter gang looted three ATMs — the first near airport, the second on Kona Expressway, and the third along NH-6. They smeared the CCTV cameras with black paint and then neatly prised open the cash vaults. The gang looted Rs 10 lakh from the first ATM in Michael Nagar near airport early on Tuesday and managed to escape minutes before police reached the spot. While ATM loots took place at Narayanpur, Bagnan and some other areas of North 24 Parganas and Howrah in the past month, this is the first time that such an incident took place near Kolkata and in which an ATM’s cash vault was neatly cut to get access to the cash cartridges inside. The Bidhannagar Commissionerate’s police control room received a call from the bank’s vigilance team in Mumbai at 4.17am alerting that they were not receiving any live visuals from the ATM for some time. The ATM CCTV, even when not in use, sends periodic images to the Mumbai-based ATM control centre of the bank. An alarm that sets off after any physical damage is made to the machine also alerts local police and a private security agency that services the ATM. The control room alerted airport police, who immediately sent a team for inspection. “Our officers found the ATM counter’s shutter down. One of them lifted it and found a counter filled with smoke and a burning smell. Reinforcements were called and we found the front panel of the ATM was open and cash was looted from there. The CCTV was painted with black colour,” said the officer. The second ATM was targeted near Dhulagarh on Kona Expressway and the third along the National Highway at Bagnan. Police have retrieved a few unclear images from the motion sensor enabled CCTV cameras and will cross check them with footages at toll plaza. Investigators say the modus operandi — and the speed in which the ATMs were opened by gas cutters — resemble a series of such heists in Delhi and Noida recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/gang-loots-3-atms-near-airport-on-kona-e-way-nh-6/articleshow/79270399.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Two killed in road accident in Jhunjhunu||JAIPUR: Two persons were killed in a road accident in Jhunjhunu’s Mukundgarh when the bike on which they were travelling collided with a car on Tuesday morning. Both the bike riders died on the spot. The deceased were identified as Ankit Kumar and Sandip Kumar. They both were in their 20s. Ankit was to get married on November 21. Talking about the accident, an official of Mukundgarh police station said, “The victims were on a bike when a car collided with them from behind. The impact was so severe that the duo was tossed a certain distance away. They were rushed to the hospital but were declared dead.” According to the officials, the car was also at a high speed and could not brake in time. Ankit was going shopping with his friend Sandip for the upcoming nuptials when the accident happened. Their bodies were handed over to the families after post-mortem. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/79271781.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ajmer||Stir by private schools in Rajasthan enters eighth day||JAIPUR: The fast unto death by private school teachers under the banner of Forum of Private Schools entered the eight day on Tuesday. They have been protesting at Shaheed Smarak since November 10 over non-deposit of fees. The protest started after two private school operators, Hemlata Sharma and Seema Sharma, started fasting after a 15-point charter of demands of the forum fell on the deaf ears of the state government. Forum spokesperson Hemlata said, “The anguish is brewing as the government is delaying our plea. Around 300 officials of various private school organisations spreading across 33 districts have gathered at the Shaheed Smarak. They condemned the government’s attitude towards private schools and also apprised of their poor financial condition.” Forum of Private Schools, Rajasthan, said they had been forced to take this extreme step as they were facing financial crunch due to non-deposit of fees. “Schools are finding it difficult to make ends meet. We want the government to intervene and decide at the earliest,” added Sharma. The private schools had called a meeting on Tuesday to decide on whether to continue with the hunger strike or call it off. They will also decide if the protest needs to be taken forward in a different form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/stir-by-pvt-schools-enters-eighth-day/articleshow/79274565.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||Ernakulam: Covid complicates lepto cases in district||KOCHI: It’s a double whammy for Ernakulam! Amid the fight against the pandemic, reporting of five leptospirosis deaths, including two Covid-induced ones, in six days, from October 30 to November 4, has put more pressure on district health officials. All the deaths were reported from rural areas and within five days after developing symptoms and getting admitted to hospitals. “Rising lepto cases do not pose any concern. But rising lepto deaths is a cause for concern. This is despite spreading awareness and distributing doxycycline tablets to the vulnerable section in the society. The two patients who died of Covid-19 were infected with lepto and were under treatment. Their lives could have been saved if they had not contracted Covid-19, which accelerated complications,” said a senior official. The fatality rate of leptospirosis is about 15% to 20% whereas in Covid, it is around less than 5%. The district, so far, has witnessed 300 suspected lepto cases and 13 deaths this year. Usually IgM positivity in lepto cases are reported seven days after developing symptoms like fever. “Now we have been noticing that deaths occur within five days of displaying symptoms. It shows a high fatality rate,” said the official. In view of rising deaths, Mrithasanjeevani, an awareness programme was initiated from November 5. All the five deaths were reported from Kottayam medical college as many non-Covid patients approach other hospitals in Ernakulam and Kottayam. Kalamassery medical college attends only Covid-19 cases. This invariably continues to put pressure on Ernakulam GH, which attends non-Covid cases. When patients need more attention, they are referred to Kottayam MCH. “We have urged authorities concerned to take measures to bring down the patient load in GH, which was facing more patient footfall even before the pandemic. We held discussions with officials concerned several times, but to no avail,” said an official in Ernakulam GH. Meanwhile, Kottayam medical college authorities also admit they face heavy patient load as they have to cater to patients from Idukki, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Ernakulam. “We have noticed that some of the cases they refer from Ernakulam could be attended to at the GH itself. We have informed this to Ernakulam authorities with proof. They should avoid referring patients to Kottayam MCH by strengthening infrastructure in Ernakulam GH, which currently has the facilities of a mini medical college. Kottayam medical college currently manages to attend both Covid and non-Covid,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-complicates-lepto-cases-in-dist/articleshow/79269330.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Madurai||One injured in Palani shooting dies in hospital||Dindigul: One of the two people injured in the Palani shooting incident on Monday morning died at the government Rajaji hospital in Madurai without responding to treatment around midnight. The victim, P Subramani, 60, had suffered injuries in his abdomen when theatre owner S Natarajan opened fire, and the bullet was also removed by doctors in a surgery lasting over two hours. However, he died due to blood loss and damage to internal organs caused by the bullet injury. M Palanisamy, 74, who also took a bullet in his waist, was stable after it was removed at the Palani government hospital. A police officer said that Subramani was the first to be shot at. He was clad in saffron dhoti and white shirt in the shooting video, which went viral in social media. Based on a complaint, a case was registered under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 294 (b) abusing using obscene words and 27 (1) of Arms act. Following the death of Subramani, section 307 was altered to 302 (punishment for murder). The officer added that the .32 caliber licensed revolver used by Natarajan was US-made and purchased 40 years ago. The 80-year-old accused was arrested immediately and remanded to prison under judicial custody. It was a dispute over 12 cents of land in Palani town between Natarajan and Ilangovan, a farmer, that took a violent turn on Monday. A lower court order had favoured Ilangovan following which he took up its cleaning it along with his relatives. Incensed at this, Natarajan, who had appealed against the order in a higher court, picked up a quarrel before opening fire. He fired three rounds, of which the first one did not hit anyone, but the other two hit Subramani and Palanisamy. The firearm along with the remaining two live bullets was seized. The police also collected empty casing from the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/one-injured-in-palani-shooting-dies-in-hospital/articleshow/79271779.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jodhpur||Stir by private schools in Rajasthan enters eighth day||JAIPUR: The fast unto death by private school teachers under the banner of Forum of Private Schools entered the eight day on Tuesday. They have been protesting at Shaheed Smarak since November 10 over non-deposit of fees. The protest started after two private school operators, Hemlata Sharma and Seema Sharma, started fasting after a 15-point charter of demands of the forum fell on the deaf ears of the state government. Forum spokesperson Hemlata said, “The anguish is brewing as the government is delaying our plea. Around 300 officials of various private school organisations spreading across 33 districts have gathered at the Shaheed Smarak. They condemned the government’s attitude towards private schools and also apprised of their poor financial condition.” Forum of Private Schools, Rajasthan, said they had been forced to take this extreme step as they were facing financial crunch due to non-deposit of fees. “Schools are finding it difficult to make ends meet. We want the government to intervene and decide at the earliest,” added Sharma. The private schools had called a meeting on Tuesday to decide on whether to continue with the hunger strike or call it off. They will also decide if the protest needs to be taken forward in a different form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/stir-by-pvt-schools-enters-eighth-day/articleshow/79274564.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Less crowd on local trains post Diwali||KOLKATA: Commuters still seem to be in the festive mood after Kali Puja and Bhai Phonta. Suburban trains under Eastern Railway (ER) and South Eastern Railway (SER) remained relatively less crowded on Tuesday, though more services are being run. SER started running 95 suburban services from Monday, anticipating more crowds after the festive season. SER used to run 190 suburban services before the pandemic. ER also operated over 900 services in its Howrah and Sealdah divisions from Monday. “We are running more trains during the peak hours but there hasn’t been too much overcrowding in the last couple of days. Most commuters are wearing masks and attempting to maintain a distance from others. This is a commendable effort and ER appreciates it. We would just like to inform commuters that there are sufficient trains during peak hours and they need not crowd into coaches,” said a senior railway official. ER started running nearly 900 trips from Monday. This is far more than 50% of the number of suburban services it used to run before the pandemic. An SER official maintained that no trains ran crowded after regulated services resumed from November 11. There is a difference in passenger profile between ER and SER. “Under SER, the real suburban section is only between Howrah and Andul. There are very few daily commuters from beyond Andul. In the Howrah and Sealdah divisions, we can call locations up to Chandernagore, Bandel and Barasat as the city's suburbs. Hence, there is bound to be overcrowding,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/less-crowd-on-local-trains-post-diwali/articleshow/79270421.cms||Jayanta Gupta
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Stir by private schools in Rajasthan enters eighth day||JAIPUR: The fast unto death by private school teachers under the banner of Forum of Private Schools entered the eight day on Tuesday. They have been protesting at Shaheed Smarak since November 10 over non-deposit of fees. The protest started after two private school operators, Hemlata Sharma and Seema Sharma, started fasting after a 15-point charter of demands of the forum fell on the deaf ears of the state government. Forum spokesperson Hemlata said, “The anguish is brewing as the government is delaying our plea. Around 300 officials of various private school organisations spreading across 33 districts have gathered at the Shaheed Smarak. They condemned the government’s attitude towards private schools and also apprised of their poor financial condition.” Forum of Private Schools, Rajasthan, said they had been forced to take this extreme step as they were facing financial crunch due to non-deposit of fees. “Schools are finding it difficult to make ends meet. We want the government to intervene and decide at the earliest,” added Sharma. The private schools had called a meeting on Tuesday to decide on whether to continue with the hunger strike or call it off. They will also decide if the protest needs to be taken forward in a different form.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stir-by-pvt-schools-enters-eighth-day/articleshow/79271777.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Introduced in Aug, govt’s cage fish farming initiative has no takers yet||Panaji: The state government’s mariculture initiative is yet to find any takers.  “We notified the Goa State Mariculture Policy 2020 in August. Now, it is the public that needs to step forward and apply for permits. This would be the best time to apply for it since the cultured fish require about six to seven months to grow,” a fisheries department official said. Fisheries department sources said that so far seafarers who returned to Goa due to the pandemic and people who lost their jobs due to the lockdown earlier this year, have been inquiring with them about sea cage culture however, the department hasn’t received any applications so far. The fisheries department had planned to source the fish seeds from the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA) in Chennai for the fish farmers in Goa. If there is demand for seeds that are not available with the RGCA, the fisheries department is also willing to write to the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) for help. TOI had reported in August that the state government has formulated a leasing policy to introduce systematic management strategies both for conservation and sustained fish production. It was aimed at encouraging artisanal fishers to take up offshore open sea cage culture such that they shift from capture fisheries regime to culture fisheries regime. To implement cage fish farming as per the Goa State Mariculture Policy 2020, the state government also proposed to constitute an expert committee for zonation and demarcation of the marine waters for mariculture.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/introduced-in-aug-govts-cage-fish-farming-initiative-has-no-takers-yet/articleshow/79271840.cms||Nida Sayed
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Bank manager & relatives booked for woman’s death in Alwar||ALWAR: A bank manager and his family members in Alwar have been booked in a case of dowry death following the death of the accused’s wife under suspicious circumstances on November 13. Victim Sheela Jangid’s father has lodged a case of domestic violence and murder against her husband Kapil Jangid as well as his relatives. The woman allegedly sustained burn injuries on October 30 but her husband did not inform her parents and neither was she taken to the hospital. The incident is of Mandan in Alwar. “The complainant alleged that her husband had thrown acid on her due to which she was severely burnt. Instead of taking her to the hospital, the in-laws treated her at home but she died on November 13. Her father alleged that he only found about it when the hospital and police called him to inform about Sheela’s death. He claims to have no knowledge that his daughter was ever burnt but when he saw her body, he realised that she had been”, said a police official. The complainant claimed that Sheela was being harassed for dowry by her husband and his family since they got married in 2007. He claimed that she had often told him that her husband was demanding dowry. Cops have registered a case and initiated an investigation. Meanwhile, the accused party refuted the allegations and claimed that Sheela got burnt after she dropped hot tea on herself two weeks back. On being asked the reason as to why she was not taken to the hospital, the accused claimed that she was getting ayurvedic treatment at home. Cops will further question the accused and collect evidences in the matter. The post-mortem report as well as the FSL report will also make it clear as to the cause of death and the substance with which she was burnt, claimed officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bank-manager-relatives-booked-for-womans-death/articleshow/79271800.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Madurai||Tuticorin bears brunt as NE monsoon lashes south TN||Madurai: Water level in reservoirs in the southern districts began to rise as heavy rains due to the northeast monsoon lashed the region on Monday and Tuesday. Tuticorin city received the highest rainfall of 169mm.Papanasam recorded the highest rainfall in Tirunelveli district at 138mm, followed by Palayamkottai (75mm) and Tirunelveli (60mm). The district recorded an average rainfall of 56.53mm in 24 hours, and the two day average stands at 105.91mm.Combined inflow to Papanasam and Servalar dams that was 2,071.9 cusecs on Monday morning had gone up by more than fourfold to 9,120.3 cusecs on Tuesday. This reflected in the level of Papanasam dam rising 9.7ft in one day to 111.2ft on Tuesday morning against the full capacity of 143ft. Water level in the 156ft-tall Servalar dam climbed 18.5ft in one day to 118.5ft and the availability soared from 36.88% on Monday to 52.98% on Tuesday morning. In Manimuthar dam, the water level climbed to 86.1ft with the inflow increasing from 1,066 cusecs on Monday to 2,900 cusecs on Tuesday. Kovilpatti and Kadambur recorded 73mm rainfall in Tuticorin district. Sathankulam (66.8mm), Ettayapuram (59mm) and Kayalpattinam (52.2mm) received good rains resulting in many low-lying areas getting inundated. District collector K Senthil Raj who inspected the affected areas in Kovilpatti, told reporters that water has started receding after it stopped raining from Monday night.“Forty-two pumps are used to pump water from low-lying areas to Buckle canal. Another 120 pumps have been kept prepared to be put to use. Six sullage lorries were also deployed to clear water stagnated at places where it cannot be pumped,” he said. Raj added that officials in the rank of tahsildar are taking stock of dilapidated buildings that pose a threat to safety of people, for demolition.In Tenkasi district, 55mm rainfall was recorded in Karupanadhi, followed by Sankarankovil (53mm), Sivagiri (51mm), Adavinainar (48mm) and Tenkasi town (44mm). Water level in Gadana dam reached 76.5 feet by climbing 4.5ft from Monday morning, against the full reservoir capacity of 85ft. The Gundar dam continued to overflow after reaching its full capacity of 36.1ft.Ramanathapuram recorded average rainfall of 20.75mm with Theerthandathanam recording 60mm. In Kanyakumari district, Mylaudy and Kottaram recorded 85.4mm and 81.2mm rainfall, respectively. The district average stood at 22.4mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tuticorin-bears-brunt-as-ne-monsoon-lashes-south-tn/articleshow/79271799.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Madurai||Residents excited as rainwater flows into Teppakulam||Madurai: For the first time in several years, the Mariamman Teppakulam in Madurai witnessed rainwater trickling into the tank through the channels, which were cleared recently.The tank spread over an area of 16acres, is the biggest temple tank in the region and was originally supplied with water from the Vaigai river. As time went by, the removal of sand resulted in the riverbed going down and went much lower than the supply channels to the tank.Due to efforts taken by the Madurai Corporation and the public works department (PWD), a check dam was constructed on the Vaigai riverbed so that the water could reach the channel. This year, the Vaigai water had filled up the tank for the first time in 40 years during the float festival. The tank has beautifully decorated channel heads inside. Residents were able to witness rainwater flowing into the tank in the last two days as heavy rain lashed the city. They said that was the first time that they are able to see such spectacle in many decades. “If all the channels are cleaned and kept ready it could help fill the tank just with rainwater from the surroundings and hold it throughout the year,” said K Shamugasundaram a resident of Teppakulam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/residents-excited-as-rainwater-flows-into-teppakulam/articleshow/79271782.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad's Gandhi Hospital to resume non-Covid services, junior doctors call off stir||HYDERABAD: The state-run Gandhi Hospital, which has been the nodal centre for the management of Covid-19 cases and has treated over 1 lakh Covid-19 patients so far, is no longer the nodal centre for Covid-19 cases and will begin operating all other departments from November 21. Buckling under pressure from junior doctors who had been on a strike over the issue for the last six days, the state health authorities on Tuesday passed an order asking all teaching hospitals to begin treating non-critical Covid-19 patients and sending only the critical Covid-19 patients requiring tertiary care to Gandhi Hospital. While this was one of the main demands of the junior doctors, resumption of non-Covid services for academic and clinical experience of junior doctors was the other main demand, which had been agreed to previously. As Gandhi Hospital will no longer be an exclusive hospital for Covid-19, King Koti Hospital and Telangana Institute of Medicals Sciences and Research (TIMS) will serve as the new nodal centres for the management of Covid-19 cases. “A decision has been taken to start non-Covid services at Gandhi Hospital, Secunderabad on or before November 21 and instructions have already been issued to the hospital superintendent. Hence, the superintendents/directors of teaching hospitals under the control of Director of Medical Education (DME) are hereby informed that non-critical cases of Covid-19 should be treated in their respective hospitals and should not be referred to Gandhi Hospital straightaway,” read the order issued on Tuesday. Also, teaching hospitals were further asked to create Covid-19 isolation wards to treat patients who test positive. Following the orders passed by the DME, the Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA), Gandhi Hospital branch called off their strike. “The DME has assured us that non-Covid services in all departments in Gandhi Hospital will begin and has also assured us of the removal of Covid-19 specialty hospital tag by announcing King Koti Hospital and TIMS as Covid-19 nodal centres. A circular was issued in this regard to confirm the meeting of our demands. We decided to call off the strike in response,” read a statement from junior doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gandhi-to-resume-non-covid-services-jr-docs-call-off-stir/articleshow/79270457.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Two arrested in Barmer with fake CRPF ID||JAISALMER: Based on information from military intelligence, Barmer Sadar police on Tuesday arrested two residents of Banaskantha district in Gujarat with fake ID card of CRPF. They are being questioned about the fake ID card which is in the name of a CRPF constable but has no seal and sign. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said two persons in a vehicle with Gujarat registration number were threatening the toll booth staff to waive the toll amount after showing the fake ID. When police reached, the accused fled. Later, they were caught after the road was barricaded. They were identified as Lala Bhai alias Nachlakh and Vikram Bhai. Sadar SHO Jakir Hussain said the ID card was in the name of Dashrath Bhai and there was no seal or stamp on it. During inquiry, it was found that Dashrath had resigned from CRPF. The duo was misusing the ID. Both were arrested under Section 151 of CrPC. One week back, on the information from military intelligence, a suspicious person was caught with fake ID of CRPF constable. Following inquiry, he turned out to be a relative of the cardholder. He, too, was misusing the card at the toll booths. The culprit disappeared and later the SP issued notice to the constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/two-arrested-in-barmer-with-fake-crpf-id/articleshow/79271805.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Madurai||MLA comes to aid of actor Thavasi who sought help for cancer treatment||Madurai: After a video of Tamil actor Thavasi seeking financing help for cancer treatment went viral on social media, Thiruppurankundram MLA Dr P Saravanan reached out to help him get treatment free of cost. Thavasi has underwent procedure to place oesophageal stent.In the video, actor Thavasi, who is battling cancer, could be seen pleading for financial help. “From ‘Kizhakku Cheemayile’ to the latest Rajinikanth’s ‘Annaatthe’, I have acted in many films for around 30 years. I never thought that I would get such a disease and my body would deteriorate like this. I’m unable to even speak properly. To the many actors who I have worked with, please help me so I can work with you again,” he said. Some of Thavasi’s recent noteworthy performances include his role in Sivakarthikeyan’s hit comedy film, ‘Varuthapadatha Valibar Sangam’, released in 2013.Subsequently, the actor was admitted in a critical condition to Saravana Multispeciality Hospital in Madurai, run by Thirupparankundram MLA Dr P Saravanan. “An endoscopy procedure was performed by doctors to place an oesophageal stent. He is recovering and is able to have intake of liquid and semi-solid food. Depending on improvement of his health condition in 15-20 days, chemotherapy may be given. His cancer is chronic and he needs to continue in treatment,” Dr Saravanan told TOI. The doctor further said that cost of treatment, which would be around Rs 3-4 lakh, will be borne by Surya Trust, which is also run by him. Various personalities from the film fraternity have also been reaching out to offer support for Thavasi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mla-comes-to-aid-of-actor-thavasi-who-sought-help-for-cancer-treatment/articleshow/79271804.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||T records 950 new Covid cases, 3 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Tuesday recorded 952 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, raising the total count of cases to 2,58,828. While the total death toll has gone up to 1,410, so far 2,43,686 patients have so far recovered from the coronavirus infection, even as 13,732 patients continue to remain under medication. The recovery rate has improved slightly to 94% in the state as against the country average of 93%. With the improved recovery rate, the number of active cases in the state is on a decline for the last week now. Going by the current case fatality rate (CFR) in the state of 0.54%, one in every 200 Covid-19 patients is succumbing to the virus. On Tuesday, testing was at 38,245 in the state. The GHMC limits recorded 150 out of the 952 cases recorded on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-950-new-covid-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/79270467.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Varanasi||Exquisite stone work gives majestic look to KV Dham||VARANASI: The installation of artistically carved sandstone pieces in parts of the Kashi Vishwanath Dham (corridor) has begun and structures embellished with exquisite, intricate carvings are giving a magnificent look, giving a glimpse of how majestic it would look upon completion. The stone work has started at specific locations in the corridor project where no further construction is left, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI on Monday. “Beautifully carved Chunar sandstone pieces have already been installed along the new circumambulation route and at Rani Bhawani (northern) entry gate. The view gives an indication of how splendid the KV Dham area will look on completion since similar stone work will be done in the entire area,” said Agrawal. Officials are expecting timely completion of the project by August 2021 as foundation work of all the proposed buildings and structures, except two, has been completed. About 25% work of the project has been completed and we are sure of meeting the August 2021 deadline, said the commissioner. The construction of the jetty at the Lalita-Jalasen Ghat has started at a fast pace after monsoon and is progressing well, he added. “New construction at two buildings near Chhattadwar point could not be started as all construction material is being taken inside the corridor area through the same points. Besides, the formalities of transfer of two properties are still on and hence construction at these points will be started after it is done,” said Agarwal. All the foundations of the ramp connecting corridor with Manikarnika Ghat, proposed buildings and structures including Mandir Chowk, Mumukshu Bhawan (hospice), city museum, Varanasi gallery have been laid and construction work on it has been intensified. KVT’s chief executive officer Sunil Verma said, “All the old structures at Jalasen Ghat will be conserved. The conservation and restoration of temples unearthed while demolishing the 296 purchased buildings will be started soon.” The KV Dham project construction had started after formation of BJP government in UP as chief minister Yogi Adityanath sanctioned a budget of Rs 600 crores for it. PM Narendra Modi had laid the foundation of the project on March 8, 2019 after 296 buildings were purchased and razed. The construction was hampered during Covid-19 lockdown but now over 2,000 workers are engaged at the project site to ensure its timely completion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/exquisite-stone-work-gives-majestic-look-to-kv-dham/articleshow/79270452.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Business has not been so bad during festival: Traders’ forums||KOLKATA: The festive season brought more than cheers to the trading community that managed to salvage its losses due to the pandemic, said several traders’ associations in the central business district. According to businessmen in the wholesale and retail hub of the city, business during the festive season was not as bad as they were fearing it to be. In fact, many could neutralise the massive losses they incurred during the lockdown since March and make some profits. Some of the categories that contributed to brisk business were electronic appliances, white goods, dry fruits and footwear while other categories like metals, gift items, high-end apparels and toys registered sluggish business. The business community was fearing that people would not visit the crowded markets of central Kolkata due to the fear of contracting the coronavirus. The purchasing power of many families have also decreased following a dip in their income due to the pandemic. “But the business was not bad at all. The market did not register growth compared to previous years due to obvious reasons like the pandemic, the fear of contracting the virus at crowded places like markets and the bad economic situation. But the sales were good and people could salvage their losses incurred since the beginning of the year. We were fearing that this year would be a wash-out but thankfully it did not happen that way,” said Sushil Poddar, president of the Confederation of West Bengal Trade Associations. According to various associations, the business picked up a pace a couple of weeks before Durga Puja with several traders from the districts started coming in private vehicles to procure in bulk goods from Burrabazar and other wholesale markets in central Kolkata. Families started visiting these markets a week before Diwali to purchase gift items, appliances, home decoration items and dry fruits. “There is no point comparing the business with previous years as the situation was different this year but still we could do some business to meet our expenses. I could clear all the stock lying with me since the beginning of this year. I am planning to start afresh with a new strategy,” said Vinay Jaiswal, a wholesaler and retailer of footwear on Rabindra Sarani. Several businessmen offered attractive discounts to draw customers who, they feared, would opt for online shopping portals to avoid visiting the crowded markets due to the fear of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/business-has-not-been-so-bad-during-festival-traders-forums/articleshow/79270462.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Man sent to jail for wife’s murder in Kota||KOTA: The district rural police arrested a 32-year-old man for allegedly murdering his wife and projecting it as a case of suicide by hanging her body from the ceiling fan of her room in Karwad village under Etawa police station area on Monday. The accused was produced before the court that ordered to send him to jail under judicial custody on Tuesday. The deceased woman, identified as Santosh Erwal, wife of Mukesh Erwal (32), was found hanging on Monday morning, SHO at Etawa police station Mukesh Meena said. The husband of the deceased woman claimed that she committed suicide. Her family members, however, alleged that the woman’s husband Mukesh murdered her and hanged her body to the ceiling fan to project the murder as suicide, he added. On the report by deceased woman’s brother Bhawani Shankar, a resident of Nimod village of the district, police lodged a case in the matter and initiated investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-sent-to-jail-for-wifes-murder-in-kota/articleshow/79271808.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Madurai||Doctors urge epilepsy patients to shun myths||Madurai: Doctors have said that public must keep abreast about epilepsy and its after-effects and stressed the importance of early diagnosis and treatment. On the occasion of Nation Epilepsy Day observed on Tuesday, they said that various myths like epilepsy being a mental illness or being incurable must be avoided. At the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) alone, there are around 3,000 epilepsy patients being treated with medication, and come for treatment periodically. “There is still a stigma associated with the disease. However, more patients are coming to hospitals now when the first episode of seizure occurs, especially in children. Often, most patients can be treated by taking the right anti-epileptic drugs for just up to three years,” said Dr P K Murugan, head, department of neurology, GRH. Epilepsy can be triggered due to a range of factors. Since there are many types, it is important for doctors to identify the particular type and provide correct medication and treatment. The two broad categories of epilepsy are focal epilepsy, which involves only a partial part of the brain and generalised epilepsy, which involves the whole brain. Some of the possible causes of epilepsy includes genetic factors, factors during perinatal period, traumatic brain injury, stroke, vascular diseases, and infectious diseases. “Unfortunately, there is a huge gap in the medical care of epilepsy patients. Around 80-90% of patients are unable to get proper care when it comes to diagnosis and treatment. For 15% patients for whom medications don’t work, surgery is required. However, epilepsy surgery is vastly underutilised and only two in 1,000 people are able to avail it. Only very few hospitals across the state provide the surgery,” said Dr S Muthukani, epileptologist at Apollo Hospitals, Madurai. He also said that there is no additional risk for epilepsy patients due to Covid-19. “In such case, patients will continue to be on anti-epileptic drugs even as they undergo treatment for Covid-19. There is sometimes a possibility of interaction between the drugs taken for the two diseases. In such case, the treatment is modify accordingly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctors-urge-epilepsy-patients-to-shun-myths/articleshow/79271807.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Univ of Edinburgh, HHF join hands||Hyderabad: The University of Edinburgh is collaborating with city-based NGO Helping Hand Foundation (HHF) to formulate a module on health inequities in Covid-19 pandemic. The Edinburgh Futures Institute & Global Health Academy, a medical education arm of the prestigious University of Edinburgh, Scotland is collaborating with different stakeholders like public health experts, NGOs and medical fraternity in low and medium income countries to understand the inequities in dealing with the pandemic. “The video recordings of the online discussions with HHF were very well received by the undergraduate students at Edinburgh university who are completing a course on global challenges,” said Dr Jenny Reid, course lead and coordinator at Edinburgh Futures Institute and Global Health Academy, University of Edinburgh, as per an official statement from HHF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/univ-of-edinburgh-hhf-join-hands/articleshow/79270480.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaisalmer: Jailed woman seeks court help to find missing son||JAISALMER: A woman, who is in jail for the murder of her husband, has sought court intervention in directing the Jaisalmer police to find her 29-year-old son who has been missing since April 2018. Before he went missing, the youth had testified against his mother and her lover in the murder case of his father that year. The youth’s testimony led to the conviction of his mother and her lover in 2019. The jailed woman has expressed doubt that her relatives may have kidnapped her son for greed of property. Based on her civil writ petition, the high court has asked the police to find the missing youth at the earliest. The missing report was filed in Pokhran police station in 2018 but till now there is no clue of the youth. SP Ajay Singh said that Abdul Hameed, resident of Didania in Jaisalmer, went missing on April 11, 2018 and a report was filed by his uncle Suleman on April 25, 2018. The SP said that police teams were sent to different locations but Abdul could not be found. A prize money of Rs 5,000 was also announced for giving information about the missing youth, but in vain. Pokhran SHO Manak Vishnoi said that Chanda along with her lover Baseer Khan in 2012 had murdered her husband Ramzan Khan and buried his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jailed-woman-seeks-court-help-to-find-missing-son/articleshow/79271811.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Phones lost in airport recovered from Surat||Kolkata: Technology and adept manpower ensured a family of four flying to Guwahati from Kolkata get back their lost mobiles within a few hours on Tuesday. The phones had gone missing during security check. The incident happened around 10am when the family realized the cellphones were missing while waiting to board the flight home to Guwahati. “They had placed the phones along with other gadgets on the tray to pass it through scanning machine. They picked up the gadgets after security check but around 10 minutes later, it was found that the two phones were missing,” said a relative. With one hour left for their flight, the family pleaded helplessness. CISF officials asked them to write a complaint and began scanning CCTV footages. “Sometime later, CISF officers said they have tracked the man, who had picked the phones. But he was already on a plane to Surat,” said a relative. When the family reached Guwahati, they were informed that the person was stopped in Surat and their phones have been recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/phones-lost-in-airport-recovered-from-surat/articleshow/79270482.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Dispute over seat sharing causes headache for Congress||KOCHI: The dispute over a seat in the district panchayat has affected the entire plans of Congress. As per the understanding between A and I factions, district panchayat will be headed by A faction leader while Kochi corporation will be headed by I group if UDF wins. The earlier understanding is that Abdul Muthalib of A faction will head the district panchayat while N Venugopal of I faction will be elected as mayor if UDF wins. During seat sharing among the two factions in the district panchayat, Muthalib insisted on contesting from Nedumbassery ward which he considers as a winnable seat. But l faction, which currently holds the seat, is not ready to part with it. “Despite holding talks several times, the leadership is yet to make a consensus in the matter. So, we are forced to go back to the earlier equation. Last time, I faction headed district panchayat while A faction headed Kochi corporation. As Muthalib was not given a winnable seat, he will not contest. In this backdrop, we have decided to raise a claim over heading Kochi corporation,” an A faction leader said. The party leadership is yet to announce candidates for Valakam, Avoly and Nedumbassery wards of district panchayat. This decision will have a cascading effect on sharing the posts of chairpersons and presidents of various local bodies in the district. “In Kochi corporation, A group will demand that Henry Austin, grandson of former Union minister Henry Austin, should be made the mayor. Church also will support him as mayoral candidate,” an A faction leader said. Similarly, A faction leader and former councillor M B Muraleedharan, who is the candidate from Padivattom division, also will raise claim over mayor’s post if A faction is given opportunity to head Kochi corporation this time. “The decision will have its repercussions on other local bodies as well. Consensus had been arrived at on sharing posts of chairmen/chairpersons of various municipalities and presidents of panchayats. All such decisions will have to be reworked,” he said. At the same time, I faction leaders said that there won’t be any change in the earlier understanding. “The understanding is that A faction will head district panchayat and I faction will head Kochi corporation. There won’t be any change in that decision. There isn’t any importance for individuals,” an I faction leader said. “Decisions regarding who should be mayor will be taken only after the election results. Similarly, the decision on who should head other local bodies also will be taken only after the results are out,” he said. According to Congress leaders, the UDF will win at least 44 seats in the member council.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dispute-over-seat-sharing-causes-headache-for-cong/articleshow/79269377.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||GI tag sought for Narsapur crochet lace products||Hyderabad: Makers of the famous Narsapur crochet lace products are seeking Geographical Indication (GI) tag for the products. The lace workers of Narsapur have submitted the GI application for their products to GI registry, Chennai. The West Godavari District Alankriti Lace Manufacturing Mahila Mutually Aided Cooperative Societies Federation, The Narsapur All India Crochet Lace Exporters Association and Andhra Pradesh Handicrafts Development Corporation have submitted the application. The craft originated in the 19 mandals of East and West Godavari districts of AP and the tradition has been passed down from generation to generation. The craftsmanship of the products and their uniqueness have been attracting buyers in the domestic market. The origin of the lace industry is connected with the history of the missionaries in the Godavari delta. “In 1837, George Beer and William Bowden came to Narsapur where they found Godavari delta mission or the Bretheren Mission. The wife of Rev. J Cain, the missionary at Dumugudem, had started a lace work industry at that station which is known even outside India. During the famine of 1896-97, Cains encouraged the young women who had learnt the art in the school to take it up as a means of livelihood,” states a document. Cain sold the products in India, England, and Australia. Later, in 1908, K Soma Raju, a local of Narsapur started exporting the lace products regularly on commercial lines, which gave a great boost to the growth of lace export in West Godavari district. During 1970s, lace making was carried on extensively in Palacole, Narsapur and its surrounding villages. The laces are exported to countries like UK, US, Canada, France and Australia||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gi-tag-sought-for-narsapur-crochet-lace-products/articleshow/79270498.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad high court gets 28 permanent judges||PRAYAGRAJ: Twenty-eight additional judges of Allahabad High Court have been appointed as permanent judges of the court by the President of India. The additional judges who have been appointed as permanent judges are: Justices Prakash Padia, Alok Mathur, Pankaj Bhatia, Saurabh Lavania, Vivek Varma, Sanjay Kumar Singh, Piyush Agrawal, Saurabh Shyam Shamshery, Jaspreet Singh, Rajeev Singh, Smt Manju Rani Chauhan, Karunesh Singh Pawar, Dr Yogendra Kumar Srivastava, Manish Mathur, Rohit Ranjan Agarwal, Ram Krishna Gautam, Umesh Kumar, Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, Anil Kumar- IX, Rajendra Kumar-IV, Mohd Faiz Alam Khan, Vikas Kunvar Srivastav, Virendra Kumar Srivastava, Suresh Kumar Gupta, Sushri Ghandikota Sri Devi, Narendra Kumar Johari, Raj Beer Singh and Ajit Singh. This information was given in a notification dated November 17, 2020 issued by the Government of India, Ministry of Law and Justice (Department of Justice, New Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/allahabad-high-court-gets-28-permanent-judges/articleshow/79270488.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Man charred to death in house fire in Nagaur||JAIPUR: A 25-year-old man was killed when his house at Deedwana in Nagaur caught fire while he was sleeping on Tuesday. A short circuit caused the fire, preliminary investigation has revealed. “We received information around 6am that a fire broke out in a house here and rushed to the spot. A fire tender was also called to douse the fire but unfortunately Vijay Meena got trapped inside his room and suffered fatal burn injuries,” said an official of Deedwana police station. According to Meena’s wife, around 5.30am, she along with their child came down from her room which was on the first floor of the house. The fire broke out soon after. “Meena’s wife in her statement said that after coming downstairs, she switched on the lights and found smoke coming out of their room. She alerted her husband who was inside,” said the official. Cops claimed that while the fire was not big, but the flames had taken over the entry points of the room. “The flames and smoke had trapped Meena inside and while we tried to rescue him, he could not come out,” said an official. Preliminary investigation suggests that the fire was caused due to short circuit though the actual reason was yet to be ascertained. “The FSL team will visit the fire site to collect samples which will give us the confirmed reason behind the cause of fire,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-charred-to-death-in-house-fire-in-nagaur/articleshow/79271813.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: For newcomers, none of the roads leads to colleges||NEW DELHI: Contrasted with the days of flash mobs, dances and street plays that highlighted the first day of college at Delhi University, the beginning of the new academic session on Wednesday is unlikely to be such fun. Because of the Covid-19 pandemic, colleges will instead hold virtual orientation sessions, with the student societies also planning online interactions and auditions for newcomers. Miranda House principal Bijaylaxmi Nanda said, “We will have the orientation on Wednesday and it will go on for a week. Alongside orientations for our many societies, we will hold general elective classes and also sessions for newcomers with our wellness counsellor.” Nanda added that with the students not required to physically come to college, a virtual tour of the campus on the institutional website would give them a view of their new academic centre. Similar events have been planned at Ramjas and Sri Venkateswara colleges and Aditi Mahavidyalaya from Wednesday. While Hansraj College held its orientation on Tuesday, some like Motilal Nehru and SRCC are yet to inform the newcomers about such programmes. Besides a virtual tour of the college, Hansraj had arranged for seniors in different societies to present singing, instrumental and dance performances from their homes. In place of the usual arrangements in the auditorium, Aditi Mahavidyalaya has circulated Google Meet links so students can join the programme. College principal Mamta Sharma said, “We will tell the students about the college, give them details of the subjects they will be studying and introduce the faculty. In times like this, this is the most we can do for the youngsters.” Sharma also said the traditional fresher’s party might not be held this year. “What is the point of it when students cannot physically meet each other?” she asked. Srishti Kathuria of Kayra, the western dance society of Mata Sundri College, said their first step would be to use social media to share posters and flyers containing information on the student societies in the college. “Only when we get a good response will we hold auditions on Zoom for those keen to become members,” she said. Anubhuti, member of Riyaaz Indian music society at Maitreyi College similarly said, “We will have a Google meet for freshers interested in joining extracurricular activities.” At PGDAV College, the cultural societies will post on social media their plans and achievements and hold a virtual meet for students. “After this, we will organise either an online audition or ask interested freshers to send us recordings of their performances,” said Srinithi of Raaga, the Indian music society there. Usually, such orientations are scheduled for the first day of the new session and freshers mingle with society members to learn about what they can do. 2020 will be different.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-newcomers-none-of-the-roads-leads-to-colleges/articleshow/79270576.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||Row in LDF over Manjooran’s candidature||Kochi: Following a row over the candidature of advocate Dhanesh Mathew Manjooran, who has been facing allegations of misbehaving with a woman, CPM leadership is holding discussions with Kerala Congress (M), which fielded him as the candidate for Ponekkara division in Kochi corporation, so as to remove him from the list. A decision in this regard will have to be taken by Kerala Congress (M) leadership. A woman had alleged that Manjooran tried to molest her while she was returning home after work in Kochi in July 2016. It was on November 12 that the LDF announced the list of candidates for Kochi corporation and Ernakulam district panchayat. Then, Thoppumpady, Ponekkara and Konthuruthy seats of Kochi corporation were given to Kerala Congress (M), the new entrant in the LDF. The Kerala Congress (M) has fielded women candidates in Thoppumpady and Konthuruthy. After the front leadership announced the name of Manjooran as LDF candidate, criticism against this appeared on the social media. This forced LDF and CPM leaders to engage in damage control measures. “We are holding discussions with Kerala Congress (M) leadership in this regard,” CPM district secretary C N Mohanan said. It is at a time when LDF winning accolades for fielding new faces and youngsters as candidates to Kochi corporation, district panchayat and other local bodies that the controversy regarding Manjooran’s candidature erupted. “The list brought out by LDF had succeeded in winning the public support to certain extent. The candidature of Manjooran will cast a shadow on LDF’s prospects in the election,” a CPM leader said. “It is expected that Kerala Congress (M) leadership will take an apt decision,” he said. With just two days left for filing nominations, Kerala Congress (M) will have to take a decision on whether Manjooran should be removed or not at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/row-in-ldf-over-manjoorans-candidature/articleshow/79269403.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Period drama at MJ Market||Hyderabad: The inner courtyard of the newly-renovated Moazzam Jahi Market is all set to come alive on Wednesday (November 18) with the period costume drama ‘Quli: Dilon Ka Shahzada’, a royal love tale between king Quli Qutb Shah, founder of Hyderabad, and courtesan Bhagmati. Directed by Mohammad Ali Baig, ‘Quli: Dilon Ka Shahzada’ also rolls out the 15th edition of Qadir Ali Baig Theatre Festival which presents five productions at Radisson Blu Plaza in Banjara Hills from November 20 - 22. This year’s format will however have productions with fewer artistes and solo plays spread over a weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/period-drama-at-mj-market/articleshow/79270554.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Udaipur||Rs 6 lakh fake notes seized, 2 held in Udaipur||UDAIPUR: The city police on Tuesday seized fake currency notes worth Rs 6 lakh and arrested two persons from Sajjangarh Road under the Ambamata police station. Acting on a tip off, the special task force in a joint operation with the Ambamata police team held a search at a refreshment stall run by one Saddam, a resident of Kotra block, on Sajjangarh Road and found fake currency notes of 500 denominations in a bag. Police arrested Saddam and his aide Amin alias Sonu from the spot. Prima facie, it is assumed that the accused were part of a nexus that circulated fake currencies in the market. Police would now investigate who supplied these fake notes to them if they had on earlier occasions circulated the currencies through the customers who came to have refreshments at their stall. The case has been taken under IPC sections 489 (counterfeiting currency notes), 120 B for criminal conspiracy and 34 (acts done by several persons towards common intent).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/rs-6l-fake-notes-seized-2-held-in-udaipur/articleshow/79271819.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||KMRL allows cycles inside Metro trains||KOCHI: Kochi Metro has decided to allow commuters to carry their cycles inside the Metro trains. As part of the pilot programme, Kochi Metro Rai Ltd (KMRL) will allow all kinds of bicycles in the first and last coaches of Metro. In the initial stage, each train will be able to accommodate 4-5 bicycles. KMRL took the decision taking in to account the increasing number of cycle users in the city. The service is completely free of charge. As the first step, KMRL will permit cycles from six stations — Changampuzha Park, Palarivattom, Town Hall, Ernakulam South, Maharaja’s College and Elamkulam. At present the entry and exit of cycles will be limited to these six stations. If there is a huge demand the service will be extended to all stations. “Our aim is to promote end-to-end connectivity with non-motorized mode of transport and also to encourage a healthy lifestyle,” said additional chief secretary and KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma. Meanwhile, as part of enhancing last-mile connectivity, Kochi Metro has started feeder service from Kalamassery to Kakkanad. The service will be available from Kalamassery Metro station to collectorate. The shuttle service will start from Kalamassery Metro station at 9.30am. The service will start from Kakkanad at 5pm. At present one vehicle is arranged in association with Chalo, a service provider. Kochi Metro has started autorickshaw service at Vyttila Metro station also. KMRL has identified 12 routes from Vyttila for the benefit of Metro passengers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kmrl-allows-cycles-inside-metro-trains/articleshow/79269431.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur civic body allotted cheaper land to 299 bodies since 1982||JAIPUR: In past 38 years, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has allotted land at concessional rate to 299 organisations for various purposes. A recent report compiled by the civic body has data of land allotment since 1982. As per the records, 30 land allotments were done free of cost, out of which majority were government departments. Total 10 organisations were allotted land on rupee 1 token money. In past seven years, no land allotment has been made by the JDA. In 2013, the authority allotted land to 13 institutes, including religious group and government. “The proposal to allot land after 2013 are pending at the state government. After the change in regime in 2013, the then BJP government introduced land allotment policy in 2015. No major land allotment at concessional rates were done after that period,” said a senior officer at the JDA. Sources said, the report has been prepared on the directions of the urban development and housing minister Shanti Dhariwal. To ensure that the land allotted at concessional rate is not being misused for other purposes, the state government will examine and verify its usage. “The department in the past received several complaints that many institutes are using the land for commercial purposes. Also, they have rented out the place which is against norms. Action will be taken against such institutes after examining the details,” said a source. Officials claimed many private hospitals which are beneficiaries of concessional land have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from below poverty line (BPL) category. “As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outdoor patient’s department (OPD). Similarly, 10% beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-allotted-cheaper-land-to-299-bodies-since-1982/articleshow/79271820.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||HC seeks info on ‘detention’ of two Nigerian nationals||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has directed the state government counsel to seek information from the authorities concerned relating to the alleged illegal detention of two Nigerian nationals since September 2019. Hearing a habeas corpus writ petition filed by Chinasa Victor Obioha and Chima Paul Ugochukwu through their next friends and wives, namely Ms Poudiwiliu Pamai and Ms Philangam Ronra, a bench comprising Justice Ramesh Sinha and Justice Samit Gopal directed to list this case on November 18 for the next hearing. In the writ petition, it has been alleged that both the petitioners — Chima Paul Ugochukwu and Chinasa Victor Obioha — have been illegally detained at Surajpur Police Lines, 49 Battalion, Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh since September 24, 2019. It has been requested to the court to direct that both of them be released with immediate effect. According to the petition, the wife of one of the persons is currently residing in Delhi. It was further alleged that these persons have not been produced in any court till the drawing of the present petition and neither have these persons or their relatives or even the advocates have been informed or intimated the reasons for their detention nor any case has been registered for their detention. The direction was passed on November 10||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-info-on-detention-of-two-nigerian-nationals/articleshow/79270510.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 18, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Hubby, father-in-law held for killing Haryana woman||JAIPUR: Police arrested two persons in the murder of a 23-year-old woman whose body was found wrapped in a bedsheet in Jaipur Rural’s Paniyala on Sunday. Initially, the cops could not identify the woman but later she was identified as Puja Yadav who hailed from Haryana’s Rewari. Cops arrested her husband Ashish Yadav (26) and father-in-law Laxman Yadav (60). "Puja’s body was found near a bridge in Paniyala and there were injury marks on her face as well as ligature marks on the throat. We sent the victim’s photograph to all the police stations in Rajasthan and Haryana. We also checked the CCTV cameras on the highway in a bid to identify her and finally got the lead from Rewari," said a police official. Cops suspected that she was murdered elsewhere and the body dumped at the site where it was found. On Sunday itself, Ashish had registered a missing report at the local police station in Rewari claiming that Puja had gone out the previous night and did not return. He told the same thing to her family as well. After Puja’s body was identified by her family, they alleged that her husband and in-laws had murdered her for dowry. "Her family told us that on Saturday Puja had called them and said that her husband and his family were planning to kill her. Before she could complete her sentence, the call got disconnected. When they tried to call her, they could not connect," added the officials. The woman’s family members claimed that at the time of the couple’s wedding in 2017, Ashish and his family had created ruckus demanding Rs 5 lakh and other dowry. They were apparently troubling Puja after the wedding as well. Following this, cops intensified interrogation of Ashish and Laxman, who confessed to the murder. “Ashish suspected that Puja was having an extramarital affair and also had an issue over Rs 5 lakh which he was asking for. He strangled her and to hide the evidence, he along with Laxman dumped the body in Paniyala," officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hubby-father-in-law-held-for-killing-haryana-woman/articleshow/79271842.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC election advanced by 2 months, to be held on December 1||HYDERABAD: The Telangana government on Tuesday took the opposition by surprise by giving its go-ahead to hold the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections and bringing forward the entire process by almost two months. The State Election Commission (SEC) announced the schedule on Tuesday which said voting will be held on December 1, while counting will take place on December 4. In 2016, the schedule was announced on January 8, the notification was issued on January 12, voting was held on February 2 and the results were declared on February 5 with polling at 45.29%. The dates left the opposition fuming as both BJP and Congress are yet to finalise candidates for the 150 wards. They have also not drafted their manifestos. BJP chief spokesperson K Krishna Saagar Rao even called the SEC a puppet in the hands of the government. Congress national spokesperson Dasoju Sravan said the SEC was acting like an active member of ruling TRS. “What is the urgency in announcing poll schedule even before finalising list of polling booths?” he sought to know. Going by the schedule, the entire election process would be completed in 17 days (between November 17 and December 4) and ahead of December 6, the anniversary of Babri Masjid demolition. In 2016, the same process had taken 25 days. Sources said that hurrying up the election process is a strategic move by the ruling TRS which is not keen to give any advantage to the BJP, especially after the saffron party won the Dubbak assembly byelection a week ago and senses an opportunity in the civic polls. Asked why the SEC was in such a hurry to issue the poll notification, state election commissioner C Partha Sarathi said, “We issued the poll notification in consultation with the government. As per the recently amended GHMC Act, concurrence of the state government is mandatory for fixing the election schedule.” Though there was a talk in political circles that the elections could be held earlier than expected, many thought voting would take place in mid-January. Polling in 150 wards will be held from 7 am to 6 pm in accordance with Covid-19 guidelines. Also, ballot papers will be used instead of EVMs. Only three days have been given for filing nominations — November 18, 19 and 20 and a day’s gap between the date of poll notification and commencement of filing of nominations. Contesting candidates will get just a week for campaigning from the date of final list of contestants being published.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-election-advanced-by-2-months-to-be-held-on-dec-1/articleshow/79271848.cms||Roushan Ali
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi Police nab man wanted in over 100 cases after exchange of fire||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police has arrested a 34-year-old man involved in at least 109 criminal cases of robbery, snatching, assault and Arms Act in Delhi and Haryana. His associate, who was involved in 20 cases, was also arrested. The arrests were made following a brief exchange of fire between the police team and the criminals. The two men were also involved in a recent incident reported from Maurya Enclave where they had opened fire at a Delhi Police constable. The main accused was identified as Sunil, while his associate is 22-year-old Amit. Two country-made pistols, two live cartridges and a stolen motorcycle were recovered from them. Police said that on November 16, an incident of snatching was reported. During investigation it emerged that two persons riding a black bike were indulging in snatchings. On Monday at 4.25pm, a police team spotted two suspicious men riding a bike near Rohini sector 16. Deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) PK Mishra said when the policemen asked the suspects to stop, they tried to flee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/police-nab-man-wanted-in-over-100-cases-after-exchange-of-fire/articleshow/79270609.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Delhi||IIT-Delhi’s classic solution to check air pollution||NEW DELHI: Want to get your car converted into an electric vehicle? IIT Delhi’s Centre of Excellence for Research on Clean Air (CERCA) is ready to help. The IIT thinktank on Monday launched an initiative on electric mobility with the retrofitting of a vintage Beetle car of 1948 model into an electric vehicle. Hemant Kaushal, project coordinator, CERCA, believes that “there is a need to improve infrastructure for electric vehicles in Delhi where air pollution is an issue.” “CERCA is ready to provide expertise and help all those willing to get their cars retrofitted into electric vehicles,” he said. The Beetle car programme was attended by several members of Heritage Motoring Club of India (HMCI). While launching the electric Beetle, IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao pointed out how “e-mobility has been the buzzword in the automobile industry and the need to adopt e-mobility is not just essential, but also pressing for safeguarding the planet.” Rao stated that this was the time to realise the damage already caused and bring a halt to it by shifting to more sustainable alternatives, such as electric vehicles. CERCA founder Arun Duggal said that “CERCA was established to promote research and actions to reduce air pollution. Electric Beetle is a symbolic action to demonstrate that we can take actions to eliminate air pollution in Delhi-NCR and in India by use of technology and innovation. One of the most amicable answers to the problem of air pollution today is the transition to EVs, which are considered 100 per cent emission-free.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/iit-ds-classic-solution-to-check-air-pollution/articleshow/79270640.cms||Mohammad Ibrar
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Wind helps Delhi get its breath back, boosts AQI to moderate||NEW DELHI: The air quality in Delhi improved to “moderate” category on Tuesday. The national capital recorded an overall air quality index (AQI) of 171 as against 221 (poor) on Monday, according to Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi’s air quality has remained in “poor” and above categories since October 7. Met officials said strong wind under the influence of western disturbance helped in improving the air quality. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said, “The overall air quality of Delhi is in the ‘moderate’ category as of Tuesday morning. Surface winds are west-southwesterly and energetic, very favourable for pollutant dispersion. Rainfall, along with stronger winds, under the influence of western disturbance helped clean the build-up of pollution in the Indo-Gangetic Plain.” Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Increased wind speed due to western disturbance has been dispersing pollutants. Light rain recorded on Sunday in a few parts of Delhi also settled the pollutants. Though the wind direction shifted to north-westerly, there was minimum impact of stubble burning to Delhi’s air due to low fire counts.” SAFAR said effective stubble fire counts (98) had significantly reduced. “Boundary layer wind direction is north north-westerly, however, since the fire-related emissions have significantly reduced, a significant impact is not expected. Stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air is almost negligible and estimated marginal 3% for Tuesday,” said SAFAR’s bulletin. Data from CPCB showed that out of 36 monitoring stations in the national capital, only six- Mundka, Vivek Vihar, Jahangirpuri, Ashok Vihar, Nehru Nagar and RK Puram- remained in “poor” range at 8 pm on Tuesday. Two stations-Wazirpur and Lodhi Road- were in “satisfactory” category, while remaining were in “moderate” range around the same time. The city’s air quality is, however, likely to remain “moderate” for a short period. Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi has said that the air quality is likely to deteriorate marginally and remain in “moderate” to “poor” category on Wednesday and in “poor” category on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/wind-helps-city-get-its-breath-back-boosts-aqi-to-moderate/articleshow/79270646.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||Youth shot at by friend in Pratapgarh||Prayagraj: A 27-year-old youth was allegedly shot at by his friend near his house at Veershah Bhojpur village under the limits of Sangipur police station of Pratapgarh district on Tuesday morning. The injured youth identified as Ramesh Verma was referred to SRN hospital in Prayagraj for treatment.A police team arrested the accused who was hiding in his house. Police also claimed to have seized an illegal weapon from his possession. Sangipur police said the incident took place on Tuesday morning around 8:30am when a close friend of Ramesh arrived at his house. Police said the family members in their complaint alleged that the accused identified as Shivam Singh, resident of the same village carried an illegal weapon with him and shot at Ramesh before escaping from the scene. Hearing sounds of the bullet, the family members and others rushed to the spot and brought the injured Ramesh Verma at Sangipur Community Health Centre (CHC) for treatment where doctors referred him to SRN hospital. A case has been registered under appropriate sections, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/youth-shot-at-by-friend-in-pratapgarh/articleshow/79270634.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Nizam funds: Grandson lodges complaint with Hyderabad police||HYDERABAD: A week after filing a petition in the Delhi high court questioning legality of succession certificate, Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of Nizam VII Mir Osman Ali Khan, has lodged a complaint with Hyderabad police against three kin for alleged breach of trust and cheating in the distribution of the Rs 325 crore Nizam Fund. The money was decided in favour of India and the Nizam’s legal heirs by a UK court last year. He also sought police protection alleging that he and his family have been receiving threats to their lives. This is perhaps the first time ever that an heir of the former ruler of Hyderabad State sought security. Najaf Ali Khan on Tuesday called on Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar and submitted a complaint seeking registration of a case against Mukarram Jah and Muffakham Jah, grandsons; Azmath Jah, great grandson; and Esra Jah, former wife of Mukarram Jah and holder of his general power of attorney (GPA). Najaf Ali Khan, who also heads the Nizam’s Family Welfare Association, has sought registration of an FIR against the other legal heirs of the last ruler of the princely Hyderabad state. Later, in a statement, Najaf Ali said the police commissioner promised to forward the complaint to a legal team as the charges levelled in the complaint were of serious nature. The complaint pertains to sharing of the Hyderabad Fund, which was decided in favour of India and the Nizam’s legal heirs after a legal battle for nearly 70 years. During the Police Action in 1948, the Nizam’s then finance minister had transferred one million pound to the account of high commissioner of Pakistan in the UK apparently to fight Hyderabad’s case in the UN. India, Pakistan and the Nizam’s family claimed the money, forcing the British Parliament to freeze the account. In November 2019, the case was decided against Pakistan. Meanwhile, the amount grew to 35 million pound (Rs 325 crore) in NatWest Bank. Najaf Ali Khan alleged the Hyderabad Fund was shared mostly by the two grandsons, leaving a pittance to other legal heirs. In his complaint, he alleged that an invalid certificate of succession to the ‘gaddi’ (throne) was submitted to the court in the UK. He also alleged that the case involved cheating, fraud, forgery, misrepresentation, giving false and fabricated evidence resulting in misappropriation of fund belonging to the Nizam VII. “We submitted to the police commissioner a complaint which contained details on usage of the invalid Certificate of Succession in the UK High Court in the Nizam Fund’s case issued by the Union government to Mukarram Jah on February 27, 1967 as sole successor to the Nizam VII,” he said, adding that this resulted in loss to the rest of the legal heirs. He reiterated that after the 26th amendment (abolition of privy purse) to the Constitution in 1971 by insertion of Article 363A, the Certificate of Succession had become invalid, null and void and ultra-vires to the Constitution. “Thus, Mukarram Jah is no more the ruler of Hyderabad in succession to his grandfather, HEH Nawab Sir Mir Osman Ali Khan Bahadur, and he is like any ordinary citizen. Therefore, the Muslim personal law is applicable for the matter of inheritance,” he said in his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizam-funds-grandson-files-cheating-case/articleshow/79271850.cms||Syed Akbar
November 18, 2020||Agra||Agra experiences season’s first fog||AGRA: Agra region was engulfed in a thick fog on Tuesday morning, the first this season. Visibility was not even 50 metres, claimed early morning walkers in the city. Track the pollution level in your cityThe dense fog on highways caused traffic to move at a slow pace. Trains slowed down, resulting in delays. Low visibility till 11 pm disappointed tourists who came early to see the Taj Mahal. For the next five days, Agra region will witness fog in the morning and a clear sky in the afternoon, said sources at the metrological department. Following the rainfall on Sunday, mercury level dipped below normal. A partly clouded sky hung over the city throughout the day. A gentle wind blowing at a speed of 10 kilometers per hour cooled the region. The minimum temperature in Agra region is likely to fall by 3 degrees Celsius over the next one week, the Met office predicted. The maximum temperature recorded on Tuesday was 24.6 degrees Celsius, which was five degrees less than normal. The minimum temperature was recorded at 15 degrees Celsius, the Met office added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-experiences-seasons-first-fog/articleshow/79268365.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Parts of Candolim, Nerul, Pilerne go dry for 8 days||Saligao: Water supply to some wards of Pilerne, Nerul and Candolim has been hit for eight days after a water pump burnt out and a valve near the Pilerne panchayat developed a snag. Sarpanch of Pilerne Sandeep Bandodkar told reporters that Moika waddo, Marra, Navetim in Pilerne, Orda, Saipem and Arradi in Candolim have not received water supply for eight days due to a problem with a valve near the Pilerne panchayat. “People were calling us. The supply issue was not rectified despite it being Diwali. Locals had to be supplied water through tankers,” he said. The assistant engineer with the PWD water supply section, Deepak Borkar, however, said that the problem arose after the submersion water pump broke down. High voltage and continuous pumping caused the pump to burn, he said, adding that it has been sent for repairs on an urgent basis. PWD water tankers were sent, but in some areas people refused to come to collect the water as they live more than 100m away from the main road and it is difficult for them to come walking to fetch water. The water tankers had to return without supplying water, he said. Bandodkar said that Calangute MLA Michael Lobo and department officials had come to inspect the problem. Meanwhile, as water shortage is also being witnessed in parts of Porvorim constituency, affected residents are planning to hold a protest near PWD office division, XVII , opposite primary health centre, Porvorim on Wednesday at 10.45am.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/parts-of-candolim-nerul-pilerne-go-dry-for-8-days/articleshow/79271873.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||More recoveries bring relief but unrelenting TPR raises concern||Thiruvananthapuram: Covid-19 was reported among 5,792 more people in the state on Tuesday while 6,620 patients under treatment recovered from the disease. Among the new cases, 5,688 are cases of local transmission and the source of infection for 639 has not been traced yet. Also, 27 deaths were confirmed as due to Covid, taking the death toll in the state to 1,916. At present, there are 70,070 patients undergoing treatment for Coronavirus infection while a total of 4,61,394 people have so far recovered from the disease. In the last 24 hours, 56,157 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 10.31%. Till now, a total of 55,54,265 samples have been sent for testing. Among the new cases, 64 are health workers and 104 have travelled to the state from outside. Malappuram reported the highest number of cases, 776, followed by Kollam (682), Thrissur (667), Kozhikode (644), Ernakulam (613), Kottayam (429), Thiruvananthapuram (391), Palakkad (380), Alappuzha (364), Kannur (335), Pathanamthitta (202), Idukki (116), Wayanad (97) and Kasaragod (96). Those who got infected through contact are Malappuram 734, Kollam 674, Thrissur 650, Kozhikode 603, Ernakulam 451, Kottayam 427, Thiruvananthapuram 286, Palakkad 177, Alappuzha 345, Kannur 248, Pathanamthitta 130, Idukki 86, Wayanad 82 and Kasargod 92. The infected healthcare workers are Ernakulam 15, Kozhikode 11, Pathanamthitta and Kannur 9 each, Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Malappuram 4 each, Kollam, Palakkad, Wyanad and Kasargod 2 each. Those who tested negative are Thiruvananthapuram 561, Kollam 622, Pathanamthitta 154, Alappuzha 397, Kottayam 501, Idukki 54, Ernakulam 588, Thrissur 723, Palakkad 820, Malappuram 497, Kozhikode 831, Wayanad 117, Kannur 625 and Kasargod 130. There are currently 3,20,023 people under surveillance in various districts of the state, of which 3,03,218 are isolated at their homes or institutional quarantine centres while 16,805 are in hospitals. As many as 1,353 people were admitted to the hospitals on Tuesday. Eight new hotspots were declared in Malappuram, Idukki, Thrissur and Palakkad districts while nine places were excluded. There are 599 hotspots in the state now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/more-recoveries-bring-relief-but-unrelenting-tpr-raises-concern/articleshow/79269540.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||Corp told to remove illegal billboards||Kochi: As many as 1,202 candidates contesting from various local bodies in the district submitted their nomination papers on Tuesday. While 875 candidates submitted their nominations to contest from various grama panchayats, 67 submitted papers for contesting from different block panchayat wards. While 54 candidates submitted nominations to contest from Kochi corporation, 155 and 60 candidates filed their papers for contesting from municipalities and Ernakulam district panchayat, respectively. Authorities are completing the preparatory works for the election to various local bodies to be held on December 10. A total of 3,132 polling booths are being set up in different parts of the district. Meanwhile, the district administration has started measures to remove illegal billboards on roads in Kochi corporation limits. Collector S Suhas has given instruction to corporation officials to remove all the billboards and hoarding erected on roads and pavements disrupting traffic. Though Kochi corporation council had taken the decision to remove the illegal billboards several times, most of the boards are yet to be removed. Clauses in Kerala Municipal Act that the hoardings and billboards will be invoked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-told-to-remove-illegal-billboards/articleshow/79269501.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||‘Unhappy’ Malayalis delay new ventures||KOCHI: It has more to do with ‘happiness quotient’ than with lack of money. Architects and interior designers in the state are of the view that people are ‘unhappy’. According to them, even people who have money and resources are unwilling to pump it into the realty sector. “More than not having money, people do not want to construct anything new during the pandemic as the happiness quotient associated with a new beginning is missing. It is a kind of mental block. The fear of an uncertain future stops them from constructing a new house or launching a new project. The general mindset or the mood is negative, and they postpone the decision-making process,” said Kochi-based architect S Gopakumar. With the realty sector hitting doldrums due to the pandemic, architects and interior designers say people are not even keen to undertake renovation work and interior designing of houses or commercial spaces. “We get 30%-40% of work from builders and the rest from other projects. With work from home becoming a regular future, the need for maintaining these spaces have reduced. It is expected that in future office spaces might remain vacant. The entire sector is hit,” he added. According to V Shivaji of Cauvery BuildTech, people are happy to spend when they have surplus or disposable income. It is this surplus income that goes into building houses, developing commercial properties and doing interiors. “Withdrawals of deposits from banks and pledging of gold are indicators that they are generating money from reserve funds or resources to ensure cash flow. It is not an income or floating revenue. People are not spending on anything that is not essential or urgent,” he said. Psychologists say the uncertainty created by pandemic has pulled back people from venturing out with a constructive spirit of risk-taking. The social psychology that scripts a lack of comfort is slowing the revival of economic activities and economy. Noted psychiatrist C J John says there is a need for an online “Kerala summit” to brainstorm business innovations during this pandemic period and resultant uncertainty. “Both the government and industry bodies can take a lead to give a positive comfort signal.” He further said an eye for opportunities has been blinded with a self-imposed negative mindset that uses uncertainty as an excuse or as a bad omen. Though it’s important to avoid wrong decisions, it sadly takes away the spirit that ignites action in right opportunities. “Unlike the often-stated Japanese mindset, our cultural mindset is to venture into something new only when everything looks good and auspicious,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/unhappy-malayalis-delay-new-ventures/articleshow/79269554.cms||Greeshma Gopal Giri
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Peak season of farm fires may be over, count at 98||NEW DELHI: With the number of farm fires significantly reducing in the last four days, experts are saying its peak season is over because stubble burning began in early September. Only 98 fire counts were recorded in northern plains on Monday as against 282 on Sunday, according to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research. The daily count is likely to be 500-1,000 for the rest of the month, predict experts. According to Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW), from November 1 to 16, 42,285 and 1,733 fires were observed in Punjab and Haryana, respectively. More than 3,000 farm fires were recorded daily from October 30 to November 10. Peak burning was observed on November 5 and 7 when over 5,000 farm fires were recorded daily in Punjab. However, in the last four days, less than 500 fires have been reported every day. Sumit Sharma, director of earth science and climate change at TERI, said, “The stubble burning count has shown a declining trend in the past one week.” L S Kurinji, research analyst at CEEW, said, “The rain could have led to a decrease in farm fires in the past few days. However, we have entered in the third week of November and the peak season is over.” Crop harvesting, which usually begins at the end of second week of October and ends by November-end, started in September or the first week of October this year. “But the low count could also be due to the inability of satellites to identify fires under cloudy conditions,” said a senior official. Punjab recorded an increase in stubble burning this year than the last few years. “Between September 1 and November 16, over 72,500 farm fires were recorded in Punjab compared to 41,000 and 53,000 in 2019 and 2018, respectively,” said Kurinji.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/peak-season-of-farm-fires-may-be-over-count-at-98/articleshow/79270703.cms||Priyangi Agarwal
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||10 days to go, schools put up payment notice in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Some city schools on Tuesday put up their recommendations on websites and notice boards, suggesting ways for parents to expedite the payment of fees. With the Supreme Court on Monday not changing the Calcutta High Court’s order on the 20% waiver on tuition and session fees for the pandemic months or that on the payment deadline of November 30, guardians now have only 10 working days to clear their dues from April to November. Shri Shikshayatan group schools announced that parents have three options: They can pay 80% of the fees; they can choose to stick to the entire amount; those who have already paid the full amounts for some months but now want refund because they wish to avail of the 20% concession, can get their payables for the coming months adjusted accordingly. About 90% parents had already paid for the first quarter and 60% the second quarter at these schools, said spokesperson Bratati Bhattacharya. A notice put up by the Loyola High School, Kidderpore on Tuesday, signed by principal Father Rodney Borneo, read, “We humbly appeal to you to understand the dire situation of the school and if possible to pay the full fees.” La Martiniere Schools have 900 defaulting parents, who have individually been alerted by the administration. About 40% paid and the school received a number of calls and mails on Tuesday, showing their intent to pay, said secretary Supriyo Dhar. Though it is yet to be seen what they actually do to kids on December 8, if their parents miss the payment deadline, the institutes are sending out strict messages now. The letters sent to parents at La Martiniere Schools stated, “Please note that in terms of the Calcutta High Court order, if you fail to clear the outstanding by 30th November, 2020, your child may not be allowed to continue classes with effect from 8th December, 2020.” The Loyola High School notice said, “The fee defaulters will be removed from the online classes after 8th December, 2020.” At South point, 1,200 parents paid the revised fees for October and November by Tuesday. The momentum would pick up in the coming days, said spokesperson Krishna Damani. Those parents who wish to pay the full amount can do so after November 30. About 10% parents seeking waivers at MP Birla School have also paid. Mails have started trickling in to Loreto schools from parents who are seeking waivers and showing intent to pay by the deadline. St Xavier’s Collegiate School principal Father Thamacin Arulappan said he was happy that a large number of parents had understood the school’s problem and expressed their intent to pay 100% fees. Many have already done so. “We are supporting all those who have sought our help. This is helping bring in the much-required balance,” he said. On Monday, 50 schools, under West Bengal Association of Christian Schools, joined hands to file a special leave petition in the Supreme Court against the HC’s October 13 order. But Loreto schools and those run by Christian Brothers did not join it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/10-days-to-go-schools-put-up-payment-notice/articleshow/79270837.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
November 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Malappuram tops in daily caseload||Kozhikode: A total of 776 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Malappuram on Tuesday, making it the district with the highest number of cases reported on the day in the state. Of the newly reported cases, 734 have contracted the infection through contact. The source of infection of 29 patients has not been identified. Among those who tested positive included four health workers. With this the total number of people under treatment in the district has risen to 6,705. As many as 497 people tested negative on the day. Meanwhile, in Kozhikode, as many as 644 new Covid-19 cases were reported, of which 614 had contracted the disease through contact. The recoveries on the day were higher with 831 testing negative. As many as 5,630 samples were tested in the district and the test positivity rate stood at 11.4%. As many as 194 people from the city corporation limits were among those who tested positive on Tuesday. With this the number of Kozhikode natives currently under treatment for Covid-19 is 7,968. As many as 110 people hailing from the district are currently under treatment in other districts. In Wayanad, the new Covid-19 cases reported stood at 97 while there were 116 recoveries. The number of patients currently under treatment in the district is 923, of which 524 are remaining under isolation in their homes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/malappuram-tops-in-daily-caseload/articleshow/79269597.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Lakshmi Vilas Bank to be merged with DBS||Chennai: In a joint operation, the Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday announced a plan to merge Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank India, minutes after the government imposed a moratorium on the beleaguered lender, limiting cash withdrawals to Rs 25,000 for a month. The proposed amalgamation with the Indian subsidiary of Singapore’s DBS Bank marks a shift in the RBI and the government’s stand with a foreign bank being tasked with reviving an ailing old-generation private lender, instead of relying on public sector players to take over a problematic rival. The terms of amalgamations envisages a complete write off of share capital, reserves and surplus, including share premium account. Besides, on the appointed date, LVB shall cease to exist by operation of the scheme, and its shares or debentures listed in any of the stock exchanges shall stand delisted without any further action. Simply put, the shares will have zero value when the scheme gets operationalised. Since March, when Yes Bank was placed under moratorium, this is the second instance of a bank requiring RBI intervention. Unlike in the developed countries, in India, the government and the banking regulator avoid letting a bank collapse and step in to avoid any systemic problems. Chennai-headquartered LVB that started in Karur, then a textile town in Tamil Nadu, has been under severe financial stress, with ballooning bad loans and in need of urgent capital infusion. LVB’s troubles started with the shift in focus from lending to small businesses to large players. In 2016-17, it intensified after it disbursed loans of around Rs 720 crore to the investment arms of Malvinder Singh and Shivinder Singh, former promoters of Ranbaxy, Fortis Healthcare and Religare, against Religare Finvest’s fixed deposits of Rs 794 crore. In September 2019, with the situation deteriorating, RBI had put in under the Prompt Corrective Action framework, limiting expansion and seeking additional capital, which it failed to get. First, its merger plan with IndiaBulls did not find support from RBI, while subsequent discussions with Clix Capital were stuck over valuation. Last September, shareholders also blocked the appointment of a new CEO and seven directors at the AGM, deepening the crisis at the 94-year-old bank. With the crisis lingering on, the government and RBI decided to step in on Tuesday in what appeared to be a pre-planned exercise. Despite the monthly cap on withdrawals, LVB will continue to honour its commitment on various government bonds and other inter-bank payments. RBI also assured depositors that their interests were fully protected and there was no need to panic. Former Canara Bank chairman TN Manoharan has been appointed the administrator. Although the moratorium is in place till mid-December, RBI has sought feedback on the drat amalgamation plan before Friday with the process expected to be speeded up. As part of the revival strategy, DBS will invest an additional Rs 2,500 crore into LVB to support growth, RBI said. “The proposed amalgamation will provide stability and better prospects to LVB depositors, customers and employees following a time of uncertainty. At the same time, the proposed amalgamation will allow DBIL to scale its customer base and network, particularly in South India, which has longstanding and close business ties with Singapore,” DBS Bank said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lakshmi-vilas-bank-to-be-merged-with-dbs/articleshow/79270734.cms||Rajesh Chandramouli
November 18, 2020||Agra||53-year-old man dies of Covid-19, toll climbs to 157||Agra: A 53-year-old man undergoing treatment at SN Medical College here died of Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. So far, 157 patients succumbed to Covid-19 in Agra district, which has current Covid-19 sample positivity of 2.66% and the fatality rate at 1.9%. The victim, a resident of Sikandra locality, was suffering from hypertension, acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute kidney injury, said health department officials, adding that the patient died due to co-morbid condition. Meanwhile, at least 44 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Tuesday evening, taking the district tally to 8,275. These included two staffers of the irrigation department and two staffers of SN Medical College. As many as 65 Covid-19 patients were declared cured of infection on Tuesday. These included Agra district senior superintendent of police Babloo Kumar, who had tested Covid-19 positive on November 7. Agra district chief medical officer Dr RC Pandey said, “Out of the 8,275 cases reported in the district, 7,613 (90%) have been declared cured and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases is the district decreased from 527 on Monday to 505 on Friday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/53-year-old-man-dies-of-covid-19-toll-climbs-to-157/articleshow/79268409.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Farmer groups to decide today on passenger trains||With disruption of freight trains in Punjab forcing industrialists to appeal to farmers’ unions in Punjab to go soft on the movement of passenger trains, members of the protesting farmers’ groups said a final decision would be taken by farm bodies collectively at a meeting on Wednesday, reports Bharat Khanna. Industrialists in Ludhiana associated with the Confederation of Indian Industry urged farmers to protest in a way that the industry in Punjab is not affected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmer-groups-to-decide-today-on-passenger-trains/articleshow/79272988.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 18, 2020||Vijayawada||CBI submits its report on Dr Sudhakar to HC||Vijayawada: The CBI submitted its report on Dr Sudhakar case in a sealed cover to the high court on Tuesday. The high court had earlier ordered a CBI inquiry into the arrest of Dr Sudhakar in Visakhapatnam, taking suo moto cognisance of a letter written by TDP functionary V Anita, who alleged that the doctor was targeted by the government for questioning lapses in providing safety gear to frontline workers fighting Covid-19. Dr Sudhakar was first suspended from duty. Later, he was arrested for creating nuisance on public road and obstructing police personnel. The manner in which he was arrested received criticism from all quarters, including the high court. The HC then ordered the CBI to investigate the case and also transferred the case registered by the police against Dr Sudhakar to CBI. The CBI had earlier submitted a status report and has now filed its second report. When the court asked for details of the report, the CBI counsel said the report has been given in a sealed cover as it contains sensitive details and it’s not appropriate to reveal the same in open court. As the sealed cover report was not placed before the bench, the high court posted the matter for further hearing to Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cbi-submits-its-report-on-dr-sudhakar-to-hc/articleshow/79268804.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Tendency to make vague allegations against hubby’s family increasing: HC||Nagpur: Coming to the rescue of husband’s relatives, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court quashed a police complaint lodged against them by the wife for dowry and domestic violence in 2012. The court observed that the tendency to lodge false complaints against in-laws is increasing.“Nowadays, it has become a tendency to make vague and omnibus allegations against every member of the husband’s family, implicating everybody under IPC’s Section 498-A. Hence, it has become necessary for courts to carefully scrutinize allegations and to find out whether those really constitute an offence and meet the requirements of the law at least prima facie,” a division bench comprising justices Zaka Haq and Amit Borkar observed.Specifying that cruelty perpetuated to a woman may be physical or mental, the bench said the criminal proceedings shouldn’t be allowed to be resorted to as a shortcut to settle scores. “Saying that we’re also serving in the police department and have connections with higher authorities or the husband got no benefit of wife’s education can’t be stated to be cruelty to the woman,” the HC said.The petitioners, who are sisters and brothers-in-law of the complainant’s wife, knocked the judiciary’s doors for setting aside the FIR lodged against them under Sections 498-A, 324, 506 read with Section 34 of IPC Sections 3 and 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961, on September 19, 2012. In their plea filed in 2014, they prayed for quashing the charge-sheet pending before the Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) here.The judges pointed out that petitioners have been arraigned as accused without there being specific allegations regarding the nature of cruelty as contemplated by Section 498-A against them.“On overall reading of FIR and charge-sheet, we’re of the opinion that there are no allegations against the petitioners which constitute offences against them. Continuance of proceedings would amount to abuse of the process of law. No material was produced by the prosecution even along with the charge-sheet, prima facie fulfilling the ingredients of offences under which they were booked,” the court said.Quoting the Supreme Court verdicts, the judges said before issuing the process, the criminal court has to exercise a great deal of caution. “For the accused, it’s a serious matter. Jurisdiction under CrPC’s Section 482 has to be exercised to prevent abuse of the court’s process or otherwise secure ends of justice. The apex court deprecated the tendency of using the criminal justice system as a tool of arm twisting and to settle scores. It lay down that the HC can intervene where the criminal justice system is used as a tool.”Further quoting the apex court, the judges said the tendency developed for roping in all relations of in-laws by the wife in matter of dowry deaths or such type of similar offences is an over enthusiasm and anxiety to seek conviction, needs to be deprecated. “Husband’s relatives shouldn’t be roped in on the basis of vague allegations, unless specific instances of their involvement are set out. It’s true that while considering quashing criminal proceedings under Section 482, the court shouldn’t embark upon an inquiry into the truthfulness of allegations made by complainant. But when filing of FIR amounts to gross misuse of criminal justice system, it becomes the HC’s duty Court to intervene in such cases, so that there is no miscarriage of justice and faith of people in the judicial system remains intact,” the judges said, before allowing in-laws petition. WHAT HIGH COURT SAID* Nowadays, it has become a tendency to make allegations against every member of husband’s family* Necessary for courts to carefully scrutinize allegations* Courts should find out whether those really constitute an offence & meet requirements of law * Cruelty perpetuated to woman may be physical or mental* Criminal proceedings shouldn’t be allowed to be resorted to as shortcut to settle scores* Claiming that hubby didn’t get any benefit of wife’s education can’t be cruelty to woman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tendency-to-make-vague-allegations-against-hubbys-family-increasing-hc/articleshow/79270390.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 18, 2020||Amaravati||AP: Panchayat elections will be held in February, says SEC||AMARAVATI: Determined to complete the election process to local bodies before demitting office, state election commissioner (SEC) Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar has decided to conduct panchayat elections in February. He asked the government to prepare for panchayat elections as several elections across the country have been held successfully due to containment of Covid-19. The SEC asked district collectors and SPs to make arrangements but clarified that the model code of conduct shall not be in force pursuant to the present, in-principle decision. The model code of conduct will come into force four weeks after the release of schedule in consultation with the government. The SEC has not discussed anything about village panchayat elections either with political parties or the state government during his recent consultations on resuming the election process which was suspended in last March before the pandemic. Although, the SEC released a detailed schedule to conduct the elections to different local bodies and urban civic bodies last February, the actual election process was in vogue only for ZPTC/MPTC and municipal elections by the time the elections were abruptly put off on March 15 citing Covid-19. All political parties barring YSRC, which abstained from the meeting of political parties conducted by the SEC last fortnight, requested it to suspend the previous notification, results and go for fresh elections. YSRC candidates were declared elected unanimously in about 40% of MPTC/ZPTC seats by the time the polls were postponed. In this background, political parties anticipated that the SEC might take a decision regarding renewing the election process for ZPTC/MPTC and municipal bodies. Surprisingly, the SEC has come out with its plans to conduct panchayat elections in February. In an order communicated to the government on Tuesday, the SEC said that they have taken a well-considered decision to hold elections to gram panchayats in the state tentatively in February. He said that it took the decision after due consultation with all stakeholders and the government as well as with reference to the prevailing ground situation of elections held in several parts of the country. “The commission is encouraged by the success in AP’s Covid-19 containment measures whereby daily infections after touching a high of 10,000 cases have come down to a low of 753 as on today (Monday). This was possible due to the successful measures of the state government and primarily due to the selfless and dedicated work of a multitude of dedicated doctors, nurses, health givers who are true heroes,” said the SEC. The SEC said that all necessary safeguards will be taken with due reference to the best practices already in place, including in neighbouring Telangana for GHMC polls. “It may be noted that there are no legal hurdles to hold grama panchayat elections which are held on non-party basis,” the SEC said. The SEC asked the government and various agencies to take due note and undertake necessary planning for administrative efficacy so as to hold fair and peaceful elections without any violence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/panchayat-elections-will-be-held-in-february-says-sec/articleshow/79268749.cms||Samdani MN
November 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||IIM-Visakhapatnam powers women entrepreneurs’ journey to the top||VISAKHAPATNAM: Aruna Sesetti hails from a family of weavers and knows what it takes to weave intricate patterns on cloth. She also owns a handloom retail store. Now, equipped with managerial skills learnt in course of a year-long incubation and mentorship support initiative at IIM-Visakhapatnam, Aruna has enhanced the scope of her sourcing to Uppada, Kanchi, Mangalagiri, Varanasi and Pochampalli. Aruna was among 25 women who made it to the Women Startup Programme-2018 of IIM-Visakhapatnam. She now has resellers and wants to contribute to the weaving community through her venture: Weavers Touch. “Woman Who Venture — Inspired and Empowered by IIM Visakhapatnam” is a book published by IIM-V that chronicles the journey of these 25 women entrepreneurs as they started the pursuit of their own enterprises. The book meticulously narrates how this start-up programme gave wings to the entrepreneurial dreams of these women. After a successful run, IIM-V is now bracing to welcome another cohort of women entrepreneurs. Speaking to TOI, IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar informed that the institute partnered with IIM-Bangalore for the Women Startup Programme (WSP) to support, nurture and mentor ambitious women entrepreneurs in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “As part of WSP-2020, a total of 301 ventures were selected by NSRCEL of IIM-Bangalore for the virtual ‘Launchpad’ programme, the second stage. The Launchpad programme started on November 6. These ventures will be required to do customer validation and generate proof of concept for their ideas by December 31,” Prof Chandrasekhar said. As many as 36 candidates from AP and Telangana are in the fray. “Selected finalists will undergo six-month incubation at IIM-V. We expect 10–15 women entrepreneurs from the two Telugu states to reach the final stage. However, going by past success rate, there is scope for around 75% to qualify as finalists,” added the IIM-V director. The Union ministry of electronics and information technology (MeitY) sanctioned a Group 3 Centre (G3C) incubator to IIM-V. Consequently, IIM-V floated the IIMV Foundation for Incubation, Entrepreneurial Learning & Development (IIMV-Field) as this TIDE Centre needs to be operated as a Section 8 company. Professor Chandrasekhar said that IIM-V will give Rs 32 lakh as a grant to IIMV-Field to invest in these women entrepreneurs in their capacity-building as part of WSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-v-powers-women-entrepreneurs-journey-to-the-top/articleshow/79268712.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 18, 2020||Bareilly||Four killed, nine injured in road accidents in Budaun||Bareilly: Four people were killed and nine injured in separate road accidents taking place in Budaun district in the past 24 hours. The survivors are undergoing treatment at the district hospital, where two of them are stated to be critical. Sanjay Babu, along with his brother-in-law Dharamjeet and other family members, was on his way home when his SUV rammed into a tractor-trolley near Firozpur village under Bisauli police station around 10 pm on Monday. Sanjay and Dharamjeet died on the spot, while Sanjay’s wife Meena Devi, son Arya, daughter Sushmita and two others sustained injuries. The second incident was reported from Mayi Basai village under Bisauli police station, where Harinarayan along with his wife Jyoti and two minor sons was on his way to meet his in-laws when a speeding truck hit their motorcycle on Moradabad-Farukkhabad state highway, killing his four-year-old son Vansh on the spot while injuring others. Two bikers were run over by an SUV in a separate incident reported from Dataganj area on Tuesday morning. Both the victims were rushed to a community health centre, where doctors proclaimed Rajkumar, 28, dead. Police sent the bodies for autopsy and informed their family. Bisauli SHO Pankaj Lavania said, “We have registered an FIR in both the cases. The injured are getting treatment at the district hospital.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-killed-nine-injured-in-road-accidents-in-budaun/articleshow/79268414.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Sarada Peetham memo draws HC’s ire||Vijayawada: The high court on Tuesday questioned the authority of the government in interfering with internal affairs of religious institutions. “Would the government react in the same manner if a person from another religion approaches it with a similar request?” the court asked after hearing a PIL challenging the memo issued by the endowments commissioner to celebrate the birthday of Sarada Peetham seer Swami Swarupanandendra. The endowments commissioner issued a memo to 23 prominent temples in the state to conduct special pujas to extend blessings to the Swami on November 18 to mark his birthday. Challenging the memo, K Lalit Kumar from Hyderabad, M Nagasankar from Vijayawada and A Radhakrishna from Tirupati moved court. Arguing for the petitioners, senior counsel DSNV Prasad Babu said issuing a circular to celebrate the birthday of a seer was interfering in matters of religious institutions. AG S Sriram clarified the government did not give any official orders but only forwarded a request received from the manager of Sarada Peetham. Senior counsel S S Prasad intervened on behalf of Sarada Peetham and said they are taking back the requisition letter sent to the government based on which the memo was issued, telling court they do not want any controversy in this regard. As the requisition letter is being withdrawn, the memo will become void, the court said and disposed the petition without further orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sarada-peetham-memo-draws-hcs-ire/articleshow/79268785.cms||Srikanth Aluri
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||City academic wins World Teachers Quiz 2020||Nagpur: Mallika Kaleem, lecturer at Adarsh Vidya Mandir, Gandhibagh, has won World Teachers Quiz 2020, which was organized on a digital platform involving nearly 12,000 teachers from 12 countries. Kaleem made it through multiple rounds to emerge as the winner, pipping USA’s Ka Berri for the top position. Kaleem said it was a challenging experience as questions were about various issues. “Questions ranged from Toblerone chocolate to the flower that inspired skyscraper Burj Khalifa, origin of modern day treadmill, world of technology Amazon Kindle etc. The participants were also quizzed about thinkers like APJ Abdul Kalam, Shakuntala Devi, Edward de Bono, Howard Gardner, Ken Robinson to Helen Keller,” said Kaleem. The quiz was organized by a leading global portal The Teacher Tribe in association with an India-based software giant. The event was open to all full time. The multi-round global challenge witnessed over 11,600 teachers in the first round from which 750 qualified for the second round. This was followed by a round with 32 teachers and eventually a round of 16, from which the top four were chosen for the world final. The world final was webcast live on multiple social media platforms. The quiz premiered on October 15, 2020, to celebrate the birth anniversary of Dr.APJ Abdul Kalam on whose advise The Teacher Tribe was started. The entire series was co-hosted by quizmaster Giri Pickbrain and Rashmi Furtado. Giri said, “The objective was to celebrate the teacher and in a small way applaud the great work done by them during this pandemic. The event was strictly non-commercial, with no sponsors and no entry fee.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-academic-wins-world-teachers-quiz-2020/articleshow/79270432.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Advocate withdraws complaints against Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa, kin||BENGALURU: The high court has disposed of three criminal revision petitions filed by advocate B Vinod, the complainant in corruption cases registered against chief minister BS Yediyurappa and his family members before a special court for Lokayukta cases, Shivamogga. Vinod filed a memo in this regard seeking to withdraw the complaints with liberty to file a fresh complaint after obtaining sanction for prosecution at the hands of the appropriate authority as contemplated under section 19 of Prevention of Corruption Act and section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Recording the same, justice John Michael Cunha disposed of the petitions. In one of the petitions pertaining to grant of certain Karnataka Housing Board sites, Vinod had challenged the December 29, 2016 order of trial court rejecting his complaint for want of sanction. Apart from Yediyurappa, his daughter SY Arunadevi, the then KHB commissioner MB Dyaberi and other officials were arraigned as accused. In the other complaints, Vinod had alleged that Yediyurappa, his sons BY Raghavendra and BY Vijayendra, son-in-law RN Sohan Kumar and others derived undue benefit from illegal conversion of revenue lands into industrial ones in Shivamogga, by selling the same to third parties. In the said cases, the trial court had dismissed the complaint, holding that no case is made out under the Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/advocate-withdraws-plaints-against-bsy-kin/articleshow/79270380.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cracker curbs arrest rise in pollution levels: APPCB||VISAKHAPATNAM: The rate of rise in pollution levels witnessed a drop this Diwali owing to curbs on firecrackers, according to the ambient air quality report released by the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB). The fall in rate of rise in pollution is being attributed to restricted timings and use of green crackers. Track the pollution level in your cityAPPCB had planned for air quality and ambient noise level monitoring at select areas from November 9 to Diwali on November 14 in both rural and urban parts of Visakhapatnam. Ambient noise level monitoring was carried out at six locations while air quality was monitored at nine locations. It was found that percentage increase of PM 10 and PM 2.5 was less compared to last year. The percentage increase of PM 10 from pre-Diwali to Diwali went from 5.3% to 24.54%. The percentage increase of PM 2.5 went from 1.72% to 25%. In 2019, the percentage increase of PM 10 from pre-Diwali to Diwali went from 16.13% to 73.68%. Percentage rise of PM 2.5 went from 52.31% to 84.40%. The amount of sulphur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide in air had also increased on Diwali day, even though the values remained well within standards. Air quality was monitored in: Mindi, Autonagar, Police Barracks, AKC Colony, Seethammadhara, Gnanapuram, Pedagantyada, Ramky and MVP Rythu bazaar. Noise level monitoring was carried out in six locations: King George Hospital and St Anthony School (silent zones), Pandurangapuram residential zone, Kurupam Market, RTC Complex and Jagadamba Junction (commercial zones). As per data, noise levels were recorded in the range 59.3dB (A) (at KGH) to 88.7dB (A) (Kurupam Market).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cracker-curbs-arrest-rise-in-pollution-levels/articleshow/79268829.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Amaravati||Local polls: SEC asks Andhra Pradesh government not to form new districts||AMARAVATI: The State Election Commission (SEC) has directed the state government not to go ahead with its plans to create new districts in view of the pending local bodies elections. In a letter to chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar said the formation of new districts will pose several technical and legal complications to the ongoing poll process to local bodies. “The notification for the election of ZPTC/MPTCs was issued taking 13 district units where the elected ZPTC are slated to elect ZP chairpersons. The formation of new districts will create troubles as the process of elections is yet to be completed,” the SEC said in his letter. The SEC’s observations are likely to scuttle the state government’s plans to announce new districts on January 26. The state government had put the process of creation of new districts on fast track as it started searching for buildings to locate new collectorates/SP offices and other district offices in proposed district head quarter cities. According to the initial plans readied by the state administration, 13 more districts would be created to take the total number of districts to 26. The government is also readying plans for deployment of human resources to new districts with the appointment of senior officials as district officers in to-be-created posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/sec-asks-govt-not-to-form-new-districts/articleshow/79276417.cms||Samdani MN
November 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Local polls: SEC asks Andhra Pradesh government not to form new districts||AMARAVATI: The State Election Commission (SEC) has directed the state government not to go ahead with its plans to create new districts in view of the pending local bodies elections. In a letter to chief secretary Nilam Sawhney, SEC Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar said the formation of new districts will pose several technical and legal complications to the ongoing poll process to local bodies. “The notification for the election of ZPTC/MPTCs was issued taking 13 district units where the elected ZPTC are slated to elect ZP chairpersons. The formation of new districts will create troubles as the process of elections is yet to be completed,” the SEC said in his letter. The SEC’s observations are likely to scuttle the state government’s plans to announce new districts on January 26. The state government had put the process of creation of new districts on fast track as it started searching for buildings to locate new collectorates/SP offices and other district offices in proposed district head quarter cities. According to the initial plans readied by the state administration, 13 more districts would be created to take the total number of districts to 26. The government is also readying plans for deployment of human resources to new districts with the appointment of senior officials as district officers in to-be-created posts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-asks-govt-not-to-form-new-districts/articleshow/79268767.cms||Samdani MN
November 18, 2020||Vijayawada||93-year-old retired Guntur cop gets birthday visit from SP||VIJAYAWADA: On his 93rd birthday, former Guntur top cop V Lakshmi Narayanarao got a surprise visit from current Guntur urban SP RM Ammi Reddy on Tuesday. Narayanarao had entered the service in 1950 and had earned several accolades during his tenure for honest policing initiatives and crackdown when crime was at its peak in the district. Narayanarao served a large part of his life working within the Guntur police unit, working in various posts and eventually retiring at the post of superintendent of police (SP). Officials said that even after his retirement, he continued to serve the public through his philanthropic initiatives. DGP D Gautam Sawang extended his wishes through video call to the veteran cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/93-year-old-retired-cop-gets-bday-visit-from-sp/articleshow/79268850.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Dehradun||CMs Rawat, Yogi visit Badrinath, lay the foundation stone of UP govt guest house||Dehradun: Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath along with CM Trivendra Singh Rawat visited the Badrinath temple on Tuesday. The two CMs offered prayers and also laid the foundation stone of a tourist guest house which will be built by the UP tourism department. The cost of the project is over Rs 11 crore and the guest house will have 40 rooms with parking, canteen and other facilities. It is being constructed near the helipad in Badrinath. “We will try to complete the construction work before the commencement of Char Dham yatra in 2021,” the UP CM said. The two CMs reached the Badrinath temple early morning on Tuesday and offered prayers in the main sanctum of the temple which is not open for devotees this year. They also visited the BSF battalion in Mana, the last village before the India-China border. “I was able to visit Badrinath after many years. The Uttarakhand government should be praised for maintaining the Char Dham temples, situated at such heights and tough terrain so well,” said Adityanath, adding that he has requested the Uttarakhand government to maintain the cave near Badrinath where Yogiraj Sundar Nath, a saint in his lineage, had done meditation. While visiting the BSF batalion at Mana, CM Rawat announced a fund of one crore rupees to keep the traffic and other arrangements smooth due to snow in Badrinath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cms-rawat-yogi-visit-badrinath-lay-the-foundation-stone-of-up-govt-guest-house/articleshow/79268419.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Cyber crooks make fake FB profile of SP Chandrapur, demand money||Chandrapur: Superintendent of Police (SP) Chandrapur and cyber cell cops here were startled on Monday after a fake profile in the name of ‘SP Chandrapur’ popped up on Facebook, and requests of financial help started going out to his friends. Investigations revealed that cyber tricksters had created a fake Facebook profile of the Chandrapur SP, to con people in his name. SP Arvind Salve claimed that their cyber cell is after the trickster and called upon people to be alert against such online trickery. SP Salve informed that unidentified tricksters copied the profile details and photos from the official profile of ‘SP Chandrapur’, and created a fake profile with the same name on Monday. Soon, people started receiving friend requests from the profile. “Some of my contacts got requests on Facebook messenger that I was in dire need of financial help, and urged them to send some money through apps like G-Pay and Phone-Pe,” said SP Salve. When some cops and friends of SP Salve also received the friend request from this fake profile, they asked him about it and also asked the cyber cell. The cyber cops immediately swung into action and checked the new profile, which turned out to be fake and mala fide. The fake profile was immediately reported to Facebook and it was blocked in no time. SP Salve said they have registered an offence with Ramnagar police station, and details of the trickster have been sought from the Facebook administration. SP Salve called upon people to be alert of such online trickery and immediately inform the police about such attempts. He claimed that cyber cons operate through different modus operandi. Sometimes they offer to sell fake items through online selling apps like OLX, offer lucrative job opportunities, assure to provide benefits of government schemes, or seek KYC of debit and credit card by posing as bank officials. Such crimes have risen manifold in recent times and people need to remain very alert against such trickery, he warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cyber-crooks-make-fake-fb-profile-of-sp-chandrapur-demand-money/articleshow/79270483.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Mohali city: 989 Covid cases in 16 days||Mohali: Mohali urban areas contributed to 80% of the total Covid-19 positive cases that surfaced in November in the district. Mohali urban or Mohali city is fast emerging as a containment zone as in the past 16 days, 989 positive cases have been reported from various parts of the city. According to the data provided by the health department, on average 80 positive cases are being reported daily from the Mohali urban areas. The Mohali district witnessed a total of 1,248 positive cases in the past 16 days and the recovery rate has also fallen from 95% to 90% in November. Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said, “We have been monitoring the rise in the urban cases as the deadly virus is termed primarily as the urban disease. To boost immunity levels and recover from the disease, which would eventually reduce mortality rate, it is important for patients to have a high mental and psychological level as some of the deaths are due to fear, anxiety and nervousness. Teams are working on to motivate people in the district and the campaign has proved to be a success.” He said out of the total 259 fatalities, 107 residents of Mohali urban have succumbed to the deadly virus, whereas others are from the adjoining rural areas and towns in the Mohali district. Dayalan appealed people to not step out of their homes aimlessly and that they should go out only if it is urgent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohali-city-989-covid-cases-in-16-days/articleshow/79269592.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Trichy||New cases continue free fall: 110 in south TN, 140 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state saw fresh Covid-19 cases dropping further to 110 on Tuesday from the previous day’s 127, making it the lowest number in more than 150 days. The lone death in the region is a 63-year-old man from Dindigul who died at the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Meanwhile, the central region reported 140 new Covid-19 cases and no deaths. Perambalur district saw zero cases for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. The number of active cases has come down to 1,466 from 1,581 cases on Tuesday. Madurai’s 22 fresh cases were the highest in the region, followed by Kanyakumari’s 21. Except for the two districts, the eight other districts in the region recorded less than 20 fresh cases each. Five districts recorded less than 10 cases each with Virudhunagar and Ramanathapuram recording the lowest of four cases each. They are followed by Tuticorin (5), Sivagangai (6), Theni (8), Tenkasi (10), Dindigul (11) and Tirunelveli (19). The number of active cases has also dropped further to 1,485. The number of active cases has dropped drastically from 1,903 on November 10. Since then, there has been a drop in the number of active cases every day. Madurai (318) has the highest number of active cases, followed by Tirunelveli (259) and Tuticorin (206). Four districts in the region have less than 100 active cases – Ramanathapuram (42), Theni (63), Tenkasi (77) and Virudhunagar (79). Meanwhile, in the central district of Perambalur, the number of active cases has reduced to 30. Thanjavur reported 29 cases, the highest in the region, followed by Tiruvarur (28). Thanjavur continued to be on top of the list with 16,085 positive cases, which include 244 active cases. Trichy recorded 22 cases taking the tally to 13,094 of which 12,684 patients have been recovered. At present, the district has 239 active cases. Ariyalur reported seven cases. Nagappattinam (286) has the highest number of active cases followed by Karur (279). As of now, 66,598 patients were discharged from all the eight districts in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/new-cases-continue-free-fall-110-in-south-tn-140-in-central-dists/articleshow/79271876.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||Six criminals held, weapons recovered||PRAYAGRAJ: Police arrested six people near Dubey Dhaba after a brief encounter on Tuesday. The police have also seized two country-made weapons of 0.315 bore along with five live cartridges, and an SUV from their possession. All the six arrested miscreants were on their way to attack a neighbour of Sadashiv Dubey, one of the arrested accused, and were arrested before they could execute their plans . The arrested miscreants have been identified as Mohd Faisal, Sahil, Vivek Soni, Sadashiv Dubey alias Santosh, Akash Dubey and Monu Yadav. All the six are residents of Raniganj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/six-criminals-held-weapons-recovered/articleshow/79270768.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Dehradun||7 yrs after Kedar flash floods, U’khand gets its first doppler radar to forecast extreme weather events||Dehradun: Over seven years after the Kedarnath flash floods left thousands missing and caused widespread devastation in the region, Uttarakhand has finally set up its first Doppler Weather Radar (DWR) for real-time monitoring and prediction of extreme weather conditions such as thunderstorms, heavy rainfall and cloudbursts. The state-of-the-art doppler radar has been installed at the campus of the Institute of Temperate Horticulture in Mukteshwar (Nainital district). “The Doppler Weather Radar at Mukteshwar is now operational and is sending inputs to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). The system will help us monitor severe weather developments such as cloudbursts, thunderstorms etc in real-time. Formal inauguration will take place soon,” said Bikram Singh, director of the regional meteorological centre. The radar has been procured at an approximate cost of over Rs 8 crore. A year after the 2013 deluge, the IMD and the state government had announced that three such radars would be installed to help predict extreme weather events. The radars are being installed under the Integrated Himalayan Meteorological Project (IHMP) of the Ministry of Earth Sciences. The other two sites for installation include Surkanda near Mussoorie and Lansdowne in Pauri district. Singh said the site at Surkanda has been finalised while the state government was yet to transfer land for the project in Lansdowne.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7-yrs-after-kedar-flash-floods-ukhand-gets-its-first-doppler-radar-to-forecast-extreme-weather-events/articleshow/79268429.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 18, 2020||Kochi||LDF one step ahead of rivals UDF in Angamaly||Kochi: The LDF, which came to power in Angamaly municipality promising stability and development, is way ahead of UDF, which is yet to finalize their candidates. “List of candidates is yet to be finalized. We would start filing nominations only on Wednesday,” said Reetha Paul, who was the opposition leader in the council. The LDF had completed seat sharing last week and have announced all candidates. The CPM, which had contested 22 seats in 2015, is fielding candidates from 21 seats this time alone in the local body which has 30 divisions. CPM has given five seats to Janata Dal, three seats to CPI and one seat to Kerala Congress (M). The municipality, formed in 1980, had traditionally preferred UDF, but shifting loyalties meant the front could not complete the tenure. In the last polls LDF had won 19 seats and came to power there by bringing stability. The UDF had to be content with nine seats. Rest of two seats went to independent candidates. “They had claimed ‘susthira bharanam’ while assuming office but the governance remained frozen for the first four years,” said Paul. A major failure on the part of the LDF was their inability to build a slaughterhouse despite the state government sanctioning Rs 60 lakh. “They could do things in the final years only after they got a secretary. The slaughterhouse could not be built because the government said at least 90 cents are required and the local body had only 50 cents,” she said. Dumping of slaughterwaste in Manjalithode has resulted in groundwater pollution and the LDF failed to resolve this. M S Girishkumar, who was vice-chairman in the council, however denies these allegations and says they performed well. “We laid the foundation stone for the new municipality building and also introduced a mobile crematorium,” he said. UDF, struggling to deal with group rivalries and wary of rebel trouble, is hopeful that they would be able to wrest control of the municipality this time around.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ldf-one-step-ahead-of-rivals-udf-in-angamaly/articleshow/79269611.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Pkl cops to be tested, 81 samples taken on Day 1||Panchkula: The Panchkula police personnel, who were deputed at the crowded market areas during the festive season, will undergo Covid-19. To contain spread of the virus among the cops, Panchkula deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Mohit Handa has asked the health department for the same. The process has been started and 81 samples have been taken so far. DCP Mohit Handa said his team works as Covid-19 warrior and their health is his prime concern. “The cops, who had worked hard to maintain the law and order situation in the entire Panchkula district during the festival season, will undergo Covid-19 test. The health department was contacted to conduct the test.” On the first day, 81 samples of the police officials posted at PCR vehicles and those at the CP and DCP office, have been taken by the officials of the health department. All cops posted at the police stations will also be tested. “The cops were present on duty during the festival season at all the busy markets and public places. There are chances that they might have contracted the virus. It is important to check the health of all the officials working on the ground,” said the officials of the health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-cops-to-be-tested-81-samples-taken-on-day-1/articleshow/79269599.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Trichy||3 held, over 150 fake LED TVs seized||Trichy: The Palakkarai police arrested three people, including a showroom owner, for seselling counterfeit LED TVs of reputed brands besides seizing 153 such units in Trichy on Monday. The incident came to light after a complaint was filed by a customer who was duped by the accused. The police arrested owner of the electronics shop A Nizamuddin, 30, of Beema Nagar, employees S Saravanan, 23, from Rettai Vaikkal, and S Mohammed Faizal, 21, of Beema Nagar, based on the complaint from S Sowkath Ali on Monday. The trio were booked on charges of cheating, counterfeiting a property mark, selling goods with counterfeit mark under IPC and Copyright Act, 1957. Sowkath Ali bought a 32 inch LED TV of a famous brand at Rs 9,000 on November 9. However, the complainant said that they gave him a bill without mentioning the GST besides insisting him on bringing the TV to the shop only in case of malfunction. They also said they can give the computerized bill only after a couple of days. After unpacking the TV when he reached he, he was not convinced with its genuinness. So, he took it to an authorized service centre near collector office where the service centre staff confirmed it was a counterfeit, following which Sowkath Ali lodged a complaint. Inspector Arockiadass and team visited the showroom on Monday and seized all the 153 counterfeit LED TVs. The original price of the TVs real brand ran into Rs 61.6 lakh, whereas they were selling for Rs 24.8 lakh. Inspector Arockiadass said that investigation was on to find out where he got the TVs from. “The representatives from the brand also checked the TVs and confirmed they were counterfeit. We are awaiting their reply in writing,” said the inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-held-over-150-fake-led-tvs-seized/articleshow/79271878.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Testing crosses 1-lakh mark in Panchkula||Panchkula: Covid-19 tests crossed one-lakh mark in the Panchkula district. Only 10% of the persons tested positive during the test sampling. A total of 119 deaths have been reported in the district so far and the recovery rate has been recorded at 93%. According to the reports prepared by the chief medical officer (CMO), they have conducted 1,01,038 tests so far in the district. A total of 10,540 persons have been tested positive in the entire district, of these, 8,022 are from Panchkula, while the others belong to other districts or states. According to the report, out of the total positive cases, 7,461 have been cured and discharged. A total of 163 persons, who tested positive, are health workers, Covid-19 warriors and 119 persons died due to the deadly virus in the district and most of them had co-morbidities or were elderly persons. Officials of the health department stated that the situation came under control in October, but during the festive season and rush observed at public places, spurt in Covid-19 cases has been observed again. The CMO said, “The process of taking samples was never stopped. All the public places, Covid-19 warriors working in the field have been checked. The health department has been more concerned during the festive season and volunteers of the Corona sena had also spread awareness among people at public places.” The CMO also requested the public to maintain social distancing and wear masks while going out. In May, Panchkula got its own RT-PCR test laboratory with a capacity of testing only 26 Covid-19 samples in a day, which has now exceeded to over a hundred in a day. The laboratory is also working 24X7 to ensure more samples get tested every day. Rapid antigen test was also introduced later and the testing capacity was increased with results in couple of hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/testing-crosses-1-lakh-mark-in-panchkula/articleshow/79269604.cms||Arvind Bishnoi
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||PGI to get first DSA facility for basic research in animals||Chandigarh: The department of radio diagnosis and imaging at the PGI, Chandigarh, is installing the first-ever digital subtraction angiography (DSA) facility in the country dedicated for basic research in animals. Prof M S Sandhu, head of the department of radio diagnosis at the PGI, said this facility will aim at testing new drugs and hardware that can potentially be used for treatment of human disorders. The animals, on which research is done at the PGI, include sheep, rabbits, guinea pigs, mice, rats, hamsters etc. Interventional radiologists use this machine for doing angiography of various organs of like brain, liver, kidneys and also of the extremities. Various treatments that the interventional radiologists can do is opening up of blocked vessels, plugging of leaking vessels and delivering super selectively chemotherapy or the radiation to tumor in the affected organ. Currently, due to lack of appropriate testing facilities for newer devices aimed at interventional treatment of disorders in India, almost all of these certifications are done in the US, Europe and East-Asian countries. This often involves delay in treatment coming to Indian shores and is significantly expensive due to high import duties. This animal research will be useful in devising minimally invasive treatment of primary and secondary liver and renal tumors, peripheral arterial disease and vascular disorders of lungs and abdomen in humans subsequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-to-get-first-dsa-facility-for-basic-research-in-animals/articleshow/79269619.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||3 more test positive at Nilackal||Kottayam/T’puram: Three more people were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in antigen tests conducted at Nilackal on Tuesday. The infected consists of a KSRTC employee, a water authority staff member and a pilgrim. The checking inspector with KSRTC, who came for Sabarimala duty from Neyyattinkara depot, was subjected to Covid test after he showed symptoms. The water authority staff member from Palakkad, who also came for duty, was subjected to the antigen test at Nilackal as he did not undergo a test earlier. Both were shifted to a nearby Covid First-Line Treatment Centre (CFLTC). A pilgrim from Tamil Nadu was subjected to Covid test as the validity of the test report he was carrying had expired. He was asked to return along with the pilgrim accompanying him in the vehicle they arrived. With this, the total number of people who tested positive at Nilackal has rose to seven. KSRTC offers spl services Despite restrictions on the number of pilgrims, the Kerala state road transport corporation (KSRTC) is ready with special services for Sabarimala pilgrimage season. As Covid-19 regulations have restricted the number of pilgrims, the buses will be put to service according to the demand. Like in the previous years, the corporation will run Nilackal-Pamba chain service as well as long-distance services from Pamba. As many as 40 buses from various depots have been mobilised for Pamba-Nilackal chain service. Besides that, services have been launched with focus on Chengannur, Kottayam and Ernakulam railway stations. The corporation has appointed one special officer in Pamba for supervising the services as well as mechanical and other employees for maintenance and other administrative works for operating the buses. In addition, chartered services are available for the pilgrim groups who are a minimum of 40 in number. Online bookings have commenced for Thiruvananthapuram-Pamba and Kollam-Pamba special services. The bookings can be made through www.online.keralartc.com or through the mobile application of the KSRTC “Ente KSRTC”. Buses will leave from Thiruvananthapuram at 8.03am and 9.19pm and from Kollam at 7.40am. More details are available from Pamba Control Room (0473 – 5203445, 0473 – 5203446), Pathanamthitta (0468 – 2222366), KSRTC control Room (9447071021, 0471-2463799) and KSRTC Whatsapp number (8129562972).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/3-more-test-positive-at-nilackal/articleshow/79269655.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bareilly||Uttar Pradesh: Four brothers booked for rape bid on Class IX student, filming the act||PILIBHIT: Four brothers aged between 23 and 28 years were booked for allegedly attempting to rape a 17-year-old Class IX student in a locality under Pilibhit kotwali jurisdiction, following the additional district and sessions judge order for Pocso Act on November 15. Finding her alone, the accused barged into the girl’s house and one of them attempted to rape her while others filmed the act on their mobile phones on October 9, said police. When the girl raised an alarm, locals gathered at her house, forcing the accused to flee the scene. The accused, however, threatened to upload the video on social media platforms if she or her family members approached police. The girl’s father lodged complaints with the kotwali police and the SP but “no action was taken,” following which he knocked at the court’s door seeking justice. The father stated that a 28-year-old man used to stalk his daughter and would often make obscene gestures to her. Around 10 am on October 9, when his daughter was alone, the accused barged into the house and attempted to rape her while other accused were filming the act on their mobile phone, alleged the father. When he approached the accused’s family with a complaint, Danish and his three brothers thrashed him and threatened to make the video viral if he or his daughter approached police, alleged the father. The girl’s father said he lodged complaints with the kotwali police and the SP but “no action was taken,” following which he knocked at the court’s door seeking justice. SHO Srikant Dwivedi said the main accused and his brothers were booked under sections 354 (criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house trespass), 504 (intentional insult), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused were yet to be arrested, added the SHO. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-brothers-booked-for-rape-bid-on-class-ix-student-filming-the-act/articleshow/79268436.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 18, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu assembly elections: Seat sharing should be fair, says Congress leader Karti Chidambaram||TRICHY: The Bihar assembly election outcome would have no bearing on the upcoming election in Tamil Nadu, said Sivaganga Congress MP Karti P Chidambaram. He said it would neither be scientific nor politically correct to assess the Congress party in Tamil Nadu based on its performance in other states. His party would work hard to get DMK back in power in the state, Karti said. After meeting party members in Pudukottai on Tuesday, Karti said, “When it comes to coalition, it’s not just about bargaining for numbers. Every constituency must be individually analysed through discussions among parties to decide on prospective candidates. Seat sharing should ensure fair representation to every party in the coalition,” he added. Karti said the seat sharing talks with DMK will purely be on the basis of data collected through a survey across all assembly constituencies by the Congress party like how DMK has done through Prashant Kishor's I-PAC. “We will carry seat sharing talks with our statistics when DMK officially call us. Apart from analysing past performances, we will discuss each other's strengths in particular constituencies including minority vote share,” he said. “Presence of Congress in an alliance gives hope to minorities as they believe it would be a secular alliance. While 2014 parliamentary election was a debacle for Congress, so was it for the DMK. But we fought together in 2019 and won 38 out of 39 seats,” he said. Asked why the Congress was not looking for its national president outside the Gandhi family, he said only his party was being blamed for ‘nepotism’. “In many states, wards of influential party leaders are holding important party posts,” he said. Saying that people reposing faith in a family which is the core of a political party was “a South Asian phenomena” and it was for people to decide if it should be done away with.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/seat-sharing-should-be-fair-karti/articleshow/79271882.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Dehradun||Debris near Gangotri: Miffed over inaction, HC calls U’khand official 'unfit to be in service', starts contempt proceedings||Nainital: Hearing a case relating to a 2017 report claiming that debris was threatening the snout of Gangotri glacier from where the Ganga emerges, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday made scathing remarks against the secretary of the state government’s disaster management and mitigation centre (DMMC). The court observed that it is "prima facie of the view that the officer is unfit to be in government service" and that he "does not deserve to continue to be in the position he holds". The court also directed its order to be placed before the chief secretary for his consideration. The remarks were made by the bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma while it was hearing a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by one Ajay Gautam alleging that the snout of Gaumukh, from where Bhagirathi – the primary headstream of Ganga – emerges, has been impacted by the debris deposited as a result of landslides so much so that the river has altered its course. Gautam had said that consequences of these changes could be more devastating than the 2013 Kedarnath flash floods. The court observed that the inaction by the officials “appears to be a violation of the court order” and initiated contempt proceedings against the officer, which would now be listed before a single judge bench. Shashank Upadhyaya, the amicus curiae in the case, said, “The HC had in July 2018 directed the state government to furnish a report by August 31 that year explaining the situation near the Gangotri glacier and the steps taken by the government. The court had also ordered the state government to furnish a periodical report every three months after August 31 for scrutiny until the court dispenses with it. However, in over two years since the order, not a single report has been presented before the court.” In its last hearing in October, the court had issued show cause notice to the secretary directing him to explain why contempt proceedings should not be initiated against him after he failed to comply with the court’s July 2018 order even after two years. The state government had presented an affidavit before the court, which also contained some photographs of the spot from 2012 and 2017 – much before the court’s July 2018 order. The court observed that these photographs were there to mislead them. This startling discovery was made during a trek organised in 2017 (of which TOI was a part) during which environmentalists and scientists found that cracks had appeared in the glacier situated at a height of 13,200 feet (4,023 m) and a lake-like structure had formed near its snout. Scientists had found that because of the lake formation, the river was now flowing from the left side of the glacial snout instead of its earlier straight course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/debris-near-gangotri-miffed-over-inaction-hc-calls-ukhand-official-unfit-to-be-in-service-starts-contempt-proceedings/articleshow/79268442.cms||Prashant Jha
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Panjab University to continue with online teaching||CHANDIGARH: While the UT education department is yet to take a call on reopening of colleges, Panjab University on Tuesday decided that it will continue with online teaching. In a notice issued by Panjab University, it has been shared that “Keeping in view the prevailing situation because of Covid-19 pandemic, Panjab University authorities held various meetings to discuss reopening of the university, regional centres, affiliated colleges and constituent colleges.” Prof R K Singla, dean of university instruction (DUI) said, “On the basis of detailed deliberations, it has been decided to continue with online mode of teaching for the time being at all the teaching departments, regional centres, affiliated colleges, constituent colleges for the current semester.” He said the final decision on calling students on the PU campus, regional centres, affiliated colleges and constituent colleges will be taken in due course of time depending upon the improvement in Covid-19 situation. The UGC has already issued guidelines for reopening of colleges. Yearly plans will be made by colleges. However, colleges are waiting for official instructions from the administration. The UT has already asked all the college heads to prepare academic plans keeping in view the guidelines issued by the UGC. Though, unlike schools, which have opened in a phased manner, colleges will open on a regular basis and sanitisation of campuses will be done regularly. Prof Raj Kumar, vice-chancellor, Panjab University, Chandigarh, in anticipation to approval of the syndicate or senate, has given additional charge of controller of examinations (CoE) to Dr Jagat Bhushan, principal of Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences and Hospital, during the leave period of Prof Parvinder Singh, CoE, from November 18, 2020 to December 31, 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pu-to-continue-with-online-teaching/articleshow/79269615.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||18 post-Covid cases of dengue in Mohali||Mohali: Dengue fever has started gripping the patients who recovered from Covid-19. The district has recorded 18 of these cases, so far, when there is no post-Covid-care clinic. The patients with post-Covid complications are being treated at the government and private hospitals for now. Deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan said: “Mohali has negligible cases of post-Covid complications but the administration is ready to tackle any situation. In the first week of November, the district had 56 people down with dengue fever. Of these, 18 had a history of Covid-19. Otherwise, there aren’t many serious post-Covid cases. There are signs of stomach ache, fatigue, mild fever, and liver pain in those.” After checking on district epidemiologist Dr Harman Brar, who is one of the post-Covid cases, Dayalan said, “These complications are not of serious nature. The district epidemiologist has the same experience. Post-Covid clinics are open in the government as well as private hospitals. The cases are spreading indeed but Mohali is far from being in a critical situation. The serious signs would be loss of smell and taste, fatigue, respiratory problems, blood clots, loss of vision and hearing, encephalitis, stammering, menstrual problems, neurotic problems, epileptic attacks, and inflammation.” Doctors said the post-Covid cases were those who earlier had mild to critical symptoms of coronavirus. A month after she recovered from the virus, sa woman in her 40s came to a private hospital with a sudden loss of vision. Dr Paramjit Singh said: “The brain section that controls sight was swollen. We put her on steroids and it took us two to three days to restore her vision. During Covid-19, she was in home isolation and had no severe symptoms.” The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has asked the states to open post-Covid clinics in each district. Punjab is on with the process but Mohali is yet to get one.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/18-post-covid-cases-of-dengue-in-mohali/articleshow/79269644.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 18, 2020||Kochi||KMCC offers digital services for members||Kochi: To keep up with the times, Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce (KMCC) has signed a memorandum of understanding with Aluva-based startup firm Ewire Soft Tech to provide digital services in business, transaction of welfare funds and other online services for its members in Ernakulam. It has been envisaged to provide digital transactions for online purchase, door-to-door delivery, availing insurance benefits and financial transactions between merchants attached to the chamber. Around 7,000 direct and affiliated merchants are under the chamber in Ernakulam. “The services will be available from December. The firm will develop an app and the members have to download it on the mobile to avail digital services. The firm will develop a portal of shops for each merchant. When the shops remained closed due to Covid, we mulled over this initiative. Many scattered merchants could not utilize the online opportunity during this period,” chamber president G Karthikeyan. “We will bring all merchants under a single platform by issuing RuPay cards to them. A multi-vendor single shop system is implemented under this initiative. Customers can order products online through this portal. Third party services for the public will also be available at these shops,” EWire Soft Tech director Yunus Puthenpurail said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kmcc-offers-digital-services-for-members/articleshow/79269666.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Trichy||Man injured as country bomb hurled at restaurant||Thanjavur: Two men hurled a country-made bomb at a restaurant in Karanthai in Thanjavur district on Monday night. A 24-year-old man, who was having dinner at the restaurant, suffered injuries. The injured person has been identified as Venkateshwaran, a collection agent at a private bank and a native of nearby Ramapuram. The attack happened at the restaurant run by A Muthukumar, 47. Around 10.45pm, two unidentified men arrived there on a motorcycle and hurled a country-made bomb. On being alerted, sub-inspector of West police station, Jayanthi rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. Forensic and bomb squad were also pressed into action. Preliminary inquiries revealed that two days before Diwali, three men had food from an eatery run by Senthil, situated adjacent to Muthukumar’s restaurant. The trio refused to pay money after eating food. This led to a quarrel. The two men might have attacked Muthukumaran’s restaurant mistaking it to be Senthil’s eatery, police said. Based on the footage from a CCTV camera, police are trying to identify the culprits. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-injured-as-country-bomb-hurled-at-restaurant/articleshow/79271888.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||Illegal house owned by Atiq Ahmad’s relative demolished||Prayagraj: A team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), district officials and police demolished a three-storey house-cum-complex, allegedly constructed and owned by one Imran Zai, a relative of ex-MP and jailed don Atiq Ahmed. The house which was razed on Tuesday was located in Chakia area, Khuldabad. Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) Zonal Officer Sat Shukla told TOI, “The house had been constructed on a 2,000 square metre area without getting a map sanctioned by the civic agency. The cost of the house is estimated to be around worth crores of rupees.” He further added that the demolition work started on Tuesday morning after compilation of the records and orders. He said that the demolition drive was conducted by a joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority, administrative officials and the police. Heavy police bandobast was made to deal with any protest or disruption, officials said. As the joint team started its demolition drive, a group of people who assembled there raised their objections, but the police asked them to leave the spot.  The police also restricted the movement of vehicles and locals towards the Chakia area. Police officials told the locals that the house was constructed on the 2,000 square metres land and that the three-storey building had some shops running illegally as well.  The entire structure was constructed without the sanction of the map from PDA. A senior cop said Imran is currently on the run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/illegal-house-owned-by-atiq-ahmads-relative-demolished/articleshow/79270789.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||‘Recover festival advt dues from councillors’||Margao: The shadow council for Margao (SCM) has taken exception to banners and advertisements erected by councillors at various wards across the city without obtaining permission from the civic body and without paying requisite fees. Savio Coutinho of the SCM has written to the chief officer of the Margao municipal council (MMC) to recover fees from all the councillors and regularise unauthorised advertisements. Coutinho stated that the information through the RTI revealed that several councillors had erected the banners during Christmas, New Year, Ganesh Chaturthi and Diwali, without paying fees. Pointing out in the letter that fees for temporary advertisements were increased from Rs25 to Rs500 by the council, Coutinho wrote: “However, it appears that the fees were made applicable only to the common man, while the city fathers seem to have conveniently ignored their own resolution.” Coutinho said that he had raised this issue earlier, following which local representatives, including MLAs “were humble enough to pay the council its dues for the temporary advertisements.” Coutinho has named 6 councillors in his letter for defaulting on fees to the council. “It is not the amounts payable by them that matters, but what matters is that the laws made by the lawmakers cannot be ignored by themselves,” Coutinho said in his letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/recover-festival-advt-dues-from-councillors/articleshow/79271892.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Residents flag accident-prone road dividing sectors 67, 68, 69||Mohali: Residents of sectors 67, 68 and 69 have expressed concern over the faulty design of road curves and intersections in the locality, which are prone to accidents. Area residents have written a letter to the MC commissioner and executive engineer, Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) to rectify the design to avoid accidents. In the past 10 days, six accidents have occurred at these points, residents alleged in the letter. Retired executive engineer from PUDA, N S Kalsi, a technical adviser, said the road intersection dividing sectors 67 and 68 and another section of the road dividing sectors 68 and 69 have major design flaws. Kalsi said, “Serious accidents occur at MC Chowk due to faulty design. A small roundabout with traffic lights is required to control such serious accidents. Accidents can also be reduced by providing tabletop speed-breakers. A cross-section drawing of the speed-breaker has also been sent to the MC commissioner and GMADA.” A comprehensive study on road safety analysis and identification of accident prone Areas in Mohali revealed that Mohali has the second highest number of road accident deaths in the state. The study said six people lose their lives on Mohali roads every week. Traffic advisor, Punjab, Navdeep Asija conducted a three-dimensional (3D) safety audit using drones to investigate the geometric design of three blind spots on Airport Road in Mohali. The report revealed major flaws in design and engineering. The traffic advisor said in his report that modern roundabouts at strategic locations can prove to be more efficient and safer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/residents-flag-accident-prone-road-dividing-sectors-67-68-69/articleshow/79269662.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 18, 2020||Trichy||Rare medicinal plants in forests to be made available for cultivation||Trichy: Unique medicinal plants found only in the forests may soon be available for farmers for cultivation as the forest department has been propagating 10 such plants for mass cultivation. Since increasing demand for medicinal plants has been putting pressure on these forest resources, forest tree seed centre in Trichy has been carrying out research on 10 rare, endangered and threatened (RET) medicinal plant varieties. A project of the forest research wing under the state forest department, the objective is to cultivate and conserve these unique plants by making them available for mass cultivation. The project will help increase the number of these plants and ease the pressure on forest resources. The plants which are grown in a limited place are closely being monitored by forest officials. If everything goes well, it will soon be available for cultivation for farmers and locals. The work is being carried out since January this year at a cost of Rs 2 lakh with the creation of a nursery of such plants, especially RET species. S Puviarasan, range officer, forest tree seed centre, said propagation of medicinal plants is a challenging task as unlike normal medicinal plants they die once they bear seeds. Therefore, they must be artificially propagated for bulk cultivation. Saying that the artificial propagation of the plants will take six to eight months, he said the plants will be artificially regenerated through cutting, grafting and air layering methods. The good demand for medicinal plants in recent times has put taken a toll on the medicinal plants available in the forest. Cultivating these plants on a large scale outside the forest will help in conservation of the plants in the forest, he said. The forest tree seed centre is planning largescale cultivation in its facility so that it could cater to the pharmaceutical companies in need of these medicinal resources. Saying that farmers will be educated on the benefits of cultivating these rare plants, forest department will be disseminating the message to locals who can cultivate them as horticulture crops on rooftops, said a senior official from the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rare-medicinal-plants-in-forests-to-be-made-available-for-cultivation/articleshow/79271891.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 18, 2020||Agra||MLC election: Four candidates withdraw nominations, voting on Dec 1||AGRA: Four independent candidates withdrew their nominations from upcoming Member of Legislative Council (MLC) elections on Agra section graduate and teacher’s seats, leaving a total of 38 candidates in the fray. The MLC election on 11 seats is scheduled to take place on December 1. On Tuesday, three independent candidates withdrew their nomination papers for the MLC graduate seat of Agra section. These included Geeta, Madhu Tiwari and Ashvani Singh. For the MLC teacher’s seat, independent candidate Nrapendra Singh withdrew his name from the contest. Assistant returning officer Shaab Singh said, “After the nomination withdrawal process, total 16 candidates are in the contest for Agra section MLC graduate seat and 22 for teacher’s seat. The election will be conducted on the ballot papers on December 1 from 8 am to 5 pm. Vote counting will take place on December 3.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mlc-election-4-candidates-withdraw-nominations-voting-on-dec-1/articleshow/79268486.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Trichy||Teachers flag malpractice chances in online exams||Trichy: As Bharathidasan University (BDU) is gearing up for the second phase of internal assessment for undergraduate and postgraduate students in its affiliated colleges starting from Wednesday, teachers have raised apprehension on the scope for malpractice by students while appearing for online test. Students will appear for the test from their home by downloading question paper from a dedicated portal created for the examination. They will have 90 minutes to write and submit it back to the college in person. Internal tests are being conducted in three phases for 25 marks each. The first two internal test covers two chapters each whereas the third test will have one chapter. An assistant professor from a city college said that less than 50% students appear for online classes and the strength is even less among postgraduate students. But over 90% of students are appearing for the test in the first phase of internal test conducted in the first week of November. “We clearly see that students are copying from textbooks or discussing among friends while appearing for the exam. The tests could have been conducted in stringent manner,” said another teacher. Some of teachers suggested that the internal tests could have been conducted the way BDU conducted PhD qualifying examination. Speaking to TOI, BDU controller of examination S Srinivasaragavan said that hiring private firms for software support could be much expensive for internal tests and many students in the rural areas may not be able to appear because of connectivity issues. “We have devised ways to check if they have indulged in malpractice,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/teachers-flag-malpractice-chances-in-online-exams/articleshow/79271893.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 18, 2020||Kochi||6.6 lakh cases in Kerala by December 12: Study||KOCHI: Kerala that had seen an increase in Covid cases in October has managed to bring down the number of cases in November, with projections now showing that by December 12, the state will have 6.6 lakh Covid cases. Looking at the spread of the infection in October, this was the number of cases that was projected for November 12. However, the actual number of cases is 5,08,257. “Covid-19: Trend Analysis and Projection” report prepared by Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private partnership initiative involving Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI), Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Proxima, a management consulting firm, has submitted it to the state and central governments. Every month, they have been coming out with projections and their accuracy so far in most states have been above 90%, including in Kerala. However, for the month of November, it was 77% accuracy of the projected numbers. In August, Project Jeevan Raksha had projected that Kerala will see 90,000 cases and 400 deaths by September 12. The actual number of cases was 1,02,255 and 411 deaths. By October 12, almost 2 lakh cases were projected and the actual was 2,95,133. From January to February, Kerala had just three cases, and from March to May 3, 496 cases were reported. In four months, between May and July, the total cases were 27,457. Then Covid cases started to peak in Kerala from August and it took one and a half months (September 12) to cross 1 lakh total Covid cases and now the state is expected to cross another 1 lakh cases in a month’s time. “The trend in Kerala indicates that voluntary testing may have increased considerably in October and November for precautionary purposes. Going ahead, qualitative and quantitative testing will determine people’s fate,” said Mysore Sanjeev, convener, Project Jeevan Raksha. When it comes to mortality, they have projected 2,600 deaths in the state by December 12. As on November 12, they had projected 2,000 deaths, but actual deaths were 1,797 which is 90% of the actual projected numbers (this despite almost 30% to 35% deaths not being registered as Covid death in official records). The projection is an effort to help the state government to examine and initiate necessary steps by effectively mobilizing the required resources and achieve the core objective of reducing mortality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/6-6l-cases-in-state-by-dec-12-study/articleshow/79269692.cms||Preetu Nair
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Lowest offer: 3 BHK flat for Rs 1.51cr||Chandigarh: The UT administration has given two options to employees for flats under UT employees housing scheme 2008: cost of flats as per plotted area or as per entire area of land. The choices were placed before representatives of employees in a meeting on Tuesday chaired by UT adviser Manoj Parida. According to the option of plotted area, the three-bedroom hall kitchen (BHK) flat will cost Rs 1.51 crore, two BHK flat Rs 1.17 crore, one BHK flat Rs 68 lakh and one BHK (EWS) flat Rs 46 lakh. The UT proposed though 65.96 acre of land will be utilised, only 38.02 acre will be charged. The financial concession of Rs 1,002.49 crore will be extended in reducing land cost by modifying the cabinet decision. According to the second option, the cost of the entire land will be charged but with more floors. The UT will charge Rs 1.69 crore for three BHK flat, Rs 1.31 crore for two BHK flat, Rs 75 lakh for one BHK flat and Rs 54 lakh for one BHK (EWS) flat. Three and two BHK flats will be constructed on ground plus six floors, whereas one BHK flat will be built on ground plus 10 floors. The UT proposed 48.33 acre of land will be charged at the rate of Rs 35.88 crore per acre, which will come to around Rs 1,734 crore. Although there will be not any financial concession towards cost of land, the floor area ratio (FAR) would be increased. However, an association of employees on late Tuesday night rejected both the proposals. A senior UT official said if employees agree to the price, the administration will move the ministry of home affairs for formal approval, leading to Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) starting construction. The houses will range from six to 11 floors to reduce need for larger land area. The CHB last year had finalised a 3 BHK flat for Rs 1.76 crore, two BHK flat for Rs 1.35 crore, one BHK flat for Rs 99 lakh and one BHK (EWS) flat for Rs 58.07 lakh. The the employees had decided not to give consent to the high prices fixed by the Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) for the flats. The administration had then decided to reconsider high prices of flats Earlier, the CHB had estimated Rs 2.08 crore for a three BHK flat, Rs 1.64 crore for a two BHK flat, Rs 1 crore for a one BHK flat and Rs 60 lakh for one BHK (EWS) flat. Employees Housing Scheme Where | While three and two BHK flats will be constructed in Sector 53, one BHK and EWS flats will be built in sectors 52, 53 and 56. What | Flats will be constructed up to multi-storeyed with stilt/basement CHB will finish all the flats, including all bathrooms, excluding wood work of cupboard and kitchen cabinets 2008 | Chandigarh Housing Board had floated ‘Self-Financing Housing Scheme - 2008’ to take care of needs of eligible UT employees of all categories. 2010 | As many as 3,930 eligible applicants out of 7,811 were declared successful in a draw of lots January 2019 | Union cabinet approved the proposal to allot land to Chandigarh Housing Board (CHB) for construction of apartments for allottees||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lowest-offer-3-bhk-flat-for-rs-1-51cr/articleshow/79269667.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Sanitation workers’ strike forces GMCH to postpone 20 surgeries||Chandigarh: All emergency and routine operation surgeries at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Sector 32, were halted on Tuesday owing to the strike by safai karamcharis. The disruption in services — 20 procedures were cancelled as operation theatres (OTs) had biomedical waste scattered around them — comes at a time when the Covid-19 patients are admitted at the hospital. Wards, operation theatres and hospital corridors have not been cleaned for six days. Even Covid wards were left unattended and without sanitisation. Sources said the strike is an annual affair and the hospital administration is never prepared to tackle the issue. “We have talked to the authorities. The file is with the administration for action,” said GMCH officiating director-principal Dr Jaswinder Kaur. Sources said there were 10 surgeries related to neurological and orthopaedics departments that could not be performed, while the remaining were of general surgery department. Patients had to face the brunt, while doctors who had been managing on their own decided to close the OTs. “My relative was called after four months for surgery as we had been waiting due to Covid outbreak. And now again the case was deferred. We do not want to wait more,” said an attendant who had come from Faridkot. Over 400 such contractual workers manage cleanliness in the hospital. “We have been demanding for bonus every year and every year we have to sit on dharna for our demands. To avoid this protest, we had sounded the authorities in September for the Diwali bonus. However, despite assurances, nothing has been done,” said Om Kailash, chairman, Safai Karamchari Union, GMCH. BOX: SAME STORY LAST YEAR The same union in GMCH went on strike last year at this time for bonus. After the demands were met, the strike was called off. The patients had to suffer with no one to collect or dispose of the biomedical waste in the hospital PGI’s contractual workers had suspended work by calling a two-day strike last year. Patients in emergency and wards had suffered as there were no hospital attendants to carry trolleys and stretchers and collect blood or other biological samples||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sanitation-workers-strike-forces-gmch-to-postpone-20-surgeries/articleshow/79269685.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 18, 2020||Meerut||Remote learning: UP sets target, tells each govt teacher to convince 10 students to download Diksha app||Strap: So far, just 11% of total students of primary & upper primary schools have the app Meerut: The onus to ensure that all students of primary and upper primary schools in UP have downloaded the Diksha app lies on teachers, the state’s education department has said. Setting a target for them, the department said that every teacher will now download the app on the mobile phones of 10 students.The app, launched by NCERT in 2017, has lessons in videos and text. In the time of lockdown, when schools were shut, remote learning through the app was the only way out for students across the country. But the pandemic exposed the digital divide. While the students of private schools-- mostly from well-off families -- didn’t miss out on classes and on learning, those in government schools struggled to catch up. Poor internet connectivity and unavailability of smartphones in the family were some of the reasons.TOI reported last week that just 11% of all government school students have downloaded the app so far.The government has now set an ambitious target of December 15 to bring all the students on board.“During an inspection, it was found that the Diksha app is being used by only 30 to 40 lakh students against a total of 3.80crore-- including 1.80crore government school students and 2crore private school students,” read an order issued by Vijay Kiran Anand, managing director, school education, UP. Anand further said, “A target of 10 downloads of the app per teacher is being given now. The target has to be completed by December 15 and will be monitored by the state government.” He further said that the number of downloads done by each teacher should be sent to the state authorities via email. Most private schools are holding online classes on MS Teams, Zoom and other apps so the students didn't download the Diksha app, a teacher at a private school said. But most government schools don't have the luxury to hold online classes and are dependent on the Deksha app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/remote-learning-up-sets-target-tells-each-govt-teacher-to-convince-10-students-to-download-diksha-app/articleshow/79268507.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||T prefers Centre’s option 1 to tide over GST shortfall||Hyderabad: After dilly-dallying for months on options given by the Centre to meet GST revenue shortfall, Telangana on Tuesday announced it will go for option 1 provided by the finance ministry. As a result, the state will get Rs 2,380 crore through the special window. Telangana has joined 23 states and three Union territories (Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry) preferring the option 1 given by the Centre. Option 1 has a special window for states, coordinated by the finance ministry, to borrow the projected shortfall of Rs 97,000 crore only on account of GST implementation — and not the Covid-19 pandemic — and this amount could be fully repaid from the compensation cess fund, without being counted as states’ debt. Besides getting the facility of a special window for borrowings to meet the shortfall arising out of GST implementation, states would be eligible to get unconditional permission to borrow the final instalment of 0.5% of Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) of the 2% additional borrowings permitted by the Union government. This is over and above the special window of Rs 1.1 lakh crore. As Telangana opted for option 1, the Centre on Tuesday granted Telangana additional borrowing permission of Rs 5,017 crore (0.5% of Telangana’s GSDP). A statement by Union finance ministry said Centre has already borrowed Rs 18,000 crore on behalf of states in three installments and has passed it on to 22 states and three Union territories. Similarly, Telangana would receive funds raised through this window. The next instalment of borrowing is likely to be released on November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-prefers-centres-option-1-to-tide-over-gst-shortfall/articleshow/79270849.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Meerut||Rape victim sets herself on fire after being 'harassed' by accused’s kin||Bulandshahr: Facing “pressure” for an out-of-court settlement, a rape survivor in UP’s Bulandshahr district allegedly set herself on fire on Tuesday morning. She was rushed to a local hospital with over 80% burn injuries and was later referred to a higher centre.The family members of the woman alleged that they were being pressured by the accused’s kin to settle the case out of court.The woman was allegedly raped on August 15 by the man in her village. A case was filed and the man was arrested and sent to jail, a police officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/rape-victim-sets-herself-on-fire-after-being-harassed-by-accuseds-kin/articleshow/79268504.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal govt labs can scale upto 4,000 RT-PCR tests per day||BHOPAL: Free Covid-19 testing facility in government laboratories can be scaled up to 4,000 RT-PCR tests per day, if needed, said Bhopal chief medical and health officer (CMHO) Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, here on Monday. The gold standard of testing Covid-19 is available in more than two dozen labs in the state capital. There is also an unlimited reach of rapid antigen test, he added. The CMHO’s statement should come as a relief to city residents who are apprehensive about likely ‘another wave’ of Covid-19 infections in Bhopal. Bhopal’s medical infrastructure is likely to be stressed due to patients from nearby districts who come to the state capital for specialised medical treatment. Since the started, more than three lakh tests have been carried out in Bhopal. With the dip in temperatures, experts warn that cold-cough and pneumonia patients can easily become corona victims. The number of coronavirus patients in the state, including the capital, has once again started picking up. “The next three to four months are critical. Therefore, it is important to take all needed precautions,” said Dr Tiwari. By simply wearing a face mask and adhering to social distancing, the spread of the infection can be curbed by as much as 80%, going by WHO estimates. Viral flu is currently triggered by the weather. A normal person becomes a patient of cold and cough. People who are already suffering from some serious diseases are more at risk. Heart patients, diabetes and hypertension patients are at high risk. Many patients in this category end up needing ventilator with ICU support, experts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/city-govt-labs-can-scale-upto-4k-rt-pcr-tests-per-day/articleshow/79269701.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||After admission, CU registration goes online||Kolkata: Calcutta University has, for the time being, made the registration process of students, who have already taken admission in undergraduate and postgraduate courses, online, making it simpler and safer for its affiliated colleges that have just concluded an extended admission season. “The pandemic has pushed us to adopt new ways of doing things to minimize physical contact. The entire admission process was carried out online so that students did not have to visit colleges. All CU-affiliated colleges have managed to fill most seats despite facing various challenges. We have decided to carry out the registration process online as well. The university has drawn up a list of information, which the colleges need to upload on a separate portal, created exclusively for registration. They can send us the hard copies of testimonials and documents later, when normalcy is restored,” said a CU official. Registration with the university is mandatory for every student, failing which he or she will not be able to appear for university exams. A notice sent to the affiliated institutes stated that the university would ask for hard copies of registration forms, testimonials and other documents when the pandemic eases. For now, the colleges can access the information that the university has sought for registration from the “admission database”. The colleges are supposed to upload scanned copies of students’ marksheets, reservation certificates, migration certificates, digitized photographs and digitized signatures, along with other testimonials. The colleges will have to fill micro data in an excel sheet, including the marks obtained by students in board examinations, subjects studied in plus-II and general subjects opted for in the undergraduate level. The colleges have been instructed to be extra careful while scrutinizing the admitted candidates’ documents before uploading them on the website as the university will cancel the registration if discrepancies are found in the information provided by any student. Heads of colleges will have to digitally authenticate every admission for the registration process. “Colleges already have the data in their possession, received from students during admissions. Now, the heads of the institutions need to digitally authenticate the information and upload those on the university website,” said a principal of a north Kolkata college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-admission-cu-registration-goes-online/articleshow/79270850.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 18, 2020||Trichy||2 drown, 2 washed away in Cauvery||Trichy: A college lecturer from Coimbatore and a boy drowned in the Cauvery river near Musiri on Tuesday while two other boys are missing after being washed away. The deceased have been identified as Saravanakumar, 31, of Coimbatore and Parthiban, 12, son of Ashok Kumar of Karumariyamman Temple Street in Musiri. Search was going on for R Rathish, 12, and R Mithun, 8, sons of Raguraman of Karur, who were washed away. The families of both Saravanakumar and Raguraman had arrived at their relative’s home in Musiri a few days ago. After lunch on Tuesday, around 10 people went to take bath near the coracle ghat. While they were taking bath, Saravanakumar, Rathish and Mithun were washed away. Based on an alert, fire and rescue personnel and police from Musiri rushed there and recovered the body of Saravanakumar. They also recovered the body of Parthiban, who was not part of the above mentioned 10-member group. The 12-year-old boy took bath in the river dip without his parent’s knowledge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/2-drown-2-washed-away-in-cauvery/articleshow/79271894.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||922 fresh Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh, tally crosses 1.85 lakh mark||BHOPAL: With 922 new cases reported on Tuesday, the tally of Covid-19 patients in the state reached 1,85,466. Apart from these fresh cases, 10 deaths were reported in the entire state, taking the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state to 3,102. Districts where these deaths were reported include Indore where 2 deaths were reported and one death each was reported from Bhopal, Khargone, Hoshangabad, Dhar, Rewa, Damoh, Khandwa and Umaria. On Tuesday, fresh cases were reported from 48 of the 52 districts of the state. It were only Raisen, Niwari, Mandla and Burhanpur districts where no fresh cases were reported in the state on Tuesday. And of the 48 districts where new cases were reported, cases were reported in double figures from 23 districts of the state. Districts where maximum cases were reported include Bhopal where 207 fresh cases were reported, Indore where 178 fresh cases were reported, Gwalior where 55 fresh cases were reported and Jabalpur where 48 new cases were reported. Comparatively less tests were done on Tuesday also as against the average of around 24,000 tests per day so far in November. On Tuesday, only 17,958 tests were done. Of these 17,958 samples that were tested on Tuesday, 922 people were found positive, thus the positivity rate—people found positive out of every 100 samples tested—for November 17 stood at 5.1%. On the brighter side, 848 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged. With these new patients recovering from the disease, the count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 1,73,284. The cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state as on November 17, was 93.44%. As on November 17, there were 9,060 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/922-fresh-cases-in-mp-tally-crosses-1-85l-mark/articleshow/79269698.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||White magic to fill Kalka-Shimla ghost train||Chandigarh: Snow show has begun in the hills, so the gallery on wheels expects some audience. Resumed after seven months, the Kalka-Shimla heritage train has regained just 25% occupancy, so a lot rides on the snow hunters. Since the October 20 restart, the Himalayan Queen has moved to 90 passengers in almost a month. For the first few days after the pandemic break, it covered the long, ghostly journey through forest pines without any traveller. The railway authorities hope that the season’s first snowfall in the upper reaches attracts tourists and they also get to introduce connecting trains. Ambala divisional railway manager (DRM) G M Singh said: “The occupancy is picked up to only 25% but we are happy these passengers are tourists and that the train will keep running. It will get a good load once connecting trains start between Delhi and Chandigarh-Kalka, for which we are lobbying with the ministry.” The Himalayan Queen 04515 leaves Kalka at 12.10pm and reaches Shimla at 5.20pm, Train 04516 makes the return journey the following day, departing Shimla at 10.40am and arriving in Kalka at 4.10pm. Of the seven coaches, two are of luxury class. The holiday train will remain in service till November 30. The Kalka station superintendent said that the stations were sanitised after every passing of the Himalayan Queen and Covid-19 protocols were followed even during the journey. The Kalka-Shimla railway tracks, a world heritage route, completed 127 years on November 9. The train services on this line started on November 9, 1903. The 96-kilometre-long system with 18 stations, more than 880 bridges, and 103 tunnels comes under the Ambala division of northern railway. BOX Shatabdi, UP, Bihar trains stay cancelled The cancellation of Kalka Shatabdi as well as Sadhbhawna, Gorakhpur, and Patna express trains continues from Chandigarh till further orders, divisional railway manager (DRM) G M Singh has said here on Tuesday. The trains go to Delhi, Patna, Lucknow, and Gorakhpur. People continue to demand extending the Jan Shatabdi Express till Una. The DRM said: “The railway ministry is in talks with the agitating farmers. Once the protest ends, the service can resume without any trial run.” No blockade was reported on the Ambala-Chandigarh-Ludhiana and Ambala-Chandigarh-Una sections were reported to be. The Ambala division has been running its closed-coach internal goods train to Chandigarh daily to transport essential commodities. The Jan Shatabdi is being short terminated and short originated from Ambala, besides being cancelled partially between Ambala and Una.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/white-magic-to-fill-kalka-shimla-ghost-train/articleshow/79269700.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
November 18, 2020||Agra||SI dies as car overturns on Yamuna Expressway||Agra: An Uttar Pradesh Police sub-inspector was killed and three others injured in separate accidents taking place on Yamuna Expressway in the past 24 hours. Robin Tevatiya (31) — who hailed from Bulandshahr and was posted at Fatehabad police station in Agra — was killed as the car he was travelling in overturned after being hit by another vehicle near milestone 66 on Yamuna Expressway in Mathura on Monday evening. In a separate incident, three passengers on board a tourist bus from Noida sustained injuries when a truck hit their vehicle near milestone 94 due to low visibility on Tuesday morning. Talking to TOI, Fatehabad circle officer Veer Kumar said Tevatiya and his colleague sub-inspector Jitendra were on their way to Noida for an official work when the accident took place around 5:30 pm. Mathura SP (rural) Shireesh Chandra said Tevatiya lost control over the car after being hit by an unidentified vehicle and the car jumped to the opposite side of the road. The duo was taken to SN Medical College in Agra, but Tevatiya succumbed to his injuries, while SI Jitendra is undergoing treatment. “An FIR has been registered and investigations are being conducted,” added the SP. The injured bus passengers were identified as Sunaiya, Pankaj and Vijay Kumar, all residents of Delhi’s Badarpur. According to police, they are stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/si-dies-as-car-overturns-on-yamuna-expressway/articleshow/79268512.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Meerut||UP ATS arrests 2 Bangladeshi nationals for planning ‘sinister activities'||Meerut: UP Police’s Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) on Tuesday arrested two Bangladeshi nationals, who the agency suspected were “planning sinister activity against India”. In a statement, the agency said that Iqbal and Farooq -- both brothers-- were illegally staying in Kamela Colony in Saharanpur.“They were earlier arrested in West Bengal in 2013 for staying illegally in the country. After a two-year jail term they were deported. But, after sometime, they sneaked into India again,” the statement issued by the ATS read.Agency sources said that after entering into India in 2015 both the accused reached Saharanpur. “With the help of local touts, they got documents like Aadhaar cards, voter ID and passports. They also have links with people in the US, Saudi Arabia, Italy, Britain, Bangladesh and Myanmar,” a source said.Western UP has emerged as a safe haven for illegal migrants from Bangladesh. While most come here in search of work and live illegally, some were recently found to be involved in anti-national activities. They belonged to terror groups. In August 2018, ATS had arrested Bangladeshi national Abdullah Al-Mamon, a member of terror outfit Ansarullah Bangla Team (ABT). Abdullah had stayed in Deoband for several years before his arrest from Muzaffarnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-ats-arrests-2-bangladeshi-nationals-for-planning-sinister-activities/articleshow/79268508.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Spl knee replacement surgery performed||Hyderabad: South India’s first fast track total knee replacement surgery was performed on a known diabetic 65-year-old female patient, here at a private hospital. Fast track total knee replacement is a day care knee replacement surgery.. The surgery was performed by a team led by Dr K J Reddy, senior consultant orthopaedic surgeon, Apollo Hospitals. The patient has fully recovered since.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-knee-replacement-surgery-performed/articleshow/79270852.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Numbers don’t add up for MTC users||CHENNAI: An unannounced change in MTC bus route numbers has left a lot of passengers confused. In the last three weeks, MTC Chennai has changed the nomenclature of at least 15 bus routes. These include prominent routes like M7 (T Nagar-Thiruvanmiyur), 7B (Korattur-Parry’s Corner), 522 (Adyar-Sholinganallur-Acharavakkam) and 5A (Tambaram-T Nagar). From now on, these routes will be known as 3, 35, 102M and 51A respectively. Besides this, MTC has changed prefixes and suffixes of certain routes like G70 (Vadapalani-Guduvanchery) and 37G (Poonamalle to Vallalar Nagar) “The general public is kept in the dark regarding such changes... this will lead to a further drop in MTC’s patronage. What stops them from releasing a press statement on the changes?” asked Rama Rao from Traffic and Transportation Forum, Chennai. People not used to names of areas in Chennai might avoid unfamilar bus route numbers assuming it to be a detour (even if the destination and source are mentioned with key bus stops in the board). They end up using share autos after waiting for long, said Ravi Kumar, a regular MTC-user from Tambaram. SA Vijayakumar, a retired transport corporation staff, explained a brief history of the MTC’s penchant for numbers. He said in the early 1950s, buses were chosen based on sectors. For example, buses plying via Triplicane were numbered ‘1’ while ‘3’ series were operated via Parry’s Corner. Later as the city expanded, double-digits were introduced and prefixes and suffixes were added as routes were extended. “At one point, it got all messed up,” said Vijayakumar. Politicians too renamed buses plying to their assembly constituencies with their initials. For instance, routes like 56J and M45K or K18 plied across RK Nagar and Saidapet constituencies from which late chief ministers J Jayalalithaa and M Karunanidhi were elected in the past. When contacted, MTC officials said that they were renaming bus routes based on the transport zones they belong to, as originally conceptualised. K Sathapriyan, founder of TNSTC Enthusiasts, said it is good that MTC is trying to make its bus nomenclature uniform again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/numbers-dont-add-up-for-mtc-users/articleshow/79269710.cms||Ram Sundaram
November 18, 2020||Goa||‘Goa no longer Haj embarkation point due to poor response’||Margao: Reacting to criticism from several quarters over the cancellation of Goa as an embarkation point for Haj pilgrims, the vice-president of the Haj Committee of India and the Goa State Haj Committee chairman Shaikh Jina said that the development was a consequence of the restrictions imposed on the Haj pilgrimage by Saudi Arabia government following deliberations with the government of India. Stating that Saudi Arabia has restricted the quota of Haj pilgrims from India to 35,000, Jina pointed out that of the earlier 21 embarkation points for Haj pilgrims in India, only 10 have been retained this year. Political parties had tried to make political capital of the issue. Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai said in a tweet: “Cancellation of Goa as venue of Haj pilgrims is @BJP4Goa revenge on Muslims for not voting for them in SouthGoa LS polls & indicative of rabid communal politics to follow under them. We will work to restore Haj as well as subsidise travel to Shirdi, Vailankanni & Tirupati.” Jina said the embarkation points of states which even had 7, 000 and 8,000 Haj pilgrims have either been cancelled or reduced. “Following efforts of former chief minister Manohar Parrikar and then South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar, the quota of Haj pilgrims from Goa was increased from 68 to 200. However, as we have been facing difficulties in filling up this quota from Goa, we had to get people from Karnataka to leave for Mecca from Dabolim airport. Had Goa got 200 application forms of Haj pilgrims we could have put up a case before the Union minorities minister,” he said. Pointing out that December 10 is the last date for filing of application forms for Haj piligrims, Jina said not a single application form was received by the committee till date. He advised those criticising the government to instead convince prospective pilgrims to apply well before time so that the quota can be adequately filled. For Haj 2021, the 10 embarkation points are - Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Cochin, Delhi, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Lucknow, Mumbai and Srinagar. Pilgrims from Goa will be covered by the embarkation point at Mumbai which will also cover pilgrims from Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli. As we have been facing difficulties in filling up this (200 pilgrims) quota from Goa, we had to get people from Karnataka to leave for Mecca from Dabolim airport. Had Goa got 200 application forms we could have put up a case before the Union minorities minister||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-no-longer-haj-embarkation-point-due-to-poor-response/articleshow/79271910.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Metro rail seeks feeder services operator for last mile connectivity||CHENNAI: In another few months, commuters walking out of a metro rail station can quickly book an inexpensive ride in a cab or an electric auto to their destination. Chennai Metro Rail Limited has floated a tender looking for a firm that can operate a uniform feeder service across its existing 32 phase-1 stations and eight phase-1 extension stations, providing commuters with first and last mile connectivity. This comes after CMRL discontinued operations of share auto and feeder cab services in 13 stations following complaints from commuters. The move also comes at a time when CMRL’s 45km phase-1 line is recording only 25% of its pre-Covid average daily patronage, apart from the 9km phase-1 extension line in north Chennai getting ready for commercial operations by early 2021. Officials said the launch of the new feeder service offering inexpensive connectivity could boost CMRL’s patronage. According to the tender, the operator is expected to deploy feeder vehicles including share-autos, e-autos, share-cabs like mini cabs and sedans. With a passenger capacity of up to six in one vehicle, the operator is expected to deploy 60 vehicles across the entire metro rail network of 54km. The schedule of feeder service operations will be in consonance with the metro train time table. “The feeder vehicles to and fro from the metro stations are to be operated around a 5km radius,” said an official. The selected operator will be given license to run their vehicle for a period of two years. Since resumption of train services on September 7, metro rail's daily average patronage has grown by 53%. From 14,798 in September, which is now at an average 22,685 in November though it is still 25% of metrorail pre-covid daily average patronage, which was 1.16 lakhs. More people would opt to use metro trains when a uniform feeder service is launched that could take passengers from metro stations to their destination and back.  Before the lockdown, CMRL was operating share-auto and cab services in 13 stations on a trial basis. They also operated an app-based cab service in eight stations, which was later planned to be extended to all stations. But officials said the contract was terminated following poor performance and feedback from commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/metro-rail-seeks-feeder-services-operator-for-last-mile-connectivity/articleshow/79269721.cms||U Tejonmayam
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Induction prog at Manuu concludes||Hyderabad: The six days long Deekhsharambh — online students induction programme 2020, organized by dean of students’ welfare at Maulana Azad National Urdu University (Manuu) for newly admitted students concluded on Tuesday. The programme, inaugurated on November 9, introduced students to rules and regulations and provided details about various facilities, curricular and extra-curricular activities available at the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/induction-prog-at-manuu-concludes/articleshow/79270857.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Agra||Three die after consuming spurious liquor in Firozabad||AGRA: Three youths from Sekhpura village in Firozabad district died allegedly after consuming illicit liquor on Tuesday. The victims, Sanju Yadav (40), his uncle Navichand (45) and friend Avadesh Kumar (38), were all labourers at a local glass factory and had consumed spurious liquor on Monday evening. Navichand’s family claimed that the uncle-nephew duo had returned home drunk on Monday evening and went to bed without any dinner. They said that both of them started vomiting in the wee hours of Tuesday and complained of breathing trouble and chest pain, adding that they succumbed soon after. Sanju’s cousin Anil Kumar said, “We thought we would take them to the hospital in the morning. However, Sanju died at 5am and his uncle too died within 30 minutes. Both of them had consumed illicit liquor sold in the village.” Ram Teerath, nephew of Avadesh Kumar, said, “My uncle had consumed spurious liquor on Monday evening. He kept vomiting on Tuesday morning and we rushed him to the Khergarh primary health centre from where he was referred to the district hospital. However, the doctors there declared him brought dead.” Meanwhile, the villagers claimed that there is no licensed liquor shop in the area and local goons in connivance with the local police sell spurious liquor to residents. They alleged that another man, too, had died due to illicit liquor consumption on Diwali while yet another is still critical and has been referred to Agra. Taking cognizance of the matter, district magistrate Chandra Vijay Singh has ordered a probe into the matter by the sub-divisional magistrate of Shikohabad. Police, however, claimed that the men died due to overconsumption of liquor and substance abuse. Superintendent of police (rural) Rajesh Kumar said, “All three of them were heavy drinkers. There is a possibility that they might have mixed other intoxicants too in the liquor. As of now, there is no evidence to prove that they had consumed spurious liquor. All the bodies have been sent for postmortem and an inquiry is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-die-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-firozabad/articleshow/79268532.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh stands third in cold chain points for vaccine delivery||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh has the third highest cold chain points (CCPs) for vaccine delivery in the country, going by a techno-economic assessment of 12 electronic vaccine intelligence network (eVIN) report. Madhya Pradesh has 1,127 CCPs, which would be crucial in delivering a safe and potent Covid-19 vaccine. From a distance of 1000 km, we can come to know the cold chain of a vaccine, said MP-NHM additional director, Dr Santosh Shukla. eVIN has been implemented in 12 out of 36 states/union territories in India. A ‘cold chain’ for vaccine storage temperature is recommended in the range of +2°C to +8°C. Gujarat and Rajasthan have more CCPs than MP. Covishield is in its third stage and is developed at the SII Pune laboratory with a master seed from Oxford University/Astra Zeneca. “There would be no need for modification to the cold chain management,” said Dr Shukla. He is also the state expanded program on immunization officer (SEPIO). He expressed optimism that +2°C to +8°C would be the temperature need for the SSI vaccine. The official’s statement should calm fears as questions are being raised on the challenges in cold chain logistics in carrying out vaccinations. In the recent past, two US manufacturers who have claimed a 90% efficacy in Covid-19 vaccine trials have also noted the need for very cold temperatures to store the vaccine. Currently, there are no facilities with the health department, which can store vaccine at low temperatures like -20°C and below. Dry ice is not widely available. “Cold chain should not be a problem,” said AIIMS Bhopal director, Dr Sarman Singh. The institute is anticipating conducting a Covid vaccine trial ‘very soon’. The MP health department has set a target of immunizing 1.9 million children and 2.2 million pregnant women each year. VPD surveillance is being improved. FGDs are specifically undertaken planned session sites with ANMs, ASHAs, MPWs, LHV and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/state-stands-third-in-cold-chain-points-for-vaccine-delivery/articleshow/79269726.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Cos with no turnover, formed after auction call, bagged coal blocks||Nagpur: As TOI investigated the negative net worth company that bagged the ecologically sensitive Marki Mangli coal block, it found more such companies with dubious financials have won commercial mining leases in the auction of 18 blocks that concluded this month. One company with negative net worth, and one company set up a month after the auction was announced too have bagged coal blocks.Kota-based Boulder Stone Mart Private Limited has bagged the Gotitoria block in Madhya Pradesh. The company is into the business of mining and quarrying, and was incorporated in 2013. Its directors are Jitendra Sharma and Jeetu Kumar Gera, both of whom took over in November 2019. It has offered revenue share of 54%, outbidding six other companies, including Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation — an Andhra Pradesh government entity.TOI accessed returns filed by Boulder Stone Mart Pvt Ltd with the ministry of company affairs (MCA). The balance sheet for the year ending March 2020 shows negative net worth of Rs15 lakh. There is a loss of Rs3.39 lakh shown for the year. What leads to doubts about the company’s financial capacity is that the profit and loss shows nil revenue from operations, and Rs32,000 odd ‘other income’.Earlier, TOI had probed the financials of Yazdani International — a company from Odisha which bagged the controversial Marki Mangli II block in Yavatmal. The block is in the middle of a tiger corridor and forest area. Yazdani’s returns filed with the MCA showed it has negative net worth of Rs20 crore, which indicates continuous losses.Auction of coal blocks was announced under the Atmanirbhar Bharat plan in June this year. The tender conditions, however, do not have any specific criteria of financial net worth and prior experience, which has led to any company being allowed to bid for the blocks.“The question is whether these companies will really be able to take up mining. Not taking up the project can lead to forfeiture of the bank guarantee, which is furnished at the time of allotment. Giving bank guarantee to a company with poor financials is also questionable,” said an independent observer from a financial company.Another company, Fairmines Carbons Private Limited from Ranchi, was incorporated on July 6, which is just a month after the announcement of the auction by the government. The company has bagged the Rajhara block at Daltonganj in JharkhandThe object clause of the company’s incorporation documents says that it is into manufacture of refined petroleum products. The company had paid up capital of Rs2 lakh and the authorized capital was increased to Rs5 crore on November 6 from Rs15 lakh earlier. Its directors are Samir Lohia, Bijay Kumar Agrawal, Rajeev Kumar Singh, Nitish Kumar Singh and Rajeev Shekhar.Even Adani Enterprises floated a special purpose vehicle to take part in the auction. The company — Statatech Mineral Resources Private Limited — which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Adani Enterprises has got the Dhirauli block, also in Madhya Pradesh. The company was formed in October 2019, nine months before the auction was announced. Experts say since it comes under the Adani Group, it has the backing of a larger conglomerate for finances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cos-with-no-turnover-formed-after-auction-call-bagged-coal-blocks/articleshow/79270863.cms||Shishir Arya
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Univ clears air on sem exams||Kolkata: Calcutta University on Tuesday clarified the queries posed by principals of affiliated colleges on how to conduct intermediate semester examinations. “The questions included which examinations should be considered—whether supplementary exams would be included or not—who all will be eligible candidates and how the colleges should mark the answer scripts and upload the scores,” said Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar. “All these were clarified by CU. Senior CU official have also sought feedback from colleges and told us all further queries would be answered.” The university has clearly stated that full attendance will be given to candidates as the classes are being held online since March. CU has also instructed that a checklist, containing roll numbers of all eligible candidates, will have to be uploaded on the college portals, based on which officials can keep tabs on students who appear for the exams. Based on the CU directive, colleges will have to evaluate intermediate semester students through internal assessments and on the basis of performance in earlier semester or year. Most colleges will begin their tests from November 23 and marks will be submitted within a month. “We have sought a clear guideline on the format of the exams in each subject. It is yet to arrive,” said a college principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/univ-clears-air-on-sem-exams/articleshow/79270881.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Centre talks of media free speech, SC of regulation||NEW DELHI: In a case of role reversal, the Supreme Court on Tuesday seemed to push the Centre to exercise its powers under the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act against TV channels to have an effective oversight on the contents of TV programmes even as the Centre argued that it respected the media’s right to free speech and was loath to play the regulator. A bench of CJI SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian expressed displeasure over the Centre’s response to Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind’s petition alleging the government did precious little to stop the media from targeting Muslims during the Covid-19 pandemic by making hateful reports on the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin. In its affidavit, the Centre had said that by and large, most mainstream newspapers and web portals reported responsibly on the event. It said during the initial period of the pandemic, when some Tablighi Jamaat members were found Covid positive, it received media and public attention. It also detailed the number of accounts and URLs that were blocked to stop circulation of fake news targeting the minority community As the hearing progressed, its scope expanded to cover whether the government should use the powers it enjoys to regulate content on TV channels. The CJI told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, “We are not satisfied with the Centre’s affidavit. We had asked what steps were taken by the government under the Cable TV Networks (Regulation) Act against fake news circulated by TV channels. What is the grievance redressal mechanism under the law? On both these points, your affidavit is silent despite us asking for it.” When Mehta promised to file a fresh affidavit, the bench said, “What the TV channels show is of great consequence to the country. How do you plan to control what channels are showing through law?” Mehta said, “We (the government) don’t want to control the content of TV channels. We respect the right to free speech and expression of media.” The bench said, “We want to know what mechanism exists under the law to regulate the content telecast by TV channels. If you have a mechanism, then that should deal with the grievances raised by this petition. If you don’t have a mechanism, then create one. Otherwise, we will hand over the responsibility to the private body.” The SC kept the matter for hearing after three weeks. Watch Centre advocates media free speech even as SC pushed for regulation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-talks-of-media-free-speech-sc-of-regulation/articleshow/79272997.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Man with a hole in heart held for selling stolen gold||Nagpur: Prakash Panchbhai, 45, who convinced a bullion trader into buying 39 tola gold ornaments for Rs11 lakh from him to fund his surgery for septal defect (having a hole in heart) and also get his ailing father treated for cancer, was picked up by Bajaj Nagar police on charges of buying and selling stolen valuables. The gold worth Rs20.54 lakh at the current market value was recovered from bullion trader Durgesh Surpatne by the police under the supervision of Zonal DCP Noorul Hassan this week. The ornaments were allegedly stolen by one Amol Raut from the house of Yogesh Shende, a lecturer residing in Railway Colony in Rana Pratap Nagar, in August last year. Raut was subsequently arrested by crime branch on January 1. The crime branch could recover only Rs35,000 cash from Raut, before handing him over to Bajaj Nagar police. Raut had named one Shrikant Nikhade as the person whom he had sold the stolen gold for a little over Rs6 lakh. Bajaj Nagar police could not trace Nikhade as he frequently changed address and also mobile number. On November 14, Bajaj Nagar police team comprising sub-inspector Parag Fulzele, head constable Govinda Barapatre, naik constable Gautam Ramteke and others led by senior inspector Mahesh Chavan managed to zero down upon Nikhade at a dhaba near Saoner. During questioning, he named Panchbhai as the one whom he had sold the gold for Rs7 lakh. Acting on the information, Panchbhai, who is reportedly member of a religious group, was picked up from his residence at Bahadura. During interrogation, Panchbhai named Surpatne, from whom the police recovered the valuables. Addressing a press conference, DCP Hassan, flanked by ACP Ashok Bagul and senior inspector Chavan, said a charge sheet was filed in the case after the arrest of Raut, who had broken into the house of Shende, but Nikhade and Panchbhai were untraceable. “After taking over the supervision, the police revisited the case and ensured each culprit involved in the theft and disposal of the stolen gold was arrested,” he said. Hassan said Surpatne was not made an accused as he had not acted with mala fide intention by purchasing the gold from Panchbhai. “Surpatne was promised by Panchbhai that he would hand over the original receipts of the valuables. Panchbhai had emotionally blackmailed Surpatne to believe that he was ailing and needed the money for treatment,” said Hassan. blurb Prakash Panchbhai allegedly bought 39 stolen tola gold (valued over Rs20 lakh) from a man for just Rs7 lakh and sold it for Rs11 lakh to a bullion trader Watch Nagpur: Man with a hole in heart held for selling stolen gold||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/man-with-a-hole-in-heart-held-for-selling-stolen-gold/articleshow/79270879.cms||Soumitra Bose
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Cambridge signs MoU with learning org||Hyderabad: Cambridge Assessment English (part of the University of Cambridge) has signed a memorandum of understanding with Chrysalis, a learning transformation organisation. Chrysalis, through the partnership, will offer an English language learning and assessment program for partner schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cambridge-signs-mou-with-learning-org/articleshow/79270880.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Medical college not on counselling list||CHENNAI: There will be 150 fewer seats on the seat matrix for state medical counselling by the selection committee on Wednesday as Sri Muthukumaran Medical College will not be on the list of self-financing colleges. In addition, the committee will open 300 seats from two self- financing colleges with a rider that the mandatory recognition approval from National Medical Commission for these two colleges – Trichy SRM Medical College and Tagore Medical College – are still pending. “The colleges tell us that NMC inspection was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic,” said selection committee secretary G Selvarajan. According to the seat matrix released by the TN Dr MGR Medical University, renewal of permission for Trichy SRM Medical College is pending from February 2019 and for Tagore Medical College from February 2020. “During counselling, we will tell students about no recognition of these colleges,” he said. (The official seat matrix was not released by the committee until the filing of this story.) The state selection committee, which conducts counselling for admission for all colleges affiliated to Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University and Annamalai University, said there were 26 government colleges, and 15 self-financing medical colleges. In 2020, 300 seats from two new colleges – Panimalar Medical College Hospital, Chennai and Indira Medical College and Hospital, Tiruvallur – will be added to the state pool. The government Kanyakumari Medical College received 50 additional seats and in PSG Institute of Medical Sciences and Research the seats went up to 250 seats. Meanwhile, the seat matrix released by the state university registrar Dr M B Aswath Narayanan on November 6 did not list Muthukumaran Medical College in the seat matrix. “The seat matrix is given to us by the state university. We will not be able to admit students until the university approves it,” said Dr Selvarajan. In 2019, the Chennai-based Muthukumaran Medical College did not figure in the first round of counselling as its affiliation was held following serious infrastructural flaws. “The university is yet to give affiliation for 2020-21 as the same problems exist,” said a senior university official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/medical-college-not-on-counselling-list/articleshow/79269767.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Multiple school associations firmly say no to reopening||NAGPUR: Various associations representing schools, trustees and teachers met in Nagpur on Tuesday to discuss the contentious issue of school reopening and reached a consensus that their respective institutions won’t be reopened because of uncertainty related to instructions from local authorities. Ravindra Fadnavis, who represented Maharashtra Rajya Shikshan Sanstha Mahamandal in Tuesday’s meet, said, “Though the state education department has already issued instructions for school reopening, no details have yet come from the local authorities. Since we are still in unlock phase, the protocol is for local authorities to issue separate instructions for the reopening.” He said lack of such instructions has made reopening impossible in the given time frame. “State government says from November 23 schools can reopen. But till date, we have no idea about who will fund the sanitization costs? Who will bear expenses of medical tests? and What happens if a student gets infected. In the absence of clarity on such issues, we can’t even proceed to contact parents,” said Fadnavis. It was Fadnavis’s association which had made its stance clear last week that unless government funds Covid-19 sanitization costs, they won’t open schools. “We need Rs1 lakh per 500 students to fund the materials and manpower required,” said Fadnavis, who hosted the meet in his trust’s school. During the meeting, association members also flayed education department for making such announcements during Diwali vacations. “How can we get ready for school reopening during Diwali vacation? It’s illogical. It takes time to get the staff back, plan out the strategy and then reach out to parents. So, regardless of what the education department says, we will definitely not be reopening our schools,” said Fadnavis. The full-fledged meeting was also attended by MLC from teachers’ constituency Nago Ganar, Headmasters Association president Kishore Masurkar, Shikshak Sena president Anil Pandey, RTE Foundation’s Sachin Kalbande. Others present included members of Maharashtra Rajya Shikshak Parishad, Shikshak Bharti, Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association and BJP’s Shikshak Aghadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/multiple-school-associations-firmly-say-no-to-reopening/articleshow/79270882.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 18, 2020||Agra||AMU VC’s name excluded from Covid vaccine trial at JNMC||Agra: Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) vice-chancellor Tariq Mansoor’s name has been excluded from the list of volunteers for Phase III clinical trial of Covid-19 vaccine, after it was revealed he was administered an influenza vaccine recently, which is against test protocols. The VC had enrolled himself to be the first volunteer for the clinical trial of Covaxin, developed by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. Prof Mohammad Shameem, principal investigator for the Phase III trial of Covaxin, said according to the protocol for the trial, “Persons participating in the trial should not have taken any licensed/experimental vaccine within four weeks before enrolment in the study.”On perusal of his recent medical history, it was revealed that a few days back, the VC had been administered influenza vaccine Fluarex-Tetra, as part of an annual regimen. Since his case falls in the exclusionary criteria according to the protocol for the vaccine trial, he may not be able to participate in the trials, and hence his name will not be included in the initial study period of the trial, he added.Prof Shameem told TOI that till date, around 500 applications have been received for the trial. All applications will be screened as per protocol and procedure laid down by ICMR, before inclusion in the study/trial. He further said written consent and other related formalities will be completed in due course of time. He also added that a team from Bharat Biotech will visit AMU on Thursday to train staff for the vaccine trials.Meanwhile, the medical college has also planned to open its OPD (out-patient department) in a phased manner. “Modalities for opening OPD will be decided at a meeting on Wednesday,” said principal of the medical college, Professor Shahid Ali, adding that proper mandatory precautions such as social distancing, hygiene, sanitation, wearing of masks, etc will be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/amu-vcs-name-excluded-from-covid-vaccine-trial-at-jnmc/articleshow/79268561.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Dehradun||U'khand records 429 new Covid-19 cases, 3 deaths||Dehradun: With the state recording 429 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Tuesday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand shot up to 68,887. The maximum of Covid-19 cases in the state were yet again reported from Dehradun district. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said, “As many as 142 coronavirus cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 52 in Nainital, 36 in Rudraprayag, 35 in Pithoragarh, 31 in Uttarkashi, 23 in Pauri Garhwal, 22 in Almora, 19 in Udham Singh Nagar, 19 in Haridwar, 17 in Chamoli, 14 in Bageshwar, 12 in Tehri Garhwal, and eight in Champawat. The official added, “The health department collected 11,162 fresh samples for testing on Tuesday. The Covid-19 test results of as many as 15,049 samples were awaited till Tuesday.” According to the health department, Uttarakhand also recorded deaths of three Covid-19 patients on Tuesday, taking the toll of the virus to 1,119 in the state. Besides new cases and deaths, 440 people recovered from the Covid-19 infection on Tuesday. With this, the total number of cured cases shot up to 62,995 in the state. Notably, 21 PAC jawans who went in the Bihar poll duty from Uttarakhand were found Covid-19 positive. Their samples were collected in Udham Singh Nagar. Dr DS Panchal, chief medical officer of Udham Singh Nagar, told TOI that total 200 samples of PAC jawans who went for poll duty in Bihar were collected in the last three days. "The test results of 40 jawans are still awaited," he added. Meanwhile, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday inaugurated 10 ambulances provided by the authorities of National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) from his residence. Secretary (health) Amit Negi, who was also present on the occasion, said that the ambulances given by the NTPC should be deployed in remote areas of the hill districts so that people in villages are benefitted. “The state government is taking all effective steps to control Covid-19 spread in the state. Due to our efforts, the recoveries across the state have shot up. This has been made possible with the help and cooperation of agencies like NTPC and others. The NTPC has given us 10 ambulances and 10,000 PPE kits during this pandemic,” added the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-records-429-new-covid-19-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/79268569.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Road fatalities saw 58% fall in lockdown, but still too many||BHOPAL: Fatalities due to road accidents has reduced by 58% during lockdown period in Madhya Pradesh. The matter surfaced during a meeting of the Supreme Court Committee For Road Safety held recently. Sources, however, said that if there was total lockdown, there should have been either negligible or even lesser casualties in road accidents. It was informed in the meeting that during the lockdown period between March 2 to May 31 the fatalities decreased by -58.8% from 2,551 to 1,050 when compared to the same period in 2019. In the meeting it also surfaced that 80% of the fatalities in road accidents have occurred due to overspeeding in the state. It was also observed that road accident fatalities in MP have been increasing every year. That from 8,569 in 2014 casualties increased to 11,249 in 2019 ( an increase of 23.82%). This increase had been 8.69% in 2015, 3.65% in 2016, 5.5% in 2017, 5.2% in 2018 and 5.1% in 2019, said sources. During the meeting, Supreme Court committee on road safety took stock of the implementation of directions given previously and also issued fresh instructions, which includes quarterly meeting of district road safety committee should be held regularly. For making the road safe, speed limiting device should be used. The road safety fund should be made non-lapsable and notified in the gazette of government of Madhya Pradesh. The state should beef up highway patrolling along all accident-prone stretches of the national and state highways as about 54% of the total road fatalities in year took place on highways. The meeting was held through video-conferencing on October 19 and was presided by former Supreme Court Justice, who is chief of the Supreme Court committee on road safety, Abhay Manohar Sapre. Officials of the state including ACS home, DGP and others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/road-accident-fatalities-saw-58-fall-during-lockdown/articleshow/79269776.cms||Amarjeet Singh
November 18, 2020||Bareilly||Woman, 3 others booked for lodging false gang rape case against husband, kin||PILIBHIT: A 28-year-old woman and three others were booked here on Tuesday for allegedly attempting to frame her husband and two of his relatives in a gang rape case and for misleading police. The woman and two of her aides are on the run. Her brother-in-law, a key conspirator, has been arrested. According to police, the woman was found lying in an unconscious state near the railway track at Shahi railway station in Pilibhit on July 27. On July 30, on the basis of her mother’s complaint, police had lodged an FIR against the woman’s husband, his elder brother and their brother-in-law under various sections of the IPC, including gang rape. Giving details, Jai Prakash Yadav, Pilibhit superintendent of police, said action was taken against the woman and her relatives after the investigation officer found that the allegations of gang rape were false and concocted for extorting money from the woman’s husband. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said the woman was married in 2016. Her husband worked in Bijnor. Their marriage broke up within one year. The woman registered an FIR against her husband and in-laws for allegedly torturing her for dowry. Later, the matter was transferred to the family court in Pilibhit, Dwivedi said. On July 24, the day fixed for the hearing of the matter, the woman's brother-in-law came to the court, accusing her estranged husband of abducting her. Investigation revealed that she had gone into hiding at a relative's house. Investigation officer Subhash Chandra said he suspected the entire matter to be fabricated when her medical examination report did not confirm any rape. While the woman was "missing", her relatives began to demand Rs 7 lakh from her husband. Police have filed a closure report in the criminal case registered against the woman's husband and his relatives, said SHO Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-3-others-booked-for-lodging-false-gang-rape-case-against-husband-kin/articleshow/79268619.cms||Keshav Agarwal
November 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Schools hint at possible revocation of fee concession||KOCHI: Even as the discussions on reopening schools are proceeding, school managements are hinting at the possible change in fee structure by revoking the Covid-time concessions after reopening. Most schools have dropped the annual fee hikes this year and some have even reduced the fees to ease the financial burden on parents considering the pandemic’s impact on the economy. Managements say that if the schools reopen they will have to cancel all the concessions given due to the Covid to meet the running cost. This will lead to further debates between parents and managements as many parents are holding protests seeking further concessions citing the economic crisis and unemployment. Parents are likely to oppose if the managements revoke the Covid-time concessions. But managements are of the opinion that it will be difficult to reopen the schools if the existing fee relaxations continue. Most schools are preparing for reopening and it involves a huge cost. Besides the usual running expenses, including power and water bills, the Covid situation demands additional investments by the school management for the disinfection of school premises, getting the school buses back to running condition with proper approvals, availing sanitation and personal protection equipment to staff, restoration of labs, etc. TPM Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE school management association, said that with the existing fee structure it is difficult to meet the expenses. “The fee reduction and delay in the fee payment by parents during the lockdown have already led most schools to severe financial crises. So, running the schools after reopening will be very difficult with the existing fee structure. We have to restore the old fee structure and it will be decided by the respective managements. The parents will be convinced about the necessity of the decision and we hope all of them would agree,” he said. Even though most schools are yet to take a decision regarding this, some schools have said that it is unlikely to revoke the fee concession as it will be an extra burden on parents. “There is a chance to continue the same fee structure throughout this year. A decision on the fees has not been taken yet by our school. But the management will not take a decision that will put extra financial burden on the parents,” said Sreekumar Kartha, principal, Global Public School, Thiruvaniyur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/schools-hint-at-possible-revocation-of-fee-concession/articleshow/79269802.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Schools hint at possible revocation of fee concession||KOCHI: Even as the discussions on reopening schools are proceeding, school managements are hinting at the possible change in fee structure by revoking the Covid-time concessions after reopening. Most schools have dropped the annual fee hikes this year and some have even reduced the fees to ease the financial burden on parents considering the pandemic’s impact on the economy. Managements say that if the schools reopen they will have to cancel all the concessions given due to the Covid to meet the running cost. This will lead to further debates between parents and managements as many parents are holding protests seeking further concessions citing the economic crisis and unemployment. Parents are likely to oppose if the managements revoke the Covid-time concessions. But managements are of the opinion that it will be difficult to reopen the schools if the existing fee relaxations continue. Most schools are preparing for reopening and it involves a huge cost. Besides the usual running expenses, including power and water bills, the Covid situation demands additional investments by the school management for the disinfection of school premises, getting the school buses back to running condition with proper approvals, availing sanitation and personal protection equipment to staff, restoration of labs, etc. TPM Ibrahim Khan, president, Kerala CBSE school management association, said that with the existing fee structure it is difficult to meet the expenses. “The fee reduction and delay in the fee payment by parents during the lockdown have already led most schools to severe financial crises. So, running the schools after reopening will be very difficult with the existing fee structure. We have to restore the old fee structure and it will be decided by the respective managements. The parents will be convinced about the necessity of the decision and we hope all of them would agree,” he said. Even though most schools are yet to take a decision regarding this, some schools have said that it is unlikely to revoke the fee concession as it will be an extra burden on parents. “There is a chance to continue the same fee structure throughout this year. A decision on the fees has not been taken yet by our school. But the management will not take a decision that will put extra financial burden on the parents,” said Sreekumar Kartha, principal, Global Public School, Thiruvaniyur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/schools-hint-at-possible-revocation-of-fee-concession/articleshow/79278521.cms||Anantha Narayanan K
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh govt orders action against Ponzi firms||BHOPAL: The state government on Tuesday issued instruction to ensure strict action within the time limit on complaints relating to fraud with the public by non-banking financial institutions and companies. The directives were issued as a meeting of the 39th State Level Coordination Committee related to non-banking financial institutions and unincorporated companies presided over by the chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains. It was informed in the meeting that chit fund and other unincorporated companies lure and collect money from the public by promising them quick returns. By the time people realize that they have been cheated, these companies disappear. Banks and the administration continuously warn people to be aware of such institutions. Instructions were also given in the meeting that a continuous awareness campaign should be conducted to protect people from financial fraud. It was informed in the meeting that the Reserve Bank of India received 1318 complaints against 164 companies / institutions that have been collecting money through unauthorized and illegal methods. Complaints have been sent to SEBI, CID, District Collector and other investigating agencies to take action. It was informed in the meeting that the Reserve Bank of India organized public awareness activities to make people aware and alert not to give information to anyone about ATM pin, OTP, to protect themselves against financial frauds and fraudulent financial schemes. Under this, medium like newspapers, Doordarshan were used. Additional chief secretary home Rajesh Rajoura, principal secretary finance Manoj Govil, principal secretary law Satyendra Kumar Singh, commissioner public relations Sudam Khade, additional director general of police CID, inspector general of police cyber and officials of Reserve Bank of India were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/govt-to-initiate-action-against-ponzi-firms/articleshow/79269794.cms||Ankur Sirothia
November 18, 2020||Chennai||MBBS/BDS counselling for govt school students today||Chennai: The counselling for admission to MBBS/BDS degree courses in Tamil Nadu will begin on Wednesday at 9am with counselling for 7.5% reservation for Tamil Nadu government school students. This is the first time the state has reserved seat in medical and dental colleges for students from government schools. During the current academic year, at least 300 seats will be allotted to students from these schools. Tamil Nadu has received 972 applications from government school students of which 951 were declared eligible. On Monday, the state put out the merit list for students under the government school quota. Seats to these students will be allotted based on merit in NEET-2020 and 69% rule of reservation. On Wednesday, students from rank one to rank 267 have been called for counselling. The following day, students from rank 268 to 633 have been invited for the counselling, while on Friday the remaining students have been called. Selection committee secretary G Selvarajan issued a notification stating that counselling for special categories (people with disabilities, children of ex-servicemen and sportspersons) will be held on Saturday. “The merit list will be put on the website, SMS will be sent to eligible candidates before counselling.” Candidates can only download call letters from www.tnmedicalselection.org; www.tnhealth.tn.gov.in to attend the counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/mbbs/bds-counselling-for-govt-school-students-today/articleshow/79269799.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Anyone can be a super spreader, unfair to label certain people, says doctors||Nagpur: With more relaxation in public movement after reopening of places of worship, health officials and doctors feel anyone can be a super spreader and not just those identified by the state public health department in view of a possible second wave.In its letter dated November 11, the department had laid emphasis on performing 50% of daily Covid testing on people who are likely to come in contact with a lot of people. As per the circular, petty vendors, hawkers, public transport workers, delivery persons and those from day-to-day services are among those from whom Covid may spread speedily during the second wave.Consulting pulmonologist at Kingsway Hospitals Dr Vikram Rathi called for scrapping the term ‘super spreader’. “Whatever measures the administration had taken during the first wave should be continued and improved upon. If anyone tests positive, contact tracing from that source must be done,” he suggested.Senior pulmonologist Dr Ashok Arbat preferred to look at the ‘super spreader’ concept from a broader perspective. “Once infected, people remain carriers as the virus is in their body for a long time. They too can spread it and not just ‘super spreaders’ if they are yet to develop antibodies,” said Dr Arbat.He added that it is unlikely that the class of people identified as ‘super spreader’ would be responsible for a second wave. “It is likely that the second wave will be seen in untouched pockets,” he said.Dr Hema Dhoble, head of medical administration, Suretech Hospital, too, felt the ‘super spreader’ tag was unfair and it is now time to revive trace, test and isolate norms.OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar said testing of ‘super spreader’ is theoretically a good concept. “People who are ignorant about their asymptomatic carrier state may innocently spread the disease and can be classified as super-spreader as they are in touch with many citizens because of the professions they are involved in. However, I am not sure whether this step will be practically feasible or fruitful during this ongoing relaxation in lockdown. People are too reckless and ignorant,” he said.Supporting the government, infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde said that everybody can’t be super spreaders. Only 20% are spreaders and form clusters. “We can’t control the virus spread. If restrictions would have stopped it, the virus would have disappeared by now. It is not going to go unless there is sufficient vaccine coverage. The virus will continue to move till it finds susceptible population, irrespective of the measures we take. No society can follow restrictions for such a long time. So, it’s better to identify super spreaders and slow down the virus till the cavalry comes (vaccine),” he said.Dr Shinde suggested early hospitalization between day 6 to 12 if complications develop, test all sick people, focus on rural areas and formulate strategies to prevent hospitalization as prevention measures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/anyone-can-be-a-super-spreader-unfair-to-label-certain-people-says-doctors/articleshow/79270957.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 18, 2020||Goa||Catering institute at Parra on cards: Lobo||Calangute: The state government is planning to start an institute of catering technology in Parra, said minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo. Stating that many hotels, resorts and restaurants need trained and qualified staff, Lobo said, “Many students from the Bardez coastal belt are interested in taking up jobs in the tourism industry. Currently, there is only one catering institute at Porvorim and there is a need for another one for the benefit of the students from the coastal belt so that they don’t have to travel all the way to Porvorim.” The proposed institute will have short-term diploma courses of six months and one year and will also have three-year degree courses, he said. Land for the institute has already been identified near a well-known banquet hall in Parra, Lobo further said. The proposed institute will have short-term diploma courses of six months and one year and will also have three-year degree courses, Lobo said||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/catering-institute-at-parra-on-cards-lobo/articleshow/79271943.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Few students attend class on day one of reopening of colleges||MANGALURU: Barring some private colleges, students were a no-show on day one of colleges reopening on Tuesday. Those colleges in which students attended classes, said that there were few students in attendance. Following government guidelines, the colleges in the coastal district had classes on Tuesday. The colleges reopened after a gao of nearly eight months. At SDM College in MG Road, management had prepared to welcome students, but none of the students showed up. “Out of more than 450 final year students, a few dozen students had agreed to attend classes on campus, and we had made arrangements for the same. However, none of them visited the campus,” said a member of the management. Only two girl students had come to attend classes on campus at Besant Women’s College. “As the numbers were not encouraging, two students had to return home,” said the college staff. St Aloysius College received a good number of final year students, especially from the science stream. Praveen Martis, principal of the college, told TOI that many students have attended classes on campus on day one. “The numbers are more than our expectations. Some of them even travelled from Kasaragod. Most of them have returned to campus voluntarily, after getting consent from parents as well as Covid-19 negative test reports. On the other hand, online classes will continue for those who are unable to attend regular classes,” he said. The college has decided to conduct classes in two shifts—morning and noon. The classrooms used during the morning session will not be used for the noon classes. Meanwhile, the district health department has observed that an increased number of students, lecturers and non-teaching staff are visiting the health centre for the RT-PCR test. District health officer Ramachandra Bairy said that there is a surge in the number of students coming to health centres. The test results will be issued within three days, he said. “We are expecting more footfalls for testing at health centres in a day or two,” he added. Poor attendance in UdupiUdupi: Government first grade colleges in Udupi saw relatively thin attendance, on a day the government permitted reopening of colleges. In all, 1,136 final-year students, including 985 undergraduates and 151 postgraduates came on campus to attend classes. No students came to Government First Grade College Koteshwara, and one student came to attend class at Government First Grade College, Muniyalu. Government First Grade College, Ajjarakadu had the maximum attendence at 485 students, said principal, Government First Grade College and Centre for PG Studies, Thenkanidiyoor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/few-students-attend-class-on-day-one-of-reopening-of-colleges/articleshow/79268639.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Malayali part of team decoding virus’ RNA genome structure||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A study of RNA genome structure of SARS-CoV-2 by the researchers, including those from India, at the International Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology in Warsaw could help in identifying potential targets for application of drugs against the virus. Researchers from the University of Groningen and Leiden University are also collaborated in the study. The findings of the research team were published as a breakthrough paper in the latest issue of Nucleic Acids research journal. Nithin Chandran, who is a post-doctoral researcher, working at the laboratory of Bioinformatics and Protein Engineering at International Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology in Warsaw, posted the details of the study on his blog. Nithin, who hails from Punalur, is an alumnus of Sree Chitra Thirunal College of Engineering, Thiruvananthapuram. “SARS-CoV-2 has one of the longest RNA genomes with 30,000 nulceotides. Our study models the structured regions in the viral genome and identifies the pockets within these RNA structures, which can be targeted by small molecules. We have established a foundation for development of drugs that will target the genomic RNA molecules and is an important milestone in the fight against the pandemic,” said Chandran and Pritha Ghosh, who are part of the research team. According to researchers, only a handful of functionally relevant coronavirus structural RNA elements have been studied to date and they performed an extensive characterization of the SARS-CoV-2 RNA genome structure using various advanced techniques. The study identified pockets in some RNA structures that could be targeted by small molecules to hamper the function of the viral RNA. “Furthermore, a number of the structures are conserved between different coronaviruses, meaning that a successful drug targeting SARS-CoV-2 could also be effective against future new virus strains,” the researchers said in a press note. The collaborative research is expected to establish a firm foundation for the future work aimed at developing potential small-molecule drugs for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infections and possibly also infections by other coronaviruses, the researchers said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/malayali-part-of-team-decoding-virus-rna-genome-structure/articleshow/79269811.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||MP Rita Joshi’s six-year-old granddaughter dies of burns||Prayagraj: In an extremely tragic incident, the six-year-old granddaughter of Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Allahabad, Rita Bahuguna Joshi sustained severe burns on Monday evening and died at a city hospital late night even as the family had made all preparations to airlift her to Delhi for advanced treatment and care. Kiya, the daughter of BJP MP’s son Mayank had sustained serious burns on Monday evening and was rushed to a private hospital in the city. She, however, breathed her last late on Monday night. BJP MP’s media in-charge Abhishek Shukla told TOI that Kiya had sustained severe burns while playing at her maternal grandparents' Ponappa road residence in Cantt area on Monday evening. The cremation was held at the electric crematorium in Daraganj and the ashes were immersed in the Ganga. Kiya had sustained 60% burns, said doctors of the private city hospital where she was immediately rushed for treatment. The family had made all arrangements to shift the critically injured girl to Delhi for advanced treatment and care through air ambulance on Tuesday morning, but her condition worsened late night and she passed away, said Shukla. The cremation was held at the electric crematorium in Daraganj and the ashes were immersed in the Ganga. Meanwhile, senior BJP leaders, including Deputy CM Keshav Prasad Maurya, BJP MP (Phulpur) Keshri Devi Patel, cabinet minister Nand Gopal Gupta, BJP MLAs Ajay Bharti and Neelam Karwariya, former governor Keshri Nath Tripathi, leaders from Samajwadi Party and Congress visited Joshi’s house at Minto road to express condolence and consoled the family. CM Yogi Adityanath spoke to MP Rita Bahuguna Joshi in the evening to condole the death of her grand daughter, said media in charge Abhishek Shukla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/mp-rita-joshis-six-year-old-granddaughter-dies-of-burns/articleshow/79270972.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Civic activists to monitor process of ward committee formation||MANGALURU: Civic activists in Mangaluru have decided to monitor the nomination process for the ward committees to be set up in 60 wards of the Mangaluru City Corporation (MCC). Representatives of MCC Civic Group, Nagarika Shakti and many other like-minded organisations decided to meet MCC commissioner and mayor to ensure that the process of appointment of citizens for the ward committees is transparent. While November 17 was the last date for citizens to submit application for the ward committee membership, activists wanted to ensure that 10-member ward committees will be set up in all the wards. Meanwhile MCC extended the last date for submission of application for ward committee membership to December 4. MCC commissioner Akshy Sridhar stated in a press release that people may submit applications till 5.30pm on December 4. Narendra Kumar, activist of Nagarika Shakti, told reporters that people need to monitor the nomination process for the setting up of ward committees in MCC. “The bitter experience of BBMP, where commissioner receiving over 500 applications, but nominating only five persons should not repeat in Mangaluru. We need to ensure that all applicants get nominated. We have been tirelessly working to ensure that people should get participation in local governance. Several meetings and awareness programmes have been organised to make this possible,” he said. When the civic body failed to notify area sabhas in Mangaluru, a PIL was filed in the high court. Later, following the directions of the high court, only 120 area sabhas were notified, which is less when compared to the population of each ward. Each ward in MCC should have at least four to five area sabhas, he added. Activist Nigel Albuquerque of MCC Civic Group said if the MCC does not receive 600 applications for 60 ward committees, then people will have to accept what the corporator of the area dictates. “It is the ward committee members who have the power to decide what works should be taken up. If we fail to get more than 600 applications for ward committee members, it is difficult to bring accountability in governance,” he added. Activist Padmanabha Ullal said, “Every citizen of the ward has the right to take part in area sabha meetings and speak about development works.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/civic-activists-to-monitor-process-of-ward-committee-formation/articleshow/79268681.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Meerut||Huge rush at roadways terminal despite more buses||Meerut: A huge rush was reported on roadways bus terminal here on Tuesday with people heading home after festive celebrations. Despite deploying 250 extra buses on heavy rush routes, the passenger load exceeded the number of buses.Rajesh Kumar, assistant regional manager, Bhainsali bus terminal, said, “We had made preparations for the festive time beforehand. An additional 250 buses were added to the existing fleet to cater to the passenger rush." A major rush was reported on Monday and Tuesday also saw a huge rush. Passengers were seen waiting for buses.As per the instructions issued, leaves of all UPSRTC employees were cancelled in the festive period. It was permitted only in an emergency situation like death or illness. Special incentives for the employees during the period have also been announced. To ensure attendance of the drivers, conductors and other officials, all those who were present in the said period will be given special incentives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/huge-rush-at-roadways-terminal-despite-more-buses/articleshow/79268677.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 18, 2020||Dehradun||As locals defy cracker ban, AQI in Doon worsens on Diwali||Dehradun: As several locals defied the ban imposed on the sale and use of firecrackers on Diwali, the air pollution level in Dehradun went up significantly on the festive day. According to official data, the city recorded a 14.9% increase in the level of pollution on the day of Diwali (November 14) in comparison to what was witnessed on the festive day in 2019. The city’s AQI (air quality index) was recorded at 317, which is considered to be hazardous, on the day of Diwali. This figure was 272 last year. “In Dehradun, the levels of Sulphur dioxide (SO2) and Nitrogen dioxide (NO2) also recorded a slight jump on the day in comparison to their levels noted last year. The AQI deteriorated by 45 points on the festive day this year as against what was recorded last year,” said SP Subuddhi from Pollution Control Board (PCB). The official added that the increased AQI suggests that more crackers were burst on Diwali this year. Consequently, the level of micro pollutants like PM10 and PM2.5 also rose substantially, further contaminating the city’s air. Subuddhi also pointed out that on the day of Diwali, the levels of SO2 and NO2 were comparatively lower than what they usually are on an average working day and this highlights that vehicles didn't contribute much to the pollution levels on the festive day. According to the pollution control department, the AQI was the highest in Haridwar this year but it was lesser than what was reported in the district on the day of Diwali in 2019. In Haridwar, PM10 (vehicular pollution) level increased while the other pollution parameters showed a declining trend. “On the day of Diwali, Haridwar witnessed lesser AQI, NO2, SO2, and PM2.5 levels in 2020 as against 2019 but the concentration of PM10 increased from 268 last year to 362 this year. This can be the outcome of the constriction activities going-on in the town,” said Subuddhi. It is worth mentioning here that several construction activities are ongoing in Haridwar ahead of Kumbh Mela which is scheduled to be held in early part of 2021. The official further said that AQI levels on the day of Diwali in Rishikesh and Haldwani reported respective improvements of 39% and 1.7% as compared to last year. This was largely due to lesser use of firecrackers by the residents of these towns. Meanwhile, the NO2 and SO2 levels in Udham Singh Nagar and Kashipur recorded a jump on Diwali which, according to the official, suggests that there were more traffic jams in the district on the festive day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/as-locals-defy-cracker-ban-aqi-in-doon-worsens-on-diwali/articleshow/79268683.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||Prayagraj: Containment zones come down to 449||PRAYAGRAJ: With the recovery rate of Prayagraj district inching closer to 95 per cent, the strength of containment zones has also been reduced to 449. Pointedly, the city has less than 1,000 active cases till Monday. Officials of the health department claimed that the number of containment zone was recorded 449 on Monday while it was 468 on November 6. However, the Sangam city is reported to have less than 500 containment zones in the first week of this month and bringing a significant relief for the district health authorities. A senior health official said, “Although the city had on Monday recorded as many as 149 new cases of Covid infection, the recovery rate of the district was inching closer to 95 per cent”. He added that 24,025 out of 25, 291 patients have already been cured and recovered taking the recovery rate to 94.99 per cent on Monday”. An official said that after reporting less than 100 cases per day last week, the city had on Monday recorded 149 cases. But the good news is that the recovery rate of the district has also increased. Officials, however, said that they have taken up a campaign across the city and urging citizens to be cautious and take all necessary precautions. The city has already reported 329 deaths so far. Officials, however, claimed that there are many reasons for the decrease in the number of containment zones. “Firstly, we appeal to people to get themselves tested if they develop any Covid-19 related symptoms and then act as a responsible citizen, contact the nearest health centre and get tested. Early detection of cases is helping health authorities to treat the patients properly." The health department had, in April, declared the first containment zone in the city. However, by early July, as more positive cases were registered, an area was declared to be a containment zone if three or more positive cases were reported from a particular area. Hence, the city saw the maximum number of containment zones in August and September. The number of containment zones on August 31 was 2,200. It crossed the 2500 mark in mid-September. Total active cases reported till Monday was 937.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/containment-zones-come-down-to-449/articleshow/79271031.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Business||AU Small Finance Bank begins ops in Bengal||Kolkata: AU Small Finance Bank, a scheduled commercial bank, has commenced its operations in eastern India with the first AU Bank branch launched in Kolkata. Over the past few months, AU Bank has steadily increased its reach in new states, including Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and now, West Bengal. With the launch of this branch, AU Bank now has over 710 banking touch points across 13 states and two Union Territories (UT). Speaking on the occasion, Uttam Tibrewal, Executive Director, AU Bank, said, “AU Bank has embarked on its journey to the eastern states starting with Kolkata. The city has been the hub of trade and commerce ever since the days of independence. In fact, it emerged as probably the first city with metro culture in India as it was a forerunner in the field of drama, art and theatre which led to progressive thinking. We are excited to be in this city and are looking forward to serving the residents of Kolkata who are known for their warmth. I am confident that they will experience the same feeling of warmth from AU Bank. This is also an important step in our journey to become a bank with a pan India presence.” AU has a 25-year legacy of being a retail-based and customer-centric institution. “As a digitally focused bank, we will aim to offer more convenient banking and tailored solutions to the residents of this city,” Tibrewal added. In the last three and a half years as a bank, AU has built a net worth of Rs 4,900 crore, deposit base of almost Rs 27,000 crore and a loan AUM of Rs 30,500 crore. The bank is listed on both the major exchanges — NSE and BSE.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/au-small-finance-bank-begins-ops-in-bengal/articleshow/79271072.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||New panel to create action plan for biodiversity||Panaji: The Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB) has constituted a cluster development committee for effective implementation of the objective of conservation of biodiversity through livelihood intervention. The committee will have representatives from directorate of industries trade and commerce, khadi and village industries commission and board, department of handicrafts, textile and coir (DHTC), department of agriculture cooperation and farmers eelfare (ATMA) North & South Goa, micro, small and medium enterprise development institute (MSME), director, department of environment and climate change with member secretary, Goa state biodiversity board (GSBB) as coordinator. The board has undertaken a project by the name of ‘Go Van’ whereby the existing schemes of government of Goa are sought to be executed along with various departments, the notification said The mandate of the cluster development committee will be to prepare the action plan and priority list for development by implementing the Centre’s scheme of fund for regeneration of traditional industries (SFURTI) in Goa, said Johnson Fernandes director of environment and climate change.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-panel-to-create-action-plan-for-biodiversity/articleshow/79271954.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Meerut||Over 100 people booked for flouting NGT ban on crackers||Muzaffarnagar: Over a hundred people have been booked by different police stations of Muzaffarnagar for bursting crackers on Diwali, despite the NGT ban. According to police sources, more than 15 FIRs have been registered in the district in this regard.Muzaffarnagar falls in NCR, with even “green” crackers banned in eight NCR districts, including Meerut and Baghpat, because of air pollution. NGT had banned the use of all kinds of firecrackers in 13 NCR districts and put them under surveillance till November 30.Sources said on Diwali night, people across Muzaffarnagar district burst firecrackers in the night. Following NGT’s order and government instructions, city police registered as many as eight cases against dozens of people at three police stations alone.According to SP (city) Satpal Antil, “Police had sensitised people for fireworks and Diwali, and raided several shops to find crackers. We have registered one-and-half dozen cases in various police stations across the district in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-100-people-booked-for-flouting-ngt-ban-on-crackers/articleshow/79268696.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 18, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: SGPC is mother, SAD son, says Akal Takht jathedar||AMRITSAR: Describing the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) as an independent state within India and the mother of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), Akal Takht officiating jathedar Harpreet Singh on Tuesday exhorted the Sikh sangat (community) to sink differences and gather under the aegis of Akal Takht to give a befitting reply to forces bent upon “disintegrating Sikh unity”. Harpreet Singh’s speech, delivered on the SGPC’s centenary celebration function held at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall, had political overtones, too, as he undermined the BJP, former alliance partner of the SAD, by using words “undemocratic government” and “government of EVM”. Without naming the BJP, Harpreet said the ruling government at the Centre was undemocratic. “There is no democratic government in India, but a government of EVMs. Nobody knows how many more years the EVM government will be in power, so we need to get together, forget petty differences and be on a single platform,” he said. Stating that the Indian government had been trying to break the symbol of Sikh power, the SGPC, the officiating jathedar claimed that the government wanted to run the management of gurdwaras, like temples, through the trusts and boards. “They want to do so because the SGPC is a state within a state. It has the significance of an independent state within India, which is an eyesore for the government,” he said. Giving example of how the SAD was a sword arm of the Gurdwara Reform Movement, he said it was the mother and SAD (B) its son. “I want the SAD to begin Punjab to Panth movement and then no one can separate a mother from son and vice versa,” he said. Harpreet slams stir over missing saroops‘Be like lions’ | Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh also asked Sikhs to be like a lion and not a dog. “A dog looks at the baton, while a lion looks at the person who is attacking with the baton. We don’t have to focus on the persons attacking us, but the forces which have sent them to attack us,” he said while referring to the recent the ‘morcha’ (sit-in protest) laid by a few Sikh organisations in front of the office of SGPC demanding to know the whereabouts of 328 missing saroop of Guru Granth Sahib and registration of police cases against the guilty persons. ‘Gates of Panthic body, not office, locked | Quoting the incident of locking the gates of SGPC office by the agitating Sikh bodies, the jathedar said, “They had not locked the gates of an office, but of a Panthic institution. I want to say to the sons of SGPC to not sit in their houses or in villages, but come to Amritsar if some insane or crazy person dares to do it again.” ‘Management issue’ | Harpreet said it was a management and corruption issue since the employees who had given the holy book to individuals or gurdwara committees had pocked the “bheta”, but there were people who were trying to portray it as a sacrilege issue. Cites private publishers | He said private publishers like Bhai Chattar Singh Jeevan Singh, Bhai Jawahar Singh and Sons had been publishing saroop before 2008. Besides, he said, Damdami Taksal, SAD and Buddha Dal had also been printing gutka sahibs. “If we ask them to give details of the persons whom they had given the holy books to, do you think they will have all such details?” he said. Defends Badals | Giving the Badal clan a clean chit in the case, he, without disclosing the name, said a person had suggested him to mention in the investigation report that Badals took the saroop of Guru Granth Sahib and delivered it to Nagpur, and then everyone would be praising the report. “The fact is that SGPC has uploaded a true copy of investigation report, so a few people and Sikh bodies are criticising it. Also, guilty employees have been suspended,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/sgpc-is-mother-sad-son-says-akal-takht-jathedar/articleshow/79271050.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Historians decry razing of building at Hyderabad's Asman Garh Palace||HYDERABAD: The razing of a building on Asman Garh Palace premises in Malakpet on Monday brought heritage activists and authorities at loggerheads. While experts said that the building was a ‘heritage’ structure, authorities denied this. Among the first to question the demolition was heritage activist Mohammed Habib. “We just lost another important landmark today morning. The building was given on lease to a school management. The main building is safe,” he said. Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, Hyderabad, convenor Anuradha Reddy said, “It is tragic that we are losing our heritage, whether it is through ignorance or carelessness.” Countering that it was a heritage structure, GHMC, Malakpet division, assistant city planner Veera Swamy said: “We had given notice to the school to demolish the structure as it was dilapidated. Our team inspected the premises and issued the notice. The structure was of no heritage value.” St Joseph’s School management, which uses the premises, said the building was in a dilapidated condition. “The GHMC had asked us to clear the debris after the building sustained damage during the rains,” St Joseph’s School secretary U A Reddy said. He added that the palace had been removed from the Telangana Heritage list. The palace was among the protected monuments under the Regulation 13 of the Zonal Regulations-1981 under the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority. While the state government had deleted the regulation through GO183, the High Court reinstated the protection in the Irrum Manzil case. Historian Sajjad Shahid said the GHMC cannot decide what is heritage or not. “Work on a structure on heritage premises must be approved by heritage committee.” The Asman Garh Palace was built in 1885 by Paigah noble Asman Jah, who later gifted it to the Nizam. The structure is said to have been used as additional quarters to house the retinue of those frequenting the palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/historians-decry-razing-of-bldg-at-asman-garh-palace/articleshow/79271096.cms||Uttara Varma
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||KMDA seeks urgent hearing on Chhath||KOLKATA: Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) on Tuesday moved Supreme Court, urging that its petition on vacating the National Green Tribunal (NGT) embargo on Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar be heard on Thursday — before the festival — and not on Monday. The apex court has listed the matter for hearing on Thursday. Moving the bench of Justice Uday U Lalit a day after he had listed the matter for hearing on July 23, the KMDA counsel pleaded for the advancement of the hearing as the festival was on Friday. The NGT had ordered the ban three years ago with conditions and then announced a total ban the next year. The ban was in force last year as well. But it was never enforced. Chhath Puja took place at the lake every year. KMDA had in September 2020 sought NGT’s permission for Chhath Puja at the Lake but the plea was summarily rejected. It moved the Supreme Court thereafter. “Since Chhath is on Friday, we prayed for the hearing to be scheduled before the festival. The judge has fixed the hearing on Thursday,” the KMDA counsel said. The KMDA move drew criticism from green activists as well as morning and evening walkers at the Lake. “The agency had till last year pleaded helplessness in managing the Chhath crowd that arrived in droves. But suddenly, it now wants the ban to be lifted so that it can control the crowd. I doubt if there is another instance where the custodian of an ecologically sensitive zone has moved court to challenge an order that seeks to secure the environment,” said Subhas Datta, whose petition before NGT led to the embargo order on all religious and social functions at the Lake. Datta says his counsel at Supreme Court will not only challenge KMDA’s appeal but also seek for a dismissal of the case with cost. A KMDA official said the legal move was aimed at respecting the sentiments of those who perform Chhath Puja at the lake and assured that unless the apex court issued a stay on the NGT order and allowed Chhath, albeit with conditions, all the gates at Rabindra Sarobar would be kept shut to prevent people from entering the grounds. Sumita Banerjee, who has been championing the cause of Rabindra Sarobar for over a decade, questioned KMDA’s role in the context of the petitions, first before NGT and then Supreme Court. “Calcutta High Court’s orders disallowing people to enter Durga Puja pandals and bursting crackers during Kali Puja and Diwali were followed. Why is KMDA so reluctant to implement the NGT order when it has been ratified by the high court? This is clearly not about the environment or the festival. Plain and simple, this is about politics,” she said. Others felt KMDA should have taken a neutral position on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmda-seeks-urgent-hearing-on-chhath/articleshow/79269879.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai ranked lowly 54 in weekly smart cities review||CHENNAI: In a recent weekly review of the smart cities mission by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs, Chennai was ranked a lowly 54 among 100 cities. Cities like Salem, Erode, Coimbatore and Tiruppur have done better. However, senior officials from Greater Chennai Corporation as well as in the Union ministry said this was a procedural review and the ranks keep changing on a regular basis. “The real picture would emerge only when the yearly rankings come up,” an official said. The smart cities mission ranks cities according to points based on parameters like cumulative values of tenders issued, work orders issued, work completed, transfer of funds from state government to the mission, and utilisation of funds. Individual marks for Chennai shows that the city has fared badly on project implementation as it has got only 21.47 points out of 60. However, it has obtained 12.02 marks out of 14 for fund utilisation, indicating a considerable degree of efficiency on that aspect. A senior official in the Union ministry explained that cities in Tamil Nadu and Chennai were actually doing very well as far as the smart cities mission was concerned. Explaining the reason for the poor ranking of Chennai, the official said that top-ranking cities might have picked up smaller projects which could be completed quickly or projects which were just value additions to existing projects. Since points for number of completed projects form a major part of the scorecard, Chennai would tend to lose out. “Chennai has gone for infrastructure building on a large scale looking at a long-term vision, the fruits of which would be seen in the future. Once these projects are finished, Chennai’s ranking would improve,” the official said. Completed smart city projects in Chennai include the T Nagar pedestrian plaza, sensory parks, solar panels on rooftops of government buildings and on-street parking. A senior corporation official said that as far as the ranking was concerned, other cities had a head start as they began early. “There were administrative issues in Chennai Smart Cities Limited. For instance, appointments were made a year after other missions had taken off,” the official said. Tenders would be issued for the Mambalam canal redevelopment and green buildings project very soon, leading to an improvement in the ranking, the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-ranked-lowly-54-in-weekly-smart-cities-review/articleshow/79269884.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Meerut||UP: Man murders cousin with sharp-edged weapon over minor tiff||BIJNOR: A man murdered his cousin with a sharp-edged weapon on Monday evening, over a minor tiff between them over a month ago. The incident occurred when the victim had gone fishing near a bridge. The body has been sent for postmortem. The accused has been arrested and sent to jail. Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh said Sonu (32) of Jalaluddinpur under Chandpur police station went missing on Monday. After his family members filed a missing complaint, police and villagers launched a search operation to track him. Sonu’s body was found in a canal on the outskirts of the village. Family members suspected his cousin Omprakash might have murdered him as he had an old rivalry with him. Police claimed when police detained Omprakash and grilled him, he confessed his crime and told cops he had stabbed Sonu to death with help of two friends Dilawar and Ankush. They later dumped his body into a canal to hide his crime. Police have registered a case against the trio. The main accused Omprakash has been arrested while the other two are still at large. Body of the deceased was sent to the district hospital for autopsy. There were several injury marks on his body.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-murders-cousin-with-sharp-edged-weapon-over-minor-tiff/articleshow/79268721.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||CCTV cameras, 13 watchtowers to aid Magh Mela devotees||PRAYAGRAJ: A foolproof surveillance and security system — involving 60 closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras, three night vision devices, one lost-and found camp, 13 hi-tech fire stations and 13 watchtowers, among other things — promises to keep the devotees and pilgrims safe during the Magh Mela 2021. The annual religious fair will begin on January 14 on the occasion of Makar Sankranti and end with Mahashivratri dip on March 11. SP (crime) and Nodal officer ( Magh Mela) Ashutosh Mishra told TOI that the mela police have drafted the security blueprint including the deployment of over 3,000 police personnel. “Devotees and pilgrims arriving for the holy dip during Magh Mela from different parts of the country must carry Covid testing report with them,” he added. Apart from 13 police stations and 36 police outposts, work on a 5-km deepwater barricading and 3-km-long river line has started for the safety and convenience of the devotees. Plans are also afoot to set up five pontoon bridges for this Magh Mela for the better transportation and convenience of devotees on the mela campus. A network of 60 CCTV cameras, including pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) and fixed ones, will be installed on entire campus of the mela to maintain close watch on visitors. Apart from the police force, personnel of bomb disposal squads, anti-sabotage teams, companies of paramilitary personnel and a team from the Integrated Command & Control Centre will help the Magh Mela authorities man the crowd of the devotees on the main snan days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/cctv-cameras-13-watchtowers-to-aid-magh-mela-devotees/articleshow/79271067.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Dehradun||BJP MLA rape case transferred to Pauri||Dehradun: Garhwal’s inspector general of police (IG) Abhinav Kumar on Tuesday ordered that both the cases filed in the Dwarahat BJP MLA Mahesh Negi sexual assault case should be transferred to the Mahila thana in Pauri district. The cases were registered in September in the Nehru Colony police station of Dehradun. The complainant has been demanding transfer of cases to another district to ensure a fair investigation. On the complaint of a woman, who is the resident of Dwarahat, the police registered a case under section 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against MLA Negi. Negi’s wife Rita blamed the complainant of trying to extort money and blackmailing her husband and filed a case under section 386 (extortion) and 389 (putting person in fear of accusation of offence, in order to commit extortion) of the IPC. "Looking at the sensitivity of the matter, both the cases have been transferred to Mahila thana in Pauri district," said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-mla-rape-case-transferred-to-pauri/articleshow/79268726.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Dist logs 170 new Covid cases; 188 discharged||Coimbatore: The district recorded 170 cases of covid-19 on Tuesday taking the tally to 46,757. With 188 patients getting discharged on the day, the number of active cases dropped to 860. At least 44,536 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in the district where the recovery rate stands at 95.2%.The toll, meanwhile, went up to 592 with the district recording four more deaths, the second highest number of deaths in the state after Chennai, on the day. It was one of the seven districts to record Covid fatalities on Tuesday. All the four were aged above 64 and had comorbidities. Among them was an 83-year-old man with diabetes, hypertension and Parkinson disease who died in a private hospital in Trichy after eight days of hospitalization. The remaining were a 72-year-old diabetic man with cardiac problems, a 65-year-old hypertensive diabetic woman and a 68-year-old woman with seizure disorders who died of bilateral bronchopneumonia and respiratory distress on Sunday.All the other districts in the region recorded less than 100 cases on the day. While Salem and Tirupur logged 69 and 61 cases, respectively, the caseload was less than 50 in the Nilgiris, Erode and Krishnagiri districts. The Nilgiris recorded the lowest number of cases at 14. Namakkal and Salem also recorded one death each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dist-logs-170-new-covid-cases-188-discharged/articleshow/79271102.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Techie caught with fake notes for Rs 20K||Coimbatore: The Vadavalli police on Monday seized fake notes amounting to Rs 20,000 from a software engineer.Police identified him as Hithesh Anand of Nanjanadu in the Nilgiris. “He is working at an IT firm in Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala. He had reached the ICICI Bank’s Vadavalli branch to pledge his five-cent land at Vadavalli to borrow Rs 35 lakh. Bank officials who checked his credit score found out that he owes Rs 1.20 lakh to his credit card company and asked him to clear it. Anand gave them the money he had bought with him. Bank officials found 40 currency notes in the denomination of Rs 500 to be fake,” Vadavalli police inspector Sivakumar said.Anand told police that he had borrowed the money from a Nilgiris-based realtor. “The realtor told us that he had given Rs 2 lakh to Anand, but didn’t know they were fake. We have sent a team to Nilgiris for further investigation,” the inspector said.Police have registered a case under Section 489 (B) and 489 (C) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/techie-caught-with-fake-notes-for-rs-20k/articleshow/79271106.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Agency puts up barricade, secures Lake breach points||KOLKATA: Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) on Tuesday started work on reinforcing the perimeter wall around Rabindra Sarobar to implement the NGT order. “If Supreme Court does not stay or overturn the NGT order on Thursday, there won’t be any time to secure the Lake. Work has, therefore, begun to set up barricades around the possible breach points so that the Lake can be shut down from noon on November 19 till noon on November 21,” a KMDA official said. The Chhath rituals are to take place on the evening of November 20 and the morning of November 21. Environmental activists have their fingers crossed on the development as they had witnessed a similar exercise last year that had gone in vain with devotees barging into the Lake premises. This year, KMDA has made provisions for Chhath devotees at 44 ghats as an alternative to Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar. A high court order has imposed a ban on Chhath at the latter. “Like last year, there will be buses near Rabindra Sarobar in addition to Subhas Sarobar to ferry devotees to alternative ghats and ferry them back to their respectives places. As of now, we are taking every measure to comply with the NGT order. But KMDA alone cannot implement the order. There are various other agencies, including police, that are responsible for enforcing the order,” another KMDA official said. The perimeter reinforcement work began at the southern flank of the Lake where sections of the wall had collapsed during cyclone Amphan. In addition, the private security agency hired to patrol the Lake has been asked to remain extra vigilant in the run-up to Chhath and most crucially on November 20 and 21. Lake lovers and environmental activists said they would keep a close watch on the developments following last year’s bitter experience when despite what appeared to be foolproof arrangements to implement the order, it turned out otherwise on Chhath day. “We have appealed to Chhath devotees to maintain the sanctity of the NGT order. Please spare Rabindra Sarobar, which has seen the return of painted storks after five long years. If Chhath takes place, they will be gone forever. KMDA has offered so many alternative sites where rituals can be performed without disturbing the birds,” said Sumita Banerjee, an activist who has been doggedly pushing for the conservation of Rabindra Sarobar for over a decade. Somendra Mohan Ghosh, an environmental activist and morning walker at Rabindra Sarobar, felt that should the Supreme Court not alter the NGT order, KMDA and police will be under pressure to enforce the ban as the high court has also endorsed it.  “We will not stop fighting for the safety of the eco-sensitive zone, south Kolkata’s last surviving lung. Any threat to this place will adversely hit a large population of the city. We will report every violation to the court,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/agency-puts-up-barricade-secures-lake-breach-points/articleshow/79269892.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 18, 2020||Allahabad||DNA test most legitimate way to prove if wife unfaithful: Allahabad HC||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad High Court has ruled that a DNA test to establish a child’s paternity is the “most legitimate and scientific means” that can be used by a man to assert claims of his wife’s infidelity. The court added that the test is also the wife’s “most authentic way to establish that she had not been unfaithful, adulterous or disloyal”. The ruling came while the court was hearing a plea regarding whether a husband, in a divorce petition, can direct the wife to undergo a DNA test or refuse to undergo the test himself. “The DNA test is the most legitimate and scientifically perfect means which the husband could use to establish his assertion of wife’s infidelity. Further, the DNA test should simultaneously be taken as the most authentic, rightful and correct means also with the wife for her to rebut the assertions made by the husband and to establish that she had not been unfaithful, adulterous or disloyal,” observed Justice Vivek Agarwal while hearing a petition filed by one Smt Neelam that challenged an order (dated September 22, 2018) passed by the additional principal judge, family court, Hamirpur under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955. The only issue was whether a court in a divorce petition under Section 13 of the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955, filed by the husband on the ground of adultery, can direct the wife either to undergo a DNA test or refuse to undergo a DNA test. But in case she elects to undergo a DNA test, then findings of the DNA test will determine conclusively the veracity of accusation levelled by the petitioner-husband against her. It is further mentioned that in case the wife refuses to undergo a DNA test, then whether a presumption can be drawn by the court against the wife that is to say whether report of DNA test is just a piece of expert evidence or a conclusive or a substantive piece of evidence. The marriage between Smt Neelam and Ram Asrey took place on April 28, 2004. Admittedly, three daughters were born from this wedlock. According to the husband-respondent, he is not living with his wife, i.e., the petitioner since January 15, 2013, and there has been no resumption of cohabitation since then. Further, on June 25, 2014, he (husband) had given customary divorce to the petitioner and is paying maintenance to her since then. A male child was born to the petitioner on January 26, 2016, in her paternal house. Hence, the ground for the divorce was adultery. On the other hand, the petitioner filed her objections and objected to the application filed by the husband seeking DNA test on the ground that no legal provision is mentioned in the application. She denied that there has been no co-habitation between the parties since January 15, 2013. She claimed that she was tortured by her husband when she was pregnant and was also driven out of the matrimonial home. She gave birth to a male child on January 26, 2016. Further, a plea of presumption under Section 112 of the Evidence Act too was raised by the petitioner. According to section 112 of the Evidence Act, the birth during marriage is the conclusive proof of legitimacy. While dismissing the petition, Justice Agarwal relied on a judgment of the Supreme Court in the case of Nandlal Wasudeo Badwaik Vs. Lata Nandlal Badwaik and another, wherein the husband’s plea was that he had no access to the wife when the child was begotten stood proved by the DNA test report. Hence, in the face of it, the apex court had said, “We cannot compel the appellant husband to bear the fatherhood of a child, when the scientific reports prove to the contrary.” The apex court had further said that “the interest of justice is best served by ascertaining the truth and the court should be furnished with the best available science and may not be left to bank upon presumptions, unless science has no answer to the facts in issue. In our opinion, when there is a conflict between a conclusive proof envisaged under law and a proof based on scientific advancement accepted by the world community to be correct, the latter must prevail over the former.” Thus, rejecting the pleas of the petitioner, the court declined to interfere in the order passed by the additional principal judge, family court, Hamirpur dated September 22, 2018, observing, “truth must triumph is the hallmark of justice”. “This court has therefore clearly opined that proof based on a DNA test would be sufficient to dislodge a presumption under Section 112 of the Indian Evidence Act.” The court gave this judgment on October 21, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-dna-test-most-authentic-way-to-prove-if-wife-has-been-unfaithful/articleshow/79271098.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Meerut||Sanitation workers stage dharna in Muzaffarnagar city to press for unpaid wages||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Scores of private sanitation workers staged a protest in Shiv Chowk here on Tuesday, demanding payment of pending wages, promised to them by a private company which abandoned them. Now, they want that the municipal board to pay them. Last week, the sanitation workers had created a ruckus in the municipal board meeting and subsequently, an FIR was registered against 70 of them. Meanwhile, municipal board authorities said they had already filed an FIR against the company which had taken up the contract for cleaning the city and hired the sanitation workers on contractual basis for the purpose. Sources said, in 2018, the Muzaffarnagar district administration had awarded a contract to a private company for cleaning the city streets and drains. The company was asked to first work on a three-month trial basis. But the company had left the city without giving information or paying wages to the sanitation workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/sanitation-workers-stage-dharna-in-mngr-city-to-press-for-unpaid-wages/articleshow/79268735.cms||Mohd Dilshad
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Historians decry razing of bldg at Asman Garh Palace||Hyderabad: The razing of a building on Asman Garh Palace premises in Malakpet on Monday brought heritage activists and authorities at loggerheads. While experts said that the building was a ‘heritage’ structure, authorities denied this. Among the first to question the demolition was heritage activist Mohammed Habib. “We just lost another important landmark today morning. The building was given on lease to a school management. The main building is safe,” he said. Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, Hyderabad, convenor Anuradha Reddy said, “It is tragic that we are losing our heritage, whether it is through ignorance or carelessness.” Countering that it was a heritage structure, GHMC, Malakpet division, assistant city planner Veera Swamy said: “We had given notice to the school to demolish the structure as it was dilapidated. Our team inspected the premises and issued the notice. The structure was of no heritage value.” St Joseph’s School management, which uses the premises, said the building was in a dilapidated condition. “The GHMC had asked us to clear the debris after the building sustained damage during the rains,” St Joseph’s School secretary U A Reddy said. He added that the palace had been removed from the Telangana Heritage list. The palace was among the protected monuments under the Regulation 13 of the Zonal Regulations-1981 under the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority. While the state government had deleted the regulation through GO183, the High Court reinstated the protection in the Irrum Manzil case. Historian Sajjad Shahid said the GHMC cannot decide what is heritage or not. “Work on a structure on heritage premises must be approved by heritage committee.” The Asman Garh Palace was built in 1885 by Paigah noble Asman Jah, who later gifted it to the Nizam. The structure is said to have been used as additional quarters to house the retinue of those frequenting the palace.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/historians-decry-razing-of-bldg-at-asman-garh-palace/articleshow/79271094.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Tribal leaders up in arms against two members of Sigur elephant corridor inquiry committee||UDHAGAMANDALAM: Three tribal members of grama panchayats in Gudalur, Masinagudi and Nilgiris have written to Justice K Venkatraman, chairman of the three-member Sigur elephant corridor inquiry committee, seeking his intervention to replace the other two members with ‘credible experts’. President of the Nilgiris district panchayat Ponthuos Kuttan (toda tribe), Gudalur panchayat union chairperson Keerthana, (betta kurumbar tribe) and president of Masinagudi panchayat Madevi Mohan (irula tribe) said the direct conflict of interest in the case with reference to Ajay Desai and Praveen Bhargava would vitiate justice and the objectives with which the Supreme Court has appointed the committee. The SC had constituted the committee consisting of Venkatraman, former judge, Madras high court, Desai, consultant of Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) and member of the technical committee, National Elephant Action Plan, and Bhargava, trustee of Wildlife First and former member of Wildlife Board, to decide the individual objections of appellants and other allied claims in the Sigur elephant corridor case. “The two members have always acted against tribal communities and their interests in the hills. Hence, their continuation in the committee is untenable. They should be removed from the membership,” Keerthana told TOI. The letter said that Bhargava, the first petitioner in the capacity of trustee, Wildlife First, is being heard in the SC in connection with a writ petition challenging the legislative competence of the Parliament to enact the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006, legality and constitutional validity of the scheduled tribes and other traditional forest dwellers. Desai had given written opinion to the Madras HC-appointed expert committee’s report /GO125, which is impugned in the present SC judgement, the letter said. “He has authored a study identifying multiple elephant corridors on the Sigur plateau. The findings in his study are contrary to that of the expert committee report.” “Desai is a life member of the Nilgiri Wildlife and Environment Association (NWEA), a petitioner before the HC and in the present proceedings before the SC wherein the said association has filed an affidavit before the SC in support of the expanded elephant corridor demanding the eviction of people from the said area,” Kuttan said. “Tribals living in Masinagudi and Gudalur areas cannot be disturbed in the name of corridor. This is our stand.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tribal-leaders-up-in-arms-against-two-members-of-sigur-elephant-corridor-inquiry-committee/articleshow/79271111.cms||Shantha Thiagarajan
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Kerala couple arrested for stealing gold||Coimbatore: The city police arrested a couple from Kerala, who stole a four-sovereign old chain from a jewellery shop on Cross Cut Road here on Sunday. Police also recovered the stolen chain from them.The arrested people were identified as N Suthish, 38 and his wife S Shani, 31, from Alappuzha. “They visited Pavizham Jewellery on Sunday around 7pm on the pretext of buying a gold chain. A salesman showed them several types of gold chains. After inspecting several chains, they told the salesman that they would return to the shop on Monday and left the place. The salesman later found out that one chain weighing about 32.37 grams was missing,” a police officer said. “The salesman immediately informed shop manager T Bibish Thomas. With the help of salesman, the manager found the couple near a car parking lot of a textile shop on Cross Cut Road. The couple confessed to the crime when they confronted them.”The Kattoor police registered a case against the couple and arrested them on Monday. They also recovered the stolen chain from them. The couple was remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kerala-couple-arrested-for-stealing-gold/articleshow/79271100.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Cops record statement of Republic TV COO||MUMBAI: The Mumbai crime branch probing the TRP manipulation scam on Tuesday recorded the statement of Republic TV’s chief operating officer (COO) Priya Mukherjee. Police will continue questioning her on Wednesday. Chief executive officer (CEO) Vikas Khanchandani will also join the investigation. The crime branch is probing the role of Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation, Maha Movies and Wow music channel for inflating viewership figures, a key parameter that media-buying houses consider while placing advertisements. The channels are accused of paying money to households, where bar-o-meters are installed, for keeping television sets tuned into their channels. Police have so far arrested 12 persons in the case including Ghanshyam Singh, distribution head of ARG Outlier Media Private Limited, which operates Republic TV. Ghanshyam is accused of distributing money to rig the channel’s viewership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cops-record-statement-of-republic-tv-coo/articleshow/79273087.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Dehradun||DMC starts ‘major sanitisation’ drive’ for Swachh Survey||Dehradun: With the motive to expedite the preparations for the Swachh Survekshan 2021, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) has initiated a “major sanitisation drive” in the city along with creating awareness to ensure maximum people participation in order to get their feedback. According to the officials, the Swachh Survekshan is likely to be held in January 2021. In 2020, Dehradun stood at the 124th position. The city ranked 384th in 2019 and witnessed a major jump in 2020. Upbeat by the performance, the state authorities are contemplating measures to further improve on the rankings. The major challenge for the DMC will be the new wards as in the recent past there have been complaints about garbage removal and other issues. The authorities have now decided to conduct regular door-to-door garbage collection facilities in 31 new wards, which was a concern in the last few months. Mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama told TOI, “We want to improve rankings further since there is a lot of scope for improvement. Besides using our machinery and manpower, we will also appeal for the co-operation of people of Dehradun.“The municipal staff will help spread awareness and the door-to-door garbage collection will also get streamlined by the end of this month," he added. The officials claimed that the preparations will be completed by the end of this month as a team from Delhi will visit unannounced to check the sanitation and other parameters of Swachh Survekshan. The awareness drive to motivate people for giving feedback during the exercise this year is also a point of focus, officials said. This year, over 80,000 people participated in the citizen feedback section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-starts-major-sanitisation-drive-for-swachh-survey/articleshow/79268745.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Meerut||Gang-raped & blackmailed, 19-year-old UP law student kills self after ‘no police action’||MEERUT: Kidnapped, gang-raped by three men and then blackmailed for a month, a 19-year-old law student from Bulandshahr killed herself on Monday after getting no help. A day after she died and three weeks after the FIR was lodged, police made the first arrest in Haryana and suspended two cops involved in the investigation. The girl was from a village in Bulandshahr’s Anupshahr town. “On October 3, the woman had filed a complaint against the main accused, Mohd Qamruddin, for harassing and threatening her,” said Bulandshahr SSP Santosh Singh. “However, in the court statement taken under Section 164 of the CrPC (which lays down the rules for recording statements and confessions), she went back on what she had initially said. A final report was filed, exonerating the alleged harasser.” In the purported suicide note found on Monday, however, she wrote he had apologised for his behaviour and it was why she had eventually not pressed charges initially. On October 16, Qamruddin asked her to come meet him at 4am outside her village, the note said. Eight days on, she filed another complaint, naming Qamruddin, his uncle Mubeen and friend Mohd Abrar. “In that statement, she said she had been taken away to a house in Aligarh and gang-raped by the three men,” Singh said. An FIR was filed that day, October 24, for gang-rape. The note said they left her by the road after raping her. They had shot a video of her being raped, the note added, and they threatened to “make it go viral” if she pursued her complaint. In all this time, the police investigation had not made any progress. “The allegation could not be proven in police investigation,” SSP Singh said. On Monday, she hanged herself. Her father said it was because of police inaction. Another FIR was filed on Tuesday on the basis of his complaint, against the three accused, for culpable homicide. The investigating officer and the station in charge of Anupshahr police station have now been suspended. “The investigating officer should have solved the case. He did not,” said Singh, adding that they were suspended for dereliction of duty. Qamruddin was arrested in Faridabad. The two other accused have not been traced yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gang-raped-blackmailed-19-year-old-up-law-student-kills-self-after-no-police-action/articleshow/79268750.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala plane crash: HC dismisses plea for probe by former judge and CBI FIR||KOCHI: The high court has dismissed as premature a petition seeking a probe by a former Supreme Court or high court judge into the crash-landing of Air India Express flight 1344 at the Calicut International Airport on August 7. A division bench comprising Chief Justice S Manikumar and Justice Shaji P Chaly considered a petition filed by advocate Yeshwanth Shenoy that also sought registration of an FIR by CBI. The court said there is a clear-cut procedure laid out for conducting a probe into aircraft accidents and it is not right for the court to interfere when such a probe is going on. The petition is premature and the power of the court is never intended to interfere in ongoing proceedings. The court also said the demand for registration of an FIR by CBI is also premature as any criminality can only be unearthed by the ongoing probe by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB). “When there is a procedure prescribed under law and the investigation is going on, we do not think it is right on the part of a writ court to interfere with the same and order a parallel investigation by appointing a former judge…,” the court said. The public interest litigation (PIL) had demanded that the airport should be closed down until it is ensured that domestic and international air regulations are complied with. There is nothing that stops the lightning from striking twice, the plea had said. Specific communications were addressed to the state authorities about the condition of the runway at Calicut airport, including one by justice VR Krishna Iyer to then prime minister Manmohan Singh, the petition had said while alleging that authorities had 10 years’ prior notice to prevent the accident. Corruption is so rampant at Ministry of Civil Aviation, Airports Authority of India, DGCA, and Air India Express Ltd and safety record on paper and in reality are poles apart, it was alleged in the PIL. Permission for Calicut airport to land wide-body aircraft was withdrawn in May 2015 but the current DGCA Arun Kumar reissued the permission. In July 2019, safety audit of DGCA identified several safety deficiencies at Calicut airport but its licence was renewed from mid-2019 to October 2021 before the deficiencies were rectified, it is alleged. Two significant findings were excessive rubber deposits on runway and cracks in the runway, the PIL had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-dismisses-plea-for-probe-by-former-judge-and-cbi-fir/articleshow/79268765.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Celebrate@home campaign starts ahead of festival||Kolkata: ‘Chhathi Maiya Ghare Ghare (Celebrate Chhath in your own homes)’. That is the slogan that Bihari Samaj, representing a sizeable section of the city’s population with roots in neighbouring Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, is propagating this year, urging community members to perform the rituals at homes and terraces instead of going to river Hooghly or any pond or lake. “We are spreading the message in the community through word of mouth. This is an extraordinary year when the pandemic has claimed lives and ruined families. We don’t want the celebration to become a cause for mourning. Therefore, we are urging everyone who has the means to create a makeshift arrangement in the terrace so that the rituals can be performed there,” said Bihari Samaj president Mani Prasad Singh. The organization has put up posters outside the Lake, urging people to celebrate Chhath at home. While it is required for devotees to stand in water to pray to the setting sun on Pehla Ardhya and to the rising sun on Doosra Ardhya the following dawn while standing in water, stepping into a tub with ankle-deep water is good enough and does not require to Chhathi, or the woman offering the prayers in knee- or waist-deep water. Though Singh claimed the slogan had nothing to do with the National Green Tribunal ban on performing Chhath at Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar, the message to perform Chhath at home came barely hours after Supreme Court refused to change the NGT order till the next hearing on the case is heard on Monday. In a significant climb down from its earlier strident stand that offering Chhath prayers at these two lakes was an age-old tradition that could not be violated, Singh said he was appealing to everyone not to venture into Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar till the issue is resolved. “Chhath is one of the most pious festivals. The rituals are peformed by women who fast. There are home-made items and fruits that are offered. Women step into the water with folded hands to pray to the setting sun on Chhath evening and again at sunrise the next morning. Some miscreants have been bursting crackers and playing loud music over the past few years. This has maligned the festival. We don’t want anyone to do anything this year that endorses the misbelief on Chhath causing pollution,” said Singh. Association secretary Ranvir Singh, too, distanced the community from the youths that stormed Sarobar last year, making it clear that they weren’t Chhath devotees but locals who had come to make mischief. “They were outsiders who have caused the problem. We want everyone to be aware and not get provoked. Let this not wedge a divide between Bengalis and Biharis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/celebratehome-campaign-starts-ahead-of-festival/articleshow/79269895.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Where disabled people feel at home||Coimbatore: Five years after the central government launched the Accessible India Campaign (AIC) to provide universal accessibility to people with disabilities, as many as 12 government buildings and public places in the district have been made disabled-friendly.“We had identified 13 government buildings under the campaign in 2017 and renovated 12. Work at another building – depot of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation at Sungam junction – was put on hold after the department asked us to choose some other TNSTC building due to administrative reasons. A final decision is yet to be taken on the matter,” said an official with the department of welfare of differently-abled persons.Buildings including the collector’s office, commercial tax office, income tax office, office of the block development officer (BDO) and taluk office in Madukkarai, employment office, Government College of Technology (GCT) Gandhipuram bus stand and Podanur railway station have been equipped with Braille sign boards, tactile flooring, ramps, hand rails and modified toilets.It cost between Rs 1 crore and Rs 3 crore to refurbish the buildings. “We will soon identify the second set of buildings,” the official added. Activists, who welcomed it, said a lot more needs to be done to turn the district into a disabled-accessible zone. “Ramps have been set up at the collector’s office. But what’s the use of ramps if wheelchairs are not available? Do they expect disabled people to carry wheelchairs with them? Public transport is still a problem for wheelchair users,” said S Punitha, district secretary of the Coimbatore chapter of Tamil Nadu Association for the Rights of All Types of Differently Abled and Caregivers (TARATDAC). While carrying out such works, the government should give priority to the places that are visited frequently by disabled people, said R Srinivasan, a retired professor, who is visually impaired. “Instead of renovating commercial tax and income tax buildings, priority should have been given to bus stands, railway stations and pedestrian paths along roads. We visit these places every day and want to access them without assistance,” he told TOI. “The officials concerned should discuss with the beneficiaries of the schemes before implementing them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/where-disabled-people-feel-at-home/articleshow/79271113.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 18, 2020||Goa||Threats to CM: Accused used app to send text messages||Ponda: Ashish S Naik, the accused arrested by Ponda police on Monday for threatening th chief minister and others via text messages, has told the investigating staff that he had used a mobile application to send the intimidating text messages. Clarifying on the messages being received from international numbers, the accused said the mobile application he used to forward the text messages uses their own website and mobile number. Along with chief minister Pramod Sawant, panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho, former BJP executive committee member Pranav Sanvordekar and GFP member Durgadas Kamat had received such messages and four separate offences were registered at police stations in Panaji, Verna, Curchorem and Ponda.  Naik has been remanded in three-day police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/threats-to-cm-accused-used-app-to-send-text-messages/articleshow/79271968.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Streets turn into pools at Sri Lakshmi Nagar||Coimbatore: The streets of Sri Lakshmi Nagar near Kavundampalayam were inundated with rainwater on Tuesday when the city received incessant rain.Local residents have demanded the city corporation to relay the roads and construct storm water drains in the area.L Santhosh Kumar, a resident, says, “Every time it rains the roads turn into pools. It usually takes two to three days for the water to drain as there aren’t any storm water drains in the area. It is extremely difficult for pedestrians and motorists to use the streets if there is waterlogging. Motorists often fall down as the streets become slippery.”While the area has more than 150 families, 20-30 of them, who are living at the rear end of the three streets, are the most affected.Santhosh says the situation has been the same ever since the roads were dug to lay drinking water pipelines in the area two years ago. “The dug-up areas were not restored properly and the condition of the remaining part has deteriorated over a period of time. Now, it looks more like a mud road. It is difficult to use the roads even on a normal day.”The roads were laid by the city corporation about 12 years ago.Pointing out that some of the residents had tried to level the road with construction debris and sand in front of their houses, Santhosh says this has only made the situation worse for the two-wheeler riders.Another resident, Wilson Jose, says autos and taxis are not ready to come to their area because of the poor condition of the roads and they are forced to walk more than a kilometre to access public transport. “We have made several representations to the city corporation officials. Despite assuring us to take necessary steps every time, nothing has changed on the ground till date.”When contacted, a city corporation official said they had submitted a proposal to lay road in the area and were awaiting approval. “The road laying work is expected to commence in a month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/streets-turn-into-pools-at-sri-lakshmi-nagar/articleshow/79271135.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Now, an ID card can help enforce social distancing||VISAKHAPATNAM: In an innovation that can help enforce Covid-19 safety protocols, two government school students from Srikakulam district have designed an ID card that helps the user maintain social distance. The idea was developed by Yagati Yaswaanth and Peyyala Giri, students of class 9 at the AP Social Welfare Residential School in Duppalavalasa. Siva Santosh Panigrahi, a technical trainer from Teck Team Solutions, a Vizag-based electronics company, gave technical support. On Tuesday, the students presented their design in front of district collector J Nivas, who appreciated their efforts and suggested they update it with more features. Speaking to TOI, Panigrahi said they developed the idea of an ID card that can enforce social distance during the peak period of the infection in July but work on the project started in August. After successful trial runs and feedback, the team developed a product that could help a user in maintaining six feet distance. “Initially the card weighed 270 grams, we have now reduced its size and it weighs 130 gm. We will update it with some add-on features. We spent around Rs 200 for each card,” Panigrahi said. One of the students Giri said they are looking to design a belt that can maintain social distance. “We are working on a waist belt project. We know there is no vaccine immediately available for Covid-19, and as social distance is one of the ways to guard against the virus, we came up with the idea of a waist belt and ID cards for students,” Giri said. Officials of the school education department said the government may consider distributing these ID cards among students who have started going to schoolfor face-to-face instruction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-an-id-card-can-help-enforce-social-distancing/articleshow/79268769.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Torchlight protest rally today for renaming of Mangaluru International Airport||MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada District Congress Committee (DCC) will hold a torchlight protest rally, demanding the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to name Mangaluru International Airport (MIA) after an achiever from Tulunadu. The Congress, which is opposing the handing over of the MIA to Adani Group for maintenance, will hold a 10km-long torchlight protest rally from Circuit House in the city to the MIA at Kenjar at 5pm on Wednesday, said District Youth Congress president Mithun Rai. It is our second phase of protest series, in which a torchlight rally will be held, demanding replacement of boards with ‘Adani Airports’ with ‘Koti-Chennaya’. We expect participation of nearly 600 party workers in the rally. Former minister B Ramanath Rai, DCC president K Harish Kumar, Mangaluru MLA U T Khader and other leaders will take part in the rally, he said. “They have neglected the culture and heritage of Tulunadu by writing Adani Airports on MIA’s board. Our people’s representatives are keeping mum on this. The Dakshina Kannada zilla panchayat had already resolved that the airport be named after Koti-Chennaya. Meanwhile, Billava Mahamandala also have submitted a memorandum seeking the government name the airport after warriors of Tulunadu. Our fight will continue till the airport is renamed, and the Adani Group also should retain the replica of Tiger Dance inside the airport premises, which was replaced after the airport was handed over,” Rai said. Former minister and senior Congress leader K Abhayachandra Jain, who earlier had demanded the government to rename the MIA after former MP U S Mallya, said he is of the opinion that the airport should be named after any achievers from the coastal districts. “I welcome the decision, if the government rename the airport after Koti-Chennaya,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/torchlight-protest-rally-today-for-renaming-of-mia/articleshow/79268761.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Lawyers’ forum writes to CP for action against cops||Ludhiana: In the case of alleged custodial torture of two advocate brothers Sidharth Chandi and Mohit Chandi by Haibowal police, on Tuesday, the All India Lawyers Forum wrote to the Ludhiana commissioner of police, Rakesh Agarwal, to take strict department and legal action against the SHO, police station, Haibowal, inspector Jaskanwal Singh Sekhon. The letter has been issued by advocate Bikramjit Singh Jatana, president of the All India Lawyers Forum. Importantly, this is not the first time when the advocates and cops have come out against each other in Ludhiana. Earlier, the city has witnessed a protest when then in-charge of special task force (STF) Harbans Singh allegedly slapped an advocate, Varun Gupta, near a dhaba at Doraha in February. Gupta had lodged a complaint against the inspector, however, no action was taken. Thereafter, the advocates came out on road for agitation. It is alleged that inspector Harbans, who was then in-charge of Ludhiana unit of STF, along with his team, manhandled advocate Varun on February 25 near a dhaba in Doraha. The police team had laid a trap for some drug smugglers and mistakenly assumed Varun as a smuggler. Though a complaint was given the same day to Khanna SSP and Ludhiana commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal, but no action was taken. At that time, all advocates had boycotted work for more than a week. They sat on a protest outside the district courts and blocked the roads causing traffic chaos. Thereafter, a case was registered against inspector Harbans and three other cops for allegedly assaulting the advocate. Besides, Harbans Singh was also transferred to Ferozepur. Since then, Harbans Singh has been posted there. The case, at present, is in the court and the next hearing is on December 18. It may be recalled here that on the eve of Diwali, the advocate brothers were allegedly tortured by the police. They stated that the SHO had told them that they should not have dared to stand up against the liquor traders who run the government. Also, the police booked them in a false case of manhandling a cop, ASI Sham Singh. In this matter, the commissioner of police has formed a SIT. Besides, ASI Sham Singh has been suspended and three other cops, including SHO inspector Jaskanwal Singh, ASI Didar and constable Hemant, have been transferred to the Police Lines. On Tuesday, the Chandi brothers got their medical examination done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/lawyers-forum-writes-to-cp-for-action-against-cops/articleshow/79269941.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 18, 2020||Goa||‘Pollution is not Delhi-specific’||When asked about Goa CM Pramod Sawant's advice to Delhi counterpart Arvind Kejriwal to focus his attention on controlling pollution, AAP MLA Raghav Chadha said that pollution “is not a Delhi-specific issue” but a “North India issue". He blamed Punjab, Haryana and UP for burning stubble. “When stubble is put to fire, pollution comes to Delhi with the help of winds, and the entire city gets clogged with pollution," he said. "It is because of their criminal negligence to leave farmers to burn this stubble (that causes) the whole of north India region (to be) choked.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pollution-is-not-delhi-specific/articleshow/79271156.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||An explorer in Tamil literary world||Tamil writer Imayam was barely 18 years old when he happened to read French philosopher-writer Jean-Paul Sartre’s play "No Exit" at a book stall in Trichy. He was clueless about Sartre’s theory of existentialism, but Imayam decided to write a novel based on the struggles of his dalit community. In 1991, he walked into the office of Cre-A, a leading publishing house in Chennai run by S Ramakrishnan, with a draft of his first novel, "Koveru Kazhuthaigal". At a time, when a budding dalit writer would never dare approach a leading publisher, Ramakrishnan encouraged Imayam. After a couple of years of training and interaction with the young writer, Ramakrishnan published the novel in 1994. It is Ramakrishnan’s attitude towards exploring new literary grounds that made Cre-A an avant-garde publishing house in the 1970s. The man who reinvented Tamil literary world through his publishing house died on Tuesday, while undergoing Covid-19 treatment. He was 75. According to Tamil writer-politician D Ravikumar, Ramakrishnan’s dedication and passion for literature, set him apart as a publisher. "He was a prolific editor as well. We have publishers who print without reading what’s written, but Ramakrishnan would sit with writers and edit their prose with their consent. Imayam’s works stand testimony to Ramakrishna’s craft of editing," said Ravikumar. Sundara Ramaswamy’s ‘JJ Sila Kurippukal’, also underwent the same treatment. Imayam agrees. "I knew a little of folk literature and the suffering of my community. He (Ramakrishnan) taught me the role of a writer and how to look at society. I gained a new consciousness under him," said Imayam, whose 14 works, including six novels, the most recent ‘Vazhga Vazhga’ released in May, were published by Cre-A.Work encompassed his life, so much so that a few days ago, Ramakrishnan released the third edition of ‘Cre-A: Dictionary of Contemporary Tamil’ in the hospital. The photograph of the ventilator-bound Ramakrishnan releasing the book, evoked tremendous response on social media from readers. "The dictionary of contemporary Tamil is a great achievement. The dictionary has a usage guide, history of the word, as added advantages. It is the best if anyone wants to learn Tamil," said Ravikumar. The number of Tamil books that Ramakrishnan published would not be more than 70, but it is the art of publishing is what mattered to him. Iravatham Mahadevan’s ‘Early Tamil Epigraphy’ is an example. "Harvard University that published the book normally doesn’t give publishing rights to others in India. But Ramakrishnan managed to get it. It was one of the significant achievements of his to get the work published in Tamil," said Ravikumar. Ramakrishnan published books of veteran writers like Sundara Ramasamy, Ashokamitran, Sa Kandasamy and C Mohan and was closely associated with cultural and art clubs in Tamil Nadu. He also ran a film society in Chennai called Poorva, which used to screen award-winning movies. However, his biggest contribution, according to noted writer-publisher Bava Chelladurai, was to introduce works from foreign languages to Tamil, particularly from French literature. "He translated the works of writers like Sartre, Kafka, Antoine St Exupery and Albert Camus to Tamil. It was eye-opening for us to read foreign literature when he got the works translated from the original into Tamil. It was Ramakrishnan who introduced many foreign, mainly French, novels to Tamil," said Chelladurai. Always in search of new words, Tamil novelist and author of ‘Aazhi Soozh Ulagu’ (Ocean Rimmed World) R N Joe D’Cruz said Ramakrishnan wanted him to bring out a dictionary of coastal literature two years ago. "He wanted me to compile words used in the coastal regions of Tamil Nadu. Six months ago, he called and reminded me. But I couldn’t do it. I regret that today," said D’Cruz. In the 1970s, when Tamil publishers were not paying much attention to the production of books, Ramakrishnan published books with elegance. The format was as important as the content, according to him, said Amshan Kumar, national award-winning filmmaker and a friend of Ramakrishnan. "He was a star among Tamil publishers. Writers considered it a privilege to have their works published by him because of the meticulous care he took of each work," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/an-explorer-in-tamil-literary-world/articleshow/79269945.cms||M T Saju
November 18, 2020||Kochi||FCRA violations probe in future cases at govt’s mercy||Thiruvananthapuram: The government recently issued a notification withdrawing the general consent given to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to take up and investigate cases in Kerala on its own. The decision has left the probe in future cases of violation of foreign contribution regulations at the mercy of the state government. The decision was taken by the cabinet in the wake of the recent standoff between the government and the agency over investigation into violation of the provisions of Foreign Contribution Regulations Act in the government’s housing project at Wadakkancherry under Life Mission. “In exercise of the powers conferred under section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, 1946, the government of Kerala hereby revoke all previous notifications wherein general consent was granted to the members of the DSPE to exercise powers and jurisdiction under the said Act in the state for the investigation of the offences under section 3 of the said Act. However, such revocation will not affect the pending investigation of cases initiated based on the consent issued under section 6 of the said Act,” the notification said. Though the withdrawal of the general consent would not have an impact on registered and ongoing cases by CBI, it has cast aspersions on the future cases of FCRA violations in state as the agency will have to seek permission from the government first. At present, other than the FCRA violation in Life Mission, CBI is also probing FCRA violation against two NGOs – Good Samaritan Projects India and Catholic Reformation Literature Society – for which FIR was registered on April 30 this year. The revocation of the general consent will have no bearing in in these cases. CBI, that draws its power from the DSPE Act, has no original jurisdiction in any state. But it takes up the cases on three grounds- if a high court or the Supreme Court asks it to take up a case, if the state government asks the agency to take up a case, and if the state government has given general consent on certain acts to take up cases. General consent is usually given to help CBI seamlessly conduct its investigation in cases. But, of late, there have been several instances when state governments have turned hostile against the Centre and withdrawn the consent given to the agency. Also, the withdrawal of general consent would mean that the agency will not be able to register fresh case in state, involving a central government official or a central agency or a central PSU. The withdrawal would also leave agencies like enforcement directorate or customs on a weak wicket in Kerala. "For example, in the absence of CBI, the onus of dealing with a corruption case involving an official in these agencies would be with the state vigilance, which could be easily misused," sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/fcra-violations-probe-in-future-cases-at-govts-mercy/articleshow/79268783.cms||KP Saikiran
November 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Recovery rate remains over 97%; Andhra Pradesh adds 1,395 new cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,395 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,56,159. The toll jumped to 6,890 as nine more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. As many as 2,293 patients were declared cured. There are currently 16,985 active cases with 8,32,284 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 97%. Krishna reported 260 new infections, followed by West Godavari (247 cases), East Godavari (214), Guntur (199) and Chittoor (137). The remaining eight districts recorded less than 100 cases. There are less than 1,000 active cases in seven districts. Of the nine deaths, two each were reported from Chittoor, Krishna and Visakhapatnam and one each from Anantapur, East Godavari and Kadapa. The state conducted 66,778 Covid-19 tests on Tuesday to detect the 1,395 new cases with a case positivity rate of 2%. The overall case positivity rate is above 9%, while the mortality remained stable at 0.8%. Nearly two weeks after reopening of schools and colleges in the state, 1,001 school teachers out of 1.22 lakh who underwent Covid-19 testing, tested positive. Meanwhile, 416 students also tested positive out of 1.65 lakh students who were tested, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.2%. But the tests conducted on 913 government college lecturers and 3,767 students did not find a single case. The student turnout in schools has now touched the 50 per cent mark, while it’s about 30-40% in junior colleges and degree colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/recovery-rate-remains-over-97-ap-adds-1395-new-cases/articleshow/79268789.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Lack of clarity over conduct of CA exam leaves aspirants on edge||HYDERABAD: Thousands of aspirants appearing for the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) exams are on the edge because of a lack of clarity on the conduct of exams. The ICAI is set to conduct the CA examinations (foundation, intermediate and final) from November 21 to December 14. Following a writ petition by a section of CA aspirants, the Supreme Court on November 4 had asked ICAI to formulate revised standard operating procedures (SOP) for conduct of exams and notify steps taken to address concerns. The ICAI’s failure in issuing revised SOP and frequently asked questions (FAQs) list has kept CA aspirants on tenterhooks. “When the ICAI had scheduled the examination in July, a detailed FAQ was issued. Now, with the exam three days away, neither FAQs nor the revised SOPs have been issued,” said aspirant Ram Charan, seeking postponement of the exam. For many students from Osmania University, the exam centre for BCom final year exam and the CA exam is the same. With the GHMC elections declared on December 1, many are worried. “How does the institute expect us to appear for the examination at a time when the entire city is in election mode and all services such as transportation will be utilised for that,” asked an aspirant. Not just this, some have been even allotted exam centres which are in under-construction buildings and around Covid-19 hospitals. “In Hyderabad, we’ve been allotted centre next to Fever Hospital which is one of two Covid-19 care centers in Telangana,” tweeted Anusha Murthy. Many feel queries related to opting out from the exam been unanswered. While the institute has announced an additional exam in January or February 2021, there is no clarity on the schedule Officials said that the seven-page announcement by the ICAI following the SC order answers all queries. “As far as January/February 2021 schedule is concerned, we can only issue it once we know the exact number of students that are opting out of the November, 2020 exam,” said Atul Gupta, president, ICAI, adding no separate FAQ will be issued now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/lack-of-clarity-over-conduct-of-ca-exam-leaves-aspirants-on-edge/articleshow/79271190.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 18, 2020||Kanpur||Cong leaders meet family of girl murdered in occult ritual||KANPUR: Congress party leaders met family members of a six years old girl, whose vital organs were eaten after being hacked to death in occult ritual in Ghatampur area of the district on late Saturday night. The Congressmen demanded Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath a give a compensation of Rs 25 lakh to the victim’s family. Party’s district (rural) president, Usha Rani Kori, after meeting the girl’s family demanded the CM to get a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe conducted into the incident. Kori further said, “As Rs 5 lakh released by state government is not sufficient for the poor family, CM should give an ex gratia of Rs 25 lakh.” Kori also demanded round the clock security for the girl’s family members and action against what she termed as lax policemen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/cong-leaders-meet-family-of-girl-murdered-in-occult-ritual/articleshow/79271155.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||EC: Set up squads to screen campaigning||Thiruvananthapuram: The state election commission has asked district collectors to set up anti-defacement squads to conduct checks on whether the candidates and political parties are campaigning strictly in adherence with the law. At the district level, the squad should be formed under the assistant collector or a sub-collector or a deputy collector who is not a returning officer. At the taluk level, a squad under tahsildar or an officer in the gazetted rank should be formed. The squad should examine if the notices, banners, boards, wall posters, loud speaker announcements and meetings and the campaign through social media are legal. The commission had earlier issued a circular regarding the use of plastic and flex material. The squad should examine if the use of these is according to the provisions in the circular issued by the commission. The squad should instruct the concerned to remove any illegal use of posters or any other campaign material, and if they do not adhere to the directions, steps should be taken to remove them and the expenses should be billed against the concerned candidate or the party. The election commission instructed all political parties, candidates and the printing press that the campaign material being printed should mandatorily contain the name and contact of the printer and publisher. Before printing such materials, the press owner should give declaration certified by two persons in the prescribed format the details of the publisher, and it should be handed over to the election official. Any violation of this rule would invite an imprisonment up to six months, a fine of Rs 2,000 or both. Private buildings, compounds or boundary walls should not be used for painting election graffiti or erecting campaign material without the permission of the owner. If any public place is being used for erecting campaign material, all political parties should be given equal opportunity to do so. Government offices should not be used for erecting any kind of campaign material. If there are complaints regarding defacing of any public or private property, the election officials should take necessary steps to ensure that those are removed, state election commissioner V Bhaskaran said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/ec-set-up-squads-to-screen-campaigning/articleshow/79268793.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Airport expansion:Money for land acquisition used to fight Covid-19||Coimbatore: Just when it seemed the land acquisition for the city airport expansion project was gaining momentum with the state government releasing funds, the Covid-19 pandemic has hit the process.The state government, which had sanctioned Rs 264 crore in three instalments to facilitate land acquisition in blocks seven, one and 11, was planning to disburse the remaining Rs 1,817 crore before December this year. However, the amount has been diverted to fund its fight against Covid-19.The government had released Rs 75 crore in November 2018, Rs 115 crore in November last and another Rs 74 crore in January this year to compensate the land owners. Of this, Rs 169 crore has been paid to 230 landowners in blocks one, seven and 11.An official with the district administration said they were planning to use the remaining Rs 95 crore to compensate 13 landowners, who had leased their land to the airport during the World War-II. “However, they approached the Madras high court, seeking orders to issue the compensation amount with interest stating the Airport Authority of India (AAI) had not paid them the lease amount for six years. The court had subsequently directed us to compensate them with interest and for that we need Rs 98 crore. We have moved the Supreme Court against the court order.”He said the Rs 95 crore was safe with the district administration. The official confirmed that the government had diverted the amount that was earmarked for the land acquisition to fight the contagion. “So, the land acquisition will be delayed by at least one more year.” He said the landowners have been approaching them frequently with the demand to compensate them for their land as that would help them buy new properties.The AAI has been waiting for more than 10 years to get the land required - 627.89 acres - from the district administration to commence the expansion work. The runway length would be increased to 12,500ft from 9,500ft.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/airport-expansionmoney-for-land-acquisition-used-to-fight-covid-19/articleshow/79271169.cms||A Subburaj
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||New police sub-division to be formed in Mettupalayam||Coimbatore: To enable better management of policing affairs, a new police sub-division will be set up in Mettupalayam next month, police superintendent Ara Arularasu said on Tuesday.Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced the formation of Mettupalayam sub-division on March 24. The state home department issued the order to form the new subdivision at a cost of Rs 48.16 lakh on October 24.The new sub-division will consist of Mettupalayam, Annur, Sirumugai and Pillur dam police stations. A deputy superintendent of police will be appointed soon, Arularasu said.Coimbatore district has Periyanaickenpalayam, Karumathampatti, Perur, Pollachi and Valparai sub-divisions. “Of these five sub-divisions, Periyanaickenpalayam and Karumathampatti sub-divisions are located on the east of the district. Both the sub-divisions share borders with Coimbatore city. Due to law and order issues, communal problemss and rising crimes and road accidents, the administration was finding it difficult to implement better policing in these two sub-divisions,” director general of police (DGP) JK Tripathy said.The Periyanaickenpalayam sub-division consists of Periyanaickenpalayam, Thudiyalur, Thadagam, Mettupalayam, Karamadai, Pillur dam, Sirumugai, Thudiyalur all women police, Thudiyalur traffic police and Mettupalayam traffic police stations. The Karumathampatti sub-division has Karumathampatti, Annur, Kovilpalayam, Sulur, Chettipalayam and Sulthanpet police stations.“More than 15 years ago, Mettupalayam was one of the sub-divisions in the Coimbatore district police. When the city police was formed, the state government removed Mettupalayam sub-division and formed Periyanaickenpalayam sub-division,” Arularasu said. “It takes a deputy superintendent of police 30 minutes to reach the Mettupalayam police station from Periyanaickenpalayam sub-division. Mettupalayam is a busy town, visited by tourists. Presence of a DSP there will ensure law & order compliance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/new-police-sub-division-to-be-formed-in-mettupalayam/articleshow/79271182.cms||A Subburaj
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Monsoon showers replenish reservoirs||Coimbatore: The recent showers have improved the water level in the main reservoirs such as Siruvani, Pillur and Aliyar dams in the district. With more rainfall predicted in the coming days, inflow to these reservoirs is expected to increase further. And this would address the drinking water woes that the city residents have been facing for a while.The district, meanwhile, recorded 34.2mm rainfall through Monday night and Tuesday early morning. Weathermen attributed the rain to a low-pressure system hovering above the Arabian Sea.With the low-pressure system hovering above the Arabian Sea turning intensive and the Bay of Bengal pulling the moisture laden winds towards itself through Tamil Nadu, a source said, the district, along with neighbouring Erode and Tirupur, was expected to receive moderate rain until Wednesday evening.S P Ramanathan, director, agro climate research centre, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, said, “We are expected to record 25mm rainfall on Tuesday alone.”Weatherman Santhosh Krishnan said the moderate rain would continue until the low-pressure wind was pulled across the TN districts towards the Bay of Bengal.The district, according to the regional meteorological centre, has recorded 90.4mm rainfall since October 1.The recent showers have helped the Siruvani dam’s water level, which had come down by 3cm to 4cm, touch 42.57ft. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) said they would continue to supply 101.4 MLD (million litres per day) water, which is the required quantity, to the city corporation limits and other areas. “We can increase it if required,” said an official.The rain has, meanwhile, exposed the district’s lack of monsoon preparedness. Water stagnation was reported on DB Road, Puliyakulam Road and at Singanallur and Gandhipuram, among other areas.Under passages in the city were inundated with rainwater on Tuesday evening, making them inaccessible to motorists. As a result, heavy traffic congestion was reported on the old Avinashi Road flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/monsoon-showers-replenish-reservoirs/articleshow/79271191.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Migrant rush goes unchecked near bus stand||Ludhiana: A huge number of migrants from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were seen gathered at Yamla Jatt park located near the bus stand flyover on Tuesday. All these people are going home to celebrate the festival of Chhath Puja and due to non-movement of trains, the private bus operators are doing brisk business as they are charging Rs 2,200 per ticket for any destination in both states. The main pick-up points from where the passengers are being picked by by the buses include Yamla Jatt park, near Preet Palace, near Gill Road, etc. What is very shocking is that neither the bus operators, nor the passengers are observing the Covid safety measures and huge crowds are gathering at all pick-up points and hardly 10% of the people are using masks. Despite all these locations being very near to police check points, no checkings are being conducted by the police officials to ensure compliance of the social distancing norms and whether or not the buses have permission to ferry the passengers. In another violation of the norms, a large number of buses are being parked wrongly near the bus stand flyover and several other spots leading to problems for the commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/migrant-rush-goes-unchecked-near-bus-stand/articleshow/79269951.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||City corpn resumes eviction drive along Muthannankulam lake||Coimbatore: The city corporation resumed the encroachment eviction drive along the Muthannankulam tank at Kumarasamy Nagar in the city on Tuesday when it demolished 16 illegal structures and removed the roof of another five houses.According to a city corporation official, the drive commenced on the day by disconnecting electricity connection to 27 houses. The eviction drive is expected to continue on Wednesday.The city corporation had started demolishing vacant houses in June after allocating alternative accommodation to the encroachers at the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board’s housing units at Malumichampatti, Kovai Pudur and Keeranatham.The residents had, meanwhile, approached the Supreme Court, seeking a direction to stop the eviction drive. However, the judgement came in favour of the city corporation, which had by then demolished more than 1,500 illegal structures in the locality to implement the lake rejuvenation and restoration project at Muthannankulam tank. An official with the slum clearance board said, “Following the court direction, we had issued a form to the remaining residents living along the lake and sought their preferred location of housing units to relocate them. Based on the availability, flats would be allotted to them. Those who opted for the new housing unit coming up at Ukkadam would have to find rental accommodation at their expense till that gets ready.”He said 98 structures had to be demolished now before commencing the lake rejuvenation and restoration project. “The eviction drive will be completed at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-corpn-resumes-eviction-drive-along-muthannankulam-lake/articleshow/79271160.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Amaravati||Recovery rate remains over 97%; Andhra Pradesh adds 1,395 new cases||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 1,395 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the state’s cumulative caseload to 8,56,159. The toll jumped to 6,890 as nine more people succumbed to the novel coronavirus. As many as 2,293 patients were declared cured. There are currently 16,985 active cases with 8,32,284 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 97%. Krishna reported 260 new infections, followed by West Godavari (247 cases), East Godavari (214), Guntur (199) and Chittoor (137). The remaining eight districts recorded less than 100 cases. There are less than 1,000 active cases in seven districts. Of the nine deaths, two each were reported from Chittoor, Krishna and Visakhapatnam and one each from Anantapur, East Godavari and Kadapa. The state conducted 66,778 Covid-19 tests on Tuesday to detect the 1,395 new cases with a case positivity rate of 2%. The overall case positivity rate is above 9%, while the mortality remained stable at 0.8%. Nearly two weeks after reopening of schools and colleges in the state, 1,001 school teachers out of 1.22 lakh who underwent Covid-19 testing, tested positive. Meanwhile, 416 students also tested positive out of 1.65 lakh students who were tested, translating to a case positivity rate of 0.2%. But the tests conducted on 913 government college lecturers and 3,767 students did not find a single case. The student turnout in schools has now touched the 50 per cent mark, while it’s about 30-40% in junior colleges and degree colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/recovery-rate-remains-over-97-ap-adds-1395-new-cases/articleshow/79273880.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Patna||Nitish Kumar retains 5 crucial portfolios, hands over key JD(U) departments to BJP||PATNA: Five significant departments that were with JD(U) in the previous government have changed hands and are now with BJP. Portfolios were distributed among all ministers of the new cabinet in Bihar on Tuesday. However, CM Nitish Kumar has kept with himself all the important portfolios he had in his previous stint, including home department, general administration, cabinet secretariat, vigilance and election. The five departments that have now gone to BJP ministers are — disaster management department (DMD), industries, law, Panchayati raj and sugarcane industries. DMD was held by Lakshmeshwar Rai, a JD(U) minister, in the previous coalition government, but is now with deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad. Prasad, who is No. 2 in the cabinet after the CM, has been handed over all departments held by his predecessor Sushil Kumar Modi. The departments include finance, commercial taxes, environment, forest & climate change and information technology. Besides these, Prasad has also got the urban development and housing department held by BJP’s Suresh Kumar Sharma in the previous government. “Five departments were handed over to the BJP because it has a greater number of MLAs than the JD(U) and the saffron party might get a large share in the cabinet berths in the next expansion,” said a senior NDA leader. JD( U) state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narayan Singh, however, told TOI on Tuesday, “There is nothing unusual in exchange of certain departments in the process of government formation. Certain departments get exchanged in such processes. It has all happened with mutual understanding. Both the leading allies JD(U) and BJP have complete faith in each other. Both have once again agreed to work under the leadership of Nitish Kumar Ji.” Among the CM's portfolios are the general administration department, which controls the IAS, BAS cadre and several other administrative officers, while the home department controls the IPS, BPS and special branch and prison services offices besides having direct control over the entire police administration. Moreover, the cabinet secretariat department is known as a coordinating unit with the Centre and all the departments in the state government. Santosh Kumar Suman, who is the lone representative of HAM (S) in the new cabinet, has been given the charge of two departments—minor water resources and SC/ST welfare. Similarly, VIP’s Mukesh Sahni has got animal husbandry and fisheries resources department. It was previously with BJP minister Prem Kumar, who has not found a place in the new cabinet. The HAM(S) minister got two departments from JD(U) quota just like the party got seats from JD(U) quota during the election. Similarly, VIP’s lone minister got a department from the BJP quota. Besides the transfer of five departments from JD(U) to the BJP ministers; all other departments which were with JD(U) ministers in the previous government remained with them, and those with the BJP ministers in the last cabinet remained with the saffron party. The second deputy CM, Renu Devi, has got two of the five departments that changed hands — Panchayati Raj and industries— along with BC and EBC welfare. “Except for the industries portfolio, Renu, who hails from the EBC group, has been given the charge of less important departments compared to the other deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad,” Congress spokesperson Harkhu Jha pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-retains-5-crucial-portfolios-hands-over-key-jdu-depts-to-bjp/articleshow/79269962.cms||Madan Kumar
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Police raids against firecrackers to continue in Kolkata till November-end||KOLKATA: Cops across the city are not putting down their firecracker vigil to ensure that Chhath Puja, due this Friday, remains equally noise and pollution free as they had managed to do during Kali Puja and Diwali last week. The anti-cracker raids will continue till Jagaddhatri Puja next week. TOI on Tuesday found cops conducting raids across the city’s firecracker hubs, such as Old China Bazaar and Chandi Chowk in central Kolkata, to prevent sale of firecrackers before Chhath. Announcements on loudspeakers and awareness drives were also carried out across multiple business hubs and predominantly Bihari neighbourhoods in Posta, Burrabazar and multiple places in north and south Kolkata. Cops said wholesellers and retailers in the city had stocked a sizeable amount of firecrackers before the Calcutta High Court banned them on November 5 in order to control pollution, which is hazardous for Covid-19 patients. Multiple sellers TOI spoke to over the past two weeks said they had already invested a large sum in procuring the crackers like previous years, but they were left in a fix after the implementation of the ban. Some desperate sellers have also been arrested for trying to sell crackers under the garb of legitimate business like selling sanitizers, masks, candles and diyas. “We are keeping the same level of alertness and check as during Kali Puja when we found a number of sellers discreetly selling crackers using some other business as a front. We have warned the market associations that strict action would be taken against such unscrupulous acts and the checks will continue till Jagaddhatri Puja next week,” said a senior officer of Kolkata police. Focussing on the next couple of days, multiple awareness campaigns have also been lined up by the cops. At some police stations in east and southeast police divisions, the local cops are even seeking out Maithili experts to help them spread the word in the local language. “We have begun meeting the community leaders and elders. Among our requests, we are not forgetting to add the firecracker clause,” said an officer at posta police station. The Calcutta High Court had issued a complete ban on the “use or display or bursting” of fireworks across Bengal till the end of this month. In a second order, the court banned Chhath processions across Bengal. A senior officer at Lalbazar said police stations, such as Rabindra Sarobar, Lake and Beliaghata, have been asked to form special teams to make people aware of the cracker ban and ensure strict compliance. Lalbazar sources said the ban on Chhath processions may help in controlling the firecracker menace. Just as during Diwali, those bursting crackers will be slapped with strict charges,” warned the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-raids-against-firecrackers-to-continue-in-city-till-nov-end/articleshow/79269958.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Now, first list to be published on November 20||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It’s confusion worse confounded with the commissioner for entrance examinations (CEE) postponing MBBS allotment, scheduled for Monday, following a high court order to increase tuition fee at self-financing colleges. On Tuesday, the CEE announced one more chance to register options for MBBS/BDS/ agriculture/ veterinary/forestry/fisheries courses. Facility of online registration will be made available from noon of Wednesday to noon of Thursday. During this time, candidates can also rearrange and delete unwanted options. This will help them rearrange options by comparing the fee structure of different self-financing colleges published on the CEE website. The first list will now be published on November 20 based on options received till Thursday noon, a CEE press release said. A new notification was issued on Monday on the instruction of the Kerala high court. The new fee structure is almost three times that recommended by the Justice R Rajendra Babu Committee. The annual fee for the MBBS course in self-financing colleges this year will range from Rs 11 lakh to Rs 30 lakh if the demands of individual colleges are met. As per the CEE notification, the annual fee for a general seat in self-financing colleges will be between Rs 11 lakh and Rs 22 lakh, depending on changes to be made in line with the demand of managements. The fee for an NRI seat will be between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 30 lakh. The notification was issued after the high court ordered that students be informed about fees sought by managements. “The high court has directed to intimate candidates that the maximum fee that will be levied by self-financing colleges will be the fee as claimed by the respective colleges. It further directed that if the colleges have given any such information regarding maximum fee that is proposed to be levied in respective colleges, the same shall also be published on the website for further information of candidates. It has also been directed that while admitting students, the students shall give an undertaking that they will be under the obligation to pay the difference in fee as may be fixed by the court or such other authority as the court may deem fit,’’ the commissioner’s notification said. Nineteen self-financing medical colleges will admit students this year. Of this, the fee structure for 10 colleges was published on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/now-first-list-to-be-published-on-nov-20/articleshow/79268817.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Cong MLA, councillors get CCTVs cams installed in east constituency||Ludhiana: In order to ensure security of residents living in various localities in east constituency, Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar and his fellow councillors have taken the initiative of installing CCTV cameras at various locations. The cameras have been installed on main roads covering the entry and exit of localities. Interestingly, the best thing about this project is that they have spent the money from their own pocket instead of waiting for any grant or special project under the Smart City Mission. As many as 400 cameras were planned for the 19 wards in the constituency and almost all areas have been covered. Only 50 to 60 cameras are left for the installation while rest are already functional. Areas along Tajpur road, Tibba road, Metro road, Noorwala road, Kali Sadak, Rahon road, etc. are already covered by the cameras. The objective is to keep an eye on the movement of criminals in case of any incident takes place in the constituency. The total cost of these cameras is around Rs 40 lakh. Congress MLA Talwar when asked about the project said, “In my constituency there is a population over 10 lakh and some areas are thickly populated, so we had planned to get CCTVs installed in the entire constituency in the initial days after I became the MLA.” He said funding was an issue but they decided to get it done from own pocket instead of depending upon any department for the funds. He said now almost all areas had been covered under CCTV cameras and perhaps he would be the first MLA in the entire state to get cameras installed in the constituency. He said though under the Smart City Mission there were plans to install CCTV cameras, when it would be undertaken in their area nobody knows, so they did it at their own level. Meanwhile, Congress councillor from ward number 3 Pallavi Vinayak said, “We have contributed money for making the area safe for residents. The installation is complete in the area and we have kept its control in our hands. The 25 cameras are installed in ward number 3 and we keep a close watch on the cameras regularly.” She said it would help in creating a feeling of security among the residents as well. A resident of Tajpur road, Pritam Singh, while appreciating the move said, “The main threat in the residential areas is theft of vehicles and in case all wards are covered with CCTV cameras, then the police can at least trace the car lifters or even other criminals.” He said some of the areas in east constituency were so thickly populated that it was difficult to track criminals, but when there would be the camera eyes over criminal activities it would become easier to check the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cong-mla-councillors-get-cctvs-cams-installed-in-east-constituency/articleshow/79269964.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Three held a month after killing Ghaziabad businessman in road rage||GURUGRAM: A month after a businessman from Ghaziabad was beaten to death on Delhi-Japiur highway in a case of road rage, Gurugram police have arrested three persons in the matter. According to police, one of the accused during interrogation revealed that on October 11, his friend’s two-wheeler had hit the businessman’s car at Bhangrola which led to an argument. “In the meantime, the accused called his brother and friends and they beat the businessman, Netrapal Singh, with helmet, sticks and iron roads and fled from the spot. Singh died during treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram the next day. On the basis of the CCTV footage police managed to identify and trace the accused. The main accused, identified as Rohit alias Monu (26), was arrested from Jhajjar. Second accused, Rohit alias Jhabbar (23), was arrested from Wazirpur while their third accomplice, Mohit alias Jiya (25), was arrested from Farrukhnagar. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said six cases related to attempt to murder, brawl and possessing illegal weapons are registered against Rohit at different police stations and he has been to jail in connection with these cases and is currently out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/3-held-a-month-after-killing-gzb-bizman-in-road-rage/articleshow/79274457.cms||Bagish Jha
November 18, 2020||Gurgaon||Three held a month after killing Ghaziabad businessman in road rage||GURUGRAM: A month after a businessman from Ghaziabad was beaten to death on Delhi-Japiur highway in a case of road rage, Gurugram police have arrested three persons in the matter. According to police, one of the accused during interrogation revealed that on October 11, his friend’s two-wheeler had hit the businessman’s car at Bhangrola which led to an argument. “In the meantime, the accused called his brother and friends and they beat the businessman, Netrapal Singh, with helmet, sticks and iron roads and fled from the spot. Singh died during treatment at a private hospital in Gurugram the next day. On the basis of the CCTV footage police managed to identify and trace the accused. The main accused, identified as Rohit alias Monu (26), was arrested from Jhajjar. Second accused, Rohit alias Jhabbar (23), was arrested from Wazirpur while their third accomplice, Mohit alias Jiya (25), was arrested from Farrukhnagar. ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sangwan said six cases related to attempt to murder, brawl and possessing illegal weapons are registered against Rohit at different police stations and he has been to jail in connection with these cases and is currently out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/3-held-a-month-after-killing-gzb-bizman-in-road-rage/articleshow/79271967.cms||Bagish Jha
November 18, 2020||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Expert panel on revamping Godavari delta canals set up||AMARAVATI: The government has constituted an experts’ panel to suggest measures for the modernisation of Godavari delta canals. The move is aimed at streamlining the canals, drains and supply systems much before the completion of the Polavaram project. The government is gearing up to complete the Polavaram project by December 2021 and planning to release water to the canals by the 2022 kharif season. Sources said the government is making all possible measures to store water in the project immediately after the completion of the project to make use of the same for release during the kharif season. In order to ensure the canal system does not pose any trouble during the release of water from the newly-constructed project, the state government has decided to check that the system is ready to withstand the releases. The Technical Advisory Council (TAC) will comprise retired chief engineers ISN Raju, Rauthu Satyanarayana and M Giridhar Reddy. Chief engineer (irrigation) Godavari Delta and chief engineer, Central Designs Organisation (CDO), will also be part of the council. The state government has asked members of the TAC to inspect the eroded/slipped locations of the flood banks of the Godavari for their comprehensive analysis of the problem and suggest suitable remedial measures. The government has also asked the committee to look into other technical issues that may arise from time to time and require corrective measures by the department. The state government asked the TAC to submit a detailed report within six months, after which necessary measures would be initiated. Meanwhile, irrigation minister Anil Kumar Yadav inspected the project site on Tuesday and took stock of the progress with the officials. Speaking to the media, Anil Kumar criticised the TDP for unleashing false propaganda against the Polavaram project. He assured that the project would be ready by 2021 without any deviation. He also challenged former irrigation minister Devineni Umamaheswara Rao to an open debate on a December 2017 Union cabinet note and to make it public. “Dr YS Rajashekara Reddy started the Polavaram project and his son YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will dedicate the project to the people,” he said. The minister criticised former chief minister and TDP president Chandrababu Naidu for not allocating funds on a resettlement and rehabilitation package while in power. He asked how the TDP could claim that 70% of the project was completed without having taken up rehabilitation work, which itself is Rs 30,000 crore. The minister said 194 TMC of water would be stored in Polavaram reservoir and there will not be any reduction in the project height.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/expert-panel-on-revamping-godavari-delta-canals-set-up/articleshow/79268807.cms||Samdani MN
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Normal life hit in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: Incessant rain has thrown the normal life out of gear in the Nilgiris. Heavy rain accompanied by strong winds uprooted trees and triggered mud slips across the district on Monday night. Taluks such as Kundah, Coonoor and Kotagiri were badly affected.Weathermen have forecast intense rainfall in the hills, especially over the north-eastern areas of the district, in the next few days.Yedappalli recorded the highest rainfall at 55mm followed by Kodanadu (40.1mm) and Coonoor (35.5) for the 24 hours that ended at 7am on Tuesday. While Burliar received 30mm rain, Kotagiri and Ooty recorded 25mm and 17.4mm, respectively.The incessant rain has brought construction work to a grinding halt in the hills over the past two days.Kuppuraj, Coonoor tahsildhar, said, “We haven’t seen any damages to houses or roadblocks so far. The district administration has conducted a meeting to review the disaster management measures.”He said teams comprising fire service, highways, revenue and forest department officials and volunteers have been monitoring the situation at the vulnerable areas. “They will clear the road if there is a tree fall or landslip.”Motorists are, meanwhile, finding it very difficult to navigate the roads because of the thick mist.The district administration, which has put the disaster management machinery in place, said the monsoon rain has been normal so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/normal-life-hit-in-nilgiris/articleshow/79271204.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Heaps of uncollected garbage raise stink in Mapusa||225 words. Edited Pic: Denver D’Souza (GARBAGE-EKTANAGAR-Denver) Denver D’Souza | TNN Saligao: Mapusa seems to be fighting a losing battle with the garbage menace. While the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) has in place an effective garbage collection mechanism, heaps of garbage continue to lie uncollected in almost all 20 municipal wards. Despite dustbins being placed at several locations, one can often see people carelessly tossing plastic bags filled with garbage in the open. These huge piles of mixed garbage attract stray dogs and cattle, who then drag away bags filled with food waste, thus further spreading the garbage. “There is leachate flowing out of the garbage, which emits a foul stench. This can also pose a serious health hazard for people. I hope the authorities act swiftly and the garbage is lifted up at the earliest,” Sanjay Barde, a resident of Mapusa, said When contacted, MMC chief officer Kabir Shirgaonkar told TOI that the municipality has constituted teams to tackle the garbage menace. “We have identified garbage vulnerable points in Mapusa and have also deputed municipal engineers to conduct regular inspections of the sites and impose fines on whoever is found dumping garbage,” Shirgaonkar said. “It has been observed that people from other villages are dumping garbage at various spots in Mapusa. And even though the MMC is dissolved, the garbage management is being taken care of. We are trying to tackle this issue firmly,” Shirgaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/heaps-of-uncollected-garbage-raise-stink-in-mapusa/articleshow/79271200.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris: 14 new cases recorded||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded only 14 new cases of Covid-19, the lowest in the recent times, on Tuesday. The tally stands at 7,144. The district has seen 6,934 Covid patients, including 40 discharged on the day, recovering so far. Of the 170 active cases, seven people are admitted at government facilities in Coimbatore. While 17 people are kept in home quarantine, the remaining are being treated at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur besides the Covid care centres in Ooty. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-14-new-cases-recorded/articleshow/79271195.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Police towers to open soon: Telangana minister KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: Minister KT Rama Rao (KTR) along with cabinet colleagues Mohammed Mahmood Ali, Puvvada Ajay Kumar and DGP Mahendar Reddy, reviewed the progress of ongoing construction work at Police Command Control Towers on Tuesday. He said that the state-of-the-art facility, built at a cost of about Rs 585 crore, will be ready in two to three months. The Integrated Command Control centre and data centre will function from four towers constructed over seven acres on Road Number 12, Banjara Hills. While one of the four towers will have 20 floors, the rest will have 16 floors each. “After the formation of Telangana, Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao sanctioned Rs 800 crore for modernisation of the police force as law and order is key for the development of state. Apart from that, money has been allocated for construction of Command Control Centre. In two to three months, the facility will be operational,” the minister said. The initial cost of project was Rs 350 crore, but it was subsequently revised to Rs 585 crore due to unforeseen works. The minister said that visitors will be allowed to 14th floor of the towers from where they can have a 360 degree view of the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-towers-to-open-soon-ktr/articleshow/79271212.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Uncollected waste piles up in Mapusa, strays make matters worse for residents||SALIGAO: Mapusa seems to be fighting a losing battle with the garbage menace. While the Mapusa Municipal Council (MMC) has in place an effective garbage collection mechanism, heaps of garbage continue to lie uncollected in almost all 20 municipal wards. Despite dustbins being placed at several locations, one can often see people carelessly tossing plastic bags filled with garbage in the open. These huge piles of mixed garbage attract stray dogs and cattle, who then drag away bags filled with food waste, thus further spreading the garbage. “There is leachate flowing out of the garbage, which emits a foul stench. This can also pose a serious health hazard for people. I hope the authorities act swiftly and the garbage is lifted up at the earliest,” Sanjay Barde, a resident of Mapusa, said When contacted, MMC chief officer Kabir Shirgaonkar told TOI that the municipality has constituted teams to tackle the garbage menace. “We have identified garbage vulnerable points in Mapusa and have also deputed municipal engineers to conduct regular inspections of the sites and impose fines on whoever is found dumping garbage,” Shirgaonkar said. “It has been observed that people from other villages are dumping garbage at various spots in Mapusa. And even though the MMC is dissolved, the garbage management is being taken care of. We are trying to tackle this issue firmly,” Shirgaonkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/uncollected-waste-piles-up-in-mapusa-strays-make-matters-worse-for-residents/articleshow/79271210.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Farmers upset over influx of milk from nearby states||Kozhikode: The dairy sector in Malabar, which is the highest milk producing region in Kerala with a daily procurement of 7.5 lakh litres by Milma alone, is on the boil with hundreds of village-level dairy cooperative societies hitting the streets against the milk from other states flooding the market. As many as 600 milk societies of the 1,200 cooperative societies in six Malabar districts have already held public protests, marches and meetings over the past two weeks against the huge influx of milk procured at much lower prices from neighbouring states. Daily sales of Milma (the apex body of milk societies) in Malabar fell by 5% from 5.1 lakh litres at this time last year to 4.8 lakh litres now. Milma officials said many customers are falling for the deceptive pricing by some firms that are importing milk from other states and selling 400g pouches for Rs 20 while Milma’s 500g pouch costs Rs 23. "Those who buy imported milk from other states are actually being cheated as actually they are paying higher prices as the quantity is 100g less than the one sold by Milma," an official said. Milma officials said such firms have huge margins as the procurement price in states like Tamil Nadu is Rs 24-26/litre while milk is procured from farmers by Milma at Rs 38-40/litre in Kerala. "The influx of milk from other states has increased in recent months especially after the pandemic. While price of milk fell significantly in those states, the procurement price of milk remained unchanged in Kerala. Those bringing milk from other states have a price advantage," said managing director of Malabar Regional Co-operative Milk Producers Union (MRCMPU) KM Vijayakumaran. P Srinivasan, a dairy farmer from Ezhukulam near Nanmanda in Kozhikode, said the livelihoods of thousands of dairy farmers in the state are under threat. "During these tough times, it is the dairy sector alone which has managed to provide a reliable income to farmers as Milma, the apex body of dairy co-ops in the state, has been procuring the entire milk produced by farmers. But, the huge influx of low quality milk brought in from other states will impact the sales of locally-produced milk which will in turn affect the farmers as we are also getting bonus and other benefits like cattle feed subsidy," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/farmers-upset-over-influx-of-milk-from-nearby-states/articleshow/79268837.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||CM: State will provide aid to goshalas||Bicholim: Chief minister Pramod Sawant assured all possible assistance to the goshalas in the state and announced that the government intends to launch a scheme to provide assistance to generate various products from cattle dung. Sawant was speaking after performing cattle worship at Mayem goshala on Monday along with his wife to mark Padwa celebration. He said that the government is doing all it can to protect cows and provide assistance to stray cattle by providing grants to the cowshed.  He said that it is a great relief that the stray cattle are getting shelter in the cowsheds like Mayem goshala. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-state-will-provide-aid-to-goshalas/articleshow/79271221.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||MC commissioner holds meet over waste management||Ludhiana: Before sending a compliance report to the National Green Tribunal committee members, the MC commissioner, Pardeep Sabharwal, conducted a review meeting with officials of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, MC officials and A2Z waste management officials on Tuesday. The objective of this meeting was to review the progress of the ongoing work over solid waste management and other deadlines set by the committee of the NGT. If the civic body failed in complying with these deadlines, then the NGT committee will forfeit the bank guarantee deposited by the MC. The NGT committee had asked the civic body to deposit the bank guarantees worth Rs 22 lakh for failure in compliance with the solid waste management rules in the city. Now, the NGT committee has sent a letter to the MC for conducting a joint meeting over these issues. On Tuesday, the officials were asked about status of segregation of waste, door-to-door garbage collection, C&D waste plant, disposal of legacy waste, boundary wall around main garbage dump and carcass utilization plant. One of the officials claimed that for legacy waste they got the approval from a city-level technical committee under the Smart City Mission. Initially, 5 lakh metric tonne of garbage will be treated at a cost of Rs 29 crore and then the MC has to dispose of around 20 lakh metric tonne of legacy waste. Similarly, one technical committee has been formed for preparing a fresh report about functioning of A2Z waste management in which PPCB officials will also be included. For ensuring 100% source segregation from garbage dumps the officials have been given one week. The work at carcass utilization plant is also going on and officials have been told to increase the pace of work. Also, at a few dumps still garbage is not being collected in segregated form. The civic body officials have time till November end to comply with the directions of the NGT committee. Mayor, commissioner check garbage dumps After repeated complaints about heaps of garbage at dumps lying post Diwali, mayor Balkar Sandhu and MC commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal visited the secondary garbage collection points on Tuesday evening. They also took the area councillor along. The mayor said they had asked A2Z waste management officials to complete the garbage lifting from the dumps by Wednesday at any cost. However, the mayor showed satisfaction over the lifting of waste by saying that since they had taken the area councillor along he also said that as compared to last year the picture was better this year. The dumps at 100-foot road, Sherpur, Jeevan Nagar chowk, Vardhman chowk, Shingaar Cinema, etc. were also checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-commissioner-holds-meet-over-waste-management/articleshow/79269967.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Two TSSPDCL staff arrested for graft||HYDERABAD: Two Telangana Southern Power Distribution Company Ltd (TSSPDCL) employees were arrested for demanding and accepting Rs 19,000 bribe from an electrical contractor at Nagaram in Keesara on Tuesday. Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths arrested D Vijayender Reddy, a sub-engineer at TSSPDCL divisional engineer’s office in Keesara, and J Santosh, Artisan (outsourcing) at the assistant divisional engineer’s (ADE) office, TSSPDCL, Keesara. On a complaint of Shashi Kumar Reddy, a private electrical contractor from Nagaram, ACB sleuths laid a trap and caught Reddy red-handed at his office in Nagaram when he demanded and accepted Rs 13,000 alleged bribe from the complainant. “Reddy demanded the bribe to sanction a transformer and electric meters panel to the complainant, who took electrical work contract of a five-storied building at Nagaram,” an ACB official said. The ACB team seized the bribe amount from him. Further, Santosh took Rs 6,000 bribe from him on November 12 to forward a file to Reddy’s office. ACB arrested Santosh in the same case. Both the accused would be produced before the ACB special court for judicial remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-tsspdcl-staff-arrested-for-graft/articleshow/79271196.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Car rams into AAP leader’s house, guard opens fire at driver mistaking him for an assassin||RUDRAPUR: A 35-year old man was shot at by the personal security guard of an Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader after he lost control of the car that he was driving and rammed the vehicle into the AAP leader's house. The guard opened fire on the man assuming the car accident to be an attempt to assassinate the AAP leader. The incident took place on Monday night at Ramnagar highway in Kashipur town of Udham Singh Nagar. The driver of the car sustained critical injuries and was admitted to a hospital. Meanwhile, the police reached the spot and scrutinised the available CCTV footage which showed that the uncontrolled car rammed into the house after breaking the entry gate and the guard opened fire at the driver as soon as he tried to reverse the car. Senior sub-inspector (SSI) of Kashipur police station, SC Kapdi, told TOI that the man was identified as Harpreet Singh, a resident of Chhoi village in Ramnagar of Nainital district. “We have recorded the man’s statement. According to him, he lost control over the vehicle while trying to avoid a possible collision with a speeding car coming from another direction. Singh was driving back home from Kashipur when he rammed into AAP leader Deepak Bali's house. The CCTV footage shows that the armed security guard, named Bhupendra Singh, spontaneously opened fire at the vehicle leaving Harpreet badly injured. So far, we have not received any complaint in the matter but we are investigating the incident,” said Kapdi. Meanwhile, AAP leader Bali said that his house is almost 40 feet away from the highway and that it is not possible that an uncontrolled vehicle travels that distance and then breaks entry gate of the house. “The CCTV footage shows that the impact of car broke the entry gate and Harpreet tried to escape from the spot by reversing his car. The guard just performed his duty. There needs to be a probe as the incident raises suspicions,” Bali added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/car-rams-into-aap-leaders-house-guard-opens-fire-at-driver-mistaking-him-for-an-assassin/articleshow/79268839.cms||Aakash Ahuja
November 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Discom staff call off strike after talks with govt||Amaravati: Employees of power utilities have agreed to withdraw their protest with immediate effect after the government assured that all power utilities will remain in the public sector. Energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy held discussions with leaders of the Joint Action Committee (JAC) on Tuesday after official talks failed to yield results. JAC president P Chandrasekhar announced calling off of the protest after the government responded positively to several of the JAC’s demands. During discussions, the minister said the government has released Rs 17,904 crore to discoms in 2019-20 and Rs 20,384 in 2020-21. Allocations to the energy sector were highest in its history and shows the state’s commitment to protect it as a public sector utility, he said. “Don’t fall prey to rumours and speculation that the government is setting the stage ready to privatise discoms and energy sector,” he said. The minister also clarified that 10,000 MW solar power plants were being planned to provide dedicated power supply to agriculture and would not result in shutting down existing Genco units and dismissed rumours that the government is planning to sell out Rayalaseema Thermal Power Project (RTPP), Muddanur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/discom-staff-call-off-strike-after-talks-with-govt/articleshow/79268825.cms||Samdani MN
November 18, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Extra EVMs for Edamalakudy||IDUKKI: The district administration will provide additional electronic voting machines (EVMs) to ensure a smooth  at Edamalakudy -- the remotest tribal grama panchayat in the state where officials will arrive a day in advance and return only after polling day. The decision to provide more EVMs was taken considering the remoteness of the area. “Ham radio and satellite phone facilities will be employed for polling purposes. Only the willing will be placed on duty at Edamalakudy,” district collector H Dinesan told TOI. In the previous local-body election at Edamalakkudy ham radio was used to pass real-time details of voting, said officials. Devikulam sub collector S Prem Krishnan said the forest department has been directed to complete road construction from Edalipparakkudy to Sociteykudy before the election. “The present road connectivity is only till Edalipparakkudy, near the first settlement at Edamalakkudy. Transporting EVMs and other polling material could prove to be a hurdle without proper road connectivity,” Krishnan said. Edamalakudy became the first tribal panchayat in the state on November 1, 2010. The upcoming election is the third since its formation. Presidentship, this time round, is reserved for women. Apart from remoteness, inaccessibility will be another challenge for officials. The August 7 landslide at Pettimudy claimed the lives of six expert drivers who connected Edamalakudy village with the outside world. At a meeting in Kumily, on Tuesday, the state’s chief election commissioner, Teeka Ram Meena, reviewed polling arrangements in the district. “The commission will provide satellite phones and ham radio facilities for remote booths in the district,” Meena said. When Kerala recorded heavy voter turnout during the last parliament election, Edamalakudy, with its three booths, proved to be an exception: polling numbers were down 15.74% from the previous election. According to official data, the panchayat has 1,909 registered voters. But only 1,069 voters (57.41%) cast their ballot in the last election, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/extra-evms-for-edamalakudy/articleshow/79268840.cms||Sandeep Thomas
November 18, 2020||Kanpur||GSVM to begin clinical trials on Sputnik-V by Nov-end||KANPUR: The first batch of Russia's Sputnik V vaccine for COVID-19 is likely to reach Kanpur's GSVM College by next week for Phase 2 and 3 clinical trials. The decision to conduct human clinical trials was taken after Dr Reddy's Laboratories got approval from Drugs Controller General of India and was registration with Clinical Trials Registry-India, an official said. The ethics committee of GSVM Medical College has already given its nod to trials and college principal Dr RB Kamal said, research would commence from fourth week of November. “As many as 180 volunteers have registered for trials till November 13. Head of the research Saurabh Agarwal will determine the vaccine dose and each volunteer would be administered 2 vaccines in a span of 21 days. Research would continue for seven months,” said Dr Kamal. In September, Dr Reddy's and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia's sovereign wealth fund, entered a partnership to conduct clinical trials of Sputnik V vaccine and distribution in India. As part of the partnership, RDIF shall supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr Reddy's upon regulatory approval in India. On August 11, Sputnik V vaccine was registered by Ministry of Health of Russia and became the world's first registered vaccine against COVID-19 based on the human adenoviral vector platform. Trials will also be carried out at Christian College, Vellore, KEM Hospital, Pune, JSS Hospital, Mysore, KEL, Belgaum and Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences, Puducherry, said Dr Kamal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gsvm-to-begin-clinical-trials-on-sputnik-v-by-nov-end/articleshow/79271216.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||Potholed roads in Model Town turning out to accident spots||Ludhiana: Despite being one of the posh areas of Ludhiana, Model Town is not even having properly constructed roads. Residents of the area are peeved over the condition of roads in most of the parts as these are in real bad condition. The worst affected are the daily commuters riding on two-wheelers, who are most vulnerable to accidents due to potholes on the stretches. Every week the accidents are happening and nothing is being done by the authorities concerned to cover up this mess. A resident of Model Town, Jaskirat Singh, said, “It’s really difficult to drive on these roads and every now and then somebody is falling because of bumpy and potholed roads. Many times I have called the authorities concerned to fix up the issue, but they never came to do the same. After seeing accidents every now and then I felt that I have to do something and I, along with my other friends, filled the potholes with whatever we got like pebbles, gravel and earth, so that the commuters could commute easily and safely. But after some time the same road conditions returned.” Already, two serious accidents have been reported on one particular stretch within two weeks in which one of the victims had to be hospitalised with serious injuries. “This patch should be reconstructed properly and quickly to avoid any more accidents in future,” said Shami Sharma, a private employee living in Model Town. Tinu Tandon, another resident, said, “I daily commute from my house to my place of job and one day my vehicle’s suspension got damaged because of the bad condition of the road. Many more incidents happen daily and it’s not safe for the daily commuters too. A businessman who uses the road daily, Paras, said, “We live in a city which is famous for its luxurious lifestyle, but see the shape of our roads. Nobody from outside is happy to come to our area for this reason only. I hope this issue will be resolved quickly. Sub-division officer, zone D, Rama Kausal said, “We have received the complaints about the poor condition of roads and and it will be taken care of on urgent basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/potholed-roads-in-model-town-turning-out-to-accident-spots/articleshow/79270004.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Rare, endangered medicinal plants poised to enter farms||Unique medicinal plants which are found only in the forests may soon be available for farmers for cultivation as the forest department has been propagating 10 such medicinal plants for mass cultivation.Increasing demand for medicinal plants has put pressure on forest resources, and to ensure they are not lost due to exploitation, the forest tree seed centre in Trichy has been carrying out research on 10 rare, endangered and threatened (RET) medicinal plant varieties. "There is good demand for medicinal plants in recent times, which has put pressure on the medicinal plants available in the forest. By cultivating these plants on a large-scale outside the forest will help in their conservation," said S Puviarasan, range officer, forest tree seed centre in Trichy.The objective of the present project of the forest research wing under Tamil Nadu forest department, is to cultivate and conserve rare medicinal plants. These medicinal plants are being raised in a limited place where forest officials are monitoring the growth to study their requirements, so that necessary tips can be passed on to farmers. The garden was set up in January at a cost of `2 lakh, and now a thriving nursery has been created for large-scale propagation of the plants. "Growing medicinal plants is a challenging task as unlike normal plants these rare varieties die once they bear seeds. Therefore, they must be artificially propagated for bulk cultivation," said Puviarasan. This process takes six-eight months. "The plants will be artificially regenerated by cutting, grafting and air layering methods," he said. The centre, established in 2018 for large scale collection and distribution of forest seeds to private vendors, horticulture and government departments, has been distributing 50-60 varieties of seeds gathered from forests across the state. Among the varieties taken up for research is Mahali-Kizhangu (Decalepis hamiltonii), which is one of the most exploited medicinal plant species. Consumption of the plant is advised to those with diabetes and it helps cure diseases like gastric ulcer and stomach disorders. It is also used as a health drink. Another such plant is siru-adathodai (Justicia beddomei), which is sought after as a cure for cough and jaundice. It also helps cure skin diseases, obesity and asthma.The forest tree seed centre is planning to cater to medicine manufacturing companies in need of these medicinal resources. The centre plans to educate farmers on the benefits of cultivating these rare plants and show them how to cultivate the plants as horticulture crops on their rooftops or at home, said a senior official from the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rare-endangered-medicinal-plants-poised-to-enter-farms/articleshow/79269972.cms||Sampath Kumar
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||Testing up after lull during Diwali||Nagpur: Covid-19 testing — RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) — had gone down significantly since Diwali day in Nagpur district. However, after 1500-odd cases on Monday, the number reached 4,000 mark on Tuesday indicating that testing is gradually resuming. Due to the festive rush of Diwali (Nov 14), Sunday (Nov 15) and Bhai Dooj (Nov 16), not many turned out to get themselves tested. Rise in temperature has reduced cases of cough, cold and viral infections significantly in the last one week. Such patients are not reporting to the OPDs and PHCs, so doctors are not referring them for Covid-19 tests. As number of new patients has gone down, the contact tracing exercise too has got its limitations. “Contact tracing is no more aggressive, especially in rural areas,” said infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde. “I have been receiving patients in severe to very severe level of infection from Bhandara, Gondia and Nagpur districts. This shows people are not being traced at early level of infection,” Dr Shinde added. A senior doctor from GMCH Gondia also backed this claim. “Fear about Covid-19 is no more visible in patients now. Most of them prefer to stay at home in case they experience mild fever, cough, cold and other symptoms. They report to PHCs or visit doctors only if fever does not recede for a long period,” he said. Divisional health authorities in both divisions in Vidarbha — Akola and Nagpur — said that the testing capacity has not gone down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/testing-up-after-lull-during-diwali/articleshow/79269977.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Eye on BC votes, BJP plans to field more Mudiraj and Yadav candidates||HYDERABAD: Ahead of announcing the candidates’ list, BJP has worked out a caste formula especially for the BC community. Along with Munnuru Kapus, the party is focusing on Mudiraj and Yadav communities who have a large presence in Hyderabad. While Munnuru Kapu community is known to rally behind BJP, established in Karimnagar and Nizamabad Lok Sabha elections, sources said the BJP leadership is set to give a majority of tickets to leaders from Mudiraj and Yadav communities. The party leadership is overwhelmed with response from aspirants. From each ward, more than five applications were received on Tuesday. “In some wards, we received more than 10 applications. In Gowtham Nagar ward in Malkajgiri, we got 20 applications,” former BJP city present N Ramchander Rao said. The party also finalised women candidates in general category who are family members of second line party leaders. Among those who are likely to get tickets are former TDP corporators who won during the 2009 municipal polls. Sources said though the party has candidates’ names for the Old City wards, the party has its task cut out with AIMIM’s strong presence. Meanwhile, 150 senior leaders from across the state, including former MLAs, ex-MPs and present district party in-charges have landed in the city to monitor campaign in each ward. “This has never happened in BJP’s history. In view of high-voltage battle with ruling TRS, the party has roped in all leaders for GHMC polls,” a leader said. The manifesto committee under the leadership state committee member G Vivek met and was busy preparing local-level manifestos. Sources said RTC union leader K Ashwathama Reddy is likely to join the BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eye-on-bc-votes-bjp-plans-to-field-more-mudiraj-and-yadav-candidates/articleshow/79271229.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 18, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Smooth run for Covishield so far in Visakhapatnam, second dose soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: In good news, clinical trial of the Covishield vaccine is going on successfully at King George Hospital-Andhra Medical College (KGH-AMC) in Visakhapatnam. The second dose of the vaccine will be administered among volunteers by November-end, 29 days after the first dose. No adverse reactions have been reported yet. Speaking to TOI, special officer for Covid-19 (north-coastal AP) Dr PV Sudhakar said, “After administering the second dose at the end of this month, we will follow the volunteers for six months in case there are any adverse reactions. We are conducting the trial on 60 volunteers who met the criteria. So far, no one has developed fever, allergy or any other complication after the first dose.” “We are conducting the safety profile trial of the vaccine at KGH-AMC. Starting from day zero, volunteers would be called in for health check-ups on day 29, 57, 90 and 180 along with regular follow-ups on health conditions. Some other institutes will be working on vaccine efficiency in preventing Covid-19, where blood samples will be collected to check for antibodies,” said Dr Sudhakar, who is also principal of AMC. KGH-AMC commenced trial for the Oxford-Astra Zeneca Covishield vaccine in October. Being conducted by Serum Institute of India (SII) at 17 sites across the country, the third phase of the human clinical trial of the vaccine will go on for six months. Meanwhile, KGH-AMC has also submitted the drug trial report for the 2-Deoxy-D-Glucose (C6H12O5) or 2-DG molecule and blood samples of subjects to Defence Rsearch and Development Organisation (DRDO). DRDO, which developed the drug, is yet to announce a report on whether the drug has proved effective in the treatment of Covid-19. According to doctors, the 2-DG molecule has been used successfully to treat certain types of cancer by inhibiting glucose supply to cells. Doctors believe viruses such as SARS-CoV-2 will not be able to live and multiply if glucose supply to cells is disrupted. Volunteers will be followed for six months after the second dose to check for adverse reactions. The trial at KGH-AMC is being conducted on 60 volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/smooth-run-for-covishield-so-far-second-dose-soon/articleshow/79268844.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 18, 2020||Goa||Congress expels minority cell chairperson for six years||PANAJI: Congress expelled its minority cell chairperson Urfan Mulla from the primary membership for six years for “anti-party activities”. The party took the drastic step following Mulla’s remarks that Congress has no unity among senior party leaders, and that each one was fighting for personal gains while the party was not interested in minority issues. The party stated that he “deliberately acted in a calculated manner so as to lower the prestige of the Indian National Congress.”. “You have also shown complete disrespect to the central and state leadership, which is not only unbecoming of a member of the party, but also amounts to serious indiscipline on your part.” “….it is clearly established that you have worked against the interest of the party, indulged in anti-party activities and intentionally damaged the image of party publicly making incorrect statements,” stated the Congress. Congress state president Girish Chodankar approved Mulla’s expulsion on Monday. Mulla stepped down as chairperson of the minority cell and quit as the party’s spokesperson on Sunday. In his resignation letter to AICC acting president Sonia Gandhi, he stated that he is unhappy with the party’s functioning and the lack of direction. He also blamed the party’s leadership for using minority communities as a “tissue paper” and as a “vote bank” while doing little to help them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-expels-minority-cell-chairperson-for-six-years/articleshow/79271224.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kozhikode||CPM wary, Karat Faisal pulls out of poll battle||Kozhikode: Karat Faisal, whose candidature for the local body polls has raised many eyebrows, has decided to backtrack from the fray. Faisal had declared his candidature from the Chundappuram division of Koduvally municipality as LDF-independent and had started campaigning. His name was announced by Kunnamangalam MLA P T A Raheem at a public function recently. Faisal decided to step back after intervention from CPM district leadership, which thought the negative publicity of his candidature will adversely affect LDF throughout the state. Faisal was an accused in the case related to gold smuggling through Karipur airport four years ago. He paid a fine as directed by the customs. His name again surfaced during the investigation into the gold smuggling through the Thiruvananthapuram airport a few months ago. Customs had summoned Faisal for interrogation, but no case was charged this time. CPM believes that fielding such a person as candidate in the elections will be counterproductive as there are chances of customs summoning him again. Faisal is a councillor in the current Koduvally municipality. CPM district secretary P Mohanan told reporters that the party has laid down certain guidelines for fixing candidates in the local bodies. “These guidelines are discussed and accepted by the state committee and will be binding to party candidates anywhere in the state,” he said. Meanwhile, LDF has announced the name of INL leader O P Rasheed as candidate from the Chundappuram division in place of Faisal. The name was declared amidst rumours that Faisal will be contesting as independent from the same ward. However, the INL leadership maintained that there is no confusion over the candidate and the party has no information about Faisal’s decision to contest as independent. K K A Khader of IUML is the UDF candidate from the division.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpm-wary-karat-faisal-pulls-out-of-poll-battle/articleshow/79268864.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Temperature in Kolkata won’t dip in next few days: Met||KOLKATA: The snow fall in the higher reaches of Jammu and Kashmir and parts of Uttarakhand had brought hope for the winter chill to reach Kolkata. But Met office said there would be no drop in mercury immediately. Blame it on a high pressure zone over Jharkhand that would block the path of the chill and dry north westerly wind from reaching Kolkata. “Because of this high pressure zone, the north westerly wind will not reach the city directly. Therefore, the city is unlikely to have any direct impact of the snowfall. We don’t see much change in the weather for now. Mercury in north Bengal, particularly in Malda will, however, see a drop because the wind system will reach that part,” said G K Das, director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre Kolkata. “The weather will remain more of less the same for the next four to five days with the minimum temperature hovering between 20°C and 22°C,” added Das. Snowfalls in J&K and higher altitudes of northern India caused by systems like western disturbances around this time generally brings in the winter chill in this region. But this time, city will have to wait due to the high pressure zone over Jharkhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/temp-wont-dip-in-next-few-days-met/articleshow/79271415.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Faced with death threats, law prof seeks protection||Panaji: After appealing to the Goa governor for police security, associate professor at the V M Salgaocar College of Law, Shilpa Singh, has lodged a formal complaint with the National Human Rights Commission and National Women’s Commission seeking directions to the state government to protect her and her family — including her mother and a sister with special needs — after they began receiving death and assault threats. Both commissions have acknowledged her complaint. Singh, who has been accused by the Goa unit of the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) for “promoting socially hateful thoughts about a particular religion” during her online lectures, highlighted in her complaints the persistent threats and intimidation she has received from the Goa units of the ABVP and the Rashtriya Yuva Hindu Vahini, as well as from a group of people responding to a news report on Facebook. “The first threat I received was from ABVP’s Goa unit regarding a complaint about my lectures being hateful about a particular religion and demanding my dismissal from the college. The college dismissed the complaint. The second intimidation was a police complaint filed by Rajiv Jha of Rashtriya Yuva Hindu Vahini and others of Parshuram Sena and Brahman Samaj from Goa about an eight-month-old Facebook post on the mangalsutra and burqa as oppressive symbols for women. “…I fear for my life. It has been three days I have not heard anything from the state. I most urgently request you to direct the Goa government to realise the plight I am in and provide me with round-the-clock security so that I am protected even as the law takes its due course,” she stated in her complaints. Some right organisations had filed complaints against Shilpa Singh about an eight month-old Facebook post of her views on the mangalsutra and burqa||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/faced-with-death-threats-law-prof-seeks-protection/articleshow/79271249.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Congress divides Greater Hyderabad into 5 zones, committees to strategise win||HYDERABAD: The Congress has divided Greater Hyderabad into five zones based on wards located in five parliamentary constituencies of Hyderabad, Secunderabad, Chevella, Malkajgiri and Medak. It has created five committees to finalise candidates and work out strategies. The committee for Medak has party star campaigner Vijayashanti as its members. While Medak constituency has three wards, Malkajgiri has 45, Secunderabad 41, Hyderabad has 43 and Chevella 18. The Hyderabad committee comprises members Anjan Kumar Yadav, Feroz Khan, Zafar Javeed, G Niranjan, Abdullah Sohail with former minister Md Ali Shabbir as TPCC coordinator. Secunderabad committee has members in V Hanumanth Rao, M Shashidhar Reddy, M Anjan Kumar Yadav, P Vishnuvardhan Reddy, Dasoju Sravan and Adam Santosh Kumar with CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka being the PCC coordinator. Chevella committee has Konda Vishweshwar Reddy, Mod Azharuddin, Challa Narasimha Reddy, M Bikshapathi Yadav, Rachamala Siddeshwar and Deepa Bhaskar Reddy as members with TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar as coordinator. Malkajgiri committee has A Revanth Reddy, Kuma Srisailam Goud, Challa Narasimha Reddy, Nandikanti Sridhar, Bude Saab as members with MLC T Jeevan Reddy as PCC coordinator. The Medak committee has Damodar Rajanarasimha, Vijayashanti, J Geeta Reddy, T Jayaprakash Reddy and Gali Anil Kumar with TPCC working president J Kusum Kumar as coordinator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cong-divides-city-into-5-zones-committees-to-strategise-win/articleshow/79271291.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||Two die as bike collides with bus||Hyderabad: A 65-year-old man and his 32-year-old son died in a road accident at Yacharam on Tuesday when a speeding RTC bus rammed into their bike. The deceased were identified as T Ramesh, a labourer, and his father Jangaiah, a farmer. Ramesh’s three-year-old daughter, Hruthika, suffered injuries. The victims were from Nanak Nagar village in Yacharam mandal. On Tuesday morning, Ramesh along with his daughter and Jangaiah went to Mall, a place in Ibrahimpatnam on a two-wheeler to attend some personal work. The mishap occurred while they were returning home from Ibrahimpatnam at around 2pm. An RTC bus of Ibrahimpatnam depot coming from Yacharam towards Mall rammed into the bike coming from opposite direction at Tammaloniguda. Both Ramesh and Jangaiah who were not wearing helmets, died on the spot. The girl suffered multiple injuries and was rushed to a hospital nearby.  “The accident occurred when Ramesh was trying to overtake another bike,” Yacharam police said. The bus driver surrendered and was arrested. A case was registered against him under sections 304-a and 337 of the Indian Penal Code. An RTC bus coming from Yacharam rammed into the bike coming from opposite direction at Tammaloniguda. The father and son didn’t have helmets||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-die-as-bike-collides-with-bus/articleshow/79271238.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||‘Reinstate 6 WRD Chapoli dam staff’||Margao: The Gawada Kunbi Velip and Dhangar federation (GAKUVED), an umbrella organisation of tribals has urged the minister for water resources Filipe Neri Rodrigues to revoke the suspension of the six staff members attached to the Chapoli dam. Earlier this month, six personnel of WRD were ordered to be suspended over the controversial Poonam Pandey video that created an uproar after it went viral. The GAKUVED delegation led by vice president Ravindra Velip told Rodrigues that injustice had been done to the six personnel as it was not their fault that Pandey’s team made their way into the dam premises for the shoot. Demanding that their suspension be revoked, they said that the six boys had been made scapegoat by the authorities. Two police personnel, including a police inspector, were suspended after a public outcry over the allowing a “porn video” to be filmed at the dam site GAKUVED said that the minister has assured to look into their demands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/reinstate-6-wrd-chapoli-dam-staff/articleshow/79271289.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Online classes have been ineffective in govt schools, Azim Premji University study reveals||BENGALURU: A study by Azim Premji University on online education in government schools in five states has shown that the mode of learning has been ineffective. Contrary to public belief, the survey says 90% of parents are willing to send their children to school if precautions are taken. The study titled ‘Myths of Online Education’ released on Tuesday, covered 1,522 teachers/schools and 398 parents in government schools from 26 districts in five states in order to understand the challenges experienced in implementing online learning solutions within the public school system. While Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, and Rajasthan implemented different forms of online teaching in public schools, Karnataka and Uttarakhand have not implemented any state-level initiatives. Over 80% teachers said it was impossible to maintain emotional connect with children during such classes, while 90% felt that no meaningful assessment of children’s learning was possible. Parents have echoed this sentiment with almost 70% saying online classes are ineffective. “Online education is ineffective because of the basic character of education and not merely because of lack of access to the net and online resources, especially for school-age children,” said Anurag Behar, vice-chancellor, Azim Premji University, in a press release. “Education requires physical presence, attention, thought and emotions, all to be sewn towards learning goals, step-by step, often back-and-forth, and differently for each student. This requires intense verbal and non-verbal interactions amongst teachers and students, which is possible only in regular classes.” Besides, more than 60% children were unable to access online education tools because of the lack of or inadequate number of smartphones and difficulty in using apps. Teachers in the implementing states reported that out of the 30,511 children who attended regular classes, only 11,474 were actually attending online classes. The schools cater to some of the most disadvantaged groups. While 74% of teachers took less than one hour of class a day, 50% teachers interacted with students daily. Besides, 53% teachers in implementing states and 56% in non-implementing states did not have adequate knowledge of conducting classes online. About 50% of the teachers said children were unable to complete assignments, which in turn led to serious gaps in learning. Also, 90% teachers of children with disabilities in their regular classes found them unable to participate in online classes. Due to the inadequacy of the digital mode, states adopted a more direct learning process similar to Vidyagama in Karnataka. In Karnataka, 683 public school teachers and 153 parents from 10 districts were questioned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/online-classes-have-been-ineffective-in-govt-schools-study-reveals/articleshow/79269468.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Tender for convention centre at Dona Paula likely in Dec||Panaji: The Public Private Partnership (PPP) cell of the state government has finalised the request for proposal (RFP) for setting up a 5,000 seating capacity convention centre at Dona Paula at the estimated cost of over Rs 800 crore. The PPP cell is likely to float a tender in December to invite bidders to set up the centre. Along with the convention centre, a multiplex as well as a five-starred hotel has been proposed at Dona Paula as part of the first phase in an area of around 97,000 sqms. Earlier, the project was proposed to be built on land admeasuring 2.9 lakh sqm. A senior officer said that Rs 800 crore is the approximate cost for the first phase of the project, and depending on the expansion, the project cost would increase and this would be borne by the bidder. The convention centre will be developed on public-private partnership. Recently, the state cabinet approved the re-engagement of Knight Frank (India) Private Limited as project consultant. The tendering process for the convention centre was earlier handled by the Economic Development Corporation (EDC). “It is to be noted that the consultant for the project was in place and the tender process was set in motion by EDC with draft documents being finalised. The EDC, through a competitive bidding process, signed an agreement with Knight Frank (India) Private Limited on May 31, 2018, as consultant for the convention centre project,” the note states. Now, the same project has been shifted from EDC to the finance department’s PPP cell, and the government has decided that the PPP cell will take the tender process, initiated by EDC, to its logical conclusion. “The consultant has achieved substantial progress towards achieving the second deliverable and is conversant with the project site, details and structuring with all the documentation required to conduct the bid process. Therefore, it is considered appropriate to continue the services of the same consultant to carry forward the tender process of the project,” states the cabinet note. An exhibition centre, indoor film shooting shed, ESG office, Iffi office, Smart City centre of excellence and commercial projects such as hotel, apartments, mall and multiplex have also been proposed at the site, former EDC chairman Sidharth Kuncalienkar had said. The rest of the area would be used for parking, electricity generation and solid waste management, he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tender-for-convention-centre-at-dona-paula-likely-in-dec/articleshow/79271344.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Flat graph of tests led to intervention’||NEW DELHI: An important reason why the Centre intervened urgently in Delhi's Covid situation was the plateauing of testing in the capital at a time when cases of infection were rising rapidly. The flat graph of tests conducted resulted in positive cases going undetected and further spreading the infection in society, the health ministry said highlighting the recent decision to immediately ramp up tests, with a balanced proportion of RT-PCR and RAT, to ensure timely identification and contact-tracing. It also said people should readily test themselves if they develop any symptoms as testing facilities are now much more accessible. The average daily tests in the capital remained between 50,000 to 60,000 from mid-September to mid-November, while daily new cases have been steadily increasing since mid-October after it witnessed a slight decline between September 12 to October 10. “We cannot take things for granted. The situation in Delhi was turning dangerous. So we took a slew of decisions, including ramping up oxygen and ICU beds, doubling testing to 1-1.2 lakh per day,” NITI Aayog member- health Dr VK Paul said. “ICMR and government labs will do 10,000 more tests a day. We will also put in place 10 mobile testing laboratories, of which five will start operating in the next few days. The kind of numbers that have been projected for Delhi are unsustainable. We cannot let that happen,” he added. TOI reported on Tuesday that NITI Aayog estimates show the situation worsening in Delhi in coming weeks with the rate of infection rising to 500 cases per million population from around 361 currently. In view of a possible surge, the Centre has suggested urgently increasing bed capacity in Delhi, particularly ICU beds to around 6,431, to handle the rise to 500 cases per million. Currently, Delhi has 3,491 ICU beds of which 88% are occupied. Apart from plans to raise the number of ICU beds at Delhi hospitals to over 6,000, Paul said the capacity to monitor patients in home isolation has also been increased to 40,000. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said testing should now be imperative for every person who develops Covid-like symptoms. “It is now a part of Covid-appropriate behaviour to get yourself tested whenever you have symptoms. We are doubling capacity, there is test on demand, there is no reason not to test,” he added. “The doubling of testing will happen in such a way that the balance of RT-PCR and antigen tests is right and testing does not become lopsided in favour of rapid antigen tests,” he said. Delhi government has also been advised to conduct a house-to-house survey beyond containment zones. Officials also said over a quarter of the daily Covid deaths in Delhi are happening within the first 72 hours of admission. However, the situation has improved since June-July, when around 60% of deaths in the capital were taking place within the first three days of hospital admission, Paul said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/flat-graph-of-tests-led-to-intervention/articleshow/79271378.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 18, 2020||Goa||No free power, but Goans have welfare schemes: Cabral||Panaji: Reacting to the announcement by Delhi AAP MLA Raghav Chadha that his party will provide free power to 73% of consumers if it forms the government in Goa, power minister Nilesh Cabral on Tuesday sought to brush aside the promise, questioning whether they will discontinue social welfare schemes run by the state government to compensate for the free power. The power minister said that there are around 1.7 lakh consumers who consume 100 units power. “These 1.7 lakh consumers are people who have second homes in the state,” he said. Cabral said these consumers arrive once in a year in the state for three months and hence consume around 100 units of electricity. “Why should I give free power to these people? Even if we don’t provide free electricity to the Goan population, we compensate them with other schemes,” the power minister said. “Delhi people have more second homes in Goa, and they must have forced him to provide free power to them. That is the reason he must be making such announcements,” he said. Cabral said that the state government provides the Griha Aadhar scheme to women. “Why don’t they start a similar scheme in Delhi? Cabral said. He also said that like Delhi, the Goa government gives 50% concession in buses for senior citizens. The power minister termed Delhi’s power tariff as high. “They take money from some place else to provide power, but Goa does not indulge in such activities,” he said. Reacting to Chadha’s challenge to a debate on power sector in Goa and Delhi, Cabral said, “He did not contact me, and whatever they say, they will never do it. If the people call me, I will go. He has come from Delhi. He cannot dictate me time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-free-power-but-goans-have-welfare-schemes-cabral/articleshow/79271315.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Nagpur||City’s solid waste generation up 22% pre-Diwali||Nagpur: Household cleaning work before Diwali has led to a 22% increase in solid waste generated in the city daily in November. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has collected almost 200 metric tonne of extra solid waste from households for the past one week, confirmed deputy municipal commissioner (solid waste management) Dr Pradip Dasarwar. Dr Dasarwar told TOI that usually the daily solid waste collection is around 900 metric tonne, but it has increased up to 1,100 metric tonne per day pre-Diwali. However, there is no increase in wet waste generation. SWM department ensured the pickup trucks of both the door-to-door garbage lifting companies made more trips than usual to transport waste from across the 10 zones of the city to the Bhandewadi dumping yard. Last year too the city had witnessed similar rise in garbage generation. Similarly, the garbage generation from bursting of firecrackers too increased by almost 20 metric tonne, he said. Even after this, around 10 to 15% waste still remains to be removed from the streets across the 10 zones. To this, Dr Dasarwar said many people, especially shopkeepers throw garbage on the road every night. “A couple of days ago, I caught a resident dumping garbage on one of the tributaries of Nag river near Maharajbagh Club on VIP road,” he said and claimed that the NMC had recovered Rs2,000 fine from him for the civic nuisance. Citing an example, he said from November 1 to 16 the NMC’s Nuisance Detection Squad penalized around 360 residents for throwing garbage and dumping construction material on roads and recovered Rs5.86 lakh fine from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/citys-solid-waste-generation-up-22-pre-diwali/articleshow/79270066.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 18, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: SSLC students in Dharwad get tabs preloaded with school lessons||HUBBALLI: The suspension of conventional classes owing to the pandemic has detracted considerably from the learning experience of students, and those studying SSLC are among those most affected by the prolonged closure of schools. Participating in online classes is often made difficult owing to poor network connectivity.  However, the department of public instruction in Dharwad has made all efforts to ensure that the students are absorbing the concepts thoroughly so as to ensure that they are not only well prepared to tackle the key examination but also to hold them in good stead when they enter pre-university. Deputy director of public instruction, Dharwad Mohankumar Hanchate said that as many as 28,000 SSLC students, of whom 6,000 were from state-run institutions, were attending online classes in the district. “This is an extraordinary time, and we are ensuring all students grow familiar with the use of technology. Students are attending online classes daily, and teachers are making efforts to reach those who do not have smartphones. To this end, they have made arrangements so that students can attend online classes using their neighbours’ phones,” Hanchate told TOI. In addition to live classes, students are also receiving recorded videos explaining key concepts, which they could learn as and when they wished to. “Students in Kalaghatagi and Dharwad taluks were facing trouble with connectivity, and we decided to distribute tablets with the whole of the academic year’s syllabus loaded into them,” said Hanchate, adding that many students called on teachers at schools to clarify any doubts they might have. Hubballi rural block education officer (BEO) SM Hudedmani said that, students were sent links to recorded videos, and in case they missed online classes, they could watch them on YouTube. Kalaghatagi BEO Umadevi B Basapur said that, given the taluk’s undulating topography, students facing trouble with internet connectivity was to be expected. “So, we distributed tablets containing videos of lessons of all subjects,” Umadevi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/sslc-students-in-dharwad-get-tabs-preloaded-with-school-lessons/articleshow/79269715.cms||Kishan Singh Bhorde
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Your thallu vandi dosai now a click away||CHENNAI: Craving for some street food after months in lockdown? Things may be looking up as treats from the local ‘thallu vandi’ or push cart shop will soon be just a click away, thanks to a new initiative by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). Introduced as part of Prime Minister Street Vendor’s Atma Nibhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme, the civic body — in association with Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), National Urban Livelihood Mission, and food delivery app Swiggy — will train 500 street vendors on food safety and hygiene, following which they will be issued certification by FSSAI. The vendors would then participate in an onboarding process with Swiggy, during which they would be trained on the technical aspects of the job. On a pilot basis, 50 trained vendors would be on board by November 25. “This is part of our Covid-19 relief work with street vendors. Introducing them to the online platforms would enable them to take their business to the next level,” said Meghanath Reddy, corporation deputy commissioner (revenue and finance), who held a meeting with the stakeholders and select vendors on November 12 to discuss the project. The food safety training and certification (FoSTAC) programme has been taking place online for more than a week. “We have trained more than 350 food vendors. Their details would be provided to the Corporation to carry the process forward,” says Dr A. Ramakrishnan, designated officer, TN food safety department, Chennai district. According to GCC data, there are over 24,000 registered street vendors in the city. Last month, 300 of them were provided FSSAI certification and more than 2,600 have received certification. Most of the vendors are from Marina, Besant Nagar, T.Nagar, and Egmore. For Malathy and Murthy, who have been selling idli, dosa and poori on their push-cart in T.Nagar for 25 years, this project is a welcome sign after the lockdown lull. “I am looking forward to enhancing the quality and variety of food,” says Malathy. Selvakumar M, a vendor from T Nagar who has been trained and certified by the programme, says he could expect fresh customers now. “Looking at us follow safety norms, we might get more in-person customers, besides the online orders.” The PM SVANidhi scheme also provides an opportunity for vendors to to avail of a loan amount of Rs. 10,000. The GCC has also been coordinating with the bank to help vendors receive the loan. According to Chennai-based food blogger, Pravin A, the project could encourage more people to buy food from these small outlets without hesitation during the pandemic. “This initiative would make my experience safer without any compromise with taste or cost,” says the admin of an Instagram food blog with over 50,000 followers. “Following the lockdown, many of us are open to tasting good food. If we can find our favourite food on an app, why wouldn’t we go for it,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/your-favourite-thallu-vandi-dosai-now-a-click-away/articleshow/79270068.cms||Harshitha Kumayaa
November 18, 2020||Mangaluru||Mangaluru: Centre to treat substance abuse victims launched||MANGALURU: A city based-couple, one of whom was a victim of drug abuse, launched Born Again Recovery Centre–BARC, to help people abstain from alcohol and drugs. BARC, situated in Paldane, is an alcohol and drugs-free living environment for individuals attempting to abstain from alcohol and drugs. Guru and Beena Saldanha, who founded BARC, addressed the press here on Tuesday, and said that the centre is completely different from those existing currently in the city. “The facility which can house about 15 people aged above 18, at a time, provides supervised drugs and alcohol-free structured housing as well as a support system for people who are recovering from their addictions. The inmates are not confined to inside a room, but are allowed to move about freely inside the premises, with the best treatment facilities,” he explained. “Certified doctors are on board, who provide necessary treatment to help inmates to regain their health. The centre also provides individual and family counselling. When a person is a victim of addictions, his family also suffers along with him. We will help them to rediscover their skills and learn how to function again in society,” they said. The facility also boasts of a 12-step programme. Guru, who was once a victim of substance abuse, added that every facility has a unique treatment process that they use. “We are providing an abstinence-based integrated recovery programme, which is 12-step programme oriented with yoga and meditation, backed by expert medical and recovery oriented inputs,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/centre-to-treat-substance-abuse-victims-launched/articleshow/79268867.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||Congress candidate all smiles as her Facebook photos go viral||KOTTYAM: Adv Vibitha Babu has no complaints about her photographs and elections posters going viral on various social media platforms. Alongwith the posters of the lawyer who is contesting from Mallappally division in Pathanamthitta grama panchayat, several photographs she had posted on her Facebook page were lifted by people and posted on other social media platforms. Since the 34-year-old appeared in trendy and fashionable dresses in most of the photographs, her candidature too has become a talking point. “I have no complaints about my photographs going viral. There was nothing negative about those photos. They were taken either during family trips or alongwith friends,” she said. However, she has now changed the privacy settings of her Facebook account so that no strangers can see or lift her photographs. Babu has been a criminal lawyer in Thiruvalla court since the last 11 years. She is now contesting as a Congress candidate. Her senior M Philip Koshy has been elected to the district panchayat twice as a LDF candidate. “Working with people of different political views never affect my work. The only advice given by my senior is that neither my profession nor family life must suffer by my contesting the elections,” she said. “I am representing the younger generation. Elderly people have many negative thoughts. What we need now is result-oriented work and I can guarantee that,” she said. There are around 53 wards in her division. “I will ensure that I will meet all the voters in my division at least once. Nobody should have any complaints that I did not meet them,” she said. Vibitha completed her law fgraduation from Law Academy, Thiruvananthapuram. She was never into active politics as a student. Currently, she is the joint secretary of Thiruvalla bar association. Her husband Binu G Nair runs a business while the couple has a five-year-old boy, Vedh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cong-candidate-all-smiles-as-her-fb-photos-go-viral/articleshow/79268903.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
November 18, 2020||Goa||Wildlife body urged to assess impact of Mollem projects||PANAJI: At least 160 people, including researchers and academics, have written to the director of the Wildlife Institute of India seeking that the cumulative environmental impact of all three linear projects that are planned through Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary and Mollem National Park be assessed. The letter states that a collective of 31 scientists, with extensive expertise in various relevant fields, have reviewed the existing environment impact assessment (EIA) reports for all three projects, and have submitted a critique of the same to a peer reviewed journal manuscript number [JoTT] #6650. The signatories pointed out that some of the prescribed impact mitigation measures “lack enough detail to be taken up and implemented correctly and effectively” and that there is the need for cumulative impact study not only within the three projects in Mollem and the sanctuary, but across the adjacent forests of Goa and Karnataka — a matter about which they have written to the Regional Empowered Committee (REC), southern zone, Bengaluru. “These three projects will have a range of potential effects on the local ecology (some of which are pointed out by your EIA reports). They also have considerable spatial overlap and are essentially connected to each other in function, and mitigation measures cannot be effectively suggested without first studying cumulative impacts,” the letter states. A few months ago, a group of 156 scientists, academics, conservationists, artists, allied professionals and concerned citizens had placed on record their grave concerns with respect to the diversion of forest land for the three projects. They had also written a follow-up letter on September 20 to the regional office of the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change in Bengaluru.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wildlife-body-urged-to-assess-impact-of-mollem-projects/articleshow/79271380.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Bhupender Yadav to explore Jana Sena pact||HYDERABAD: After his appointment as BJP election in-charge for GHMC polls, party national secretary Bhupender Yadav will be visiting Hyderabad on Wednesday. He will be here for two days, sources said. He will discuss a possible alliance with Jana Sena Party. Former city mayor Banda Karthika Reddy is set to join the BJP in Yadav’s presence. Sources said newly-appointed state affairs in-charge Tarun Chug will visit later this week. The first list of 45 candidates will be released on Wednesday. A BJP survey predicted at least 75 wards for the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/yadav-to-explore-jana-sena-pact/articleshow/79271368.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 18, 2020||Goa||Raids by narcotics cell in Salcete yields drugs worth Rs 13 lakh||PANAJI: Goa Police on Tuesday conducted three different narcotics raids in Salcete taluka and arrested three persons while seizing drugs worth a total of Rs13 lakh. In a major breakthrough officials from the Anti Narcotic Cell (ANC) who had been working on specific information for a few months, conducted mid-night operations over three consecutive raids at Margao, arresting three drug dealers with marijuana. Police said that they had information of the three persons who were known to each other and were involved in the narcotics trade. Police said that the three were involved in supplying drugs to locals as well as tourists. In the first of the three drug busts in Salcete, police arrested Muhafiz Pathan, 22 a resident of Margao with 1.3kg drugs worth Rs1.3 lakh. In the second such raid police arrested Millen Pilai, 22 a resident of Majorda and originally from Odisha, with 10.3kg drugs worth over Rs10 lakh.  In the last and third raid, ANC arrested Vinayak Zuarkar, 22 a resident of Comba, Margao with 2kg drugs worth Rs2 lakh. Police also said that they are still trying to get information on the source of drugs being brought to Goa. The team said that they are aware of more drug dealers operating in Salcete and are now in the process of gathering information before more raids are conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/raids-by-narcotics-cell-in-salcete-yields-drugs-worth-rs-13l/articleshow/79271357.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||DK Thakur is new Lucknow police commissioner||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh government late on Tuesday transferred Lucknow police commissioner Sujeet Pandey and appointed ATS chief DK Thakur as new police commissioner. Senior police officials did not cite any specific reason behind the transfer and termed it as an administrative decision of the government. Pandey has been made ADG, Arms Training Centre, Sitapur. GK Goswami who had returned to the home cadre after a successful stint in the Central Bureau of Investigation has been made the new chief of the Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) in the state. Pandey, who had launched the commissionerate on January 15, had a successful stint and managed the city during Covid-19 pandemic outbreak while also taking action on criminals and confiscating properties of aides of jailed dons Mukhtar Ansari and Atiq Ahmad. DK Thakur is known to be a tough officer and served as SSP/DIG in Lucknow during the Mayawati regime. Thakur also had a stint in the Central Bureau of Investigation. Thakur took the charge as Lucknow commissioner in the wee hours of Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dk-thakur-is-new-lucknow-police-commissioner/articleshow/79272005.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||AAP vows zero power bills to 73% of Goa if elected||PANAJI: Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday promised zero power bills to 73% of Goa’s consumers if it forms the government in the state. Delhi MLA Raghav Chadha, who arrived in Goa for a public debate with state power minister Nilesh Cabral, said the decision to provide free power to those who consume under 200 units will be taken “within 48 hours of AAP forming the government”. “Another 20% of Goans, who consume between 200 and 400 units of power, will get their bills reduced by 50%,” he said, adding that 93% of people in Goa would benefit. “What is lacking in BJP is the political will to do so,” Chadha said. “Electricity prices are touching the roof and the skies. They were abnormally high, and there are power cuts of 8-12 hours a day. There is (now) uninterrupted power supply in Delhi. Inverters and generators have been consigned to history because we get 24x7 power supply in Delhi.” Displaying the stark contrast between electricity bills issued to consumers in Delhi and Goa, he said Delhi residents who consumed 177, 174, 204 and 211 units of power received bills of nil, nil, Rs 13.4 and Rs 5 respectively. “On the other hand, we have electricity bills issued by the Goa government. You have a bill where a consumer consumed 146 units and the bill was Rs 377, another consumer who consumed 141 units was billed Rs 292,” he told reporters, producing the bills. “In the BJP model, you are fleeced, robbed and on top of it you don’t get proper supply of electricity,” he said. Comparing Delhi’s annual budget of Rs 60,000 crore for a population of 2 crore to Goa’s budget of Rs 21,000 crore for a population of 15 lakh, he questioned the Goa government’s inability to give its people what the Delhi government is offering. On power minister Nilesh Cabral not agreeing to a debate with him as an MLA, and stating that he’d debate with the power minister of Delhi, Chadha said Cabral has been asked by the BJP high command not to indulge in any public debate. Chadha said AAP would be BJP’s sole opposition for the 2022 state assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aap-vows-zero-power-bills-to-73-of-goa-if-elected/articleshow/79271388.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Rise in preemies seeking neonatal care in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Call it a shortage of healthcare staff due to the pandemic or lack of facilities in semi-urban areas, but Bengaluru’s hospitals have noticed a sharp rise in the number of preterm babies born elsewhere seeking tertiary care and neonatal ICU facilities. Motherhood hospitals alone had close to 400 preemies referrals between April to October this year compared to 170 during the same period last year. Doctors say they get calls from across the state and even neighbouring states, especially seeking NICU (neonatal ICU) beds and NICU-fitted ambulances. Since hospitals in the districts were converted into Covid-only facilities, a majority of the workforce was diverted to tackle the pandemic, forcing parents to seek additional care for preemies in Bengaluru, said Dr Prathap Chandra, lead consultant neonatologist & paediatrician, Motherhood Hospital, Indiranagar. Premature babies are those born between week 26 and 37 of pregnancy and often suffer low weight, breathing difficulties and intraventricular haemorrhage among other health issues. “We have four NICU ambulances and we go any distance to pick up ill babies. Each ambulance has a neonatologist and a trained nurse,” says Dr Chandra. Of 400 preemies picked up from districts such as Hassan, Chitradurga, Madanapalle, Ananthapur (both Andhra Pradesh), Tumakuru, Hindupur and Davanagere, 40% were female. Dr Chandra said in most cases, the babies travelled free of cost with their fathers. “When babies are referred to us, their mothers are still recovering from delivering and are unfit to travel, so babies travel alone with our staff or with their fathers,” Dr Chandra said. “Mothers travel later. During the lockdown, we issued special letters and communicated with various district authorities to let mothers travel. We did not have a single fatality which is a matter of immense satisfaction.” Of the preemies brought to Motherhood, 43 weighed less than 1kg at birth (extreme low birth weight). Twins from Ananthapur, born in the 28th week, were among the referrals. While the girl weighed a mere 760 grams, the boy weighed 860 grams. There were 105 babies weighing between 1kg-1.5kg (very low birth weight) 105. But for immediate neonatal care, the babies could have died, doctors say. Dr KS Sanjay, director, Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health (IGICH), said they saw a 5-10% increase in premature babies seeking neonatal care. “We have 25 ventilators in the total 65-bed neonatal ICU, and all beds are occupied all the time. Though we get newborn babies referred from across the state and from Andhra Pradesh, many private hospitals in Bengaluru refer their cases to us,” said Dr Sanjay. At government-run IGICH, parents or family members are advised to visit the hospital and register before bringing the baby to ensure no unnecessary waiting. Dr Karthik Nagesh, chairman & HOD, Neonatal ICUs & Manipal Advanced Children's Centre, says the number of newborns referred from outside Bengaluru, rose by 30% during the lockdown. “We had referrals from Bengaluru’s maternity homes too as they were all converted to Covid hospitals,” he said. “Many pregnant women were referred when premature delivery was expected.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rise-in-preterm-babies-seeking-neonatal-care-in-bluru-since-april/articleshow/79269503.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Gang that sold used medical waste busted||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police is looking for a Maharashtra-based businessman who is allegedly the mastermind of a racket involved in reusing medical waste like masks and surgical gloves. The racket was busted in August but it was kept under the wraps by the police. Now, it has come to fore that in the last three months, police have arrested seven people and recovered around 320 quintals of surgical masks and gloves from different godowns storing these biomedical waste in Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Delhi. Two of the accused involved in marketing of the gloves and masks are yet to be arrested. They have been identified as Manish Oberoi and Rahul Gupta. Sources revealed that their arrest was important as they were the ones who marketed the products and further sold them to others. “The businessman, Gupta, has been absconding from the time we started raiding the godowns in Maharashtra,” said a source. Meanwhile, Oberoi has applied for an anticipatory bail, which is scheduled for hearing on Thursday. Police said it took them months of investigations and raids in various parts of the country to unearth the nexus. As per an FIR, a raid was carried out in B-block of Madhu Vihar area. “During the raid, it was noticed that there were three rooms on the fourth floor where blood-stained surgical gloves were stored in plastic bags for the purpose of recycling. When the owners were questioned, they could not show any licence or a valid document,” the FIR stated. The police officers then sealed the premises and carried out their investigations. Later on, it came to fore that the accused men would ask ragpickers to give them the waste gloves and masks, which they then washed and sold in new packets. “Raids were then simultaneously carried out in different states and various godowns were sealed. Around 320 quintals of gloves and masks were seized. Further investigation is under way,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/gang-that-sold-used-medical-waste-busted/articleshow/79271398.cms||Sakshi Chand
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Two nabbed from filmy-style gang of thieves who came in SUVs||LUCKNOW: Taking a cue from the film ‘Oye Lucky Lucky Oye’, this gang of thieves arrested by Gomtinagar police committed acts of theft in dramatic and artistic ways. Just like in the film, the miscreants came in swanky SUVs, posing as electricians, mechanics, and sometimes, even as army officers and policemen, to dodge security personnel. However, their luck ran out when mastermind Somvir of Haryana and Alok Chaumal of Jaipur were nabbed by the team of Gomtinagar police in Vishwas Khand on Tuesday. Other members of the gang are still on the run. Police had begun working on the case after a theft was reported in a house in Eldeco Greens on October 30. Two SUVs and Rs 20,000 have also been recovered. Additional deputy commissioner of police, east, Amit Kumar said each member had a role to play. “Some are drivers, others are watchers, spotters and also adept in the art of breaking doors, grilles and leaping across walls. They never used a mobile phone, ” said Kumar. “They used to surf the internet and randomly select a city. They would spot a target and reach it in high-end SUVs. They would commit theft and flee,” he said. The police also said that only members trained in leaping walls and cutting doors and grilles were sent inside while others remained outside to keep a watch. Somvir revealed that his ‘right-hand’ man known as Satpal Singh (Haryana) is a retired army man who had also fought in the Kargil war in 1999. Thereafter, he had got injured and retired from work . Police also said that Satpal was named in over 100 burglaries across India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-nabbed-from-filmy-style-gang-of-thieves-who-came-in-suvs/articleshow/79272012.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Business||NSE Academy Ltd acquires edu-tech player TalentSprint||Hyderabad: NSE Academy Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the National Stock Exchange Limited, is acquiring majority stake in Hyderabad-based deep tech education player TalentSprint Private Ltd. However, neither NSE Academy nor TalentSprint divulged any financial details pertaining to the deal. NSE Academy said TalentSprint augments its objective to be a leader in the education segment with the aim of continuous learning right from K12, university to executive level corporate learning, not only in terms of finance skills but also in emerging technology areas such as Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Fintech and Blockchain in the capital market and BFSI domain through online and offline modes. “In recent times there has been high demand for skill acquisition and upgradation in these areas, which is also leading to employment avenues for the country’s young graduates and workforce. Moreover, these latest technologies have the biggest impact in the BFSI space and hence an expansion in these areas is a natural progression for NSE Academy,” it said. Commenting on the deal, NSE Academy CEO Abhilash Misra said the strategic partnership between NSE Academy and TalentSprint creates unique possibilities within the professional education ecosystem and will see them jointly bringing new deep tech skilling opportunities that will have a long term impact on the future of learning and work. Pointing out that NSE’s mission has been to support the growth of Indian capital markets and financial education has been the biggest enabler in this, NSE managing director & CEO Vikram Limaye said: “As the BFSI industry evolves into a more tech enabled industry, it is imperative that we strengthen our expertise in the education space by adding new and emerging technologies. TalentSprint’s vision and portfolio offerings complement our growth ambitions in this space.” TalentSprint co-founder & CEO Santanu Paul said the there are six million working professionals in India today in need of deep tech knowledge interventions, and another 10 million college students waiting to enter the workforce with adequate future-proof skills. “Between us, we have all the necessary synergies — capabilities, reach, resources, partnerships — to become a powerhouse in deep tech education and empower the workforce of tomorrow,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nse-academy-ltd-acquires-edu-tech-player-talentsprint/articleshow/79271421.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kochi||LDF fields youth, women in Palakkad||Palakkad: The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has fielded 50 youth and women candidates for the 52-member Palakkad municipality as only 2 sitting members are re-nominated to capture power. The youngest candidate is only 22 years old — N Daya, a chartered accountant student, contesting in Koppam ward no.18 of the municipality. Minister for welfare of scheduled caste & scheduled tribes A K Balan while releasing the LDF list said that CPM will contest 45 seats, CPI 4, Janata Dal (S), NCP and Congress (S) one each. UDF has not re-nominiated its three outgoing district council members but fielded all new faces for Palakkad district council, mainly youth and women. In the 30-member district council, Congress will contest 22 seats, IUML 5, Kerala Congress (Joseph) and Janata Dal one each.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ldf-fields-youth-women-in-palakkad/articleshow/79268936.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq in ICU, critical||LUCKNOW: Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Sadiq was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of Era’s Lucknow Medical College (ELMC) on Tuesday evening after his health deteriorated. The 81-year-old cleric was diagnosed with severe pneumonia and sepsis, which had left him unconscious and under critical care. His Covid-19 report had come negative. “He had stopped taking food around a month back which caused him extreme weakness. Two weeks back, a food pipe was put in him for feeding. Immuno-compromised with cancer and at his age having pneumonia is very troublesome, but our team is doing the best possible,” said ELMC principal Dr MMA Faridi. “He was experiencing difficulty in breathing. As his blood pressure and oxygen levels were also constantly falling he was shifted to the ICU. He is in a critical state and is unconscious,” said Maulana Sadiq’s son Kalbe Sibtain Noori. The cleric, who has always stressed on communal amity and education, had been diagnosed with intestinal cancer three years ago and was operated upon in Delhi. However, his second surgery could not take place as he was extremely weak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shia-cleric-kalbe-sadiq-in-icu-critical/articleshow/79272017.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Patient kin harass govt hosp doctor||Kolkata: Around 15 people from Vidyasagar Colony created ruckus and threatened a senior doctor at the emergency wing of Baghajatin Hospital with dire consequences after their patient was reportedly referred to another hospital by the EMO on Sunday afternoon. The doctors alleged that a woman patient was also assaulted. The complaint by the doctors was later turned into an FIR on Monday. The complaint was filed by Aniket Mukherjee, a general duty medical officer at the hospital against Surajit Ghosh and 15 other persons. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/patient-kin-harass-govt-hosp-doctor/articleshow/79271454.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow University invites all: Join centenary celebrations with just a click||LUCKNOW: If you wish to join the upcoming Lucknow University centenary celebrations but cannot visit the campus due to some reason, you may be a part of the events through virtual mode. To maintain Covid-19 safety norms and avoid crowding on the campus, the university has decided to livestream centenary events on its YouTube channels and other official social media platforms. The university will issue limited entry passes for on-campus celebrations which are scheduled to take off on November 25. “We have to maintain social distancing during the event, therefore, we will issue only a few passes. But everyone can join us online,” LU vice-chancellor Prof Alok Kumar Rai said. The seven-day celebrations will be a perfect rainbow of literary, sports and cultural events which will be presented by talented alumni and present students of the university. The celebrations will begin in style with the inauguration ceremony at historical Malviya hall followed by a salute to Awadh with a performance by folk singer and Padma Shri awardee Malini Awasthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lu-invites-all-join-centenary-celebrations-with-just-a-click/articleshow/79272039.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Amritsar||Punjab: At centenary event, SAD president hits out at Congress||AMRITSAR: SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Tuesday described the Congress party as a “sworn enemy of Sikhs”, cautioning the community against “mischievous elements” and suggesting to SGPC to initiate a movement to fight apostasy. Addressing a gathering on the first centenary of the SGPC at Gurdwara Manji Sahib Diwan Hall, he said mischievous elements were attempting to undermine “the unique, separate and sovereign religious identity of Sikhs”. “Congress party is the worst enemy of Sikhs. Since the founding of Khalsa more than 320 years ago, Sikhs have faced three enemies — the Mughals, the British and the Congress. Of these, only Ahmad Shah Abdali and Indira Gandhi were responsible for the demolition of Akal Takht. Now, some people want to gain control of our shrines within the same Congress sponsorship,” said Sukhbir. He said the community took pride in its unique separate religious identity. “The Khalsa never interferes in the religious affairs of others, but it does not tolerate interference in its own religious affairs too,” he said. He said the government needed to take concrete and credible steps to stop insecurity and alienation in the minds of minorities. He asked the SGPC to initiate a five-year drive to fight challenges like apostasy, religious conversions and drug menace among Sikh masses. “There is a dire need for a fresh movement to fight apostasy among Sikh youth,” he said. He described the SGPC as a “unique achievement and a mini-religious parliament of Sikhs”. “Sikhism is the only religion in the world which runs its religious affairs democratically. The SGPC is based on the supremacy of the sangat, a unique principle handed down to us by our gurus,” he said, adding that it was a matter of pride for the SAD that throughout the 100 years of the SGPC, the community had always placed their trust in the representatives of the party. Politically speaking, Sukhbir said, his main goal would be to develop Punjab as a role model of “modern progress”. “When we will form a government, our maximum stress would be on health and education,” he said. He said if elected to power, the SAD would build world-class infrastructure, with emphasis on connectivity and smart energy. The others who addressed the function included Harnam Singh Khalsa, Jathedar Tota Singh, Patna Sahib management committee head Avtar Singh Hit, and DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/at-centenary-event-sad-president-hits-out-at-cong/articleshow/79271405.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Back to college: Only few students show up in Bengaluru, but enthusiasm runs high||BENGALURU: College campuses sprang back to life on Tuesday, with classes resuming for final year students after an eight-month pandemic-induced hiatus. Though attendance at most colleges was thin, students’ enthusiasm kept the mood buoyant. On Day 1, college authorities strictly enforced social distancing norms and students found the situation comforting. Vijaya Degree College in Basavanagudi, Bengaluru, had strict no-crowding arrangements with authorities ensuring no student lingered around. Students’ Covid-negative certificates were checked at the gates and only two students were permitted on a bench in classrooms. Tahiya Irfan, a final-year BSc student of Vijaya Degree College, said the situation looks manageable with safety measures in place. “From asking us to download the Arogya Setu app to ensuring social distancing norms are followed, it has been managed well,” she said. Tahiya’s classmate, MH Akshat, who moved back to Bengaluru from Hyderabad to attend classes, said it was “great” to be back. Tahiya and Akshat were the only students from their class to show up. “We still need to get used to this system where lecturers conduct regular and online classes simultaneously. They have to focus on both and it is difficult for them,” Akshat said. Ramya Y, a student of Seshadripuram Academy of Business Studies in Kengeri, told TOI that all her classmates were excited to attend classes. “We prefer regular classes and it is so great to be back. However, we were extra cautious, always had our masks on and maintained social distance. There was also a surprise random Covid test in college,” she said, adding that 28 of 57 students in her class attended on the first day. Prof DP Ravindra, senior faculty of commerce department, Vijaya Degree College, said there was no difference in conducting both regular and online classes together. “The only thing is as teachers we are used to seeing students while speaking and today, I kept addressing my students in the classroom and forgot a mobile was recording proceedings. On realising, I quickly looked towards them, apologised and promised to pay them equal attention,” the professor said. Prof HS Balakrishna, principal, Vijaya Degree College, said 42 students attended classes on Tuesday. He said around 400 of the 850 final year students submitted consent letters. “Parents are also cautious and are waiting to see how things go. Hopefully, the numbers will pick up over the week. We will continue with regular classes even if one student turns up,” Balakrishna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/colleges-reopen-campuses-may-not-be-bustling-but-enthusiasm-high/articleshow/79269587.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 18, 2020||Kozhikode||Wild boars hog voter mindspace||KOZHIKODE: Candidates visiting houses seeking votes in Koodaranji panchayat and many other local bodies in the hilly areas of Kozhikode district are confronted with images of wild boars instead of welcoming smiles by voters. In a bid to bring the wild boar menace on centre stage of panchayat elections, many farmers have put up flex boards with images of wild boars in front of their houses stating that candidates can seek votes in their houses only if they come up with a solution to tackle the menace caused by crop-raiding wild boars. “Farmers here are very much agitated over having their agriculture-based livelihoods being destroyed by wild boars. We have taken resort to this campaign to bring this vital livelihood issue to the attention of all political parties and to secure promise from them that they would work towards addressing the issue if they are elected,” Augustine Joseph, a farmer at Koombara who put up a banner in front of his house. The campaign started on some social media collectives of farmers and now wild boar flex boards have sprung up in other panchayaths, including Thiruvambadi and Kodenchery panchayats. According to farmers, considering the widespread damage caused to crops by wild boars and their increase in population, the government needs to declare wild boar as a vermin which would enable farmers to kill the animals. “Though a person holding fire arms licence was recently granted permission by the forest department to kill wild boars, not a single animal has been shot dead yet in the panchayat,” Joseph added. He said that candidates have realized the pressing nature of the issue and many have included it in their election notices. James Pulimootil, another farmer hailing from Koodaranji who has also put up a wild boar flex in front his house, said that farmers have done it out of desperation over lack of response from the elected institutions in addressing the issue. “Currently farmers are going through very difficult times and all our efforts to tide over the crisis are going in vain due to the wild boars which are destroying whatever we plant in our farms. We want the elected local panchayat boards, which come into power after the elections, to take concrete steps and also to pass resolutions so that the state government would act on the issue,” he added. Though the state government had recently written to the central government to declare wild boars as vermin it is learnt that the Centre has sought more details from the state on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/wild-boars-hog-voter-mindspace/articleshow/79268984.cms||K R Rajeev
November 18, 2020||Amritsar||Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa’s faction defers meet in Moga||BATHINDA: SAD (Democratic) has deferred its proposed conference on December 13 in Moga, coinciding with 100 years of the formation of the Akali Dal, due to ongoing farm protest and Covid-19 spread. The Akali Dal was formed on December 14, 1920, a month after the formation of the SGPC. SAD (Democratic) president Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa said on Tuesday that the decision had been taken as the Centre had not come up with any solution regarding the farmers’ agitation and the fear of Covid spread. The next date will be finalised as per the circumstances, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/dhindsas-faction-defers-meet/articleshow/79271430.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Delhi||‘Outsiders’, aggressive testing pushing up numbers: Delhi minister||NEW DELHI: On a day when 99 deaths were recorded for the second consecutive day and 6,396 new cases were reported, health minister Satyendar Jain on Tuesday said that aggressive testing of people, 25-30% of whom were not residents of the capital, was pushing up the numbers. “There are many patients who are from outside, but give the address of their relatives in Delhi to get tested here. We can’t say no to anyone for testing or treating them,” said Jain, adding that most patients from other states were arriving here in a serious condition. Till Tuesday, the number of new Covid-19 cases recorded in November stood at 1,08,892. This was the highest number of fresh cases in a month, surpassing the previous high of 1,06,991 recorded in October. However, since October, the number of tests being carried out daily has also increased. In all, 8,47,727 tests have been carried out in November till date, with an overall positivity rate of 12.8%. Jain said that Delhi was carrying out 50,000-60,000 tests daily, the highest in the country. Around 29% of the capital’s population had already been tested. He added that the positivity rate was going down, which was more important than the number of positive cases. “A week ago, the positivity rate was more than 15% and it seemed it would reach 20%. In June, the positivity rate was between 37% and 40%. Last week, it came below 13% and we can definitely say it is not increasing. We are going through a third wave, but the peak has gone now. The wave, however, is not over,” said the minister. This month, 1,301 people have already succumbed to Covid-19, which is the highest figure for any month since 2,269 deaths were recorded in June, which saw the capital’s first wave of Covid-19. Since then, July witnessed 1,221 deaths, which dipped to 481 in August, rose to 917 in September and 1,150 in October. “The overall death rate is 1.58%, which is close to the national average of 1.48%. At one point of time, Delhi’s death rate was 3.5-4%. In the last 10 days, the ratio was around 1%. However, even one death is not right. The number of patients has increased. While there are 9,000 patients in hospitals, the death rate is around 1%,” said Jain. The minister added, “There are 16,500 beds reserved for Covid-19 patients. Even now, around 8,000 beds are vacant. Occupancy in private hospitals has gone up because many people coming from outside go there. The upper and upper-middle-class residents of Delhi, who have insurance, also prefer to go to private hospitals.” Delhi government had requested Union home minister Amit Shah for additional beds in a meeting on Sunday and the central government agreed to provide 750-1,000 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/outsiders-aggressive-testing-pushing-up-numbers-jain/articleshow/79271460.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||FIR against mob in Bypass accident||Kolkata: Two days after two brothers — both businessmen — were assaulted by residents of Kadapara and Duttabad for running over a 28-year-old woman at Kadapara, cops at the Phoolbagan police stations registered an FIR against the mob that had attacked the duo. The case was filed, based on a complaint lodged by the two brothers. Cops are using CCTV footage to identify the accused from the crowd. The complainant, Arjun Aditya, faces charges under culpable homicide not amounting to murder for jumping signal and hitting the victim, Gouri Dey, on Sunday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fir-against-mob-in-bypass-accident/articleshow/79271495.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 18, 2020||Amritsar||Amritsar: Panthic body resolves to do ‘much better’, pushes for social reforms||AMRITSAR: The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) celebrated 100th year of its foundation with Khalsa traditions at Gurdwara Sri Manji Sahib Diwan Hall on Tuesday after performing bhog of Akhand Path at the Akal Takht. The function was attended by several prominent Sikh intellectuals, religious and political leaders who suggested urged the body to plan for the overall development of Sikh faith and propagation of Sikhism, while cautioning against anti-panthic forces. The gathering also passed various resolutions amid religious slogans. Speaking on the occasion, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal detailed the history of the committee, including various ‘morchas’ and movements, resulting in the formation of Sikhs’ own gurdwara management body, passing of the Sikh Gurdwara Act, and establishing of the code of conduct. “The SGPC not only manages the historical gurdwaras but also pioneers in providing humanitarian aid,” he said. Divulging future plans, he said the SGPC would further intensify ‘dharam parchar lehar’ using modern means of communications. He also announced formation of a global advisory committee for resolving the issues faced by Sikh diaspora. Expressing concern over the environmental degradation, Longowal said the SGPC would lay thrust on distributing ‘boota parshad’ from its gurdwaras. On the occasion, the SGPC resolved to deliver its panthic duties in a much better way. It also demanded exemplary punishments in the sacrilege cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/panthic-body-resolves-to-do-much-better-pushes-for-social-reforms/articleshow/79271438.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ranchi||Can’t provide water for Chhath at private spaces, says Ranchi mayor||RANCHI: Ranchi city mayor Asha Lakra on Tuesday said the municipal corporation will not be able to provide water to lakhs of residents for Chhath Puja rituals and demanded that the state government revokes its ban on use both artificial and natural waterbodies for the rituals. The government’s Chhath Puja guidelines, issued late on Sunday night, banned congregation of people around the waterbodies citing the Covid-19 pandemic. However, widespread protests erupted across the state with both political and social outfits holding demonstrations and demanding rollback of the guidelines. Even lawmakers and members of the ruling parties —JMM and Congress — have sought relaxation in the guidelines, putting the government in a tight spot. Despite the ban, Lakra on Tuesday inspected different waterbodies across the city as part of the civic body’s preparations for the puja. Talking to TOI, the mayor said, “We are going ahead with our preparations hoping that revised guidelines will be issued soon. Chhath holds immense religious significance for lakhs of people and banning the use of rivers and ponds for the rituals is hurting their religious sentiments. We are getting ready to ensure that the ghats do not witness last-minute chaos.” Stressing on lack of resources and manpower crunch to provide water for in-house rituals, Lakra said taking a dip in a waterbody before offering prayers to the Sun God is an important element and the government should revoke the ban. “Currently, residents in many localities are barely managing household chores with water provided by the Ranchi Municipal Corporation In this situation, holding Chhath rituals inside their homes would be next to impossible," she added. On the condition of the waterbodies in the city, Lakra said all ghats are ready with a few of them requiring finishing touches. “After the Durga Puja, we cleaned the waterbodies and majority of them are in a good shape. Some last-minute works like putting up signage for dangerous water levels are needed. They will be completed in the next couple of days,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cant-provide-water-for-chhath-at-pvt-spaces-says-ranchi-mayor/articleshow/79269712.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 18, 2020||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Develop clean fuel; Harsh Vardhan to CIMFR scientists||SINDRI: Union minister for science and technology Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday called upon scientists of the Central Institute of Mining and Fuel Research (CIMFR) to work towards developing clean energy and improving the lives of those working in underground mines. Addressing the platinum jubilee of CIMFR via video-conferencing as chief guest, Vardhan said science has the potential to solve all problems of mankind. "The impact factor of research should be judged on benefits it has provided to the common people and not based on the number of times it gets referred to theoretically," he said. He further said, "While the central government is trying to make a pragmatic and industry-friendly mining policy, the scientist at CIMFR should work to solve the energy problems being faced by the nation." Vardhan also acknowledged the contribution of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), the parent body of CIMFR. The minister said, "The contributions made by CSIR scientists to attend self-reliance are commendable and their efforts in the field of climate change are recognised the world over." He added, "The scientists at CIMFR, the first CSIR lab established in 1946, should always remember the vision behind its set up. The CIMFR building was inaugurated by India's first president Rajendra Prasad in presence of then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Nobel laureate Sir C V Raman, C H Bhabha, Meghnad Saha and S S Bhatnagar. They had prepared a roadmap for the development of this premier research institute into a centre of excellence in the field of fuel technology.” Later, Vardhan inaugurated the pilot plant for synthesis of coal to methanol and pressurized fluidized bed gasification plant. He also unveiled the 75th year logo of the institute. CIMFR director P K Singh welcomed the guests and said, “This institute is a knowledge partner of more than 200 industries and provided them with the technological solution in fields including efficient use of coal for power generation. The institute earned Rs 1,011 crore last year through its resources and is a fully self-reliant financially.” CSIR director general Shekhar C Mande praised the efforts of CIMFR scientists and Niti Ayog member V K Saraswat presented a paper on “ Tranfer of Technology for sustainability” on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/develop-clean-fuel-vardhan-to-cimfr-scientists/articleshow/79269779.cms||Anil Ashutosh
November 18, 2020||Jamshedpur||Ranchi: Maulana held for Al-Qaeda link gets bail||RANCHI: More than a year after being jailed under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the Jharkhand high court has granted bail to a Muslim cleric saying there is no evidence that he has links with Al Qaeda. Maulana Kalimuddin Muzahiri was arrested in September 2019 for his alleged involvement with the terror outfit. He was accused of meeting two alleged co-conspirators at his house in Sakchi Madarsa in Ranchi and receiving money from persons in Gujarat for carrying out ‘anti-national work as a jihadi’, In 2019, then additional director general of police M L Meena had said, “Kalimuddin is a most wanted terrorist of Al Qaeda. He has been arrested from Tatanagar railway station. He was preparing and motivating the youths for jihad in the Indian sub-continent.” While arguing the case on Muzahiri’s behalf, his counsel A K Das said his client was a religious teacher and has never been involved in any criminal case. The case has been registered by the local police and not the National Investigating Agency, which is the authorised body to investigate terrorist activities, he said. While granting bail to him through video conferencing on November 3, the court of Justice K P Deo said Muzahiri will not be allowed to leave Jamshedpur without permission of the lower court and he will have to inform the the Bistupur police about the people meeting him. The order was uploaded on the court’s website recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/maulana-held-for-al-qaeda-link-gets-bail/articleshow/79274760.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ranchi||Ranchi: Maulana held for Al-Qaeda link gets bail||RANCHI: More than a year after being jailed under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), the Jharkhand high court has granted bail to a Muslim cleric saying there is no evidence that he has links with Al Qaeda. Maulana Kalimuddin Muzahiri was arrested in September 2019 for his alleged involvement with the terror outfit. He was accused of meeting two alleged co-conspirators at his house in Sakchi Madarsa in Ranchi and receiving money from persons in Gujarat for carrying out ‘anti-national work as a jihadi’, In 2019, then additional director general of police M L Meena had said, “Kalimuddin is a most wanted terrorist of Al Qaeda. He has been arrested from Tatanagar railway station. He was preparing and motivating the youths for jihad in the Indian sub-continent.” While arguing the case on Muzahiri’s behalf, his counsel A K Das said his client was a religious teacher and has never been involved in any criminal case. The case has been registered by the local police and not the National Investigating Agency, which is the authorised body to investigate terrorist activities, he said. While granting bail to him through video conferencing on November 3, the court of Justice K P Deo said Muzahiri will not be allowed to leave Jamshedpur without permission of the lower court and he will have to inform the the Bistupur police about the people meeting him. The order was uploaded on the court’s website recently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/maulana-held-for-al-qaeda-link-gets-bail/articleshow/79269815.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ranchi||Congress veteran Furkan Ansari blames Rahul Gandhi for fiasco in Bihar polls||BOKARO: Former Godda MP and senior Congress leader Furkan Ansari on Tuesday blamed central party leaders, particularly Rahul Gandhi, for the Bihar assembly election loss and said the party's style of functioning needs a change to strengthen it. The Bokaro Congress Committee reported Ansari's criticism of the party and its AICC leaders to the state unit for its perusal. Speaking to reporters during his brief stop here en route to Godda while returning from Ranchi, the 72-year-old leader said, "Congress's defeat in Bihar was due to over-confidence and the inability of the top leaders to connect with people at the grassroots level. He also criticized the Bihar election in-charge Ajay Kumar and the party's Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh ." Referring to an election rally by Rahul Gandhi at Khelgaon in Bihar, the former MP claimed that people looked unimpressed as they did not understand anything that he (Rahul) spoke. Ansari, a popular Congress leader from the minority community in Jharkhand, also said, "The status of the party will improve only when Rahul Gandhi changes his advisors, who kept him in the dark. His advisors are MBAs or professional degree holders and do not have any political background. They can only be good managers." Criticizing Rahul's advisors further, he said, "Do they know how to connect with the voters at the ground level? It would be better if Rahul keeps a politician as his advisor to give him the right political suggestions." Ansari also said Congress veterans felt very bad when they have to address the advisors as 'sir' and informed that he has sent a letter to AICC president Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi on his views. Ansari has been associated with Congress since the 1980s when Indira Gandhi was the Prime Minister. He added, "I am pained by the downfall of Congress, which is a secular party and the only alternative to BJP. The party has to grow stronger and needs to correct the mistakes." His son, Irfan Ansari is a Congress MLA from Jamtara and a co-working president of Jharkhand Pradesh Congress Committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-veteran-furkan-blames-rahul-for-fiasco-in-bihar-polls/articleshow/79269736.cms||Divy Khare
November 18, 2020||Ranchi||NHAI told to replant peepal tree cut off for Koderma road||KODERMA: A peepal tree cut down in Jhumri in Koderma district a few months back for the widening of Barhi-Koderma NH-31 must be replanted, Hazaribag’s conservator of forest Ajit Singh directed Koderma divisional forest officer (DFO) Suraj Kumar Singh on Tuesday. Singh said he acted soon after the matter was brought to his notice by Telaiya-based environmentalist Indrajeet Samanta about the tree, which has religious and ecological importance. In his letter, Samanta sought protection of the tree saying it had new leaves and was capable of regeneration if re-planted at a fresh site. He attached a photograph of a tree along with his letter. “Peepal tree is considered to be the largest oxygen producer along with Neem and Tulsi,” he said. Notably, the Jharkhand high court last year had formed a high-powered committee after Indrajeet had filed a PIL against mindless felling of trees for road projects in the state, especially on Barhi-Koderma project. Some 3,518 trees were to be chopped off on the stretch of the 32km Barhi-Koderma project. In August 2019, the committee had directed NHAI to transplant 1,727 trees. The conservator of forest said the committee’s order asked the authorities to take a decision on replanting of the tree based on their girth. He said, “Keeping in consideration the probability of regenerating of the felled Peepal trees, the Koderma DFO has been directed to ensure it is re-plantation at any suitable place.” The DFO said, “NHAI has been directed to ensure the transplantation of the peepal tree and it will be done soon.” When contacted P C Kohli, project director of Barhi-Koderma NH-31 widening work, refused to comment on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/nhai-told-to-replant-peepal-tree-cut-off-for-koderma-road/articleshow/79269805.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ranchi||New Covid-19 cases spike three days after Diwali in Jharkhand||RANCHI: For the first time since the Diwali weekend, the number of new Covid infections recorded in a day was above the 200-mark on Tuesday even as the number of recoveries remained higher. While the number of new infections recorded a rise, the number of samples tested was 16,675. The state also recorded three fatalities – all in East Singbhum taking the state toll to 931. Ranchi reported 86 new cases, the highest among 23 districts as the total infections stood at 261. As many as 343 patients were declared recovered on Tuesday, a bulletin issued by state department of health, medical education and family welfare in the evening said. As many as 26 infections were reported in Bokaro while Dhanbad and Deoghar reported 23 each. The state’s cumulative caseload stood at 1,06,491, of which 2,669 are active cases while 1,02,891 have recovered. The state’s recovery rate stood at 96.61%, higher than the national average of 93.4%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17% against the national average of 0.39%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/new-covid-cases-spike-3-days-after-diwali-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79270168.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 18, 2020||Jamshedpur||New Covid-19 cases spike three days after Diwali in Jharkhand||RANCHI: For the first time since the Diwali weekend, the number of new Covid infections recorded in a day was above the 200-mark on Tuesday even as the number of recoveries remained higher. While the number of new infections recorded a rise, the number of samples tested was 16,675. The state also recorded three fatalities – all in East Singbhum taking the state toll to 931. Ranchi reported 86 new cases, the highest among 23 districts as the total infections stood at 261. As many as 343 patients were declared recovered on Tuesday, a bulletin issued by state department of health, medical education and family welfare in the evening said. As many as 26 infections were reported in Bokaro while Dhanbad and Deoghar reported 23 each. The state’s cumulative caseload stood at 1,06,491, of which 2,669 are active cases while 1,02,891 have recovered. The state’s recovery rate stood at 96.61%, higher than the national average of 93.4%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17% against the national average of 0.39%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/new-covid-cases-spike-3-days-after-diwali-in-jharkhand/articleshow/79274795.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 18, 2020||Noida||Noida to test those coming in from Delhi||NOIDA: The Noida administration will conduct random antigen tests on commuters entering the UP city from three points in Delhi — DND Flyway, Chilla regulator and Kalindi Kunj. The decision has been taken in the wake of surging Covid cases in Delhi. Noida district magistrate Suhas LY, who conducted an online meeting to discuss Covid preparedness, said health department teams would be deployed at the three points to test commuters. Police teams will help the officials conduct the drive, which will continue till further orders. #Noida administration deploys #COVID19 testing team to conduct random tests of commuters at Delhi-Noida border (Pho… https://t.co/Kn0PnLHdah— TOI Noida (@TOINoida) 1605675845000“Considering the global pandemic, the district administration will take all steps to ensure the safety of its residents. As part of precautionary measures, we will conduct random antigen tests at entry points from Delhi. We will also conduct targeted sampling among high-risk groups. We had these discussions at a meeting on Tuesday. On Wednesday, I will hold another meeting with the medical superintendents of all private hospitals,” the DM said. The last time Delhi had seen such a surge in cases, the Noida and Ghaziabad administrations had sealed the borders with the capital. The move had inconvenienced a large number of commuters when restrictions on movement had started to ease in Delhi and offices required their employees to come to work. On Tuesday, the DM asserted that the health teams would ensure that traffic was not disrupted while conducting the tests. “These teams will be stationed in such a way that movement of vehicles will not be affected. They will select random commuters on bikes and cars and do the test, which takes merely 2-3 minutes to show results,” he added. No one would be coerced into getting the test done, Suhas said. “If someone is not interested in getting tested, we will ask for his or her ID card and pass on the details to the monitoring committees. Our surveillance teams will visit their homes and conduct the tests. I would request all to participate in the drive and get themselves tested to ensure the safety of their families,” the DM added. With time, officials may increase the number of spots for conducting the tests. “The drive may begin at any of the three entry points. We will conduct tests at other sites later,” said Dr Deepak Ohri, the chief medical officer. The idea behind the drive, Suhas said, was to create a database on the number of people testing positive. “Once we get the data of people testing positive, we can issue an advisory to their employers in Noida not to call them to office. We can also issue a similar advisory on the monitoring of employees testing positive,” the DM added. For residents of other districts who are found to have Covid during the drive, the health department will cross-notify the respective authorities. The DM also said that the health department would make necessary arrangements for people who test positive during the drive at the borders. A review meeting on the procedure to be followed is slated for Wednesday afternoon. The health department will also draw up a list of four teams, comprising two members each, to conduct the random testing. The teams will be helped by the police during the drive. Echoing the DM, additional commissioner of police (law and order) Love Kumar said the random testing was voluntary. “It is not that each and every vehicle would be stopped. A commuter may be randomly chosen and asked to give his or her samples. In case he/she refuses to do it, the commuter would be allowed to go,” the officer added. With inputs from Shikha Salaria||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/as-cases-surge-in-delhi-noida-to-conduct-random-tests-at-border/articleshow/79271793.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
November 18, 2020||Delhi||Delhi may shut 'hotspot' markets for a few days||NEW DELHI: Faced with a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Delhi government has sought permission from the Centre to shut down for a few days those markets where corona guidelines are being violated, turning them into hotspots. Announcing this at a press conference on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that since Diwali was over, the crowds at the markets will be thin and the need to shut down any market may not arise. The government has also recommended restricting the number of guests in weddings and social functions to 50. The limit had been recently increased to 200. "We witnessed Covid guidelines being violated at some markets during Diwali which led to a surge," said Kejriwal. ‘Closure of hotspot markets on case-to-case basis’According to the Centre’s guidelines, a state government is required to seek the for mer’s per mission if it wants to impose a lockdown at a local or small level,” said chief minister Kejriwal. “Diwali is over, and we hope that markets will have fewer crowds and we will not need to take this step. But if the need is felt, and if after all efforts a market is still found to be violating Covid guidelines which may cause it to become a hotspot, then we will shut it down as a precautionary measure for a few days for which we have sought Centre’s permission.” The CM said he had sent the proposal to the lieutenant governor, Anil Baijal, for approval. A government official explained that this will be done on a case-to-case basis and will be only a temporary measure. The government is hoping that it will work as a deterrent for other markets where shopkeepers are being lax in enforcing social distancing and Covid-appropriate behaviour even inside their premises. The state government will prepare a standard operating procedure for this which will spell out the roles of different officials besides laying down how the government will decide which market has turned into a Covid hotspot. The Centre and the Delhi government are working in close coordination to check the mounting Covid cases and surge in deaths. Kejriwal thanked the Centre for providing 750 additional ICU beds for Covid patients and appealed to Delhiites to wear masks and follow social distancing norms to protect themselves and others. The CM said his government has also sent a proposal to the LG, who is the chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, for approving the government’s decision to allow only 50 people to attend wedding functions now. “Following the Centre’s guidelines and considering the marriage season, the Delhi government had earlier allowed 200 guests at marriage functions as against 50 earlier. But, because of the recent spike in the number of Covid cases, the Delhi government has decided to withdraw this relaxation,” said Kejriwal. The announcement has alarmed traders and prompted them to get serious about Covid-appropriate behaviour inside their premises and even close to their shops. Brijesh Goyal of the Chamber of Trade and Industry said they have called a virtual meeting of around 200 traders where an appeal will be issued to all traders to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour in the markets. Meanwhile, leader of the opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri advised the government to strictly ensure thermal screening, provision of sanitisers and masks and enforcement of Covid guidelines rather than order closing down of any market which will affect livelihoods. Kejriwal said the capital has enough Covid beds but there was a dearth of ICU beds. “While assessing the situation in the city, I found that Covid beds are available at government hospitals while there is a scarcity of beds in private hospitals,” the chief minister said, adding that the Centre, Delhi government, AIIMS, ICMR, DRDO and other agencies are working together to tackle the capital’s Covid situation. Watch Delhi: Markets emerging as Covid-19 hotspots might be locked down as cases rise||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-may-shut-hotspot-markets-for-a-few-days/articleshow/79273267.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru colleges reopen, only a handful of students turn up||BENGALURU: Most college campuses in Bengaluru saw only a handful of students on Tuesday when they were finally open to final-year students for regular classes after an eight-month break owing to Covid-19 outbreak. Many colleges saw around 10% of attendance; some did not have even one student. Colleges said many students are yet to get the mandatory Covid negative certificate as they are either hesitant to get tested or results are yet to come. Some stuck to online mode, others streamed offline classesSome colleges did not open and continued with online classes. Others managed to stream their offline classes through mobiles for students who did not come to campus. Colleges said students are either scared of going for tests or are yet to get the results. Professional colleges, too, did not see a major turnout. “Some 65% students had given consent to come. But colleges saw only 20-35% students. Many are hesitant to give the Covid test. Since colleges reopened on Tuesday, many did not turn up,” said VTU VC Karisidappa. University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering had zero students. “Because of the festival season and the holidays, students could not get Covid certificates. Every change will face resistance initially, but we expect students to start coming. Our online classes are going on well and practical classes will be held when they return to the campus,” principal HN Ramesh said. Government-run RC College of Commerce and Management had six of its 800 students turning up on campus. At least 20 had to return since they were waiting for Covid test result. “We had all arrangements in place. But the number of students who turned up did not meet our expectations — only six of 960 undergraduate final-year students came. Two PG students also turned up. We’re hoping the numbers will go up in the coming weeks,” said Meera HN, principal, Seshadripuram College. Nanda N, principal, BMS College for Women, echoed the sentiment: “We had three of our 700 students on the campus on Tuesday. Many of them have adopted the wait-and-watch policy. However, another 100 students came for testing.” “Wehad10studentsof thetotal 120 walking in, but with no Covid certificate. We were helpless and had to send them back. Thus, we did not have any student on day one,” said BG Satyaprasad of GT Institute of Management Studies and Research. Some other colleges like Maharani University Cluster’s arts and commerce college had better attendance. However, the science section did not have a good turnout. Higher education minister CN Ashwath Narayan visited the arts and commerce sections and interacted with students. “Students were not satisfied with online sessions; hence, we began classes. There’s free Covid test for all. No student will be forced to come. But if they do, they have to bring the Covid-negative certificate,” he said. Bengaluru North University VC TD Kemparaju said attendance was affected by the unavailability of KSRTC buses in rural areas. Attendance in BNU colleges varied between 15% and 18% and touched 20% in very few colleges. Dy CM: Decision on schools laterDeputy CM CN Ashwath Narayan said reopening of schools and PU colleges will be decided based on the experience of opening of higher education classes. The school education minister will share information on this, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-colleges-reopen-only-a-handful-of-students-turn-up/articleshow/79273265.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
November 18, 2020||Goa||Garbage piles up near monuments, will be cleared soon, says archaeology dept||210 words plus pics. Edited Times News Network Panaji: Goa may have just recently opened for tourism after the Covid-19 lockdown, but already garbage is piling up at various tourism hotspots. At the picturesque archaeological monuments dotting the state, the piles of garbage in their vicinity are turning out to be quite an eyesore. Currently, all sites of the 51 monuments are open in Goa, based on the SOPs laid out by the government. Aware of the problem, the department of archaeology is now attempting to clear the garbage. “Currently we have only six monument attendants for all the 51 monuments in Goa. We try to shuffle these attendants from one place to another,” a department official said. Interestingly though, garbage collection at these sites comes under the purview of the respective local civic body. “We often write to the panchayats to clear the garbage at the sites, but we hardly get any response,” the official said. As a result, the department has now decided to clear the garbage alongside its annual vegetation clearance at the sites. “We usually carry out vegetation clearance immediately after the monsoon season. This year, since the withdrawal of monsoon was delayed till the last week of October, we had to initiate this process late,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/garbage-piles-up-near-monuments-will-be-cleared-soon-says-archaeology-dept/articleshow/79252910.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Freight trains’ suspension adds to Punjab’s grain strain||CHANDIGARH: Punjab’s godowns are literally brimming over with grain due to the "bumper produce" and grain stocks piling up following suspension of freight train movement in the state as a fallout of the farm groups’ protests against the central agri-laws. This is adding strain to the state’s limited storage capacity: New stocks are being added every day even as wheat and paddy stock of the previous season is yet to be moved out by the central agencies. Due to the suspension of train operations, around 35 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) grain stocks, which includes 19 LMT rice and 16 LMT of wheat, are still lying in the state. In what would add to the state’s troubles, 135 LMT new stocks of rice are to be received against paddy procured during 2020-21 season. Anindita Mitra, director food and civil supplies, Punjab, confirmed that the state is still holding 136.5 LMT central pool wheat stocks in the state while 57 LMT rice stocks are still in storage. Punjab procured 128 LMT wheatAs per official figures available till Monday, the state procurement agencies are holding 111.5 lakh metric tonnes (LMT) of central pool wheat while 25 LMT of wheat is with the Food Corporation of India (FCI). Despite the pandemic, Punjab has successfully procured 128 LMT of wheat through its agencies including Markfed, Punjab State Warehousing Corporation, Punsup as well as the FCI. Punjab CM had repeatedly urged farmers to clear rail tracks for allowing goods trains, underlining the need to create space for storage of paddy and wheat to be harvested by Punjab’s farmers in the coming season. This, he had pointed out, could be done only by dispatching the existing stocks of grain by the FCI to other parts of the country. Even before the railways stopped train services in the state, tardy movement of procured grain from Punjab had remained an issue. In March, the Centre had accepted Punjab’s demand to shift 12 lakh tonnes surplus rice from the brimming godowns of Punjab to Uttar Pradesh. Even at that time around 200 lakh metric tonnes of grain -- 109 lakh metric tonnes paddy and 91 lakh metric tonnes of wheat -- was stocked in the godowns. Meanwhile, till November 12, 201.72 LMT of paddy (including Basmati) had arrived in the grain markets. Of this, 200.4 LMT had been procured through 34.40 lakh passes issued to the farmers as part of the staggered procurement plan in the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/freight-trains-suspension-adds-to-punjabs-grain-strain/articleshow/79273305.cms||Vibhor Mohan
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Three months after Bengaluru violence, ex-mayor Sampath Raj arrested||BENGALURU: Three days after the Karnataka high court directed police to take all steps to arrest former mayor R Sampath Raj, an accused in the August 11 East Bengaluru violence, the Central Crime Branch sleuths on Monday night announced his arrest. The Congress leader had been off the cop’s radar since October 29 when he got discharged from a private hospital. On Tuesday, Raj was produced before a local court which handed him to police custody for three days. Police identified him as prime accused in the case of a mob setting ablaze the house of Congress MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy on August 11. Mobs had attacked two police stations, leading to lathicharge and firing. Joint commissioner of police (crime) Sandeep Patil said, “We arrested Raj in the city on Monday night. We’ll question him in detail.” A preliminary chargesheet filed by the CCB police on October 12 named Raj as accused number 51. Santosh Kumar, his driver, revealed how Raj hatched the plot and took the help of functionaries of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) to get mobs to attack Murthy’s house. The CCB police had on August 18 arrested Raj’s associate Arun Kumar for his involvement in the same case. Riots case: Ex-mayor will be in police custody for 3 daysSoon after, Raj got himself shifted to a private hospital, citing health issues. On October 14, Raj got discharged but on the same day, got admitted for Covid-19 in the same hospital. Finally, he was discharged on October 29 and he became incommunicado. Many senior police officers had said tracing and arresting a former mayor shouldn’t be difficult. Finally, chief justice of the Karnataka High Court Abhay Shreeniwas Oka on November 13 questioned the delay of his arrest. Close aide in soupOn November 7, CCB police arrested Riyazuddin alias Riyaz, a close associate of Raj. After Raj got discharged from Baptist Hospital on October 29, Riyaz took Raj in his car to a resort in Nagarahole, around 220km from Bengaluru. After five days, Raj shifted to another hotel near Mananthavady, a town on the Karnataka-Kerala border. A couple of days later, Raj moved to different hotels in Wayanad district. The arrest of Riyaz was kept a secret and he was allowed to use his mobile. Not knowing that Riyaz was in police custody, Raj was in regular touch with him and this enabled police to track him down. Raj’s close associates reportedly advised him to surrender in the wake of the high court taking up the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/three-months-after-bengaluru-violence-ex-mayor-sampath-raj-arrested/articleshow/79273364.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Shimla||Season’s first snowfall spurs tourist rush in Shimla, Manali||CHANDIGARH: The season’s first spell of snow in Himachal Pradesh’s tourist destinations of Shimla and Manali spurred an influx of tourists from neighbouring states to the hill state. On sunny Tuesday, a rush of tourists could be seen at Solang, Kufri and other tourist sites which received a good amount of snow the previous day. Visitors thronged tourist sites from the early morning till late evening. Most of them were from Delhi, UP, Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Jatin Ahuja from Delhi said, "We headed to Manali after hearing about snowfall on Monday morning. I and my wife wanted to see snowfall, but we were a little late.” Hoteliers hope for rise in footfallHowever, we enjoyed the snow near Manali. Covid-19 being the main hurdle, we preferred coming by our own car. The weather was amazing and we spent almost half the day at Solang. We wanted to see the Atal Tunnel but the road was blocked,” he said. Tourists are not being allowed to go to the higher regions as most of the roads have become slippery. Many tourists attempted to go towards Atal tunnel but could not reach there due to icing of the road surface. Buses plying on Manali-Keylong route, too, had to return from the south portal of the tunnel where road was extremely slippery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/seasons-first-snowfall-spurs-tourist-rush-in-shimla-manali/articleshow/79273353.cms||Suresh Sharma
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai had lowest Covid deaths in nearly 7 months on Monday||MUMBAI: For the third consecutive day, the state reported less than 3,000 cases of coronavirus, while Mumbai detected less than 1,000 cases for the fourth day in a row. However, the dip was mainly due to a substantial drop in testing numbers during the Diwali weekend, officials said. The state on Tuesday reported 2,840 cases, taking the overall tally to 17,52,509. On Monday, 2,535 cases were reported from Maharashtra, the lowest addition in 164 days. Deaths too remained under 100 for the third day. After reporting 60 deaths each on Sunday and Monday, 68 deaths were added to the toll on Tuesday. The state’s overall Covid mortality count now stands at 46,102. State numbers suggest that between Saturday and Tuesday, merely 1.2 lakh tests were carried out. Mumbai on Monday had reported 409 cases, its lowest daily addition in 202 days. The last time the city had seen fewer than 409 cases was on April 28 when 393 cases were reported. It rose marginally on Tuesday to 541 cases, taking the city’s overall tally to 2,70,660. Deaths in the city saw a dramatic drop on Monday when only a dozen casualties were reported. Mumbai had last seen fewer than 12 deaths nearly 200 days ago on May 1, when five deaths were reported that day. Mumbai’s death toll has now touched 10,599. However, the state and city’s fatality rates remained consistent at 2.63% and 3.9%, respectively. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said testing will be given a push in the days to come. The city carried out 5,399 tests on Saturday and 3,918 tests on Sunday, a remarkable dip from the average of 10,000-12000 clocked in the previous week. Maharashtra's active cases are steadily on the decline. On Tuesday, active cases were down to 81,925, of which 12,365 were in Mumbai. The rate of recovery in the state was 92.6% on Tuesday. Of the 2,840 cases, over 1,000 were reported from the Mumbai circle, that includes the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. Within MMR, Thane city went back to reporting cases in triple digits (103) after seeing less than 100 cases for three consecutive days. The infectivity ratio also shot up to7% as against the meagre 1.2% reported in civic records on Sunday. “Around 1,491 tests were done till Monday, of which 103 were found positive,” informed an officia. The administration however refused to acknowledge any fears of a possible second wave post Diwali because of increased pollution. The total number of positive cases till Tuesday reached 49,021 while two deaths took the virus toll to 1,133. The recovery rate in Thane was encouraging at 95% on Tuesday with 46,578 patients recovered till date and only 1,310 active cases left. Kalyan-Dombivli on Tuesday reported fresh 79 patients and one death taking the tally to 51,923, including 1,030 deaths. The recovery rate on Tuesday in the twin city reached 96%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mum-had-lowest-covid-deaths-in-nearly-7-months-on-monday/articleshow/79273341.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 18, 2020||Business||Nature’s Basket turns around in Q2 under RP-SG||Kolkata: Nature’s Basket (NB), the high-end grocery retail arm of RP-SG Group, has made a turnaround in the second quarter of this Covid-hit fiscal with a positive EBITDA (earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation). The retail chain has also witnessed a jump in revenue during the quarter. Shashwat Goenka, the sector head retail of RP-SG group, told TOI that NB has registered an EBITDA of RS 7 crore in the quarter ended September 30, 2020, from a loss of Rs 21 crore at the EBITDA level. The revenue of NB has also gone up by 5.1% in the quarter to Rs 93 crore from Rs 88 crore in the year-ago period. The retail arm of the group, Spencer’s Retail, had acquired NB from Godrej Group in an all-cash deal of Rs 300 crore in July 2019. Goenka pointed out that since the takeover, overall performance of the high-end grocer has improved. The sales per square feet of NB in the quarter has gone up by Rs 400 to Rs 3,500 from Rs 3,100 in the year-ago period. “Same store sales growth was the highest ever and reflected an increase in buying value during each trip. While customers made lesser visits to each store they made larger buys. The business also ensured all their stores were operational during the pandemic along with support from local authorities,” a top company official said. According to Goenka, the turnaround was made possible through decrease in cost structure, changing layout of the stores and high degree of integration with Spencer’s. “We have decreased cost by 40% through reduction in electricity, manpower,” he said. Elaborating on synergies with Spencer’s, he pointed out that being a part of a retail group there were immediate synergies across IT infrastructure and systems, supply chain, finance, business development. Additionally, role-based efficiencies in functions of HR & projects were also initiated. Commenting on Spencer’s private labels, he added, it has introduced a select range of Nature’s Basket private brands in Spencer’s and the response has been positive. “Products under the Healthy Alternatives brand have an excellent positioning for the health conscious customer and we intend to improve their offering in Spencer's stores. We also see potential in expanding the range within Nature’s Basket under the existing brands of Le' Exclusif, Healthy Alternatives and Natures,” he said. Elaborating store expansion plans, he added that in the next two quarters it would add four more stores, out of which three would be in Mumbai and one in Kolkata. Now, NB has 34 stores and when RP-SG group took it over, it had 36 stores. In last one year, the new owners of NB had closed three stores in Mumbai as they were unviable and opened a new store in Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/natures-basket-turns-around-in-q2-under-rp-sg/articleshow/79271043.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Lending a helping hand to forgotten frontline workers||The Covid-19 pandemic has hit almost every section of society, but among the most acutely hit are waste pickers and sanitation workers who have been exposed to both income loss and biomedical waste. Rekha, a waste picker, had just returned to Delhi after an expensive visit to her village for her grandson’s mundan when the lockdown was announced. Having spent most of their cash on the ceremony, the family was suddenly left with little money, no hope of income as the recycling market had shut down, and even food and medicines became hard to come by. Maintaining strict Covid hygiene also became difficult for the family as the neighbourhood of Mahipalpur didn’t have regular water supply. Rekha got some help from NGO Chintan, which has so far distributed over 5,000 kits containing dry rations and soap, sanitary napkins, and reusable masks to waste pickers under its #CovidMeKabadi campaign. While that has provided some shield from the virus, there has been no effective remedy for the income loss that has happened due to the fall in the prices of recyclable material. “Since crude oil prices fell, virgin plastic became cheap and the price of recycled plastic also dipped,” says Chitra Mukherjee, head advocacy and policy, Chintan. Jay Prakash Chowdhury, a former waste picker who now runs a collective of 12,000 waste pickers in NCR called Safai Sena, estimates that their earnings are half of what they were before March. “Since hotels, colleges, malls and schools are closed or working in low capacity, the volume of waste has also decreased,” he says. Since the majority of sanitation workers are in the informal sector, they didn’t have ration cards and necessary documents to avail of government subsidies. To address this, UNDP India launched Utthaan in October, which is a social protection programme that strengthens sanitation workers’ access to government welfare schemes, national and occupational identity papers like Aadhaar and ration cards, and increases livelihood opportunities. The growing volumes of biomedical waste generated since the outbreak of the pandemic is a major worry. “The number of infected masks and gloves, which were earlier not part of household waste, reaching them has only increased as the number of cases increase in India,” says Prabhjot Sodhi, head, circular economy, UNDP India. UNDP has conducted regular awareness and training on workplace safety, waste segregation, biomedical and hazardous waste, as well as health and hygiene precautions. Overall, it has distributed 4.1 lakh safety kits containing masks, PPE and face shields, 2.5 lakh soaps and a million kilos of dry ration for sanitation workers in 38 cities in 19 states across India. Mukherjee also recalls many waste pickers calling them up in the beginning of the pandemic to say that they were scared of handling trash because they were full of masks. “They are anyway anaemic and have poor health because of their work,” she says. “Many like Rekha didn’t even have enough water to wash their hands, so we had to ensure that they got water tankers.” Some NGOs were early movers. Bengaluru-based social impact organisation Hasiru Dala began relief work in the form of food and medical aid for waste picker families even before the national lockdown was announced, after noticing that past events such as demonetisation had also resulted in malnourishment of women and children among waste pickers. From March, it began providing hygiene and protein kits to meet the special needs of young children, pregnant and lactating mothers. But co-founder Nalini Shekar says there is a need to look beyond handouts to revive their livelihood. “Waste pickers had to sell plastic at throwaway prices so we realised we needed to have more control on the market,” Shekar says. “Every time there is an economic crisis or pandemic, the recycling industry shuts down and waste pickers have trouble surviving.” To tackle this problem, it started Hasiru MRF in July, a centre to coordinate the sale of waste to larger recyclers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/lending-a-helping-hand-to-forgotten-frontline-workers/articleshow/79273402.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Trai: India lost 1.7 crore mobile subscribers in lockdown months||BENGALURU: The number of wireless (mobile) subscribers in India shrank by 1.7 crore to 114 crore in the months that had a nationwide lockdown — April to June — and was yet to reach the pre-April level even by the end of August, despite new additions reported in the two months after June. The decline in the June quarter is largely because of a dip in urban subscribers — rural subscriptions actually increased. While rural subscriptions increased in July also, they dipped in August. Urban users increased in both the months. Neil Shah, vice president (research), Counterpoint Research, said: “The major factor was the return of migrant workers to their hometowns and villages, a lot of them stopped recharging their mobiles. Also, the lockdown had an impact on many low-income group families whose mobile usage dipped resulting in a decline in subscription. However, I think that things would improve from September onwards as things get back to normal.” According to the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (Trai), the number of total wireless subscribers decreased to 114 crore (1,140.71 million) at the end of June from 115.7 crore (1,157.7 million) at the end of March 2020. The quarterly decline rate was 1.47%, and the net decline recorded during the quarter was 1.7 crore (17.04 million) subscribers. Wireless teledensity in the country decreased to 84.38 at the end of June from 85.87 at the end of March. Wireless teledensity is the number of connections per 100 people. Separata data for the next two months show that in July the number of subscribers marginally increased to 114.4 crore (1,144.18 million) in July and further jumped to 114.7 crore (1,147.92 million) in August. However, the number is still not comparable with pre-April levels. Sanchit Vir Gogoia, chief analyst & CEO, Greyhound Research, said: “These months saw a lot of businesses shutting down which contributed to the reduction in numbers. Also, many people who earlier had multiple connections did away with additional SIMs and many who had taken additional connections only for data also switched to one network. All these reasons together saw a decline in numbers.” Analysis of data for the quarters before March 2020 show that the number of subscribers had increased marginally in the first quarter of 2020 compared to the quarter ending December 2019, which had seen a decline of nearly 2 crore subscribers, which experts said was because of an ailing economy. Reliance Jio was the only operator to add more subscribers in the June quarter, but its net addition wasn’t enough to offset the subscribers lost by other big players. Airtel, Vodafone and BSNL together reported a reduction of more than 2.6 crore subscribers — MTNL also saw a decline — while Jio added one crore new subscribers. Jio maintained the lead in market share, followed by Airtel and Vodafone. In August 2020, Airtel, Jio and BSNL together added more than 37 lakh new subscribers but Vodafone lost more than 12 lakh connections. Further, the overall number of telephone subscribers — wired and wireless — in India decreased from 117.7 crore (1,177.97 million) at the end of March to 116 crore (1,160.52 million) at the end of June. Subscribers in urban areas decreased from 65.6 crore (656.46 million) at the end of March to 63.6 crore (636.83 million) at the end of June. Watch India lost 1.7 crore mobile subscribers in lockdown months: Trai||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trai-india-lost-1-7-crore-mobile-subscribers-in-lockdown-months/articleshow/79273419.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 18, 2020||India||Shocked that many registered circus animals are missing: HC||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Tuesday termed as “serious” and “shocking” that many circus animals are missing, after an audit by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) revealed a huge gap between the number of animals registered with it as against those found during a physical inspection of circuses across the country. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar also asked AWBI and the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) to find out what happened to the missing animals and file an affidavit disclosing the status of the circus animals registered with AWBI. The HC was informed by the Federation of Indian Animals Protection Organisation (FIAPO) that according to the report filed by AWBI, around 700 circus animals were registered with it, but only 28 were found. “It is a serious issue. Out of 740 registered with you (AWBI), you have only 28 to answer for. What happened to the rest?” the HC asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/shocked-that-many-registered-circus-animals-are-missing-hc/articleshow/79273427.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: 100-yr-old ex-MLA who beat Hoodas now defeats Covid-19||ROHTAK: Former MLAHari Chand Hooda, who is 100 years old and had once defeated former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, has now triumphed over Covid-19, with which he was infected last week. Hari Chand defeated Hooda from Garhi-Sampla-Kiloi assembly constituency as the Lok Dal candidate in 1982. In 1977, he had defeated the former CM’s father and freedom fighter Ranbir Singh from the same assembly constituency as the Janata Party candidate. His son Ram Niwas Hooda told TOI that the centenarian had tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago. “I contracted the infection and he got it from me. After confirmation of my Covid-19 status, I got my father tested and immediately shifted him to a private hospital in Rohtak after finding him positive,” he said. The doctors were surprised to find his father’s health parameters normal, he said. “My father did not have blood sugar, blood pressure or any other ailments even at this age,” he said. While in hospital, Hari Chand ate home-made food. He tested negative on November 16 and was discharged while his son Ram Niwas Hooda is still under treatment in hospital. Born on October 21, 1920, Hari Chand Hooda is a native of Chamaria village in Rohtak district. He joined the Army after his postgraduation from Delhi University. He was jailed during Emergency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-100-yr-old-ex-mla-who-beat-hoodas-now-defeats-covid-19/articleshow/79273408.cms||Sat Singh
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt announces development panel for Lingayats now||BENGALURU: Even as the decision to set up the Maratha Development Authority (MDA) triggered a controversy, the Karnataka government on Tuesday announced the Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Authority (VLDA) for overall development of a major community. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa directed chief secretary TM Vijaya Bhasker to take steps for this with immediate effect. There’s no mention of funds to be earmarked for it unlike other community-based entities announced recently. The decision came barely 24 hours after a delegation of Lingayat ministers led by deputy chief minister Laxman Savadi met Yediyurappa about this matter. The decision is seen in some political circles as a damage control exercise since the government is facing flak for setting up MDA with an eye on upcoming bypolls. Another major community, the Vokkaliga, has demanded a similar authority. BJP MLA and CM’s political secretary SR Vishwanath said he and other Vokkaliga MLAs will meet Yeddyurappa soon about it. The move also drew criticism, especially from seers of Lingayat mutts. Seer: Need to identify poor in all communities and help themI’m surprised by the decision. If we start an authority for every community, there will be no end to it. The need of the hour is to identify the poor in all communities and help them,” said Siddalinga Swami of Siddaganga Mutt, Tumakuru, a prominent Lingayat mutt. Lingayat ministers welcomed the decision claiming it would go help economically poor people in the community. But Lingayat MLAs from other parties claimed increased quota in reservation for the community would be better. The community currently gets reservation under the 3B category. "The authority will be of little use to Lingayats considering their population of 1.2 crore. Even if the government sets aside Rs 500 crore a year, it will be very little. It’s better to provide 18 per cent reservation in jobs and education on the lines of Maharashtra,” said former minister and Lingayat leader Basavaraj Horatti. Former minister and Congress MLA MB Patil, who had spearheaded the campaign for separate religion status for the Veerashaiva Lingayat sect, echoed this view. ``The VLDA will not serve any purpose. Instead, a 16-18 per cent reservation based on Lingayat population would help in community development.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-govt-announces-development-panel-for-lingayats-now/articleshow/79273429.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Mortalities touch 668 as four more succumb to virus||Panaji: Goa’s Covid-19 mortality count rose to 668 with four deaths reported on Tuesday. One of the patients, a 55-year-old from Aquem in Margao, was declared brought dead to the hospital. Dean Goa Medical College (GMC) and in-charge of Covid hospitals, Dr S M Bandekar, said that those who accompanied the deceased informed that he had not exhibited any symptoms of the virus nor had he undergone the Covid test. He tested positive post mortem. Two deaths were reported from GMC and one patient died in ESI-Covid hospital in Margao. One of the deceased, a 59-year-old woman from Thane, Maharashtra, succumbed to the virus while undergoing treatment at the GMC. Other deaths were those of a 65-year-old man from Margao and an 86-year-old woman from Fatorda. Both had multiple comorbidities. On Tuesday, Goa reported 154 new infections and 191 recoveries, taking the tally of active cases to 1,382. As many as 42 patients were hospitalised over the past 24 hours and 77 chose to be in home isolation. With 1,660 tests done, case positivity rate was pegged at nine percent. Almost all centres in North Goa reported few or no new infections, while, in South Goa, the Margao urban centre saw its caseload dropping below 100 for the first time in three months after it started seeing a rise in infections. The Ponda primary health centre has the highest caseload of 120. It has also witnessed a drop in infections, but it may take a month or more to touch zero cases, a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mortalities-touch-668-as-four-more-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/79271205.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid cases per sealed building down 50% in a month||MUMBAI: There are three Covid-19 patients on an average per sealed building in Mumbai as against six until a month back, says the BMC. However, the average number of patients in slums -- where the sealed sections are called containment zones -- has remained constant over the same period of time. BMC authorities are worried that intermingling during Diwali could result in an upsurge in Covid-19 cases all over again. At present, there are 5,227 sealed buildings in the city with 16,009 Covid-19 cases reported (some of these patients have been cured but live on the same premises where new cases have come up). Contrast this with the data on October 16, when 9,511 sealed buildings accounted for 56,773 Covid-19 patients. In slums and congested chawls, there are 72 patients in each of the 449 containment zones. A month ago (October 16), there were 638 containment zones with an average of 55 cases from each of them. BMC officials admitted that the Covid-19 burden in slums had hardly reduced and there is a need to focus on containment zones. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “The cases in buildings have reduced substantially due to constant monitoring.” Though Covid-19 was brought by air travellers to Mumbai, the main spread occurred in the slums in the April-May period. In the months thereafter, the number of cases in buildings started increasing -- mainly due to an easing of the lockdown. The BMC would initially seal entire buildings, but then relaxed the norms by sealing only the floors where a patient resided. However, BMC officials noticed that multiple members of the same family or neighbours would test positive, indicating that social distancing norms were not being followed in buildings. The BMC then came heavily on such buildings and decided to seal entire buildings if multiple residents living on different floors tested positive. This strategy helped control cases in buildings, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-covid-cases-per-sealed-building-down-50-in-a-month/articleshow/79273426.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: Pandemic delays 2 major projects of ports department||PANAJI: Two major projects of the ports department – construction of the terminal building at Panaji and dredging of River Sal – have been delayed owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. 65% piling work of the terminal building, which is being constructed near the existing captain of ports (CoP) office in the city, has been completed. However, work has come to a standstill since the past six months due to the pandemic. “We haven’t received any funds, and as per the government directive, the project work has been deferred till December-end,” a ports official said. The Rs 25-crore project is vital for the ports department whose revenue collection has nosedived since September 2012 following the suspension of mining activities in the state. The officer said that after construction resumes, it would take at least a year for the project to reach completion stage. The work is being undertaken through Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC). All shipping related government offices such as customs, coastal police, including port stakeholders, will operate under a single roof in the terminal building. The entire office of the CoP will also be moved to the new building overlooking River Mandovi. Traders and shippers face difficulties in processing documents since the linked offices are not centrally located. The CoP also plans to lease some office space in the new building to enhance its revenue collection. With regards to the proposed dredging of the six-kilometre stretch of River Sal, the official said that a tender has been awarded, but the file is pending with the finance department. “If the work commences in December, dredging will be completed in three months,” he said. The cost for the proposed dredging work is pegged at Rs 9 crore. Part of the river was dredged two years ago. The officer said dredging will help improve the navigational channel of the river and also remove pollutants, specifically plastic which gets dumped into the river basin regularly. Considered to be the lifeline of South Goa, the scenic river Sal has been polluted over the past few years. Apart from solid waste, sewage has also been found in the river. “We know for certain that a lot of sewage is released into Sal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pandemic-delays-2-major-projects-of-ports-dept/articleshow/79271218.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Fishermen told to be cautious in SE Arabian Sea||Panaji: A low pressure area is likely to form over the south east Arabian Sea around November 19. The India meteorological department (IMD) said that it is not likely to have any significant impact over Goa, but fishermen are advised not to venture in to areas near Kerala, Comorin, Lakshadweep, Maldives, South east and east central Arabian Sea for a few days. “It is very likely to move west-northwestwards and concentrate into a depression over Southeast and adjoining Eastcentral Arabian Sea during the subsequent 48 hours. It is requested that fishermen may kindly be informed accordingly and asked to take precautions and avoid fishing in high seas in the coming days,” IMD stated. As of now, there is no large change in maximum temperature over North and South Goa. Maximum temperature was above normal over both districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fishermen-told-to-be-cautious-in-se-arabian-sea/articleshow/79271233.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Private bus owners movecourt over tax waiver||PANAJI: Private bus owners have approached the court against the non-waiver of road and passenger taxes during the lockdown months. “We had demanded that the road and passenger taxes and 25% penalty on it be waived. But those demands were not met by the transport department. We have approached the high court and are awaiting a hearing,” said president of the all Goa private bus owners’ association, Sudeep Tamhankar. Earlier this month, Tamhankar along with a few other private bus operators gheraoed the deputy director of transport, Pralhad Desai seeking tax waiver for lockdown months. He also said that certain buses operated by the Kadamba Transport Corporation Ltd (KTC) during the pandemic are clashing with the timings of the private bus owners, thus losing out of business to them. “This has resulted in frequent quarrels between our drivers and that of KTC. They must restore the timings of their trips after conducting a meeting with the coordination committee,” he said. They have given a deadline of November 23 to hold this meeting and sort the timings, else risk getting gheraoed again. “We will meet the chief minister, Pramod Sawant and take this matter to him on November 23,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/private-bus-owners-movecourt-over-tax-waiver/articleshow/79271292.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||On RCEP, Sharma attacks govt, and Cong’s stand too||NEW DELHI: Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma slammed the government decision to stay out of RCEP, a remark that appeared aimed as much at his own party as at the BJP government. On a day his colleague Jairam Ramesh called the decision to stay out of the trade deal a vindication of Congress’s stand, Sharma, who was commerce minister in the UPA government, tweeted, “India’s decision of not joining RCEP is unfortunate and ill advised. It is in India’s strategic and economic interests to be a part of the process of Asia-Pacific integration. Withdrawal has negated years of persuasive negotiations for India to be accepted as part of RCEP. We could have negotiated safeguards to protect our interests. Keeping out of RCEP is a backward leap.” On Oct 21 2019 I had described India's imminent membership of RCEP as 3rd jhatka for the economy after demonetisati… https://t.co/zbuoea476w— Jairam Ramesh (@Jairam_Ramesh) 1605607399000In contrast, Ramesh tweeted, “On October 21, 2019, I had described India’s imminent membership of RCEP as third jhatka for the economy after demonetisation and botched GST. A year later, the position Congress took then in demanding that the PM not drag India into an unfair RCEP, as was being planned, stands vindicated.” The government has, however, pointed to the poor returns from UPA-era FTAs as a reason for being more sceptical about RCEP. Importantly, Sharma is part of the dissident group of 23 which in August wrote a letter to Sonia Gandhi slamming the drift in the organisation and demanding election to the post of president. The grouping has revived its attacks after the Bihar election defeat. Late last year, Congress, in a high powered committee meeting chaired by the party chief, came out against RCEP and said India should not join the trade bloc. In that meeting, Sharma and former PM Manmohan Singh had backed RCEP, dissenting from the stand taken by Ramesh and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/on-rcep-sharma-attacks-govt-and-congs-stand-too/articleshow/79273439.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: All service providers are focus of post-Diwali testing by civic body||MUMBAI: From shopkeepers to BEST staff and security guards, all service providers who bore the brunt of the Diwali crowds over the weekend will be the new focus of the BMC as it steps up Covid-19 testing to check any post-festival surge. “We selected sections of society, such as markets, that saw a huge number of interactions,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. The BMC is strategising ways to test people arriving in the city. “We anticipate the return of those people who left the city during the start of the pandemic, and our entire system — medicines, health staff, hospital beds — is ready to handle any increase in cases,” Kakani said. Over the week, BMC teams will conduct camps in marketplaces to test those who may have been exposed to the virus. The markets were chosen after examining the crowding patterns and footfalls during Diwali. BEST staff have been chosen because buses saw more than the regular number of passengers as Mumbaikars went shopping or meeting relatives. Security staff of housing colonies are another set that will be tested as they interacted with more visitors than before in Diwali. During the Diwali week , the average daily testing numbers dropped to below 10,000 as many people were reluctant to test themselves, said BMC health officials. The BMC continues with its policy of conducting 70% of the tests through RT-PCR and only the remaining through the rapid antigen method, which is less specific. BMC officials said they planned to increase daily testing to between 13,000 and 15,000 within days. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force, said authorities could either test people who develop symptoms or subject people who face frequent exposure to weekly tests. “The BMC is likely to pursue both strategies at the moment in a bid to check any surge that is likely after people refused to follow Covid-appropriate behavior,” he said. Wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing are considered the best social vaccine against Covid-19 at the moment. Dr Joshi said that unlike New Delhi, where the temperature dropped and air pollution levels rose drastically, the city had higher-than-usual temperature and moderate pollution. “We have to be mindful of cross-migration, either Mumbaikars who left town for the weekend or people visiting from other states,” he said. TimesViewThe BMC strategy of conducting more tests in marketplaces that witnessed heavy footfalls in the run-up to Diwali is a constructive step. It will help catch new infections at the earliest, hasten contact-tracing and reduce transmission. But the public health machinery has failed in its basic duty of educating Mumbaikars on the need to use masks — acknowledged as the best vaccine against Covid-19 at this moment — at all times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/all-service-providers-are-focus-of-post-diwali-testing-by-civic-body/articleshow/79273321.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 18, 2020||Goa||TTAG’s proposals for relief submitted to CM: Ajgaonkar||Panaji: Tourism minister Manohar Ajgaonkar on Tuesday said that the requests received from tourism stakeholders and the tourism trade association of Goa (TTAG) seeking relief for the hospitality industry owing to the pandemic have been submitted to chief minister Pramod Sawant. The hospitality industry has been the biggest calamity of Covid-19 yet it hasn’t received any helping hand from the government except 50% reduction in license fees granted to the beach shack allottees. Ajgaonkar said he had no idea as to when the chief minister would clear the file. “We have placed the requests by the industry before the chief minister,” he said replying to a query as to when the industry can expect the relief? Nilesh Shah, president of travel and tourism association of Goa (TTAG), said besides asking the government not to implement the proposed fee hike, they have also requested it to give relief on the excise front. “Total excise revenue from hotels and bars and restaurants that the government earns is about Rs 22 crore annually. What we have suggested is a waiver for a period of six months when we remained shut,” Shah said. Second suggestion was relief from the civic bodies on garbage and other taxes for six months. “For six months most hotels remained closed and no garbage was generated during that period, yet charges were collected,” he said. Thirdly, he said, with respect to electricity charges, they wanted time till April 2021 to pay bills. Help on this front would have given hotels and other trades great help in surviving in their toughest phase. “We are yet to hear from the government on this count. The only relief we have got so far is in terms of the ease of doing business. Some of our requests have been considered by the government,” he said. A senior official said the fact that there has been a delay in offering help to the hospitality industry is itself an indication that no help is coming its way. “When the state’s economy has been in doldrums, I don’t think industry will get any waivers. Tourism trade should thank its stars if the government decides to postpone implementation of proposed hike in fees of various trades,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ttags-proposals-for-relief-submitted-to-cm-ajgaonkar/articleshow/79271348.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa to visit Delhi today, may get cabinet rejig nod||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa is scheduled to travel to New Delhi on Wednesday to seek permission from the BJP brass to expand or rejig his cabinet. Yediyurappa has convened a cabinet meeting reportedly to inform those ministers who will be dropped and allow them to clear pending files. This has led to speculation that Yediyurappa has got the nod for cabinet expansion or reshuffle and is meeting party seniors to discuss only the names. “The cabinet meeting usually happens once every fortnight or three weeks. But Wednesday’s meeting is happening in less than a week’s time. We have reason to believe the cabinet expansion will happen this time,’’ said a senior MLA and aspirant for a berth. Yediyurappa will leave for New Delhi by a special flight at 11.30am Wednesday. The cabinet meeting is scheduled at 10.30am. Though the official itinerary doesn’t mention meetings with Prime Minister Narendra Modi or Union home minister Amit Shah, official sources say he may meet BJP leaders, including national party president JP Nadda and discuss the cabinet expansion. The exercise could be a tightrope walk for Yediyurappa, considering there are many aspirants. Sources said he plans to drop a few ministers and this may include mines and geology minister CC Patil, women and child development minister Shashikala Jolle, animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chavan and muzrai minister Kota Shrinivas Poojary. While several old guard like eight-time MLA Umesh Katti are waiting to be inducted, Congress-JD(S) rebels like AH Vishwanath, R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, who helped BJP come to power and are now party MLCs, are also aspiring for slots. Yediyurappa will also have to keep space for Munirathna, as he had promised him a cabinet berth if he wins the Rajarajeshwari Nagar seat in the bypoll. There’s some discontent gripping the MLAs and Union minister DV Sadananda Gowda and BJP MLA MP Renukacharya hinted at it. “We should be thankful to 17 MLAs who helped BJP form the government. At the same time, we should not forget the BJP’s 105 MLAs won and that was crucial for government formation,” Gowda had said last week. The cabinet currently has 27 members, and seven berths are vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cm-bs-yediyurappa-to-visit-delhi-today-may-get-cabinet-rejig-nod/articleshow/79273450.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Madras HC refuses to stop eviction of squatters from lake||CHENNAI: The Madras high court has refused to quash eviction notices issued against 154 encroachers of Chitlapakkam lake. However, the court directed the authorities concerned to consider replies made by encroachers who are residing there for over 60 years and pass appropriate orders. A division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha passed the order while disposing of the plea moved by 154 residents challenging the show cause notice dated September 23. The petitioners claimed that they had been in possession of the land and the alleged encroached land in Chitlapakkam village in Chengalpet district for more than 60 years. They have put up superstructures and the said superstructures are also subjected to statutory levies. While so, all of a sudden, to their shock and surprise, they have been issued with individual show cause notices by the PWD department alleging that they are in possession of certain extent of land which is classified as 'eri poromboke' (water body poromboke), they said. Opposing the plea, the government submitted that in the light of various directions issued by this court for removal of encroachments in the water body, action has been taken in accordance with law. Recording the submissions, the bench said, "A perusal of the materials would prima facie disclose that the claim made by the petitioners is based upon their long possession of the respective pieces of land in question and construction of superstructures, which are also subjected to statutory levies." The petitioners would submit that in the light of the fact that the superstructures put up by the petitioners are also subjected to statutory levies, it can be termed as authorized one. In the considered opinion of this court, the said submission lacks merit and substance and it is relevant to take into consideration the decision rendered by the full bench of Madurai Bench of the court in Ramaraju Vs State of Tamil Nadu, the court said. Therefore, it is open to the district collector to take necessary steps to find out whether the superstructures put up by the petitioners herein are authorised / unauthorised / deviated and if the result of the same discloses any unauthorised / deviated / illegal construction, immediate and necessary steps will be taken in accordance with law to demolish the same, by also adhering to the principles of natural justice, in response to the impugned show cause notices issued by PWD, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/madras-hc-refuses-to-stop-eviction-of-squatters-from-lake/articleshow/79273455.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Veteran scribe quits Editors Guild, slams it for ‘elitism’||NEW DELHI: Veteran journalist and Padma awardee Patricia Mukhim, who heads The Shillong Times, resigned from the Editors Guild of India on Monday and accused the body of “elitism”. She cited the EGI’s “complete silence” in speaking up for her, but responding with alacrity and “playing to the gallery to defend celebrity editors/anchors whose voices matter”, as the reason for her resignation. Last week, Mukhim had drawn the EGI’s attention to a Meghalaya high court order upholding the investigation and FIR lodged against her by the state government for comments she made on Facebook with regards to a violent attack on a group of non-tribal boys in the state. Speaking to TOI over phone, Mukhim said she apprised the Guild of the case filed against her, and a single judge bench of the Meghalaya HC holding her guilty of creating communal disharmony. But her missive elicited no response. “I had shared this high court order with the Guild hoping that it would at least give out a statement condemning the HC order but there was, and has been, complete silence from the executive. Ironically, the Guild responded with alacrity and issued a statement condemning Arnab Goswami’s arrest (a nonmember), not on grounds of journalistic pursuits but on an abetment to suicide case,” Mukhim said in her letter to EGI president Seema Mustafa. Mukhim said she now plans to appeal against the HC order in the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/veteran-scribe-quits-editors-guild-slams-it-for-elitism/articleshow/79273456.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Goa||Goa: ‘Pandemic not grounds for bail to murder accused’||PANAJI: A local court has held that the Covid-19 pandemic cannot be a ground for granting bail to a murder accused. After an applicant stated that the case wasn’t proceeding due to the pandemic, the additional sessions court rejected the application, saying that Covid can’t be a ground “in such serious matters wherein the punishment is imprisonment for life or death”. Public prosecutor A Talaulikar told the court that proper medical facilities are being provided in jail, and thus it can’t be a ground for bail. The accused, who has been charged for murder, told the court that he has been in custody since August 8, 2018 — for two years and three months. His advocate, K Raikar, added that 62 witnesses have been cited in the chargesheet, but because of Covid, the matter cannot proceed. The accused also told the court that his mother was sick, but judge Kshama Joshi found that he didn’t produce any medical certificate on the record. “The sickness of the mother is no ground for releasing the accused on bail, as there are two (other) brothers to look after the mother,” she said. It was also brought on record that the bail applicant is also an accused in a theft case currently before the JMFC, and two other cases. The court took cognisance of the fact that the accused was absconding after a complaint of theft was lodged by the deceased against him, and stated that there is every possibility of him jumping bail, and interfering and threatening witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pandemic-not-grounds-for-bail-to-murder-accused/articleshow/79271478.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Bihar results turn TMC focus on women voters||Kolkata: In the backdrop of higher women voting percentage arresting the anti-incumbency of the Nitish Kumar-led NDA government in the Bihar polls, Trinamool Congress on Tuesday rolled out its fact-versus-fiction campaign showcasing women-centric state programmes in the run-up to Bengal assembly polls. Speaking on the Bihar polls, state women and child development minister Sashi Panja said: “This wasn’t the first elections after 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The only thing that is constant is NDA’s dipping vote share in the five elections held since then. Bihar too was no exception.” Panja, however, added: “In the next few months, you will get to hear a lot of fake news. Today, we are trying to speak facts and specifically on what the Mamata Banerjee government has done for women in the last nine years.” The 3.4 crore women electorate has been a formidable voting bloc in Bengal. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, 81.7% of these women had cast their votes outnumbering male voters. In Bihar elections, held under Covid protocol, 59.6% women voted, nearly 5% more than males. A Trinamool MP said: “BJP wants to distract (from) the narrative. Trinamool is conscious of that and keen to be proactive, and keep focusing on the good work done in Bengal in the last nine years” Panja sought to highlight the Swasthya Sathi health scheme rolled out in 2016. “The smart card under this scheme is issued in the name of the female head of the family. This scheme, interestingly, also provides cover to the parents of a married woman card-holder. The scheme has benefited 1.4 crore families,” she said. “In 2018, chief minister Mamata Banerjee had rolled out Rupashree scheme – a Rs 25,000 direct cash transfer (DCT) scheme – for girls over 18 years as a one-time assistance for their marriage. The Rs 1,400 crore scheme has benefited 5.5 lakh girls,” she added. Panja also stressed that under the Khadya Saathi food scheme, digital ration cards are given to the female head of a family. “These are unique to Bengal,” she said. To curb neonatal deaths, places with a high incidence of home delivery of children are identified and would-be mothers are brought to the closest labour room for a tour called “Mothers’ Picnic” where they are told about – and shown first-hand – the benefits of institutional delivery, the minister said. In remote Sunderbans and Hill regions, a concept of “Waiting Huts” conducts nearly two child deliveries a day. As many as 1.2 crore women workers are registered under MGNREGA in Bengal, Panja added. The UN-awarded Kanyashree DCT scheme now covers 67 lakh girls in Bengal, Panja said. “The state has allocated Rs 9,389 crore for this project till now. The Centre spent a meagre Rs 562 crore for the entire country under Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, which was introduced two years after the success of Kanyashree,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bihar-results-turn-tmc-focus-on-women-voters/articleshow/79272179.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Trial touchdown successful at Sikkim airport||Siliguri: Pakyong airport in Sikkim, where flight operations were stalled in June 2019 owing to visibility issues, inched closer to resuming services with a trial touchdown on Tuesday. If all goes according to plan, the Himalayan runway will be back in business from January 28, 2021, airport officials said. SpiceJet, which operated the only daily Kolkata-Pakyong flight and saw the last take-off on May 31, 2019, conducted the Required Navigation Performance (RNP) procedure to assist the aircraft to execute an instrument approach on a non-instrument runway as designed by the AAI and approved by the DGCA. Airport director Ramatanu Saha said the main objective of the procedure was to improve safety and regularity of flight operations in low visibility conditions. “A report will be submitted to DGCA . We are hoping to resume normal flight operations from January 28,” Saha added. Full report on www toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trial-touchdown-successful-at-sikkim-airport/articleshow/79272128.cms||Roshan Gupta
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Toxic Dhapa fumes back with start of winter, Kolkata chokes in Covid season||KOLKATA: The Dhapa fumes are back as the city approaches another winter, exposing thousands of Kolkatans in the rapidly growing area off the busy EM Bypass to one of the worst types of air pollution, capable of causing severe health problems, especially in the middle of the pandemic. Stubble-burning across Punjab and Haryana, which affects the air of north India — particularly Delhi’s — from the start of the winter every year is primarily from organic forms of waste. The waste at Dhapa, Kolkata’s largest garbage dump, contains, apart from organic forms, vast quantities of plastics, polystyrene, rubber, polythene and similar inorganic and non-biodegradable substances which, when ignited, spew a vast amount of poisonous particulate matter into the lowest levels of the atmosphere. Inhalation of air containing such harmful chemicals can trigger chain reactions in the body. Apart from breathing distress, it could cause a wide variety of complaints: from sexual disorientation, psychological ailments to even cancer, according to Amitabha Bandyopadhyay, a professor of chemical engineering at Calcutta University, an expert. The open burning of waste was made illegal in 2016 by the National Green Tribunal, which announced a fine of Rs 25,000 per violation. The Bengal environment department subsequently issued a circular banning open waste-burning. But Dhapa’s fires, say KMC sources, is self-sustained (because of the methane generated) and thus difficult to stop. “Since the fire is self-sustained, we approached the West Bengal Pollution Control Board for a solution,” said a senior officer of KMC’s solid waste management department. “But dousing the fires using fire-tenders is a short-term solution, since even stray embers can, and do, re-start the blaze. We need to cut off the oxygen supply, for which we are exploring long-term solutions with experts.” Geophysicist Tapas Ghatak, a former head of KMDA’s environmental cell, blames our “primitive system” of waste disposal, which most of the world has long since abandoned. “Experts from the Asian Development Bank, who carried a study, suggested a complete dismantling of the mountain of waste, which has crossed its saturation limit a decade ago,” Ghatak said. “That we are still dumping assorted waste there is a terrible wrong. The world has completely shifted to segregation of waste, composting of wet degradable waste to produce high-quality manure, recycling of plastic wastes to build roads. Most metros around the world no longer generate waste as landfill. Why are we still practising this most primitive system?” he wondered. Kalyan Rudra, the chairman of the West Bengal Pollution Control Board, said the Dhapa fumes get swept across the city, especially when the northerly winds blow into Kolkata in winter. “Last winter, we deployed two fire-tenders to douse the flames,” he told TOI. “This year, I have urgently requisitioned two fire-tenders for Dhapa. Those will be deployed there shortly.” Local residents, however, said it wasn’t enough. “The real problem is that several parts of the site are inaccessible to the fire-tenders,” said Shankar Naskar of Unchupota, a locality just off Dhapa. “These parts generate massive amounts of smoke.” The irony is that Dhapa is a “gold mine of methane”, says environmental activist Subhas Datta. “This methane, if tapped properly, could be used as clean fuel for electricity. Composing can generate bio-fertilisers and plastic for road-building granules. I have been fighting legal battles to get rid of the garbage mountain since 1998, but a series of judicial orders failed to persuade the administration to do anything.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/toxic-dhapa-fumes-back-with-start-of-winter-city-chokes-in-covid-season/articleshow/79272174.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Adhir reaches out to Furfura Sharif||Serampore: West Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury knocked on the doors of “secular” Furfura Sharif to seek the blessings of “hujurs” (clerics) before launching the election campaign against communal forces on Wednesday from Baduria in North 24 Parganas, a constituency with a heavy Muslim presence. “The arch at the entrance declares that the place is for believers of all religions. The Furfura Sharif durbar is a secular institution, a rallying point of both Hindus and Muslims. We came here and sought blessings of the hujurs in the fight against communal forces,” Chowdhury said on Tuesday after holding discussions with religious leaders Ibrahim Siddique and Abbas Siddique. Leader of the opposition in the assembly Abdul Mannan was with Chowdhury. Ibrahim Siddique laid stress on the need to rally all secular forces against the “communal threat” in Bengal. “Communal BJP has emerged as a major threat in our state. It’s not just Congress or Left. All sections, including Dalits, Adivasis and minorities, need to come together to face this communal challenge,” he said after the talks. The Furfura pir didn’t see a Bihar-like situation where AIMIM cut into minority votes. “I don’t think AIMIM can do it alone in Bengal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/adhir-reaches-out-to-furfura-sharif/articleshow/79272265.cms||Falguni Banerjee
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||BJP seniors in charge of 5-zone outreach||Kolkata: Having sprung a “surprise” in north Bengal in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, BJP is now focusing on the south Bengal districts of East and West Midnapore, Howrah and Hooghly, the epicentre of its “parivartan” plan. The four districts are crucial for Bengal BJP in the wake of recent activities by rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari, who is keeping all camps guessing about his future course. BJP has divided Bengal into five organizational zones — north Bengal, Rarh Bengal, Kolkata, Nabadwip, and one comprising Howrah, Hooghly and the two Midnapores — and put a national-level leader in charge of each of these zones. All these national-level organizers will prepare a report by November-end and submit it to BJP national president J P Nadda. The report will be all about the party’s booth-level outreach. The decision was taken in the presence of BJP national general secretary B L Santosh, who held an organizational meeting of Bengal BJP at its Hastings office on Tuesday. The new co-in-charge of Bengal BJP, Amit Malviya, and party leader Arvind Menon attended the meeting, apart from state unit seniors Dilip Ghosh and Mukul Roy and district presidents. According to BJP sources, Union home minister Amit Shah may undertake a visit this time of north Bengal after he gets the report. Shah was scheduled to visit north Bengal in October. The BJP brass has assigned its trusted lieutenant and Bengali-speaking national secretary, Sunil Deodhar, to oversee party activities in the four crucial districts. Deodhar had successfully led the BJP brigade to power in former Left-ruled Tripura. BJP MP Dushyant Gautam, who was in charge of Uttarakhand polls, will oversee the Kolkata zone comprising Kolkata, and North and South 24 Parganas. The party’s Haryana in-charge, Vinod Tawde, will look after Nabadwip zone and national secretary Harish Dwivedi will take charge of the north Bengal zone, where BJP needs to consolidate its gain in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The five-member team’s primary responsibility would be to assess BJP’s outreach in booths, particularly in south Bengal. Shah has already run a survey by an independent agency about the status of assembly seats in Bengal. “Their primary responsibility will be to push the party’s network to 76,000 booths across the state. They will assess strengths and weaknesses in each assembly constituency and send a report to J P Nadda. A seva karya abhiyan will be decided, based on that,” said a Bengal BJP leader. Last month, a report was submitted to the BJP brass pointing to internal bickering leading to a “disconnect” between leaders and grassroots workers in some pockets. “The feedback has prompted national leaders to micro-monitor party activities,” said the BJP leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-seniors-in-charge-of-5-zone-outreach/articleshow/79272140.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 18, 2020||Kolkata||Adhir urges Left to work out poll tie-up||Kolkata: West Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury passionately argued for Congress-Left ties in a meeting with Left leaders on Tuesday, to present a “viable alternative” to BJP and Trinamool before the public before it was too late. Chowdhury urged Left Front leaders to leave behind “past acrimonies” and roll out a plan for holding joint programmes and electoral adjustments for “mutual benefit”. Left leaders tabled a list of proposed joint programmes such as a joint rally with Congress on November 23 in support of the all-India strike on November 26, a joint rally in defence of secularism on December 6, and a peace rally in North 24 Parganas’ Hajinagar on November 22. They wanted Congress to take a call on the proposed programmes. Seat-sharing formula was not discussed at Tuesday’s meeting. None from Congress initiated a proposal on the CM face for the combine in the assembly polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/adhir-urges-left-to-work-out-poll-tie-up/articleshow/79272239.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express to be suspended as 65% seats go empty||MUMBAI: The Mumbai-Ahmedabad Tejas Express will stop running from November 24, barely a month after the service restarted, due to poor occupancy of around 35%. Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) first considered curtailing the number of days in a week on which it would run the service and then decided to suspend the train’s operation altogether for the time being. Tejas Express had resumed operations from October 17 after a seven-month gap due to the Covid-19 lockdown imposed in March. Rahul Himalian, IRCTC group general manager (west zone), has written to Western Railway, saying, “The intent of the letter is to request cancellation of service with effect from 24.11.2020 on account of poor occupancy levels due to the coronavirus pandemic.” IRCTC said the situation will be reviewed after observing the occupancy in other trains that run on the route. A railway official said, “The occupancy in this train was 35% on both up and down directions. With such a low occupancy rate, it was not profitable to operate the service. We need at least 80% occupancy to make it viable.” In light of the pandemic, Tejas offered reservation for 429 seats against the total available 736 to ensure social distancing. Passengers are also offered Covid-19 protection kits and seats are sanitised after they get off. A WR official said, “Passengers are not travelling for leisure or to celeberate festivals. The travel is only for essential work. Hence, demand is down. Moroever, this category of passengers feels travel by airplanes is much safer.” The official added the demand is low and there are plenty of other options available to travel on this sector by other trains such as Shatabdi Express and Rajdhani Express, among others. The Ahmedabad-Mumbai-Ahmedabad IRCTC Tejas Express train number 82901/02 hit the rails only on January 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-ahmedabad-tejas-exp-to-be-suspended-as-65-seats-go-empty/articleshow/79273474.cms||Manthan K Mehta
November 18, 2020||---||After disastrous poll outing, top Cong panel brainstorms||NE W DELHI: A top Congress panel met on Tuesday and held extended discussions, triggering a buzz about its agenda with some of those included in the deliberations linked to states, including Bihar, where the party suffered setbacks. The committee set up to help the “Congress president in organisational matters”, which was formed as part of the AICC reshuffle effected in August, met virtually in the evening, the scheduling of which was reported by TOI in Tuesday’s edition. While there was no official briefing on the deliberations or on the meeting’s agenda, the composition of participants suggested it could be about the recently held polls in Bihar where the party performed badly and in bypolls in Gujarat, MP, Karnataka and Manipur where Congress flopped. The participants included AICC general secretary incharge organisation K C Venugopal, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, Randeep Surjewala — who are all members of the panel. Veteran A K Antony is also a member of the panel but it was not clear if he attended the discussions, owing to family engagements. Crucially, AICC state incharges — Rajeev Satav (Gujarat), Shaktisinh Gohil (Bihar) and Bhakta Charan Das (Manipur) — were specially invited to the brainstorming. Besides, Wasnik is general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh while Surjewala of Karnataka. In MP, Congress rebels won as BJP candidates, in Gujarat it was wipe-out, NDA held onto Bihar while Congress did poorly, BJP completed a majority in Manipur and also made inroads in Karnataka. In a pre-CWC redux, the ‘to and fro’ among Congress factions has resumed on the issue of post-2019 drift. After former minister Kapil Sibal renewed his attack on the leadership on the lines of the letter written by the G-23, veteran Salman Khurshid on Tuesday called it “periodic pangs of anxiety” and dubbed those raising questions as “doubting Thomases” whose panacea of “introspection and collective leadership” were overestimated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//elections/assembly-elections/bihar/after-disastrous-poll-outing-top-cong-panel-brainstorms/articleshow/79273485.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||After disastrous poll outing, top Cong panel brainstorms||NE W DELHI: A top Congress panel met on Tuesday and held extended discussions, triggering a buzz about its agenda with some of those included in the deliberations linked to states, including Bihar, where the party suffered setbacks. The committee set up to help the “Congress president in organisational matters”, which was formed as part of the AICC reshuffle effected in August, met virtually in the evening, the scheduling of which was reported by TOI in Tuesday’s edition. While there was no official briefing on the deliberations or on the meeting’s agenda, the composition of participants suggested it could be about the recently held polls in Bihar where the party performed badly and in bypolls in Gujarat, MP, Karnataka and Manipur where Congress flopped. The participants included AICC general secretary incharge organisation K C Venugopal, Ambika Soni, Mukul Wasnik, Randeep Surjewala — who are all members of the panel. Veteran A K Antony is also a member of the panel but it was not clear if he attended the discussions, owing to family engagements. Crucially, AICC state incharges — Rajeev Satav (Gujarat), Shaktisinh Gohil (Bihar) and Bhakta Charan Das (Manipur) — were specially invited to the brainstorming. Besides, Wasnik is general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh while Surjewala of Karnataka. In MP, Congress rebels won as BJP candidates, in Gujarat it was wipe-out, NDA held onto Bihar while Congress did poorly, BJP completed a majority in Manipur and also made inroads in Karnataka. In a pre-CWC redux, the ‘to and fro’ among Congress factions has resumed on the issue of post-2019 drift. After former minister Kapil Sibal renewed his attack on the leadership on the lines of the letter written by the G-23, veteran Salman Khurshid on Tuesday called it “periodic pangs of anxiety” and dubbed those raising questions as “doubting Thomases” whose panacea of “introspection and collective leadership” were overestimated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-disastrous-poll-outing-top-cong-panel-brainstorms/articleshow/79273467.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Pro-Kannada outfits plan December 5 bandh against Maratha body||BENGALURU: Pro-Kannada activists and opposition parties are up against chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s announcement about setting up the Maratha Development Authority and earmarking Rs 50 crore for it. Some pro-Kannada organisations called for a Karnataka Bandh on December 5 against the decision which they dubbed “anti-Karnataka”. “The BJP government is doing cheap politics with an eye on the upcoming bypolls at the cost of Kannadigas. Marathas celebrate Kannada Rajyotsava as a black day in Belagavi and other districts. If the government doesn’t withdraw the order, we’ll observe a statewide bandh on December 5,’’ said pro-Kannada activists Praveen Kumar Shetty and Vatal Nagaraj. Taking objection, Karnataka Border Area Struggle Committee plans to move court seeking a stay. In a letter to the chief minister, actor and former Kannada Development Authority (KDA) chairman Mukhyamantri Chandru urged him to drop the idea. “Since its inception, KDA has never received an allocation of Rs 50 crore. In fact, the government has cut down funds in the current fiscal. It’s unfair to give funds for the development of any community purely for electioneering and wooing a vote bank,” Chandru said. The Congress criticised the decision and questioned the timing. Opposition party leader Siddaramaiah said, “There are many communities which need development funds. If they have contributed to the development of this community, they should do for other communities too." Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president DK Shivakumar said: “We’re yet to decide our official stand on the Maratha Development Authority. With bypolls to the assembly and Lok Sabha seats, apart from the GP polls, coming up, we intend to take up the issues of farmers.” Though bypoll dates are yet to be announced, the CM’s move has been seen as an attempt to influence voters in border constituencies of Belagavi and Basavakalyan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-pro-kannada-outfits-plan-december-5-bandh-against-maratha-body/articleshow/79273479.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||No Chhath Puja at beaches: BMC; it’s injustice, says BJP||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena-ruled BMC has denied permission for Chhath Puja celebrations at city beaches citing the coronavirus pandemic and possible surge in cases. But, the decision has not gone well with the BJP, which termed it an “injustice to devotees”, and demanded that Chhath Puja be allowed with certain restrictions, like it had been done for Ganeshotsav and Durga Puja. Chhath Puja, which will start Wednesday and end on Saturday morning, is mostly celebrated by Bihar natives. Women fast and pray to the sun and Chhathi Devi for the long life and well being of their husbands and children. Meanwhile, Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam, who has been celebrating the festival at Juhu beach since the last several years, cancelled it this year due to the pandemic. “In the interest of the city, I decided not to celebrate the festival at Juhu beach for the first time in the last 25 years. I appeal to the people to follow the same and instead pray at their homes,” he said. Even in Delhi, the celebrations have been banned in public places. Post Diwali, the BMC is anticipating a surge in Covid cases, and hence has been refusing permission for events where people converge in large numbers. Since the last few days, the BJP has been aggressively pursuing the matter with the BMC and the state government to allow Bihari natives to celebrate Chhath Puja at beaches and met several officials over the issue. BJP party leader in the BMC Vinod Mishra said, “Since many days we have been requesting them to allow puja at beaches and create artificial ponds at different places to avoid crowding. This will also ensure social distancing. But at the last moment, the BMC denied permission.” The BMC also said that they will not spend any money on creating artificial ponds, Mishra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-chhath-puja-at-beaches-bmc-its-injustice-says-bjp/articleshow/79273487.cms||Vijay V Singh
November 18, 2020||World||Trump fires head of DHS election security agency||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Tuesday fired the director of the federal agency that vouched for the reliability of the 2020 election. Trump fired Christopher Krebs in a tweet, saying his recent statement defending the security of the election was ``highly inaccurate.'' The firing of Krebs, a Trump appointee and director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, comes as Trump is refusing to recognize the victory of Democratic President-elect Joe Biden and removing high-level officials seen as insufficiently loyal. He fired Defense Secretary Mark Esper on Nov. 9, part of a broader shakeup that put Trump loyalists in senior Pentagon positions. Krebs. a former Microsoft executive, ran the agency, known as CISA, from its creation in the wake of Russian interference with the 2016 election through the November election. He won bipartisan praise as CISA coordinated federal state and local efforts to defend electoral systems from foreign or domestic interference. He kept a low profile even as he voiced confidence ahead of the November vote and, afterward, knocked down allegations that the count was tainted by fraud. At times, he seemed to be directly repudiating Trump, a surprising move from a component of the Department of Homeland Security, an agency that has drawn criticism for seeming to be too closely allied with the president's political goals. CISA issued statements dismissing claims that large numbers of dead people could vote or that someone could change results without detection. It also distributed a statement from a coalition of federal and state officials concluding there was no evidence that votes were compromised or altered in the Nov. 3 election and that the vote was the most secure in American history. Krebs avoided ever directly criticizing the president and tried to stay above the political fray, even as he worked to contradict misinformation coming from the president and his supporters. ``It's not our job to fact check the president,'' he said at a briefing with reporters on the eve of the election. CISA works with the state and local officials who run US elections as well as private companies that supply voting equipment to address cybersecurity and other threats while monitoring balloting and tabulation from a control room at its headquarters near Washington. It also works with industry and utilities to protect the nation's industrial base and power grid from threats. The agency enjoys a good reputation among its core constituency _ the state and local election officials who rely on its advice and services at a time of near-constant cyberattack -- as well as on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers recently proposed an increase of its annual budget of around $2 billion. Amid recent reports that Krebs feared he might be fired, Rep. Bennie Thompson, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, had said he was concerned and sent a text to the director to ask him if he was OK. The response was, in effect, ``for now,'' the Mississippi Democrat said. ``It's a shame if someone with his talent is all of a sudden, muzzled,'' Thompson said. ``I have not seen a partisan bone in his body. He's been a consummate professional.'' Rep. Jim Langevin, a Rhode Island Democrat who focuses on cybersecurity issues, had called on his Republican colleagues to stand up for him before he could be removed from his post. ``Chris Krebs and CISA have done so well under his leadership because he and his team have kept their heads down and done the job they were tasked with doing and not gotten caught up in partisan politics,'' Langevin said. The agency emerged from rocky beginnings. Just before President Barack Obama left office, the US designated election systems as critical national security infrastructure, like dams or power plants, as a result of the interference by Russia, which included the penetration of state elections systems as well as massive disinformation. Some state election officials and Republicans, suspicious of federal intrusion on their turf, were opposed to the designation. The National Association of Secretaries of State adopted a resolution in opposition to the move in February 2017. But the Trump administration supported the designation, and, eventually, skeptical state officials welcomed the assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/trump-fires-head-of-dhs-election-security-agency/articleshow/79273491.cms||---
November 18, 2020||World||Trump fires head of DHS election security agency||WASHINGTON: President Donald Trump on Tuesday fired the director of the federal agency that vouched for the reliability of the 2020 election. Trump fired Christopher Krebs in a tweet, saying his recent statement defending the security of the election was ``highly inaccurate.'' The firing of Krebs, a Trump appointee and director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency, comes as Trump is refusing to recognize the victory of Democratic President-elect Joe Biden and removing high-level officials seen as insufficiently loyal. He fired Defense Secretary Mark Esper on Nov. 9, part of a broader shakeup that put Trump loyalists in senior Pentagon positions. Krebs. a former Microsoft executive, ran the agency, known as CISA, from its creation in the wake of Russian interference with the 2016 election through the November election. He won bipartisan praise as CISA coordinated federal state and local efforts to defend electoral systems from foreign or domestic interference. He kept a low profile even as he voiced confidence ahead of the November vote and, afterward, knocked down allegations that the count was tainted by fraud. At times, he seemed to be directly repudiating Trump, a surprising move from a component of the Department of Homeland Security, an agency that has drawn criticism for seeming to be too closely allied with the president's political goals. CISA issued statements dismissing claims that large numbers of dead people could vote or that someone could change results without detection. It also distributed a statement from a coalition of federal and state officials concluding there was no evidence that votes were compromised or altered in the Nov. 3 election and that the vote was the most secure in American history. Krebs avoided ever directly criticizing the president and tried to stay above the political fray, even as he worked to contradict misinformation coming from the president and his supporters. ``It's not our job to fact check the president,'' he said at a briefing with reporters on the eve of the election. CISA works with the state and local officials who run US elections as well as private companies that supply voting equipment to address cybersecurity and other threats while monitoring balloting and tabulation from a control room at its headquarters near Washington. It also works with industry and utilities to protect the nation's industrial base and power grid from threats. The agency enjoys a good reputation among its core constituency _ the state and local election officials who rely on its advice and services at a time of near-constant cyberattack -- as well as on Capitol Hill, where lawmakers recently proposed an increase of its annual budget of around $2 billion. Amid recent reports that Krebs feared he might be fired, Rep. Bennie Thompson, chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee, had said he was concerned and sent a text to the director to ask him if he was OK. The response was, in effect, ``for now,'' the Mississippi Democrat said. ``It's a shame if someone with his talent is all of a sudden, muzzled,'' Thompson said. ``I have not seen a partisan bone in his body. He's been a consummate professional.'' Rep. Jim Langevin, a Rhode Island Democrat who focuses on cybersecurity issues, had called on his Republican colleagues to stand up for him before he could be removed from his post. ``Chris Krebs and CISA have done so well under his leadership because he and his team have kept their heads down and done the job they were tasked with doing and not gotten caught up in partisan politics,'' Langevin said. The agency emerged from rocky beginnings. Just before President Barack Obama left office, the US designated election systems as critical national security infrastructure, like dams or power plants, as a result of the interference by Russia, which included the penetration of state elections systems as well as massive disinformation. Some state election officials and Republicans, suspicious of federal intrusion on their turf, were opposed to the designation. The National Association of Secretaries of State adopted a resolution in opposition to the move in February 2017. But the Trump administration supported the designation, and, eventually, skeptical state officials welcomed the assistance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-fires-head-of-dhs-election-security-agency/articleshow/79273492.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka high court asks NLSIU to hold test for 1 student||BENGALURU: “In a country like ours, if poverty is not a sin, being poor in intelligence too cannot be,” the high court has said, while coming to the rescue of a student of National Law School of India University (NLSIU), who was considered a poor performer with 18 backlog courses to clear from 2016 onwards. Granting relief under “special circumstances”, which should not be considered precedent, Justice Krishna S Dixit directed NLSIU to conduct within a reasonable period “Special Repeat Examination” for the courses in which the petitioner has failed. Further, the university has been directed to promote him to the fourth year undergraduate programme for 2020-21, by condoning any shortage of attendance, and subject to result of the repeat examination. NLSIU student can also submit project assignments: HCThe student, who hails from Panchkula in Haryana, had approached the court after NLSIU rejected his request for promoting him to the next year and told him to get admission to the second year in the ongoing academic year. In addition, the student has been allowed to submit “project assignments “and undergo viva voce as well. NLSIU submitted that since Academic and Examination Regulations, 2020 have been promulgated, the petitioner cannot bank upon the 2009 regulations. Further, the institution contended, the regulations provide for special exams only if the backlog is in one subject. After perusing the records, Justice Dixit noted that a few students who had multiple failures were permitted to take up Special Repeat Examinations and the university itself had treated those regulations as not mandatory. “Denial of opportunity that was made available to others similarly circumstanced, would be discriminatory and arbitrary. It offends the sense of justice and causes to the aggrieved a heartburn,” the judge said, ruling in favour of the petitioner-student.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-high-court-asks-nlsiu-to-hold-test-for-1-student/articleshow/79273495.cms||Vasantha Kumar
November 18, 2020||India||UNSC is an impaired organ, has lost its credibility: India||NEW DELHI: While PM Narendra Modi again made a strong pitch for UNSC reforms at the Brics summit saying it wasn’t in sync with current realities, the government described the Council as an impaired organ at the UN. India’s permanent representative to the UN, ambassador T S Tirumurti, speaking in the UN General Assembly on the question of equitable representation and increase in membership of the Security Council, said a handful of countries were using the Inter-Governmental Negotiations (IGN) as a “smoke-screen” and stopping progress on reforming the Council. He said it was time for a “decisive movement” to achieve the long-delayed reform of the UN body. “Today’s Security Council is an impaired organ. It has been unable to act with credibility essentially due to its unrepresentative nature. But then, what is happening inside the IGN process, which we seem to be wedded to?” Tirumurti said on Monday. Criticising the absence of even a single negotiating text, Tirumurti said the IGN had become like a “platform for debate in a university rather than a serious, resultoriented process in the United Nations consisting of sovereign member states”. “And why have we come to this pass? Because just a handful of countries don’t want us to proceed. They have stopped the IGN from progressing. They are using the IGN as a smoke-screen to stop themselves from being identified by paying lip service to Security Council reform. “The conditions they are laying out are impossible to fulfil — which is a full consensus of all member-states. Ironically, this is happening at a time when we were in a tearing hurry last week to give ourselves e-voting rights. But for IGN, they want no voting, leave alone e-voting, but only full consensus,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unsc-is-an-impaired-organ-has-lost-its-credibility-india/articleshow/79273501.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai’s water reserves 60% full after rain in catchment areas||The catchment areas of Poondi, Cholavaram, Red Hills and Chembarambakkam reservoirs received good rain in the past few days and the water storage levels are increasing rapidly. This means good tidings for the city’s core area residents as Metrowater may continue supply of piped water for another six months without exhausting its resources.. The combined storage levels at the four reservoirs as on Tuesday was 6,893mcft as against the full capacity of 11,257mcft. On Tuesday, Poondi reservoir had a storage level of 1,416mcft against its full capacity of 3,231mcft. Cholavaram had 142mcft of water as against its full capacity of 1,081mcft. Red Hills had 2,367mcft of water against its peak capacity of 3,300mcft while Chembarambakkam’s storage level stood at 2,781mcft; total capacity of the lake is 3,645mcft. On Tuesday, the catchment areas of Poondi reservoir recorded 18mm rainfall, Cholavaram got 38mm rain, Red Hills received 45mm rain and Chembarambakkam 20mm. Veeranam lake in Cuddalore district, another major water source for Chennai city, is brimming now. The lake has 1,002mcft of water against its full capacity of 1,465mcft. Chennai’s water requirement is 1,000mcft a month. With the available water resources, Metrowater can continue its piped water supply to residents in core areas during the peak of summer. “Metrowater can ensure smooth supply of piped water to its consumers in core areas at least till June next year without much difficulty,” said an official. Officials said Metrowater will keep other sources of water — such as its agricultural wells, and quarries in Sikkarayapurm and Erumaiyur — as reserves. “These will not be used for drawing water till the levels at reservoirs go down,” said an official. Public Works Department chief engineer S Asokan, who inspected all the four reservoirs on Tuesday, said the water levels are increasing steadily. “The inflow of water at Chembarambakkam reservoir has reduced to 450 cusecs in the past few days. There is no rainfall in the catchment areas of the reservoir due to which chances of it getting filled immediately are less,” he said. At present water level at Chembarambakkam stands at 21.17 ft. Asokan said the draining channels of the reservoir have been widened. “Water will not be released from the Chembarambakkam reservoir without any warning. There is no need for the public to worry about flooding,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennais-water-reserves-60-full-after-rain-in-catchment-areas/articleshow/79273486.cms||P Oppili
November 18, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Bengaluru drug case: Bineesh Kodiyeri in NCB custody till November 20||BENGALURU: Sleuths of Narcotics Control Bureau’s Bengaluru zonal unit on Tuesday took Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of former Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, into custody for questioning in a drug-peddling case in which two of his aides were arrested in August. The 37-year-old, who is yet to be formally arrested and booked under the NDPS Act, will be grilled till Friday to ascertain if he had financed his aides’ drug trade in Bengaluru. On Tuesday, the NCB team reached the Central Prison complex in Parappana Agrahara where Bineesh was lodged after being remanded in judicial custody last week in a money-laundering case booked by the Enforcement Directorate. After obtaining a body warrant from a city court, NCB took Bineesh to an undisclosed location, even as a huge media contingent waited at NCB’s Yelahanka office. Sources said Bineesh was granted custodial interrogation till Friday, and will be grilled on his alleged money and drug links with Mohammed Anoop, 38, a prime suspect and his long-time aide, who was arrested for drug dealing from his service apartment in Kalyan Nagar on August 24. Bineesh’s another associate Rijesh Ravindran, 37, was also nabbed by NCB in the case. Sources said Anoop has told NCB that Bineesh had sent him Rs 50 lakh for developing his restaurant business, not for drug dealings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/bengaluru-drug-case-bineesh-kodiyeri-in-ncb-custody-till-november-20/articleshow/79274257.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru drug case: Bineesh Kodiyeri in NCB custody till November 20||BENGALURU: Sleuths of Narcotics Control Bureau’s Bengaluru zonal unit on Tuesday took Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of former Kerala CPM secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, into custody for questioning in a drug-peddling case in which two of his aides were arrested in August. The 37-year-old, who is yet to be formally arrested and booked under the NDPS Act, will be grilled till Friday to ascertain if he had financed his aides’ drug trade in Bengaluru. On Tuesday, the NCB team reached the Central Prison complex in Parappana Agrahara where Bineesh was lodged after being remanded in judicial custody last week in a money-laundering case booked by the Enforcement Directorate. After obtaining a body warrant from a city court, NCB took Bineesh to an undisclosed location, even as a huge media contingent waited at NCB’s Yelahanka office. Sources said Bineesh was granted custodial interrogation till Friday, and will be grilled on his alleged money and drug links with Mohammed Anoop, 38, a prime suspect and his long-time aide, who was arrested for drug dealing from his service apartment in Kalyan Nagar on August 24. Bineesh’s another associate Rijesh Ravindran, 37, was also nabbed by NCB in the case. Sources said Anoop has told NCB that Bineesh had sent him Rs 50 lakh for developing his restaurant business, not for drug dealings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-drug-case-bineesh-kodiyeri-in-ncb-custody-till-november-20/articleshow/79273510.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Medics body to draw up list of doctors for Covid vaccine||MUMBAI: The state’s public health department has urged Maharashtra Medical Council (MMC) to reach out to all registered allopathy doctors to enrol their details for the Covid vaccine database currently being prepared. The exercise is a part of the larger process to collect names of all healthcare workers — nurses, ward boys, Class-IV staffers, working as medical professionals across Maharashtra. Dr ShivKumar Utture, president of MMC, said the information has been shared with all registered members who are expected to fill details and submit to local health authorities. “We have already spread word and told doctors to incorporate names of all health workers in a facility. While it is not compulsory, we are encouraging all to fill details,” he said. The MMC has nearly 1.5 lakh registered doctors. The state has created nodal officers in each district who will send a consolidated list of names to the state. The state in turn will share it with the Centre that is likely to procure and distribute vaccine doses. Dr Utture said the positive news coming from vaccine trials and the third wave encountered by Delhi currently has convinced many to opt for vaccination. Another senior doctor said vaccine trials are going on at the city-based KEM and Nair hospitals and there haven’t been murmurs of the vaccines being grossly unsafe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/medics-body-to-draw-up-list-of-doctors-for-covid-vaccine/articleshow/79273493.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Bihar won, BJP starts ‘Mission Bengal’||NEW DELHI: After the electoral success in Bihar, BJP’s next stop is West Bengal where assembly polls are due next year. The party has formed an 11-member core team of mostly central leaders to prepare the ground to mount a high-voltage attack against the Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool Congress government in the run-up to the polls. Some of the core team members landed in Kolkata on Monday and will be camping there for a weekto chart out a basic list of probable candidates and plan for a focused campaign strategy, with inputs from the state party unit. Party sources said the state, which has 294 assembly constituencies, will be divided into five zones, each of which will be put under the charge of a central party secretary, who will finalise all decisions under the guidance of the central leadership. Realising that ‘Battle for Bengal’ still looks an uphill task for the party, BJP chief J P Nadda and home minister Amit Shah have decided to keep the command for the assembly polls under the direct charge of the central leadership rather than the state party unit which is fraught with factional feuds, said sources. The 11-member core team includes party general secretaries Kailash Vijayvargiya and Dushyant Gautam, five party secretaries — Sunil Deodhar, Vinod Tawade, Vinod Sonkar, Harish Dwivedi and Arvind Menon — central IT and social media cell chief Amit Malviya and state leaders Amit Chakravarty and Kishore Burman. While Kailash Vijayvargiya will be the coordinator, IT cell head Amit Malviya and party secretaries Sunil Deodhar and Arvind Menon, Vinod Tawde are part of the team to prepare the ground for the battle. On Tuesday, six central leaders including Sunil Deodhar, Amit Malviya and B L Santosh, held a strategy meeting with state leaders in Kolkata, where it was also decided that between November 18 and 20 each of the five zonal -in-charges will meet district level leaders of their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bihar-won-bjp-starts-mission-bengal/articleshow/79273511.cms||Mohua Chatterjee
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: 202 more test Covid +ve, 3 die||LUCKNOW: The city continued to record highest number of Covid-19 cases in the state with 202 more people testing positive for novel coronavirus in 24 hours till Tuesday evening. Three patients also succumbed to the disease, the highest in the state. While the daily tally accounted for 14% of the total cases in UP, casualties accounted for 15%. With this, total case count since the outbreak now stands at 67,534. At present, around 3,198 people are carrying the virus of whom 1,971 are in home isolation and the remaining in hospitals. Gomtinagar and Indiranagar continued to record maximum number of cases in the city. While 27 residents tested positive in Gomtinagar, 20 fresh cases were reported in Indiranagar. The two areas have been reporting highest number of cases in city since August. Other areas which reported cases include Aliganj (15), Rae Bareli Road (14), Chowk (13), Cantonment (11) and Talkatora and Madiaon (10 each). On an average, 248 cases have been reported daily in the city this month, while average daily deaths have been four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-202-more-test-covid-ve-3-die/articleshow/79273534.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rural doctor, auto driver among trio held for kidnapping baby||MUMBAI: Blowing the lid off a human trafficking racket, Juhu police arrested a rural medical practitioner from Telangana who had paid two Mumbai men for stealing an infant from here. Mohammad Bashiruddin (46) had allegedly charged a childless couple from Telangana Rs 4 lakh, claiming he was helping them legally adopt the infant. "We arrested three persons, including Bashiruddin, on charges of exploitation and kidnapping," said senior inspector Pandharinath Wavhal, Juhu police. On November 11, a family of pavement dwellers asleep on Andheri's Gokhale bridge realised their four-month-old boy was missing. They searched for him before lodging a police complaint. A police team checked CCTV footage from the location but drew a blank and there were no witnesses. The team then started checking footage from neighbouring areas and got some leads from the footage and informants. One suspect was an autorickshaw driver. The auto's registration number was tracked to Gaondevi Dongar in Andheri. The driver, Ramesh Vyanpatti (42) and his accomplice Mahesh Ditti (38) were picked up from Gaondevi Dongar. Vyanpatti told police he was from Telangana and was in touch with a rural medical practitioner from Nalgonda district. He was promised money in exchange for an infant. Vyanpatti and Ditti searched for a long time for a target and wanted to ensure there were no witnesses. On the day of the kidnapping, the two travelled with the infant to Nalgonda district by road. They handed over the child to Bashiruddin and returned. Police said that they had earned around Rs 1.5 lakh for the kidnapping of the boy. A team was formed under additional commissioner Sandeep Karnik. Investigating officer Hari Biradar and other personnel travelled to the address provided by Vyanpatti in Telangana. Taking the help of local police, they took Bashiruddin into custody from his residence on Monday. The baby was rescued from the home of the childless couple. "Bashiruddin had given the child to the couple after the boy was brought to him from Mumbai. He told the couple he would help them adopt but they would have to pay fees for the legal process. The couple had paid him Rs 4 lakh," said an officer. The baby was reunited with his mother on Tuesday. Police will now probe if Vyanpatti and Ditti are involved in kidnapping other children from Mumbai for sale also, or if Bashiruddin had purchased children from Mumbai from any other source too. Police said Vyanpatti and Ditti do not have criminal records.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-rural-doctor-auto-driver-among-trio-held-for-kidnapping-baby/articleshow/79273562.cms||Nitasha Natu
November 18, 2020||India||We will pick up where we left off: Jaishankar on Biden’s term||NEW DELHI: External affairs minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday exuded confidence that ties between India and the US will expand further under Joe Biden’s administration, noting that the president-elect was part of the period when bilateral relations underwent a radical transformation. “As vice-president, we dealt with him. I happened to be the ambassador during the last phase of the Obama administration. We’d known him earlier when he was in the Senate Foreign Relations Committee as the ranking Democratic member and then as the chairman,” Jaishankar said during an online discussion. “I am very confident that we will pick up where we left off, we have done that over the last four administrations,” he said. “American politics by its nature has very strong elements of bipartisanship,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/we-will-pick-up-where-we-left-off-jaishankar-on-bidens-term/articleshow/79273563.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Newborn child’s body found near Mumbai's Gateway of India||MUMBAI: The body of a newborn child was found floating near Gateway of India on Tuesday. Colaba police have sent the body for a post-mortem. Police said that they got information about a body floating and rushed there. “We are trying to find out who flung the body into the water,” said an officer, adding that a probe had begun. Police are also examining the possibility of the body being thrown somewhere else and it then came floating near the Gateway of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/newborn-childs-body-found-near-mumbais-gateway-of-india/articleshow/79273574.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||‘Sonia chose Singh as PM since he was no threat to Rahul’||NEW DELHI: While he praises former PM Manmohan Singh’s sagacity and policies in the first volume of his biography, former US president Barack Obama notes that Singh owed his position to Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and had been chosen as he posed no political threat to Rahul Gandhi, who was seen as the leader in waiting. “(Singh) owed his position to Sonia Gandhi... More than one political observer believed that she’d chosen Singh precisely because as an elderly Sikh with no national political base, he posed no threat to her ... son Rahul, whom she was grooming to take over the Congress party,” Obama says in the book. Obama’s book, ‘A Promised Land’, is an account of his presidential years and has elicited attention in India for a lot that he has said about his interactions with Indian leaders. He has spoken of his childhood familiarity with Ramayana and Mahabharata, that he can make a dal and keema and enjoys Bollywood movies. Read AlsoBarack Obama spent childhood years listening to Ramayana and MahabharataObama says he had never been to India before his Presidential visit in 2010, but the country had "always held a special place in my imagination". "Maybe it was because I'd spent a part of my childhood in Indonesia listening to the epic Hindu tales of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata, or because ofHe holds Singh in some affection — “I would find Singh to be wise, thoughtful and scrupulously honest” — but expresses doubts about the succession plan. Singh was also his first-ever state banquet guest in 2009. The banquet finds no mention in the book. The book highlights some of the twists and turns of India-US relations in those years. For instance, as senator in 2006, Obama introduced what would be known as a “killer amendment” to the India-US nuclear agreement, later known as the Hyde Act. He even entertained a visit by then ambassador Ronen Sen, accompanied by then foreign secretary Shyam Saran, joint secretary S Jaishankar and Raminder Jassal in his offices in Washington. The Indian delegation failed to move him from his amendment, but it was voted down. On his watch, though, India’s hard-won nuclear waiver at the Nuclear Suppliers Group (NSG) was diluted when guidelines were changed to allow ‘enrichment and reprocessing’ rights to only NPT members. Read AlsoFrom Gandhi to Manmohan Singh, Obama's affection and concern for India shines through his bookWASHINGTON: From recalling "childhood years spent in Indonesia listening to the epic Hindu tales of the Ramayana and the Mahabharata," to musing about Mahatma Gandhi and his capacious philosophy and vision, to expressing respect for former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, US President Barack Obama'sOn his first visit to China in 2009, Obama displayed an earnest desire to address what he saw as the world’s big challenges from Sudan to Iran and the global economy to Afghanistan, together with China as equals. India followed these developments with concern. China, ironically, saved the day, because Beijing did not really want to play second fiddle to the US. Read AlsoObama's book unleashes Western stereotype of violence, caste in India"Across the country, millions continued to live in squalor, trapped in sunbaked villages or labyrinthine slums, even as the titans of Indian industry enjoyed lifestyles that the rajas and moguls of old would have envied," he writes in his new memoir, "A Promised Land".Obama also has some frank words on Pakistan. “Although Pakistan’s government cooperated with us on a host of counter-terrorism operations... it was an open secret that certain elements inside the country’s military, and especially its intelligence services, maintained links to the Taliban and perhaps even Al Qaeda, sometimes using them as strategic assets to ensure the Afghan government remained weak and unable to align itself with Pakistan’s number one rival India,” he writes. Watch Barack Obama talks about his book||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sonia-chose-singh-as-pm-since-he-was-no-threat-to-rahul/articleshow/79273589.cms||Indrani Bagchi
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh readies law against ‘love jihad’; five-year jail||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh is preparing a law to make ‘love jihad’ a non-bailable offence with five years’ rigorous imprisonment, home minister Narottam Mishra said on Tuesday. The Uttar Pradesh and Haryana governments have also spoken of such a law but MP has taken the first step. On November 2, a day ahead of voting for the bypolls, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had announced that his government is making “legal arrangements” to end ‘love jihad’. “Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, too, are considering a law against ‘love jihad’, and we will also give it legal form,” he had said. A fortnight later and a week after sweeping the bypolls, Mishra said on Tuesday: “We will bring about a legislation against ‘love jihad’ through Madhya Pradesh Dharma Swatantrya Vidheyak 2020 in the coming assembly session. It will have provisions of rigorous imprisonment of up to five years for forcible marriage, seduction and forced conversions.” “The bill proposes that the offence be cognizable and nonbailable. Provisions will also be made to declare forced marriage and conversions null and void,” the home minister told reporters, adding that collaborators in the crime will be prosecuted as the ‘main accused’. The parents or siblings of the person who has been converted need to file a complaint for action to be taken. If anyone wants to voluntarily convert for marriage, he/ she and the religious leader carrying out the conversion have to apply before the collector a month in advance, Mishra said. The instructions will be effective immediately after the proposal takes the shape of an Act, he told TOI. In September, Allahabad high court had said that religious conversion only for the purpose of marriage was unacceptable. BJP state president V D Sharma said: “The BJP government is well aware of the atrocities being committed against women. The government first made a provision of capital punishment against rape. Now, a law will be enacted against ‘love jihad’. This is a serious problem and (the law) will curb forcible conversions.” ‘Love jihad’ law will be a stunt: CongressCongress dubbed it a stunt. “This is BJP’s political gimmick. The government should first call an assembly session and elect a full-time Speaker. Then the pros and cons could be discussed. Love is above all law,” said former law minister P C Sharma. The name of the bill seems to be an echo of ‘MP Freedom of Religion Act, 1968,’ which was enacted by the then Congress government to stop conversion through “allurement, force or fraud”. It provided for a year’s jail and made it mandatory for the religious leader who presides over conversions to inform the district magistrate within seven days. In 2006, the government unsuccessfully tried to amend it to make it mandatory for those wishing to convert to inform the district magistrate a month in advance. This clause will now be a key aspect of the proposed Madhya Pradesh Dharma Swatantrya Vidheyak 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-readies-law-against-love-jihad-five-year-jail/articleshow/79273557.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow Development Authority to raze illegal units of Mukhtar Ansari aides||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Development Authority is now planning to take action against jailed BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s aides and business partner who have allegedly constructed unauthorised housing and commercial units in many prominent areas in the city. The action will be part of the ongoing drive of the LDA and district administration against encroachers and land sharks. The drive that started on November 2 and stopped during festivals will resume in December. A meeting has been called on November 19 to prepare the list of constructions which have either been constructed on government land or map of the buildings were not approved by the development authority, said LDA secretary Ritu Suhas. She said LDA is identifying alleged illegal housing and commercial units constructed by business partners of Mukhtar Ansari. Eight such properties are under LDA scanner. These include a three storey commercial complex on Park Road, Hazratganj, and seven commercial units on Faizabad Road. Apart from that, a township allegedly being constructed by one of Ansari's close aides at Sultanpur Road is also being scrutinized by the development authority. LDA had recently demolished two houses allegedly constructed on government land by sons of jailed BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari in Jiamau area of Lucknow. It has also initiated action against a house owned by Ansari’s sister-in-law at Jiamau. The matter is at present subjudice in the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lucknow-development-authority-to-raze-illegal-units-of-mukhtar-ansari-aides/articleshow/79273558.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Upmarket schools pull out all stops, but others struggle to buy sanitisers||MUMBAI: An international school in the city is setting up a makeshift infirmary in a spare classroom, while a school in Kandivali’s slum pocket is struggling to get the basic sanitisers in place for students. As city schools gear up to reopen their campuses after eight months, their own financial health will determine how they adopt the state’s standard operating procedure (SOP). The education department has allowed schools to reopen for classes IX to XII from November 23. As per the SOP, students can be called only on alternate days with only one seated per bench. Provisions for hand hygiene and other sanitizing material need to be in place and everyone has to be scanned with thermal guns. While most schools are waiting to consult their parent teacher bodies to take a call on reopening, implementation of safety guidelines has begun. Billabong High School in Malad has hired an agency to regularly disinfect the premises. A school resumption taskforce has also been set up to work out the nitty gritties. “We will restrict visitors through access control protocols. Health checks will be conducted, besides temperature monitoring and protocols for recovered students and teachers. Students will be seated individually, and benches will be at designated spaces to maintain physical distancing. There are floor markings across school passages to guide students,” said principal Madhu Singh. At Euro School in Thane all main contact points and floors will have sanitizer booths. A dedicated isolation room is also being set up, said principal Jyotsna Mayadas. At Orchids International School, Kurla, seats will be labelled with students’ names. At the other end of the spectrum are schools where teachers are pooling in money to buy masks and sanitisers. “Our teachers have started coming to school, but no sanitizing equipment has been provided to us. Most of our students live in the slums without access to a smart phone so they are eager to return to school. We might have to reopen as soon as the vacation is over. We are writing to the civic education department to provide some funds or material, but until then, teachers will continue to pay from their pockets,” said the headmistress of a BMC school. Principals said several schools have no funds to provide for the new normal. “With almost zero fee payments, budget schools like ours have not even managed to pay their teachers. How will they pay for the added infrastructure?” said Prashant Redij, principal, Hilda Convent High School and member of the Mumbai Principals’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/upmarket-schools-pull-out-all-stops-but-others-struggle-to-buy-sanitisers/articleshow/79273503.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
November 18, 2020||India||Cong seeks Left’s help for a ‘viable alternative’||KOLKATA: West Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury argued for Congress-Left ties in a meeting with Left leaders on Tuesday to present a “viable alternative” to BJP and Trinamool before the public before it became too late. Chowdhury urged Left Front leaders to leave behind “past acrimonies” and roll out a plan to hold joint programmes and electoral adjustments for “mutual benefit”. Left Front leaders, on the other hand, tabled a list of proposed joint programmes, such as a joint rally with Congress on November 23 in support of the all-India strike on November 26, a joint rally in defence of secularism on December 6, and a peace rally in North 24 Parganas’ Hajinagar on November 22. There was no discussion on the seat-sharing formula. None from Congress initiated a proposal on who should be the CM face for the combine in the upcoming polls though Congress chief whip in the West Bengal assembly Manoj Chakraborty has been floating Chowdhury’s name as the “CM face” for the third front.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cong-seeks-lefts-help-for-a-viable-alternative/articleshow/79273634.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Pay dead cop’s kin Rs 63.2 lakh, insurer told||CHENNAI: A city accident claims tribunal has directed an insurance firm to pay ₹63.2 lakh to the family of an Andhra Pradesh policeman who was killed after a rashly driven two-wheeler hit the motorcycle he was riding pillion on while on highway patrol duty. The family moved the tribunal seeking a compensation of Rs 1 crore from the insurer. The deceased, M Sudhakar, was working as a constable attached to the Gajulamandalya police station in Urban Tirupati district. On March 21, 2017, Sudhakar was riding pillion on a two-wheeler with a colleague along Puthalpattu-Naidupetta bypass road near Renigunta when a two wheeler hit their bike. The two policemen were thrown off the bike in the impact and two days after the accident, Sudhakar died of injuries. In response, the insurance firm argued that the accident happened due to negligent driving by the other party and it could not be held liable to pay compensation as it had not been proved with enough evidence that its client was responsible for the accident. The court, after perusing the submitted evidence, noted that the other two-wheeler was driven by a minor without a valid driving licence. Documents stated that the minor was in an inebriated state and was riding triple when the accident happened. After noting the same, the tribunal held that the insurer of the two-wheeler is liable to pay compensation to the family of the deceased policeman. When the insurer contended that neither the place of the accident nor the residence of petitioners come under the jurisdiction of the tribunal, it was pointed out that the deceased policeman’s family lives in quarters in Tiruvallur district on Tamil Nadu-Andhra Pradesh border and bank passbooks of the family members were submitted. After computing various factors including loss of income, future prospects among others, the tribunal arrived at an amount of ₹63.2 lakh to be paid to the family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-pay-dead-cops-kin-rs-63-2-lakh-insurer-told/articleshow/79273644.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Will make India a preferred global investment hub: PM||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday said his government would leave no stone unturned to make India a preferred global investment destination, as he sought foreign investment to upgrade and modernise urban centres, offering a business friendly climate and a huge market. Addressing a Bloomberg event, Modi underlined the need to tackle urbanisation and suggested that the Covid-19 pandemic had thrown up an opportunity to rework things. “We are looking at a future where a major chunk of education, healthcare, shopping may happen online. Our cities need to be ready for the convergence of the physical and digital worlds,” he said The PM also called for a reset of processes and practices as countries around the world seek to “restart” after Covid-19 forced many of them to impose lockdowns to check the spread of the disease that was first spotted in China. “The biggest question is how to restart? The restart will not be possible without a reset. A reset of mindset. A reset of processes. And a reset of practices,” he said and pointed to new protocols developed following the World Wars. “Covid-19 has also given us a similar opportunity to develop new protocols in every field. This opportunity should be grabbed by the world if we want to develop resilient systems for the future. We should think on post-Covid requirements of the world. A good starting point would be the rejuvenation of our urban centres,” Modi said through a video link. He said the pandemic had given an opportunity to make cities more liveable. “Covid-19 has given a chance to accelerate our process of making cities more liveable for people. This includes better housing facilities, better work environment, shorter and efficient travel... Can we not build sustainable cities where these features are the norm and not exception?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-make-india-a-preferred-global-investment-hub-pm/articleshow/79273646.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||No def deal without a deal for Cong, says BJP on Agusta case||NEW DELHI: BJP on Tuesday seized upon the claims made by one of the principal accused in the AgustaWestland case about Congress leaders’ links to bribes paid for swinging the chopper deal, and accused the opposition party of making money from arms deals at the cost of the nation’s security. “Whenever there is mention of any defence deal, the names of Congress leaders crop up. This has been the pattern for decades,” law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said. “There is no deal without a deal and there is no contract without a cut. Why do they have to play with the country’s defence for their personal gains?” Prasad asked. The attack followed a report in a daily about Rajeev Saxena, one of the principal accused in the AgustaWestland bribery case, mentioning the names of senior Congress members Ahmed Patel and Salman Khurshid, along with former Madhya Pradesh CM Kamal Nath’s son and nephew Bakul Nath and Ratul Puri respectively, in relation to alleged payoffs by middleman Christian Michel in the deal. Saxena, who was extradited from Dubai with Michel and is currently in jail, told ED that he helped the middleman route kickbacks to India. “In the AgustaWestland scam, names of senior Congress leaders have come out and an important witness has made serious revelations. ...Will Congress and its top leadership now speak up on these charges?” he asked. Prasad said since Saxena had established that the entry “AP” in the diary maintained by the middlemen referred to Ahmed Patel, this raised questions about what “FAM”, another entry, stood for. “Does FAM means Family? Everybody knows what family in Congress means”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-def-deal-without-a-deal-for-cong-says-bjp-on-agusta-case/articleshow/79273662.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Match made in heaven, blossomed in a café||BENGALURU: Two individuals with dwarfism and motor disability had given up on love after facing years of rejection and bullying until they found each other. Bhairappa and Roopa, both in their late 20s, battled several odds before tying the knot on Monday at a temple in Koramangala. Their love story began a year ago at city-based Mitti Café, where they are now working as customer service executives. Bhairappa, who is from Koppal, says he never imagined he could find love. “It was impossible even to find employment. In my village, I was taunted that I could only eat but coudn’t work. That is when I decided to leave and create my own destiny,” he says. After spending a year in Hubballi, Bhairappa landed in Bengaluru, where he joined Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled before finding work at Mitti Café — a chain of cafés run by adults with physical, intellectual and psychiatric disabilities. Mitti Café has 14 outlets at corporate offices like Wipro, Infosys and Accenture, among others. But with offices closed due to the pandemic, they started cloud kitchens and a cafe for the public in Koramangala. Founder and CEO of Mitti Café Alina Alam told TOI that when they interviewed Bhairappa almost three years ago, they learnt that he had been to more than seven job fairs and attended over 70-80 interviews for the specially abled, but in vain. Within months of joining Mitti Café, he showed excellent ability to learn and even train new people in the team. Alina also learnt that Bhairappa wanted to get married, but was often ridiculed for his disability. “Once Bhairappa told me that someone told him that he’d never get married and that broke my heart. Thankfully, Roopa soon walked into his life,” says Alina. Roopa, who came to the city from Belagavi, joined Mitti Café a year ago. Bhairappa saw her at one of their corporate caterings. “It was love at first sight. I saw that she was kindhearted and caring. The next day, I contacted her through one of our common friends,” said Bhairappa, adding that he confessed his feelings to her after a few meetings. Roopa giggles that she was scared when he first proposed to her. “I refused the first two times. But I knew he was a nice and caring person,” she adds. Roopa soon reciprocated and the two decided to get married. “Amid the uncertainty, Bhairappa and Roopa were in the forefront of our ‘karuna meals’ initiative, where the Mitti Café team reached out to the underprivileged and migrants stranded because of the lockdown,” explains Alina. Bhairappa’s family, unfortunately, wanted dowry, but he refused. “He said Roopa is the biggest gift for him and he couldn’t think of anything more precious than her,” says Alina. Bhairappa and Roopa’s wedding was attended by around 40 people, including the Mitti Café team and some customers. While Bhairappa’s family could not attend the ceremony, the organisation took care of kanyadanam and other rituals for Roopa, an orphan. The ceremony was also attended by customers of the Mitti Café. Like Melissa Arulappan, Head of Corporate Communications at IQVIA India, which also houses a Mitti Café. “I have known Alina and her lovely Mitti Cafe team since they opened a Mitti Cafe at our office around two years ago. They radiate so much love, joy, and happiness that it was always such a pleasure to visit their Cafe and interact with the team. During the last several months, although our offices are closed, I have stayed connected with Alina and continue to follow Mitti Cafe’s amazing journey. It was so special to celebrate Bhairappa’s, who worked at the Mitti Cafe in our office, special occasion today. Fairytales happen, dreams do come true,” she says while clicking away pictures of the happy couple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-match-made-in-heaven-blossomed-in-a-caf/articleshow/79273671.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Couple die, 3 kids injured as car and truck collide||GHAZIABAD: A couple and their driver died and three of their children were critically injured when the car in which they were travelling collided with a truck on the Ganga Canal road in Niwadi area around Monday midnight. Two helpers of the truck driver were also injured in the accident. Police believe both the vehicles were travelling at high speed. The impact of the accident was such that the truck fell into the Ganga Canal, which passes along the road. Its driver somehow managed to come out of the vehicle but his two helpers were injured. The deceased were identified as Altaf, a Delhi resident who worked with an IT company in Gurgaon, and his wife Zeenat. Their driver, Naseem, also died on the spot. “The family was from Bijnor and had been living in Delhi for the past 13 years since Altaf’s marriage,” a police officer said. “The couple’s children — Mousara (11), Mujji (7) and Afsaan (4) — were injured in the accident. So were two of the truck driver’s helpers,” he added. The family was on its way to attend a wedding in Bijnor. SP (rural) Neeraj Kumar Jadaun said the accident took place around 12.30 am and a passerby called to inform them about it. “A police team immediately reached the spot and took the accident victims to a nearby hospital. Altaf and Naseem were declared dead on arrival while Zeenat died during treatment in the ICU,” Jadaun said. “The truck fell into the canal after it hit the car. The driver somehow managed to come out of the vehicle and fled the spot, leaving his two aides behind,” the officer added. An FIR has been lodged against the truck driver under IPC sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death due to negligence). “A team has been formed to nab the truck driver as well,” Jadaun said. Faeem, a relative of Altaf, said the family had left for Bijnor around 11pm in a hired car. “Around 6am, the local police informed us about the accident and told us to reach the hospital. By the time we reached, all three had died and Altaf’s three children were critical. They have suffered injuries to their head and legs,” he added. The villagers of Abupura, which is near the accident spot, were the first rescuers. They informed the police and ambulance. Pawan Kumar, a villager, said, “It took us almost an hour to take the bodies out as the car was mangled. Their identities could be established from their wallets found in the car.” As police engaged excavators to remove the car from the middle of the road and pull out the truck from the Ganga Canal, traffic was disrupted for around three hours. The queue of vehicles also stretched several kilometres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/couple-die-3-kids-injured-as-car-and-truck-collide/articleshow/79271568.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
November 18, 2020||Noida||Three of a family injured in crash on Yamuna e-way||NOIDA: A couple and their six-year-old son were injured when the car they were travelling in allegedly crashed into a heavy vehicle on the Yamuna Expressway on Monday night. In two other accidents, two persons were run over by unknown vehicles while crossing the road. The trio — Satendra (40), his wife Shalini (35) and their six-year-old son — were admitted to Kailash Hospital in Greater Noida after their Kia Seltos crashed into the vehicle from behind near Gharbara underpass around 10pm. The three, who were returning from the Agra side, were discharged. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said the family lived in a society in Sector 168. The police said the heavy vehicle was possibly parked in the middle of the road or was moving very slowly when the Seltos crashed into it from behind. “They possibly hit a heavy vehicle from behind while trying to overtake. The damaged Seltos was in the middle of the road, which suggests that the vehicle it hit may not have been parked on one side,” said Rameshwar Singh, the SHO of Ecotech I SHO police station. While Satendra suffered a serious head injury and was given first-aid by officials of a highway patrol van, Shalini suffered injuries on the face and feet. Their son Surya had a head injury. “The family did not give any complaint. CCTV cameras have not been checked so far,” Singh said. In two other accidents, two men were run over by unknown vehicles in Phase 3 police station area. The first accident took place near Chhijarsi village, where 45-year-old Gurinder Prakash died after he was knocked down by an unknown vehicle while crossing the road. In another accident, one Rajiv Kumar, a resident of Delhi’s New Ashok Nagar, died when he, too, was hit by a vehicle while crossing the road near Hindon bridge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/three-of-a-family-injured-in-crash-on-yamuna-e-way/articleshow/79271622.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||NGO couple, 4 others arrested for siphoning off Rs 11 crore from Karnataka govt department||BENGALURU: Over a year after Rs 11 crore vanished from the accounts of the state government’s e-procurement cell, the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) arrested six persons, including a couple running an NGO from Nagpur in Maharashtra, for the fraud. However, CID sleuths said four more persons, including a city-based hacker with criminal antecedents, are absconding and their arrest will take the case to a logical end. It was on July 7, 2019 that the cell’s financial consultant filed a complaint that unauthorised instructions had been issued for refunding over Rs 7.4 crore of earnest money deposits (EMDs). Police found that Rs 1 crore was transferred on July 1 to Nimmi Enterprises whose details were not clear. However, the transaction for Rs 7.4 crore was immediately stopped. Further probe revealed Rs 10 crore had been transferred to different unauthorised bank accounts in a similar manner. “The cell’s portal was hacked from Bengaluru. The trail of beneficiary accounts led us to Nagpurbased NGO Udaya Grama Vikasa Samstana. We found a hawala link between the couple and some Bengalureans,” an official said. The months of lockdown following the pandemic outbreak, however, put brakes on the investigation. A team of cyber experts from CID kept a close watch on the NGO. Unaware of the police trail, the couple — Rathnakar Shalikram Walke, 52, and his wife Bhavana Rathnakar Walke, 48 — continued their dealings with associates in the city. On November 11, the CID arrested the couple for receiving around Rs 10 crore stolen from the cell. Rathnakar was the secretary of Udaya Grama Vikasa Samstana, Nagpur, while Bhavana its treasurer. Based on their statements, police arrested Siyaram Paswan, 41, who works as a cook with hotels and resides in RMV Extension, Sadashivanagar, his live-in car driver Manikanta, 47, realtors Satish N, 35, and Syed Yusuf, 42, of Krishna Block, Seshadripuram. The hacker, Sri Krishna alias Krishna, was among those arrested for attacking the son of a businessman inside a UB City pub in February 2018. The son of a city MLA was also arrested in connection with the case. “Once we question Krishna, we can describe the entire network and how the accused operated. The couple helped in encashing the money which was brought to the city by Paswan and Manikanta and handed over to Satish and Yusuf. We’re probing to find out to whom Satish and Yusuf had handed over the money,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ngo-couple-4-others-arrested-for-siphoning-off-rs-11-crore-from-karnataka-govt-department/articleshow/79273691.cms||Rajiv Kalkod
November 18, 2020||India||India drug-resistant TB hub, but access to new meds poor||MUMBAI: While India is home to a quarter of the world’s drug-resistant tuberculosis patients, access to new drugs —whose USP is that they can be taken orally as opposed to injectables — for these patients continues to be poor. This is the finding of a 37-nation survey conducted by NGOs STOP TB and MSF to assess if governments are in sync with the World Health Organisation’s recommendations for TB treatment. The survey found India compliance is around 29%, with new drugs and testing not getting to people quickly enough. In India, the new drugs bedaquiline and delamanid are not available in private shops, but are accessible only through government TB centres. While the Global TB Report 2020 estimated India has 1.2 lakh multidrug-resistant TB cases in 2019, public health experts estimate that around 11,000 have received it in the last three years till March 2020. The STOP TB-MSF report, released late on Monday, found that only 22% of countries surveyed allowed TB treatment to be started and followed up at a primary healthcare facility such as a clinic, instead of travelling to a hospital, and for medicines to be taken at home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-drug-resistant-tb-hub-but-access-to-new-meds-poor/articleshow/79273693.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Katara case: Wife of witness says attacked by goons in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: The wife of the prime witness in the Nitish Katara murder case has alleged that she was waylaid and attacked with iron rods by goons of UP politician DP Yadav while returning home with a relative. The testimony of Madhu Katara’s husband Ajay helped in proving that Yadav’s son Vikas and nephew Vishal had kidnapped and murdered 24-year-old Nitish for dating their sister in 2002. Both of them are currently serving a 25-year jail term. Another co-convict, Sukhdev Pehalwan, is serving a 20-year jail term in the case. Ajay said they had been receiving threatening voice recordings from Yadav’s men for the past 15-20 days. “Around 10pm on November 13, 4-5 assailants in a car stopped my wife’s scooter near Ambe hospital when she was on her way back home along with my niece. Then they stepped out and attacked my wife with iron rods,” he alleged. The men threatened Madhu with dire consequences and tried to drag her into their car, Ajay added. “However, they fled when some passersby rushed to the scene hearing the screams of my wife and niece. Madhu sustained severe injuries in the attack and she is currently undergoing treatment at a hospital,” he said. The alleged attack on Madhu came nearly a year after the Supreme Court had thrown out Vikas’ plea for release on parole, saying he didn’t have the fundamental right to the same when he was ordered to undergo 25 years imprisonment without remission. Police said an FIR has been lodged against three persons — Subhash Yadav, Monil Yadav and Jeetendra Yadav — under IPC sections 147 (rioting), 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 325 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt) and 506 (criminal intimidation). “An investigation is on and the accused will be arrested only after it’s complete,” said Keshav Mishra, circle officer of Sahibabad area. Vikas was convicted for abducting and murdering Nitish on the night of February 16, 2002, as he disapproved of his sister Bharti Yadav’s relationship with the Delhi-based business executive. The duo had fallen in love while studying together at Institute of Management Technology in Ghaziabad. His appeal against the 25 years sentence imposed by the Delhi high court was rejected by the Supreme Court on October 3, 2016. Vikas was also convicted in the Jessica Lal murder case and sentenced to four years' imprisonment for destruction of evidence to help the main accused, Siddharth Vashisht aka Manu Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/attacked-by-dp-yadav-goons-alleges-wife-of-witness-in-nitish-katara-case/articleshow/79271660.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||KSRTC will continue services to Tamil Nadu||Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation has decided to continue bus services between Karnataka and Tamil Nadu.  It had stopped inter-state services due to Covid-19. Then it received permission from TN to operate services to that state only during Diwali, till November 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ksrtc-will-continue-services-to-tamil-nadu/articleshow/79273715.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||Six die as truck plunges off bridge in Betul||BHOPAL: Five labourers and a driver were killed when their truck plunged off a bridge on Tawa river in Betul district in the wee hours of Tuesday. The truck was transporting iron rods, and the labourers may have hitched a ride. “We received information about the accident around 7am. Our teams rushed to the spot. The five labourers and truck driver had died,” Chopna police station in-charge Rahul Raghuvanshi told TOI. Cranes were used to lift the iron rods and mangled truck to retrieve the bodies. “It took more than seven hours to evacuate the bodies. The truck had not broken through any railing of the bridge. The driver seems to have lost control and it probably went off the road while entering the bridge,” Raghuvanshi said. Victims were crushed under iron rods: CopsThe water was shallow where the truck landed. “The victims died after being crushed under the iron rods,” the officer added. Police are investigating why the truck crashed. The dead labourers were identified as Betul residents Rikesh, Bablu Bhalawi, Dilip Uike, Sanju Batke, and Munna Salam. The driver, Manohar Sahu, 38, was from Multai town, about 100km from Chopna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/six-die-as-truck-plunges-off-bridge-in-betul/articleshow/79273709.cms||---
November 18, 2020||India||Desi missile system successfully tested||NEW DELHI: The indigenous quick-reaction surface-to-air missile (QR-SAM) system, which is designed to intercept hostile fighters, helicopters and drones at a range up to 25km, was successfully tested from the Chandipur integrated test range off the Odisha coast on Tuesday. DRDO officials say the QRSAM will now need to go through user-trials before it is ready for induction into the armed forces. India, incidentally, has acquired Israeli Spyder QR-SAM units over the last few years in the absence of such indigenous systems. “The development of the indigenous QR-SAM is complete. On November 13, the QR-SAM system was successful in directly hitting the ‘Banshee’ high-performance jet unmanned aerial target, which simulates an aircraft,” said an official. “The test on Tuesday was to prove the performance parameters of the warhead. The QR-SAM system tracked the Banshee target accurately and successfully neutralized it by proximity operation of warhead activation,” he added. Defence minister Rajnath Singh and DRDO chief Dr G Satheesh Reddy congratulated the scientists for the second consecutive successful test of the QR-SAM system. The QR-SAM project was sanctioned in 2014 at an initial cost of Rs 476 crore. The QRSAM systems, includes fullyautomated command and control systems, active array battery surveillance radars, multi-function radars and the missile launchers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/desi-missile-system-successfully-tested/articleshow/79273720.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Water released in Hindon river to remove sludge||GHAZIABAD: While the irrigation department is busy cleaning the Hindon river, the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC) is cleaning ghats along the banks of the river ahead of Chhath puja. “We have released 100 cusecs of water into the Hindon river, which will wash away pollutants, so that devotees can perform the rituals properly. Hyacinth and sludge that have filled up the river would be cleaned up by Wednesday,” said an official from the irrigation department. Municipal commissioner Mahendra Singh Tawar said that they have identified 53 spots where Chhath puja would be performed, incuding ponds and society swimming pools. “As for hyacinth and sludge, efforts are on to clean those and for that, we have to restrict the flow of water in the river. The sludge we can see is because of the stoppage of the flow,” he added. Officials would be deputed along the river bank to manage crowd during the puja. “We plan to depute officials and all along the banks, we plan to set up barricades to regulate the entry and exit of people. This system will help follow social distancing norms. People without masks will not be allowed on the banks of the river,” said district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey. Police personnel would be deployed across the district during Chhath puja, officials said, and there will be heavy deployment along the banks of the river as well. Neeraj Kumar Jadaun, SP (rural), told TOI that in the rural areas, there are more than 20 places where people will perform the puja.  “We are holding meetings with people and requesting them to stay at home if possible. There are some organisers, who are organising the puja at several places. Police have asked them to allow less number of people at the venues,” he said. “Heavy police force will be deployed at the major ghats across the city, like in Muradnagar, Tronica City, Loni and Masuri. We will ask the people to follow social distancing norms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/water-released-in-hindon-river-to-remove-sludge/articleshow/79271695.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Noida||15-year-old sodomised in Greater Noida, 3 arrested||GREATER NOIDA: A 15-year-old boy has been allegedly sodomised and attacked with iron rods and bamboo sticks by four men, as he had mistakenly sprayed water on the rice harvest in their fields in a Greater Noida village. The boy’s family has alleged that he was also made to drink urine and threatened with consequences if he revealed his ordeal to anyone. Three of the men have been nabbed. “On November 10, while working on one of the fields, my son accidentally drained the rice harvest, which was kept in a pile. The next day, the four accused arrived at our house around 1pm in a white Maruti car and took him with them,” his father told TOI. The boy said that after he was picked up from home, he was lured for money and asked to work for them. “When I refused, they took me to a field and sodomised me. I was beaten up with an iron rod, plastic pipe and bamboo sticks. I was made to drink urine,” says the boy in a video revealing his ordeal. The accused have been identified as Akash Panchal, Ankit, Shivam Panchal alias Gutari and Mohit, who is on the run. Additional DCP (Greater Noida) Vishal Pandey said three of the accused have been arrested. An FIR has been lodged in the case under IPC sections 323, 504 and 377, under the POCSO Act and SC/ST Act at the Beta II police station. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect his privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Greater Noida: 15-year-old sodomised, 3 held||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/minor-sodomised-3-held/articleshow/79271703.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Five held in Bengaluru for cheating 500 job aspirants||BENGALURU: Sampigehalli police busted an interstate fake job racket by arresting five persons. The gang set up an office in Shivajinagar area and even took space on rent at Manyata Tech Park to lure job aspirants. The accused are Sai Kalyan Ram, 33 of Vijayawada, Vishwanath, 28 of Chittoor and Pattishiva, 26 of Prakasham, Gantala Dileep Kumar, 22 and Pattishiva, 26, from Vijaya Bank Layout, Bengaluru. According to police, the gang cheated at least 500 persons, mostly engineering graduates, and collected money — ranging from Rs 30,000 to 1.6 lakh — based on the nature of job they sought. Probe revealed the gang had opened a consultancy, HR India Service, and targeted aspirants uploading their CVs on other job sites. “The gang members would call the aspirants and promise them a job. Then they would ask them to visit their office and take money from them,” a police officer said. The gang opened an office in Manyata Tech Park called Cloverty Group, and issued appointment orders in the name of that group. The incident came to light on November 2, when the gang took 50 applicants to show their employer’s alleged office in Manyata Tech Park. “The gang conducted job interviews for many at the tech park and issued fake offer letters. The 50 candidates who visited the tech park on November 2 suspected something amiss after they noticed the office space was very small. They approached Sampigehalli police and filed a cheating case against the gang,” a police officer said. Arjun C, the complainant, told TOI he had completed his engineering in computer science recently and was in search of a job. “I had uploaded my CV on a job site. I received a call from HR India Services ‘representative’ who offered me a job at Cloverty Group and took Rs 70,000. The company even arranged for a 15-day online training. They offered an annual salary of Rs 4.2 lakh and told me to work from home initially and after December from the Manyata Tech Park office,” Arjun said. Arjun said other than him, one Rachana had paid Rs 75,000 to the gang, Veena KR paid Rs 70,800, Rameeth Rs 70,800, Mohammed Usman, Sanarval and Dileep Rs 30,000 each, Ranjit Rs 55,800, Naveen Kumar Rs 1.6 lakh, Sunil Kumar Rs 79,000 and Debasis Saho Rs 70,800.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/five-held-in-bengaluru-for-cheating-500-job-aspirants/articleshow/79273733.cms||---
November 18, 2020||World||Trump admin appeals against court order which stayed H-1B travel ban||The Trump administration has approached the appeals court (known as the ninth circuit) against an order of the district court, which had granted a preliminary injunction against the travel ban for H-1B and other work visa holders. In other words, it has contested for reimposition of the travel ban. As reported by TOI, in its edition of October 2, Judge Jeffrey White, had granted a preliminary injunction and had stayed the ‘proclamation’ by US President Donald Trump which temporarily banned entry for H-1B and other nonimmigrant work visa categories, at least until end of 2020. The grounds for this stay were that the US president had exceeded his constitutional authority. The proclamation dealt with a purely domestic issue — the loss of employment during a pandemic. There was no national security or foreign affairs justification, thus normal policy-making channels would be the route to follow, the judge had indicated. This lawsuit against the department homeland securi- other agenci- filed by a host associations National Association Manufacturers (NAM), business interests by the ban. Several including Apple, Amazon Microsoft had also filed amicus brief to support lawsuit. While this was class-action suit, the the preliminary was sweeping as the bulk of US employers were members of the associations who had filed the lawsuit. For instance, 14,000 US firms are members of NAM. Since June 22, when the proclamation was announced, there have been some relaxations. However, the stay by the district court, had meant that all H-1B employees would be allowed to enter the US and not merely those covered by the exclusions. Immigration attorneys told TOI, that the US government agencies in the course of their appeal, are relying on an earlier order issued by Judge Mehta which had upheld the H-1B travel ban. The Trump administration is also relying on a US Supreme Court order passed in June 2018, which had upheld the president’s travel ban against citizens from certain Muslim dominant countries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trump-admin-appeals-against-court-order-which-stayed-h-1b-travel-ban/articleshow/79273752.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||Four of family drown in Madhya Pradesh waterfall, child missing||BHOPAL: Four members of a family, including two children, drowned in Doh-Bina river near the famous Rahatgarh waterfall in Sagar on Tuesday. Among the dead are a father and daughter. Another child is missing. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan expressed grief at the deaths, and assured help. According to police, autorickshaw driver Nazir, 38, of Sagar had gone with his wife, two kids, and a few relatives to Rahatgarh falls for a picnic on Tuesday morning. His wife was preparing food when Nazir and some of the family members went into the water. Sources say it’s a restricted area as there are deep gorges in the river, where water flowing down from falls sweeps through in rapid currents. Six of them entered the gorges and got swept away, say police. Only Nazir’s 16-year-old daughter Nazia could be rescued, said Sagar additional SP Vikram Singh. The bodies of Nazir, Rubi, 14, Hina, 17, and Rozi, 20 were found. Naseem, 17, is missing. The search for him had to be called off after darkness fell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/four-of-family-drown-in-madhya-pradesh-waterfall-child-missing/articleshow/79273738.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Noida||Noida: Sector 18 to become car-free, but store owners unhappy||NOIDA: As the Noida Authority works towards making Sector 18 a vehicle-free zone, the worst sufferers are the shopkeepers. The shop owners have claimed that with the surface parking now fixed at Rs 50, as a way to deter shoppers from roadside parking, sales have been affected adversely. The deterrents have been put in place to prepare the market for Authority’s decision to make it a vehicle-free zone in the coming month. The additional chief executive officer (CEO) of the Noida Authority, Praveen Mishra said, “The market has to be made into a vehicle-free zone next month. Talks are being organised with the local traders and businessmen. Monthly passes to the shopkeepers and their staffers for multi-level parking have been already issued at highly subsidised rates.”  However, the shopkeepers have protested against the move. “In this situation, when people are trying to recover from financial losses of the year, the Authority should create an environment conducive to shopping instead of creating roadblocks for shoppers to visit. Most shop owners have opposed this decision. Rs 50 as a surface parking charge is too much for an everyday visitor or even a frequent visitor and they would gradually shy away from the market,” said Sushil Kumar Jain, the president of Sector 18 market owners association. The multilevel parking lot of Sector 18, which can host 2,800 cars, has barely been able to fill up to 200 slots in a day over the weekend. The parking facilities at Sector 18 resumed on October 2. Shop owners claim that the reopening of the parking facility has added to their problems. To woo the vehicle owners, the MLCP has offered e-rickshaws which would drop them to their destination after parking their vehicles at the parking lot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/sector-18-to-become-car-free-but-store-owners-unhappy/articleshow/79397809.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Gurgaon||20 homes and 50 structures razed, team faces protest||GURUGRAM: District officials demolished around 20 houses and 50 under construction structures in a major demolition drive in Bhondsi on Tuesday. During the six-hour long drive, the enforcement team had to face stiff resistance from the locals who tried to stop the drive forcibly. An agitated crowd of around 300 locals also tried to attack the anti-encroachment team from the town and country planning department when they started demolishing an illegal colony being developed on a 12-acre prime land. They also blocked the Sohna Road for some time. District town planner (enforcement) RS Batth said that the department had received complaints about an illegal colony with the name of Bhawani enclave being developed on 12-acre prime land in Bhondsi. “We started the drive at 10am and by the time we razed four under construction houses, locals started gathering at the site and began raising slogans. The agitators were brought under control by the police and the team was able to demolish around 20 houses, which were constructed in complete violation of building norms. Around 50 under consideration structures were also taken down,” he said. He also said most of the houses demolished during the drive were either one or two storey and construction was still going on. “It was due to a police team of 100 cops led by sub-inspector Rajesh Kumar that the unruly crowd was controlled and drive could be carried out successfully,” Batth said. He added that a few people were detained as they tried to block the Sohna Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/20-homes-and-50-structures-razed-team-faces-protest/articleshow/79271814.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy pays Rs 510 crore to farmers towards zero interest loan||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday paid 510 crore to nearly 14.6 lakh farmers across the state towards zero interest loan. He launched the payment directly into the bank accounts of farmers from his Tadepalli camp office. "You have seen a party and its government which betrayed the farmers on loan waiver and other promises. Now, you are witnessing another party fulfilling all its promises, even during the Covid-19 crisis. This is our commitment to farmers," the chief minister said. He said 132 crore has been released towards input subsidy to farmers. Even the interest on crop loans is being paid by the government, he added. The government is also paying 15,000 to each farmer under Rythu Bharosa, besides zero interest loan and other incentives. The government is also giving free borewells, paying premium for crop insurance, providing nine hours of quality power supply during day time, besides other benefits, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/andhra-pradesh-chief-minister-ys-jagan-mohan-reddy-pays-rs-510-crore-to-farmers-towards-zero-interest-loan/articleshow/79273775.cms||Gopi Dara
November 18, 2020||Gurgaon||HSPCB begins probe into excavation of Ghamroj bundh||GURUGRAM: Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) on Tuesday set up a team to investigate the unauthorised excavation of a portion of the Ghamroj Bundh by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for building a ‘rest area’ as part of the upcoming toll complex on NH-248A. The bundh, which runs for about 5-6km along Sohna road, is a natural rainwater canal that restores groundwater during the monsoon. The probe comes in the wake of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) last week directing HSPCB to take “appropriate action” in a month in this regard, while hearing a plea by Prem Mohan Gaur. The activist has alleged that the excavation was being done without mandatory approvals from the irrigation department under the Canal and Drainage Act and in violation of the Union ministry of road transport and highway guidelines. “The investigating team will find out the facts about the ongoing work on Sohna road. We have received a copy of the NGT order and met the petitioner as well. We will take corrective action if needed,” Shakti Singh, regional officer of HSPCB Gurugram, told TOI. NHAI has acquired land on Sohna road for widening of NH-248A in order to develop a toll plaza at the Bhondsi-Ghamroj border. It has also acquired permission from the forest department for cutting of trees. On one side of the road, where the bund falls, NHAI is constructing the ‘rest area’ for vehicles, which has already damaged 20% of the bundh. As per the Sohna Master Plan, 2031, no structural changes are to be made on this bundh. “Not only the excavation of Ghamroj Bundh is a violation of the Sohna Master Plan, but the construction of the road needed to build the rest house will result in the demolition of the bundh in violation of other laws too,” said Gaur, a resident of Sohna road. As per the ministry of road transport and highway’s 2013 guidelines no fuel station or rest area would be located within a distance of 1,000 metres from any barrier, including that of toll plaza and railway level crossing. This clause has also been violated by NHAI. According to a report submitted by the district administration to NGT, there are 826 water bodies in Gurugram. And 20% of them are at risk due to discharge of untreated sewage, industrial effluents or waste water into them. At a time when the city is suffering from rapid groundwater depletion, destroying a natural bundh will cause great damage. This bundh is important as rainwater and water from Sohna area get collected in the bundh and seeps into the groundwater slowly. This acts as a medium for the water to recharge the groundwater level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/hspcb-begins-probe-into-excavation-of-ghamroj-bundh/articleshow/79272074.cms||Ipsita Pati
November 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: 12-day targeted testing drive to begin on Thursday||GHAZIABAD: The UP government on Tuesday directed districts across the state to conduct targeted testing for Covid-19 in slums, markets, schools, jails, observation and shelter homes, besides government and private offices, from Thursday. The drive will be carried out till November 30. Districts have been asked to focus on symptomatic patients and people suffering from TB, cancer and respiratory issues during the drive. They have also been told to collect samples from people staying nearby. While the persons will undergo antigen testing, in case of a negative result, an RT-PCR test will also be done. To ensure better coverage, officials have been asked to focus on only five slums in a single day. They have also been asked to take the help of the public address system and local urban body councillors so that information about the testing drives is widely spread. For schools and private offices, officials have been asked to inform them about the drive in advance and ask them to ensure 100% staff attendance on the day of sample collection. Samples from students will be collected only if the schools take written consent of parents, the order stated. “For the targeted sampling, 40% of the total antigen tests being conducted daily in the district will be allocated for these groups. Likewise, 20% of RT-PCR tests will be allotted for them each day. On the first three days, the drive will be conducted in urban slums. After this, we will conduct tests in closed campuses, such as jails, including temporary jails, children observation homes, women shelter homes and old-age homes over the course of the three next days,” Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. The DM added that one day each has been kept for street vendors, schools and government and private offices, respectively. The last three days will be dedicated to markets – urban, local and weekly haats. For Ghaziabad, the state government has set a daily target of 3,500 antigen tests and 1,100 RT-PCR tests. In the wake of a series of festivals, the state government had directed districts earlier this month to conduct targeted samplings of groups like auto drivers, healthcare workers, religious clerics and employees working in salons, sweet shops, restaurants, auto and electronics showrooms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/12-day-targeted-testing-drive-to-begin-on-thursday/articleshow/79271802.cms||Aditya Dev
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Pub under renovation catches fire; no casualties||BENGALURU: A fire damaged a pub under renovation in HSR Layout on Monday. There were no casualties since there was no one inside at that time. Hangover pub was shut for renovation work 10 days ago. Residents of the locality noticed plumes of smoke billowing out of the building around noon and dialled the fire control room. Three fire tenders rushed to the spot and doused the flames by 1pm, fire brigade officials said. Officials said the building was closed and workers were busy with welding work. Scrap material lying on the first floor turned fodder for the fire. The first floor of the pub suffered extensive damages though the value of loss is yet to be estimated, officials said. “The pub was operating illegally and had flouted many rules. Civic authorities shouldn’t have given them permission to renovate,” said HE Chandrashekar, chairman, Federation of HSR Layout Residents’ Welfare Association. The pub was shut down by the excise department for violating rules and reopened after a court’s stay order, he claimed. The pub management was not available for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-pub-under-renovation-catches-fire-no-casualties/articleshow/79273780.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Two more hospitals with 115 beds may get Covid wings in Ghaziabad||GHAZIABAD: Two more private hospitals in the district — with nearly 115 beds — may start treating patients with Covid-19 by the end of this month. During a meeting with the Indian Medical Association (IMA) officials on Tuesday, the district magistrate said the plan is to increase beds in L2 and L3 facilities and has urged private doctors to open Covid wings in their hospitals. One of the hospitals is located in Lohia Nagar while the other is situated on NH-9, officials said. The hospital at Lohia Nagar has agreed to provide 100 beds, of which around 30 will be equipped with ICU facilities. DM Ajay Shankar Pandey also directed the private hospitals to ensure that no serious patient is denied treatment in want of beds. The DM also asked them to keep 20% of its capacity reserved for patients referred by the administration. Dr Ashish Kumar Agarwal, IMA president (Ghaziabad), said: “The hospital in Lohia Nagar has been asked to start its Covid-19 facility by November 25. Meanwhile, talks are going on with another hospital for the provision of 10-15 beds.” Meanwhile, three L1 government hospitals with 1,100 beds are on standby, while two L2 hospitals with 176 beds and one L3 hospital with 400 beds are functional in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/2-more-hospitals-with-115-beds-may-get-covid-wings/articleshow/79271810.cms||Aditya Dev
November 18, 2020||Noida||Greater Noida: Dialysis, more beds at Sharda hospital’s ICU wards||GREATER NOIDA: With the number of Covid cases expected to rise after the festive week, Sharda hospital in Greater Noida on Tuesday increased the number of ICU beds. While the ICU beds have been increased from 30 to 75, the number of HDU beds remains the same. Besides, the ICU wards will also have a dialysis facility in eight beds. The hospital will also increase ventilators from 30 to 55 and HFNO machines from 5 to 10. The decision was taken at a meeting headed by chancellor PK Gupta on Tuesday. Those present in the meeting include Dr Ashutosh Niranjan, medical superintendent and Dr MC Misra, former director trauma centre AIIMS, who is currently in charge of critical care at the hospital. “We are getting many referral cases from the administration as well as other districts such as Agra and Delhi apart from rising numbers,” said Gupta. Further, to manage the additional ICU beds, the medical and the paramedical team will also be strengthened. “We will be adding 50 more nurses to the team of the existing 60. Also, experts such as anaesthetist and emergency medicines experts will be increased by from 18 to 25,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, joint registrar of Sharda hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/dialysis-more-beds-at-sharda-hospitals-icu-wards/articleshow/79271815.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
November 18, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad zooms in on 1,800 plots with garbage||GHAZIABAD: The Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) has identified more than 1,800 vacant plots where garbage is dumped almost daily. The authority has now issued notices to the land owners asking them to clear the trash. If the garbage is not cleared soon, the owners might have to give up their land, officials said. Recently, the GDA concluded identified 1,835 vacant plots under its area. “According to the rules, a plot cannot be left vacant for more than five years. But that rule is not being followed as a result of which, it has become convenient for people to use such plots as dumping grounds,” a GDA official said.  “After several complaints from residents’ associations and individuals, we conducted a survey and identified 1,835 vacant plots across all our zones. We have issued notices to the plot owners, asking them to clear the trash. If that is not done, it could result in the people losing ownership over their land. At the same time, efforts are being made to clean the garbage,” he added. Alok Kumar from the Apartment Owners’ Association Federation said: “Vacant plots used as dumping ground is a common sight in the city and has been causing a lot of problems for residents, especially in areas like Indirapuram. In the past, we had reminded the GDA to take action, but it seems the officials have failed to do so.” He added: “Apart from clearing the area, we have also asked the GDA to ensure that proper fencing is done for each plot, which will deter people from dumping trash in these areas.” Ashish Kumar, a resident of Amrapali Village Apartments, said a plot near their society is full of garbage. He said usually, people dump trash late at night and it is difficult to spot them. “Once when I objected to it, I was told that the designated dumping ground is far from the township. The problem of garbage dumping has increased now that Indirapuram’s Shakti Khand dump yard has been shut after an NGT order,” he said. The development authority had decided to shift the dump yard to another place in Galand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabad-zooms-in-on-1-8k-plots-with-garbage/articleshow/79271822.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru violence: Congress softens stand after Sampath Raj’s arrest, says won’t defend him||BENGALURU: After the arrest of former mayor Sampath Raj in connection with the August 11 violence in east Bengaluru, the Congress appeared to have mellowed down in defending its senior functionary. “Nobody is above the law. We’ll neither defend him nor blame him for the riots till he’s proven guilty by the court,” said opposition leader Siddaramaiah. KPCC president DK Shivakumar said: “We all must respect the law. But it was wrong to say Sampath Raj was absconding. He was in fact taking rest after he was infected with Covid-19 virus. The ruling party is trying to misuse the law by saying that he was at large.” However, party MLA Akhanda Srinivasamurthy, whose house was attacked during the riots, said those who committed mistakes should be punished. “If Sampath Raj was innocent, why was he not cooperating with the investigation? Why did he run in the middle of the night from the hospital where he was reportedly receiving treatment for Covid-19? He behaved like a criminal by running away from the hospital,” he said. He said the 50-year-old house built by his parents was burnt down. “Police stations and vehicles were also torched. The offenders should be punished. I thank the government, police and the people who helped me during these trying times,” he added. “Raj’s arrest was based on a complaint filed by a Congress MLA. There is enough evidence against him. If he was an innocent, why did he hide? His arrest will help police crack the case and identify persons behind the violence," home minister Basavaraj Bommai told media persons in Bengaluru on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-violence-congress-softens-stand-after-sampath-rajs-arrest-says-wont-defend-him/articleshow/79273793.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Noida||With population on rise, Greater Noida takes multipronged approach to manage waste||GREATER NOIDA: Anticipating an exponential population growth in the next decade, the Greater Noida Authority has adopted a multipronged strategy for solid waste management. Officials hope the new strategy will help accomplish the city’s seamless garbage management goal in three years. The city generates approximately 300 metric tonnes of waste daily. Greater Noida’s population has been on a steady rise for the past couple of years, with new residents moving into completed real estate projects. With the Jewar international airport and an electronic city to be built alongside, the city’s population is only expected to rise as it stands to be sandwiched between Noida and Jewar in years to come. The solid waste management in the city, officials said, will be soon streamlined on a mobile app. A beta version of the app has already been created and base data of door-to-door garbage collection uploaded on the same. After the initial tests, the app will be rolled out to track garbage clearance in the city from source to recycling. “We are working on a comprehensive plan, which will take us three years to execute fully. An app is being developed for centralised door-to-door collection and waste management for Greater Noida. Base data has been uploaded and the app will be tested successfully before it’s rolled out for residents,” said Narendra Bhooshan, CEO of GNIDA. The solid waste management includes construction and demolition waste management, rural waste management and domestic waste management. “We have adapted a cascading strategy that includes all kinds of waste management and this will take 2-3 years, but tenders have been awarded or will be awarded for all activities soon. Currently, decentralized waste management, door-to-door collection of garbage and processing of waste is being processed for five residential clusters,” Bhooshan said. The Astoli plant meant for recycling the city’s waste too is under construction, officials said. “We are going to release fresh tenders for the remediation of existing dump sites. We have already issued requests for proposals (RFP) for management of construction and demolition waste. An RFP for centralised door-to-door collection and processing of waste is to be issued soon. We will also hire an agency for manual sweeping,” the CEO said. In the rural areas of Greater Noida, the Authority, in collaboration with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), has already started a project to convert dung to biogas. ‘Two NGOs have been engaged for community awareness drives. All villages of Greater Noida are being counselled to set up biogas plants to manage dung-waste. The consultancy is being provided by IARI, which has conducted a survey,” he said. Despite the initiatives by GNIDA, environmentalists have flagged an issue with frequent instances of garbage dumping at various sites in the city. “Plastic waste and industrial waste are frequently being dumped at various sites of Greater Noida villages. We have lodged complaints with the pollution control department and GNIDA, but it doesn’t seem to stop. These are not local garbage,” said environmentalist Ramveer Tanwar. The Authority CEO said that since the UPSIDC areas do not have a proper garbage maintenance system, “sometimes their waste is dumped in Greater Noida”. “And sometimes Ghaziabad garbage is dumped here. We have at times tracked these violators and fined them, but people just do not follow the rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/with-population-on-rise-greater-noida-takes-multipronged-approach-to-manage-waste/articleshow/79271844.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||International drug dealer absconding since 2018 nabbed at Bengaluru airport||BENGALURU: In what the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) sleuths described as a “prize catch”, an international drug manufacturer-cum-smuggler, who was dealing in ketamine worth crores of rupees and smuggling the substance extensively to Southeast Asian countries from Kalaburagi, was nabbed at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) on Friday. Jignesh Bhanushali, 45, had fled the country in mid-2018 after DRI raided his drug-manufacturing unit and arrested three of his accomplices. Sources with the Bengaluru zonal unit of DRI identified Bhanushali as a resident of Thane, Maharashtra, who had been hiding in various parts of Southeast Asia for the last two years. “We had issued a look out circular against Bhanushali’s passport after large quantities of ketamine were seized from his manufacturing unit in Osmanabad, Maharashtra in 2018. On Friday, he arrived at Bengaluru airport from Dubai and was intercepted by immigration authorities, who alerted us. We apprehended the international drug dealer, who is a big fish in the Southeast Asian drug syndicates,” a Bengaluru DRI investigator said. Earlier, the Bengaluru DRI unit had followed a vital tip that large quantities of ketamine hydrochloride, a prescribed sedative which is used as a recreational drug, was being illegally manufactured and smuggled to Bengaluru, rest of Karnataka, Chennai and other cities in the south. On January 11, 2018, the sleuths intercepted a car on a highway on the outskirts of Hyderabad and found ketamine weighing 45.9kg concealed inside. Questioning the smugglers in the car revealed that the drugs worth a whopping Rs 22.9 crore were being transported from a factory in Omerga, Maharashtra, a town bordering Karnataka. “The following day, our team raided the factory premises in MIDC Omerga, Osmanabad, operating in the name of Pragati Electrical Work. However, not much was discovered except for the fact that it was indeed a clandestine ketamine-manufacturing unit. A sudden raid of the premises six months later (on June 11, 2018) after a thorough probe helped unearth 9.7kg of manufactured ketamine hydrochloride worth Rs 1.9 crore, which was scheduled to be smuggled out,” the officer added. Three men connected to the factory were arrested by the DRI, but the drug operation’s kingpin, Bhanushali managed to flee the country. “Our probe revealed Bhanushali had been operating secretly for five years with Kalaburagi as his base and was manufacturing and supplying ketamine from the factory in Omerga, mainly to Bengaluru, Chennai and Hyderabad. He developed strong links with international drug syndicates in parts of Southeast Asian countries by supplying them ketamine from here,” the Bengaluru officer added. Bhanushali, who had been hiding in different countries, including Thailand and Malaysia, with the help of international drug gangs, reached Dubai recently and flew down to Bengaluru on Friday night. He was booked under NDPS Act and has been lodged in prison, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/international-drug-dealer-absconding-since-2018-nabbed-at-bengaluru-airport/articleshow/79273813.cms||Petlee Peter
November 18, 2020||Vijayawada||Red sanders from Andhra Pradesh being smuggled to fund Tamil Nadu elections?||KADAPA: Is money from smuggling of Andhra Pradesh’s precious red sanders wood being used to fund the May 2021 assembly election in Tamil Nadu? Police in Rayalaseema and Red Sanders Anti-Smuggling Task Force (RSASTF) sleuths say most of the smugglers they have arrested recently are from Tamil Nadu and work independently without local involvement. Officials add the smuggling racket has multiple stages, from a woodcutter to an international smuggler. As these stages have separate modules, each having no link with the other, it is difficult to nail the politicians involved. But they are in the process of establishing links after making a number of arrests. The smugglers are mainly targeting the Seshachalam forest. Post-lockdown, Kadapa, Chittoor and Kurnool district police and RSASTF personnel arrested several of them. Kadapa police had earlier arrested Anaicut Babu of Vellore district. Babu is believed to have links with a prominent political party in Tamil Nadu. He also has links with accused smugglers such as Madhavan and Mustafa of Chennai, Thiruthani Mani of Thiruthani and Arcot Bhai of Vellore. Kadapa SP K K Anburajan said movement of smugglers had increased manifold in Kadapa forests. ‘Red sanders smuggled via ports and roadways’Yes, there is a link between the red sanders smugglers and the upcoming Tamil Nadu elections,” the Kadapa SP said. Most of the smuggled wood goes out of the country via seaports or land via Myanmar and Bangladesh. Anburajan told TOI, “A few families from Tamil Nadu have migrated to Myanmar and been playing a key role in the smuggling. The prized wood is smuggled out via north-eastern states.” A number of woodcutters and masons were arrested in September and October in Chittoor and Kadapa. Cops said the woodcutters came to Seschalam in hired vehicles. Cops arrested one Shaik Abdul Hakim from Kuniyamuthur near Coimbatore on November 8 in connection with smuggling of red sanders on November 2. Five woodcutters were charred to death when they were travelling in hit the diesel tank of a lorry in Kadapa. The incident occurred when Hakim was trying to hijack the car carrying red sanders logs with the help of another gang. Police also arrested another gang led by Velumaliey Veeraraghavan Settiyar on November 8. RSASTF reserve inspector Bhaskar said they have booked 12 cases of red sanders smuggling in October alone. “Except in one case involving local smuggler Srinivas Reddy, the rest are from Tamil Nadu,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/red-sanders-from-andhra-pradesh-being-smuggled-to-fund-tamil-nadu-elections/articleshow/79273814.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 18, 2020||Bhopal||Rs 550 crore cracker of Diwali business in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Although the Diwali sales in different sectors could not touch the last year‘s figure, it was enough to bring smile on the faces of the business fraternity. With estimates putting the business at Rs 550 crore, Diwali turned out to be happy for the trading class in Bhopal after the Covid gloom. Last year, the festival business in the city was worth Rs 750 crore. Statewide, Diwali sales were pegged at Rs 3,500 crore to Rs 4,000 crore this year, said market analysts. Incidentally, Dhanteras, the auspicious day for buying, spilled over to two days this year. On Dhanteras alone, business of around Rs 250 crore-Rs 300 crore was estimated in the state capital. This includes automobile, jewellery, consumer durables like electronics, utensils and crackers and realty sectors. Auto Up 5% Over 2019This sector, particularly the brisk sale of four-wheelers, gave the biggest boost to the market on Diwali season this year. As per the dealers, around Rs 350 cr sale was registered in the automobile sector. Encouraging sales was witnessed in the four-wheeler segment. This could be gauged from the fact that around 4,800-5,000 four-wheeler sales were recorded. Bhopal car dealers include sales in Bhopal also with the sales in Sehore, Vidisha, Raisen and Beora as the dealers are the same. This year around 5% growth in car sales was registered comparing 2019. Highest sale was registered in low segment cars. “Four-wheelers were sold out on the first day of Dhanteras itself. Yet, enquiries and booking were coming. There were no four-wheelers in stock but a lot of them were in transit and they are being delivered to waiting buyers, who had booked their vehicles before Diwali. This boom will continue till the new year at least”, said Ashish Pandey, president of Bhopal Automobiles Association. Unlike the car segment, sales in two-wheelers witnessed a negative growth of around 20% comparing 2019. This year around 13,000 two wheelers were sold. Pandey said that car sales was encouraging. “Despite corona effect the fourwheeler sale was beyond the expectations. The sale could have been even better but the stock was not exhausted. Due to this reason several deliveries were postponed. People are preferring their own car instead of cabs or any other vehicle,” said Pandey. He added that the sector performed as per the expectations in four wheelers. But, the situation was different in the two-wheeler sector. Particularly at a bigger place like Bhopal, two-wheeler market saw a drop in sales. At smaller towns and semi-urban areas, sales were comparitively OK but at Bhopal, there was definitely a drop of 20 percent”, he said. Spark In Electronics MartThis sector has touched the same figure as the last year. Showroom owners and vendors said that people have come out in huge crowds for buying electronics. Around Rs 55 cr electronic goods were sold in Dilwai season. Dealers said that the consumer electronics were also as per the expectations. “It was expected that the electronic goods would be sold close to last year’s sale. Thankfully, the sale was close to the last year,” said Dharmendra Kumar, a shopkeeper. Same was the situation in other electronic items like mixie, kitchen accessories, fridge and light decoration products. Shopkeepers across the state capital were enthused by the response of the customers. “It is yet not as it was in 2019 but quite encouraging. As Dhanteras was for two days, we were hoping that more and more customers would buy the goods and the same thing happened,” said Vineet Sharma, a shopkeeper. This year the highest sale was again registered on TV. The sales of laptop and mobiles also saw a boom with the two commodities becoming more important for children than their parents in many cases and work-from-home culture in vogue during the Covid-19 pandemic. Utensils Retain ShineUtensils market maintained the rhythm like it was last year. Shopkeepers said that this was because buying the utensils has been considered pious on Dhateras. “It was obvious to have the same sale as people whether they are from lower strata or from elite class they would always buy utensils. According to the Puranas, buying gold and silver ornaments, vehicles and utensils is considered the most auspicious in Pushya Nakshatra Yoga. According to traders, this year, a copper griddle and new types of cookers have been introduced in the market, which customers are very fond of. Especially people are becoming aware about health and are using more and more copper utensils. According to the businessmen, companies have introduced a new variety of utensils used in refreshments and restaurants in the market. All utensils are made of copper and steel. Their exterior is covered with copper and steel inside. Jewellery GlittersThis segment also maintained the same sale as it was in 2019 except a normal dip. Traders said that the sale of jewellery has also been safe so people would not hesitate in putting money in buying it. They said as the bullion market is back on track the expected sale would be also encouraging. As the wedding season is coming people are buying it in large numbers considering the functions in the homes. The sale could have been better but this year marriage muhurats are not available after December 13 till march end next year. Due to this the people had postponed the jewelry shopping. “It played spoilsport somewhere. We were hoping that the sale would take over the last year. However, the picture was different. Nevertheless, the sale touched almost the last year figure” said a shopkeeper Vikrant Jain. Doors Open For HousingThe Realty sector, which is facing tough times for quite some time, also appears to be on the recovery path with people booking and buying flats. houses and plots. On Diwali, it was at its peak with the registry office giving extra slots for registry of houses and plots. Saurabh Mishra, a builder, when asked about the response to the realty sector on the occasion of Diwali, said “It was a boom time. Even builders, who had not sold much of property in the past two-three years selling a lot of houses and plots. Following Corona scare, what the people are doing on priority is to get at least a flat for themselves.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/rs-550-crore-cracker-of-diwali-business-in-bhopal/articleshow/79273798.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Punjab: Allow trains, industrialists urge farmers||PATIALA: With disruption of freight trains in Punjab forcing industrialists to appeal to farmers’ unions in Punjab to go soft on the movement of passenger trains, farmers’ leaders said a final decision would be taken by farm bodies collectively in their meeting on Wednesday. Industrialists told farmers that their agitation had upended industrial activity because the Union government had found a reason to stop freight trains as farmers were not allowing passenger trains. Industrialists in Ludhiana associated with the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), urged farmers’ bodies to protest in a way that industry in Punjab was not affected. They said they saw a window of opportunity as imports from China were plugged but halting of freight trains by the Union government had an adverse impact on the industry in Punjab. CII Ludhiana zonal vice-chairman Arshpreet Sahni said, “We have coordinated with farmers’ leaders and requested them to shape their agitation in a way that it may not harm the industry in Punjab as industrialists are also supporting farmers. Textile exports have been badly affected and industrialists in Ludhiana, a textile hub, have incurred huge losses. Train is the cheapest mode of transportation for a number of industrialists. Industrial units and traders of agriculture and auto parts as well as hand tools manufacturers have been affected. Dry fruit businessmen in Amritsar and other parts are also affected as winter has started but import and export has been disrupted.” While farm leaders said they may consider the request of industrialists, a final decision on the movement of passenger trains will be taken collectively by farm unions by Wednesday. Jagmohan Singh, BKU (Dakaunda) general secretary said, “We will consider the request of industrialists and the decision to allow or disallow passenger trains in Punjab will be taken collectively. We do not want to cause losses to Punjab. Our main agenda for Wednesday’s meeting is the protest in Delhi and Delhi Chalo agitation as the Delhi police have denied permission to farmers to protest despite the Ramleela ground management and Delhi Municipal Corporation granting permission to us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/allow-train-movement-industrialists-appeal-to-farmers-unions/articleshow/79270854.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Not against corporates, but need to protect farmers: Punjab CM Amarinder Singh||CHANDIGARH: Expressing concern over the difference of opinion between the state and the Centre on agricultural bills, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday said he was not against corporates but there has to be a regulation to protect farmers and long-standing relationship they have with arhtiyas. Speaking at the virtual inaugural session of the USA-Punjab Investors’ Roundtable 2020, he said, “Any attempt to do away with this system will not work.” He said his government had brought in bills in the Punjab legislative assembly “to negate the impact of the central farm laws and had also taken up the issue with the Prime Minister”. “We have to ensure food security, what is plenty today may not be there tomorrow,” he pointed out, adding that while India was currently exporting wheat it did not mean that the surplus food grains will remain forever. The country has to keep its reserves, he said Appreciating the growing interest of American companies in Punjab, which contributes 3% to India’s GDP with just 1.5% of the country’s land area, Amarinder said while it was predominantly an agricultural state and home to India’s Green Revolution earlier, his government wanted agriculture to become more high-value now, with greater growth in the overseas market. Inviting the investors to enjoy the state’s unique business-friendly culture that promoted entrepreneurship, he pointed out that the USA was the top export destination (USD 685 million amounting to approx. 12% of Punjab’s total exports in 2019-20) for Punjab-based companies. On the role played by Punjabi NRI population in the US, he said they were working hard to bring success to their countries, with Taranjit Singh Sandhu, currently serving as the Indian Ambassador to the US, a prime example of the synergy that exists between USA & Punjab.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/not-against-corporates-but-need-regulation-to-protect-farmers-interests-capt/articleshow/79271207.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: PU teachers will soon get appointment letters||BENGALURU: Appointment orders will be issued to PU lecturers who were recruited and provided with postings through counselling. The order comes following a week-long protest staged in October by hundreds of candidates who were recruited as lecturers but not issued appointment orders by the department of pre-university education. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar made the announcement following a meeting with education department officials on Tuesday. On November 20, the chief minister will symbolically hand out the appointment letters to candidates. Kumar said the recruitment orders will come into effect from the day colleges start and before that the new lecturers would be trained on departmental rules, administration, team management, recruitment, etc. He added that due to uncertainty over reopening of school and colleges, the department couldn’t pass the orders earlier. The minister said the transfer process of PU lecturers will begin on November 23. In the next session, a lecturer-friendly transfer policy will be implemented. At the meeting, the minister asked officials to fill vacancies of teachers in primary and secondary education departments in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-pu-teachers-will-soon-get-appointment-letters/articleshow/79273836.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sewage tank without a lid kills 4-year-old in Kashimira||MUMBAI: A four-year-old girl enjoying Diwali sparklers on Sunday died after allegedly falling into an open septic tank of a newly constructed public toilet at Kashimira in Mira Road. Asifa Ansari was watching children burst crackers and sparklers at Neelkamal Naka around 6.30 pm. While other children returned home after the entertainment, Asifa did not. Her parents approached the Kashimira police station and a search was launched. Other children told the police they had been bursting crackers on the open ground near the toilet. The policec found Asifa’s body floating in the open septic tank. The fire brigade reached the spot and brought out the body. Asifa’s father, Mustafa, blamed the Mira-Bhayander Municipal Corporation for the open tank. Locals said the toilet block was recently built by the municipality. They said the septic tank had had a cement lid when it was made but it had soon given way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-sewage-tank-without-a-lid-kills-4-year-old-in-kashimira/articleshow/79273863.cms||Sandhya Nair
November 18, 2020||Bengaluru||Foundation ceremony for Bengaluru City University upkeep works put off||BENGALURU: The foundation stone-laying ceremony for the redevelopment of Bengaluru City University campus has been postponed. While syndicate members had opposed the project alleging they had not approved it, vicechancellor S Japhet said the programme has been deferred because the chief minister is unavailable on Wednesday. Four BCU syndicate members protested in front of the VC’s office on Tuesday morning. The VC then called for an urgent syndicate meeting at 4.30pm. “The CM is travelling to Delhi, hence the programme has been postponed. It is not because syndicate members had opposed it. We have got administrative approval from the government. The engineering division of the health and family welfare department will do the work,” the VC said after the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/foundation-ceremony-for-bengaluru-city-university-upkeep-works-put-off/articleshow/79273861.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Indu Raj Narwal takes oath, credits his victory to Hoodas||CHANDIGARH: Indu Raj Narwal, newly-elected Congress MLA who defeated BJP nominee Yogeshwar Dutt to win the Baroda by-election on Monday, took oath as MLA here. Speaker Gian Chand Gupta administered the oath. Narwal, popularly known as Bhalu in the constituency, credited his victory to leader of opposition Bhupinder Hooda and his Rajya Sabha MP son Deepender Hooda. Deepender accompanied Induraj to the Haryana Vidhan Sabha secretariat with other MLAs. “My victory is the beginning of a new chapter of development and progress under the reign of Bhupinder Hooda and Deepender Hooda. This is also the outcome of rejection of BJP-JJP claims by the electorate,’’ said Induraj Narwal. Interacting with media persons at the assembly, Deepender Hooda said the BJP-JJP alliance had pushed the state towards bankruptcy. “The way Induraj has registered the win, Congress is sure to get more than 70 seats in the next assembly elections. You see how this alliance and their  managers had resorted to all kind of gimmicks to lure voters but Baroda has rejected them,’’ said Deepender Hooda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/narwal-takes-oath-credits-his-victory-to-hoodas/articleshow/79270907.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Notice to HSVP over plot rights of oustee’s legal heir||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has issued a notice to Haryana Shehri Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) on a plea against the denial of plots under the oustees’ quota to the legal heirs of original landowners whose land was acquired for development of housing sectors in the state. The division bench comprising Justice Jaswant Singh and Justice Sant Parkash of the HC has issued the notice after taking cognizance of a petition filed by Inderjit Yadav, 50, a resident of Wazirabad, Gurgaon. The petitioner has submitted that his father was owner of the land which was acquired by HSVP for the development of Sector 52, 55, 56 and 57 in the Urban Estate Gurgaon. Earlier, his father had applied for allotment of a plot in Sector 57 Urban Estate along with earnest money in 2004, but his claim remained pending. After his father’s death in 2013, the petitioner had also applied for allotment of a 10-marla plot under the oustees’ quota from HSVP being the only legal heir of his father whose land was acquired for the developing these sectors. However, his claim was rejected by HSVP Gurgaon only on the ground that the petitioner was not the recorded owner of the acquired land in the revenue record on the date of notification issued for acquisition of land. His father was the owner of the acquired land in the revenue record when Section 4 notification was issued by HSVP for the development of Sector 52, 55, 56 and 57 in the Urban Estate Gurgaon, thus his claim was rejected. Challenging the rejection, the petitioner has contended that there is nothing mentioned in the oustees’ policy that legal heirs cannot apply for the allotment of plot under the oustees’ category. “Since HSVP has specifically mentioned in the policy that the acquired land can be returned to the legal heir of the original owner, why his legal heir is not entitled for claim under oustees’ quota? HSVP have been taking different stands in the oustees’ claim, which is contrary to the law and policies,” the counsel for the petitioner had submitted. Now the matter would come up for hearing on December 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-notice-to-hsvp-over-denial-of-plot-to-oustees-legal-heir/articleshow/79270930.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Haryana: Rs 45 crore fine slapped on 64 liquor licencees||CHANDIGARH: Faced with severe criticism on account of mismatch of stocks in inventory inspection during lockdown, Haryana excise and taxation department has imposed a penalty of Rs 45.83 crore on 64 L1 licensees (distributors) as well as (L13) retailers. Officials had taken inventory of their stock on March 25 when lockdown was imposed. When they checked again in May, the stock was found to be lesser than the stock they had in March. Sources said maximum penalty of over Rs 9 crore has been imposed on two L1 licensees and one L13 licensee of Karnal district. The lowest penalty of Rs 5,000 has been imposed on an L1 licensee from Jind. Some of the appeals against notices served to licensees are still pending with Ashutosh Rajan, joint commissioner of excise and taxation (appeals) for final disposal. These 64 licensees have been directed to deposit the penalties at the earliest. Enquiries revealed that 64 licensees had lesser stock than they did in the previous inventory. Besides Karnal, other distributors are from Panchkula, Kurukshetra, Rohtak, Karnal, Fatehabad, Faridabad and Kaithal, where penalty of over Rs 1.50 crore has been imposed on one of the distributors. Also, there are 11 licensees where stocks were found to be more than the actual inventory with the district excise and taxation department. “These cases have been sent to DETCs for further action. Some other cases related to shortage of stocks have also been referred to district officers as the licensees had given some documents with their reply,’’ a senior official in the excise and taxation department said, adding that they hope for early recovery of penalties. Anurag Rastogi, principal secretary and financial commissioner and Shekhar Vidyarthi, director general of the department confirmed the development. “This is an ongoing process and we have given sufficient opportunity to licensees to clear their position,’’ said Rastogi. Haryana’s excise and taxation department came into the limelight after the theft of liquor seized from a private-turned-official godown at Kharkhoda of Sonipat district. Huge stock of seized liquor was found from the godown. Meanwhile, stocks of L1 licenses came under scanner in Fatehabad and Panipat districts as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-45-83-crore-penalty-imposed-on-64-liquor-licensees/articleshow/79270953.cms||Manvir Saini
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Cane farmers block highway over pending payments||Ambala: Sugarcane farmers on Tuesday held a protest meeting outside Naraingarh Sugar Mill at Banondi village in Shahzadpur area of Ambala district to demand pending payments of about Rs 19.5 crore. The farmers under the leadership of BKU (Charuni) Ambala unit chief Malkiat Singh Sahibpura started gathering outside the mill at about 10.30am and protested till 2pm. When the officials of the sugar mill and district administration did not come to listen to the farmers for long, they blocked National Highway-7 for about 15-20 minutes. Following the road blockade, Naraingarh tehsildar Dinesh Dhillon accompanied by DSP Anil Kumar, SHO Shahzadpur sub-inspector (SI) Chander Bhan and mill’s vice-president Nageshwar Rao and officials reached the spot. The farmers blocked the road for a short period and cleared the blockade when the officials reached the spot to meet them, the tehsildar said. Malkiat said, “Initially, the officials of district administration and mill management were attempting to ignore the farmers, forcing us to block the highway. They came late from the given time and promised to clear the payments partially. If the promise is not kept, then we will be forced to launch an agitation.” Naraingarh sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Vaishali Sharma said, “After meeting the protesting farmers, the mill management promised to clear pending payments of Rs 7.5 crore by next week and that all dues (about Rs 12 crore) of previous season will be cleared by December 20. The farmers have been assured that the mill would start its crushing operations for this season from November 23 onwards.” Sources said the mill had been waiting for payment of Rs 7.5 crore of its power generation from the government side. SDM Sharma said, “The government owes Rs 7.5 crore towards power generation by Naraingarh sugar mill and the payment is expected to be released by next week. In next season we are also trying to increase revenue of mill by expanding its power generation capacity. This would further strengthen balance sheet of mill thus ensuring regular payments on time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cane-farmers-block-highway-over-pending-payments/articleshow/79270977.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Jind farmers block road after sugarcane mill develops snag||Jind: Angry farmers blocked the Jind-Patiala national highway after the sugarcane mill developed a technical fault and stopped working. The road remained blocked for around four hours, due to which commuters were forced to wait till the blockade was lifted. Finally, DC Aditya Dahiya and other officials reached the spot and pacified the farmers, who lifted the blockade. The mill, which was inaugurated by Haryana cooperation minister Banwari Lal on November 10, has been facing technical issues frequently. The farmers parked their tractors and trolleys on the road in large numbers. Chand Singh, a farmer from Pillu Khera village, who reached the sugarcane mill, said, “I have been waiting to sell sugarcane for the past three days but in vain. The weight of sugarcane has been decreasing by the day and farmers are forced to bear huge loss. The mill has received crores of rupees but it has not been working well since it was inaugurated. Even farmers give Rs 1 per quintal from sugarcane and the mill gets lakhs but nothing has been done in the name of development and sorting out issues,” he said. Farmers said they informed the deputy commissioner and when authorities failed to meet their demands, they blocked the national highway. Jind DC Aditya Dahiya said, “We have sent the sugarcane in Kaithal’s mill till the technical issue is sorted out. We hope that the issue is resolved in a day. Three employees who did not play their role well have been transferred from the mill.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jind-farmers-block-road-after-sugarcane-mill-develops-snag/articleshow/79271015.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Chd court issues bailable warrants against Sukhbir in defamation case||Chandigarh: A Chandigarh court issued bailable warrants against SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal in a criminal defamation case on Tuesday. The case was filed by Akhand Kirtani Jatha president Rajinder Pal Singh against Sukhbir, then deputy chief minister of Punjab, in the Chandigarh district courts, in January 2017 to challenge the SAD leader’s statement in which he called the complainant an extremist and termed the jatha as frontal organisation of Babbar Khalsa International (BKI). The matter will come up for hearing on November 27. According to the complaint, Akhand Kirtani Jatha is a religious organisation which consists largely of baptised Sikhs and the statement by Sukhbir was defamatory and had badly hit both the petitioner’s image as well as that of the outfit around the world. The court had summoned Sukhbir multiple times but he failed to appear. The petitioner’s lawyer said Sukhbir had issued a statement before the enquiry officer mentioning his address as House Number 256, Sector 9, Chandigarh. Since the said statement was signed by Sukhbir, he was well aware of the proceedings and was deliberately evading them, he told the court. The summoning orders were passed after the Chandigarh Police submitted a factual inquiry report in court on November 28, 2019, stating that the news reports were “correct” on the basis of which jatha spokesperson Rajinder filed a criminal defamation case. The inquiry report submitted by sub-inspector Jaspal Singh read: “I thoroughly verified the news as alleged above from the publication of concerned newspapers of Chandigarh edition and... found to be correct. I also verified that video clip... it is also found that the alleged statements are made in Jalalabad, Punjab, during Punjab Vidhan Sabha election 2019.” Rajinder and Sukhbir’s statements were recorded during inquiry. “The complainant supported the version of his complaint but Sukhbir Badal denied the allegations levelled in the complaint against him,” the report reads. Complainant’s counsel advocate P I P Singh stated, “On January 4, 2017, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited house of complainant R P Singh. Following this, a statement was given by Sukhbir Badal in political rallies that Kejriwal comes to Punjab and starts liaisoning with radicals. After my client had breakfast with Kejriwal, he associated R P Singh with Babbar Khalsa International (BKI), which is defamatory. My client has nothing to do with Babbar Khalsa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chd-court-issues-bailable-warrants-against-sukhbir-in-defamation-case/articleshow/79271068.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Thane||Two minors suffer burns in Thane septic tank blast||THANE: Two boys suffered major burn injuries following an explosion allegedly triggered by a lighted fire-cracker coming in contact with flammable gases from a septic tank at Dharamveer Nagar in Thane late Tuesday evening. Civic officials said the incident occurred around 8pm at the BSUP cluster complex. The boys, aged eight and 12, were rushed to a local hospital by residents. “A stray spark from crackers might have come in contact with the gases accumulated over the tank and led to the blast,” said senior inspector Jitendra Rathod of Chitalsar Manpada police station. Meanwhile, the Mumbai police registered 21 FIRs under the IPC against firecracker sellers and those bursting fire-crackers between November 13 and November 17. Nineteen other cases were also registered under the special local act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/two-minors-suffer-burns-in-thane-septic-tank-blast/articleshow/79273914.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Chandigarh||Farmers’ protests have landed Punjab in economic crisis: CII||Chandigarh: Expressing concern over the state of Punjab’s economy in the wake of the economic and rail blockade by farmer organisations, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) urged the Centre and state governments as well as farmers’ organisations to find an amicable solution. According to estimates by Sunder Sham Arora, Punjab industries and commerce minister, industries in Ludhiana and Jalandhar alone have reported a loss of Rs 22,000 crore. According to the state agriculture department, 60,000 gunny bags are stuck in Delhi and Rajpura, hindering lifting of paddy crop from grain markets. Rahul Ahuja, chairman, CII Punjab state council and managing director, Rajnish International said, “In a democracy, everyone has the right to represent their cause to peaceful protests and agitation. We understand that farmers may have some reservations with respect to the recently passed farm Acts. However, this agitation is now causing economic losses not only to large businesses but even the local industry, labour in factories, logistic providers, small grocery stores who are unable to get the supply, daily wage earners and even small farmers who were selling fresh and processed farm produce through large format stores.” Ahuja said the longer this blockade continues, the more harm it will cause to the overall image of Punjab as an investment and business destination, which the state governments, both present as well as previous, had tried to build. Bhavdeep Sardana, vice-chairman, CII Punjab state, said, “The ongoing agitation and blockade has had an adverse effect on all ends, be it the supply of raw material and semi-finished goods to our factories or export-bound shipments carrying basmati, yarn and textiles, hand tools, sports and leather goods and other items stuck in various inland container depots and container freight stations.” CII also requested for a meeting with the Punjab chief minister to apprise the government of the hardships being faced by the industry and businesses in the state and seek help to bring the crisis to an end.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-protests-have-landed-punjab-in-economic-crisis-cii/articleshow/79271085.cms||---
November 18, 2020||Ludhiana||AAP functionary, four others charred to death in Sangrur accident||PATIALA: Five persons, including an AAP functionary, were charred to death in Punjab’s Sangrur district after their car caught fire following a collision with a light commercial vehicle (LCV) near Sivia village. All the five occupants were returning to their native place in Moga after attending a wedding reception on Monday night. The accident occurred on the Sangrur-Sunam road around 11.30 pm. Sangrur Sadar station house officer (SHO) Rakesh Kumar said, “All five died on the spot within minutes of the accident as their car had caught fire and the occupants did not get time to come out as the doors got locked.” Police have registered a case of rash driving and negligence causing death at Sadar Sangrur police station against an unidentified truck driver who escaped from the spot. Police officials said the postmortem of all the five deceased was done at the civil hospital, Sangrur, after the family members identified their bodies. The deceased have been identified as Capt Sukhvinder Singh (retd), who was former president of AAP’s ex-servicemen wing of Moga, Dr Balwinder Singh, Kultar Singh, Surinder Singh and Chamkaur Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/aap-functionary-4-others-charred-to-death-in-sangrur-accident/articleshow/79271112.cms||---
