November 19, 2020||India||First crewless Gaganyaan flight only by end of 2021||BENGALURU: The first crewless flight as part of the preparations for the ambitious Gaganyaan project originally planned for this year and then pushed to the first half of 2021 due toflight Covid-19, will now only happen at the end of next year. Isro will eventually also launch a second crewless flight, now scheduled for 2022 before launching humans into space. Isro chairman K Sivan told TOI that the process of human rating is progressing well and is expected to be complete in the second half of next year. TOI was the first to report the postponement of the crewless/unmanned flight and also the fact that the human mission too is likely to miss its original deadline. As part of the unmanned flight, Isro plans to send a humanoid (developed indigenously). In June, when it became clear that the first crewless flight won’t happen this year, Sivan had said: “Whether we will launch two unmanned missions next year will depend on the emerging situations, we will have to decide based on what happens in the coming months. If Covid effects continue further, we may have to revisit some of our plans.” It is now apparent that Isro will only be able to launch one crewless flight next year. Human Rating & Pvt PlayersFurther, just last week Isro flagged off the first human rated S200 motor case for Gaganyaan’s first crewless mission. “The high thrust solid propellant strap-on boosters — S200 — play an important role in the human rated GSLV MkIII. In order to human rate the booster, many new design features have been introduced in the hardware,” Isro said. Isro’s heavy lift launcher, GSLV MkIII — identified for the Gaganyaan Mission — is in the process of being human-rated. The human rating of the S200 motor case is another successful industry collaboration. “...The first critical booster segment of the motor case with a diameter of 3.2 meter, 8.5 meter in length and weighing 5.5 tonne has been indigenously developed and delivered by L&T,” Sivan said. Describing it as a major achievement, Sivan said that the next step would be to achieve human rating of all the hardware required for the mission. S Somnath, director, Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) had earlier told TOI: “...The reliability targeted for human-rated launch vehicles is 0.99, which means statistically only 1 out of 100 can be unreliable. And, for the crew escape system, which is very crucial, we are targeting greater than 0.998, which means we want almost 100% reliability.” Watch ISRO to launch first crewless Gaganyaan flight by end of 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/first-crewless-gaganyaan-flight-only-by-end-of-2021/articleshow/79290282.cms||Chethan Kumar
November 19, 2020||India||Railways to eliminate 2,429 level crossings by 2025||NEW DELHI: The Indian Railways has set the target to eliminate 2,429 manned level crossings on all the four arms of the Golden Quadrilateral rail network and its diagonals by March 2025 to enhance safety and operational speed on these crucial networks. It will spend approximately Rs 41,200 crore for this. This is one of the priorities of the railways’ “Vision 2024” plan, which specially aims to increase the freight loading to 2,024 million tonnes in the next four years by augmenting infrastructure. The plan includes increasing average speed of trains and electrifying more lines in the next four years and a host of works, which would require nearly Rs 2.2 lakh crore. According to the vision document, which has been shared with railway officials, 1,186 level crossings are to be replaced by rail over bridges, another 1,223 by road under bridges and the rest 20 by diversion. The document also specifies that 58 super critical and 68 critical projects have been identified for resource allocation for throughput enhancement at faster pace. The super critical projects of total 3,750 km will be completed by December 2021 except two projects which will be completed by March 2022. Similarly, 68 critical projects of total 6,918 km will be completed by March 2024. Considering that coal will continue to have significant share in the railways freight basket, additional 20 coal projects of cumulative length of 2,350 km will be completed by March 2024. “For railways, now freight loading and movement is the focus and to push loading and faster movement of the goods trains, we need to accelerate infrastructure upgradation on the identified networks. This is being undertaken on a mission mode,” a railway ministry official said. The plan also specifies that the four national projects falling in the North East Region with a total length of 294 km costing around Rs 27,500 crore will have to be completed by March 2023. The railways has also set the March 2025 deadline for two major projects, Rishikesh-Karanprayag and Bhanupalli-Bilaspur rail lines. Sources said the Vision document has specified that works for raising of sectional speed to 160 kmph on New Delhi-Mumbai (including Vadodara-Ahmedabad) and New Delhi-Howrah (including Kanpur-Lucknow) routes costing Rs 6,804 crore and Rs 6,684 crore respectively will be completed by August 2023. The works for raising the sectional speed to 130 kmph on balance Golden Quadrilateral and diagonal routes will be completed by December 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-to-eliminate-2429-level-crossings-by-2025/articleshow/79290648.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 19, 2020||India||266 NGOs fail audit, govt cracks down, to stop grants||NEW DELHI: In a major crackdown, the social justice ministry is set to cancel grants of 266 NGOs working in different fields after a comprehensive audit found them indulging in irregularities or being empty shell bodies created to make gains through government funds. The first-of-its-kind audit was carried out across the country for NGOs that have been engaged by the ministry in old-age welfare, running of schools and hostels for SCs, and drug de-addiction. The ministry gives grant-in-aid to 1,276 NGOs at around Rs 25 lakh per institution to implement welfare initiatives. It has a budget of around Rs 500 crore for NGOs. Sources said while the ministry had been functioning on the basis of certification provided by district social welfare officers, this year it organised a comprehensive field audit to check the status of the voluntary organisations. Twenty students were drawn from top institutes like IITs, TISS, DU and other central universities to carry out the audit. Sources said the results were an eye-opener as 266 NGOs were found to be either woefully inadequate in terms of infrastructure or violating guidelines of the schemes, or being downright fraudulent. Social justice and empowerment secretary R Subrahmanyam told TOI, "We have done the audit and necessary action is being taken." Sources said the 266 NGOs have been given show-cause notice to clarify on the audit findings and their grants are being cancelled. The institutions found to be indulging in grave irregularities are even being blacklisted, which means they will not be eligible in future for government contracts. Of the total 1,233 NGOs inspected, 164 are associated with "schools/hostels for SCs" of which 44 were found to be non-functional. Out of the 523 NGOs working in the running of senior citizen homes, 120 were detected as non-functional, which is roughly 23%. Around 18% or 102 NGOs of the 589 associated with de-addiction centres were found to be non-functional. Besides cancellation of grants and blacklisting, the ministry is putting in place correctives to ensure transparency. It has decided to implement a "CCTV system" in all the NGOs engaged, under which stakeholders as well as the ministry will monitor the institutions via CCTV cameras. The system will be operational from next year. A "social audit" is being instituted to enable stakeholders to assess institutions and provide feedback to the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/266-ngos-fail-audit-govt-cracks-down-to-stop-grants/articleshow/79291193.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
November 19, 2020||Goa||Young Goan Leon triumphs in Hungary, earns second GM norm||Panaji: Goa's youngest IM Leon Mendonca (Elo 2516) is making rapid strides in his quest to become the youngest Grandmaster of Goa. Goa has Anurag Mhamal as its only GM but Leon, 14, is taking giant strides. He is now based in Europe and made the most of his stay by earning his second GM norm at the First Saturday GM November 2020 tournament in Budapest on Tuesday. The Panaji resident not only won the title but also got the better of two grandmasters and remained unbeaten to finish with 7.5 points out of nine rounds. In October, Leon won the Rigochess International Chess Festival Grandmaster tournament in Hungary where he gained his maiden GM norm. A player must cross the Elo rating of 2500 and three norms to become a GM. Leon has already crossed the mark and with his second GM norm, all he needs is another norm. Leon faced top seed GM Vojtech Plat of Czech Republic in the opener. The Goan settled for a draw with his top rival. However, in the next round, he overpowered GM Tibor Fogarasi of Hungary. He followed up his success with two consecutive victories over FM Tamas Vanczak of Hungary and FM Vid Dobrovoljc of Slovakia. In the fifth round, the young Goan drew with FM Jakub Seemann of Poland. Just like the opener, Leon, after a draw, toppled GM C Keight Arkell of England in the sixth round. Leon easily registered victories over IM Jan Subelj of Slovakia and FM Levente Papp of Hungary. Going into the last round, Leon knew he had won the tournament as his last round opponent Petkov Momchil, who finished second, had 5.5 points. Even a loss would have meant Leon finished with seven points. The Geno brand ambassador took no chance and accepted a draw to finish with an unbeaten record. Leon will now play an invitational tournament to be held near Budapest from November 21 as the push for the final norm continues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/young-goan-leon-triumphs-in-hungary-earns-second-gm-norm/articleshow/79291362.cms||---
November 19, 2020||India||Will discuss with India Xi’s offer of cooperation on vaccine: China||NEW DELHI: Following Chinese President Xi Jinping's remark that China is willing to cooperate with India and South Africa for Covid-19 vaccine, the Chinese foreign ministry on Wednesday said officials from India and China will discuss the issue. Asked what kind of cooperation China is seeking with India on the development of vaccines, Chinese foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told the media in Beijing, "I believe competent authorities of China and India will have communication and coordination". "The Chinese government is willing to make contributions to achieving the accessibility and affordability of vaccine in developing countries. China is willing to promote sustained cooperation ...with other countries and international fight against Covid-19 to defeat the virus at an early date," he added. In his speech at the 12th Brics summit, Xi on Tuesday said the Chinese companies are working with their Russian and Brazilian partners on Phase 3 clinical trials. "We are prepared to have cooperation with South Africa and India," he said addressing the virtual summit, hosted by Russian President Vladimir Putin and attended by PM Narendra Modi, Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa. "China has joined the COVAX facility and will consider providing vaccines to the Brics countries," Xi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-discuss-with-india-xis-offer-of-cooperation-on-vaccine-china/articleshow/79292845.cms||---
November 19, 2020||India||State’s nod must for Centre to extend CBI jurisdiction: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has said that the provision making a state government's consent mandatory for a CBI probe in its jurisdiction is in tune with the principle of federalism and the Centre cannot extend the agency's jurisdiction to a state without consent. Referring to sections 5 and 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment (DSPE) Act, which regulates CBI's functioning, a bench of justices A M Khanwilkar and B R Gavai said: "It could thus be seen, that though Section 5 enables the Central Government to extend the powers and jurisdiction of members of the DSPE beyond the Union territories to a state, the same is not permissible unless, a state grants its consent for such an extension within the area of state concerned under Section 6 of the DSPE Act." The verdict comes in the wake of eight non-BJP states - Jharkhand, Kerala, Maharashtra, Bengal, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Mizoram and Punjab - withdrawing general consent for CBI to probe fresh cases. "Obviously, the provisions are in tune with the federal character of the Constitution, which has been held to be one of the basic structures of the Constitution," the court said. The bench passed the order on an appeal filed by some accused challenging the validity of the CBI investigation against them in a corruption case on the ground that prior consent was not taken from the state government. Two of the accused are state government employees; the rest are private parties. Rejecting their appeal, the court said the state of UP had accorded a general consent for extension of powers and jurisdiction of the members of DSPE in 1989 in the whole of the state under the Prevention of Corruption Act. "The same is however with a rider, that no such investigation shall be taken up in cases relating to public servants, under the control of the state government, except with prior permission of the state government. As such, insofar as the private individuals are concerned, there is no embargo with regard to registration of FIR against them," the bench said. The bench, however, ruled against government employees also, saying "there are no pleadings by the public servants with regard to the prejudice caused to them on account of non-obtaining of prior consent under Section 6 of the DSPE Act qua them specifically in addition to the general consent in force".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/states-nod-must-for-centre-to-extend-cbi-jurisdiction-sc/articleshow/79292880.cms||---
November 19, 2020||India||Sudarshan TV breached code, allowed on air with riders: Govt||NEW DELHI: The Union government informed the Supreme Court on Wednesday that Sudarshan TV was found guilty of breaching the programme code by the tone, tenor and utterances in the 'Bindas Bol - UPSC Jihad' episodes but allowed the channel to air future episodes if it moderated the content to ensure that no hurt was caused to the minority community. In its affidavit, the information and broadcasting ministry said, "After taking into consideration submissions of the channel, and the findings and recommendations of the inter-ministerial committee, the ministry is of the opinion that while freedom of speech and expression is a fundamental right, the tone and tenor of the episodes telecast do indicate that the channel has, through various utterances and audio visual content, breached the programme code." "The ministry finds that they are not in good taste, offensive and has likelihood of promoting communal attitudes. The ministry after examining all facts and circumstances of the case and balancing the fundamental rights of the broadcaster, hereby cautions Sudarshan TV Channel Ltd to be careful in future. It is further directed that if any violation of the programme code is found in future, stricter penal action would be taken," it added. The ministry directed the TV channel to review the content of future episodes of 'Bindas Bo - UPSC Jihad' programme and moderate and modify audio visual content suitably to ensure that there is no violation of the programme code. The ministry informed the SC that the channel had been directed to keep in mind that future episodes must not attack religions or communities or promote contempt towards religions or communal attitudes. It said the episodes should not contain half-truths or defamatory statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sudarshan-tv-breached-code-allowed-on-air-with-riders-govt/articleshow/79292963.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 19, 2020||India||Chidambaram joins Cong critics, Adhir says dissenters can leave||NEW DELHI: The post-Bihar voices in Congress grew louder on Wednesday with senior member P Chidambaram joining the ranks of functionaries critical of the party's showing in the recent state elections and bypolls in other states. "I'm more worried about the bypoll results in Gujarat, MP, UP and Karnataka. These results show that the party either has no organisational presence on the ground or has been weakened considerably," he was quoted by reports as saying. The remark is significant as it echoes the dissident group which, after a brief lull following the controversy over its letter in August, has seized upon the recent poll debacle to revive its demand that the leadership acknowledge that the party is in decline and consult seniors - an implied criticism of party functionaries close to Rahul Gandhi - on the path ahead. The G23 members have held discussions after Bihar results on the next course of action. The bloc may ask for a special session of a party committee like CWC to discuss the organisational drift. "When will it explode is the issue now," said an MP. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, Congress's leader in Lok Sabha, took on the critics by saying, "If some leaders think Congress is not the right party for them, then they may set up a new party or can join any other party that they think is progressive and according to their interest. But they should not indulge in such embarrassing activities since it can erode the credibility of Congress." With the process for election of the AICC president in motion, some worry that dissidents may even question the central election authority charged with the process and press that their demands like elections to the CWC be conceded upfront. In his comments, Chidambaram said: "In Bihar, RJD-Congress had a chance of winning. Why we lost despite being so close to victory is something that needs comprehensive review. Remember, not long ago Congress had won Rajasthan, MP, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand." He stressed the need for organisational strength on the ground. The veteran echoed the view expressed by some RJD members in saying that Congress contested more seats than its capacity in Bihar. Besides organisational problems, Congress on Tuesday even saw a clash within on RCEP, the mega trade deal. While attacking the Modi government for opting out of RCEP, Anand Sharma contradicted the stance taken by the Congress brass that the deal will hurt India's interests. Congress had launched a vocal campaign against RCEP last year. Sharma's view clashed with that of ex-minister Jairam Ramesh who called the opting out as vindication of Congress's stance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chidambaram-joins-cong-critics-adhir-says-dissenters-can-leave/articleshow/79293004.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||CCTV footage of fire leads Bhowanipore cops to bicycle thief||KOLKATA: A chance video footage of a fire at Kalighat’s Patuapara — that had claimed a life on November 12 — has led Bhowanipore police to a 25-year-old driver who has been stealing cycles for the past month. From New Alipore to Bhowanipore, Soumen Kayal has managed to steal about a dozen cycles, each worth anywhere between Rs 20,000 and Rs 35,000. So far, four claimants have turned up at the police station with proof of their cycles being stolen. Cops said they caught a break when an SI noticed Kayal while watching a video of the fire. Officers matched him to CCTV footage from Nandan Road and Purna Crossing and traced Kayal to Patuapara. “We nabbed him over the weekend,” said the officer. Kayal admitted stealing cycles was less risky than stealing motorized units since few bother to inform cops. “We have registered just one-third FIRs compared to the recoveries,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cctv-footage-of-fire-leads-cops-to-bicycle-thief/articleshow/79289828.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||FIR against in-laws after mystery death in Kolkata||KOLKATA: The mysterious death of a 36-year-old man, found unconscious on a pavement along Southern Avenue, has led cops to lodge a murder FIR against the family of his in-laws. Prabir Das, a resident of Rahim Ostagar Road in the Lake area, had left his residence on Sunday. He told his wife that he was going to a friend’s place for Bhai Phonta the next morning. He was then found around 5pm on Monday. “Among the four persons named in the FIR, a couple are cousins of his wife. Das was an alcoholic. The family has alleged his wife complained to her cousins, who decided to teach him a lesson. However, it remains a fact that the victim’s own health was bad and an assault alone might not be the only reason behind his death,” said an officer. “On Tuesday, the deceased’s mother alleged that Biswajit Chakraborty, Surajit Chakraborty, Bapi Halder, Ashis Gayen and others, all residents of Panchanantala Road, allegedly assaulted Das on Monday around 12.30am. As a result, he allegedly sustained injuries that eventually led to his death,” said joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fir-against-in-laws-after-mystery-death/articleshow/79289767.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 19, 2020||Varanasi||Gyanpur MLA Vijay Mishra produced in Mirzapur court||VARANASI: Jailed muscleman MLA Vijay Mishra was brought from Agra jail and produced in the chief judicial magistrate’s court in Mirzapur on Wednesday in a case of extortion threat to a priest of Vindhyachal temple. The CJM allowed police to interrogate Mishra in Agra jail and ordered that he be taken back in 14-day police remand, informed Vindhyachal inspector Sheshdhar Pandey. The court fixed the next hearing on December 1. Pandey said one Avanish Mishra, a priest of Vindyachal temple, had lodged an FIR against the muscleman MLA from Gyanpur (Bhadohi) on August 26 alleging the latter had threatened him from jail to pay Rs 15 lakh as extortion, and was produced before court in the same case. When police escorted Mishra of the court, he started shouting that the state government is conspiring to kill him and police officials had registered fake cases against him after taking bribe. Mishra is in Agra jail following his arrest from Madhya Pradesh on August 14 in a case lodged by his relative Krishna Kanth Tiwari against him, his MLC wife Ramlali Mishra and son Vishnu of forcibly getting his property registered in their names. Ramlali and Vishnu are still absconding and the court has issued an order for attaching their property. As many as 71 criminal cases are lodged against Mishra and 10 are being heard in MP/MLA court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gyanpur-mla-vijay-mishraproduced-in-mirzapur-court/articleshow/79289647.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Patna||Mahatma Gandhi Setu jam a nightmare for commuters from Patna||PATNA: Crossing the Mahatma Gandhi Setu over the Ganga has become a nightmare again for the commuters from Patna as well as north Bihar as traffic on its eastern flank has been banned for its rehabilitation. Senior police and administrative officials of Patna and Vaishali districts held a meeting on Wednesday to assess the situation. The DMs and SPs of the two neighbouring districts later issued directives to deploy adequate number of magistrates and police personnel at Dhanuki Mor, Pahari Par, the Gandhi Setu, Toll Plaza check post, Zero Mile and T-Point near Masaurhi Mor in Patna to regulate traffic on the bridge. Patna DM Kumar Ravi along with SSP Upendra Sharma also visited the bridge to take stock of the situation. Vaishali DM Udita Singh and SP Maneesh attended the meeting held at Hajipur circuit house to sort out the problem. Earlier, the nightmare continued throughout the day. “I reached the bridge from Rajendra Nagar Terminal at around 4am. Though a relative had suggested us to take the J P Setu route, we simply ignored it as we wanted to reach home at the earliest. But he was right as it took over four hours to reach Ramashish Chowk at Hajipur from Gaighat in Patna,” said Atul Kumar, a software engineer from Vaishali. Atul's wife Rita Kumari, also an engineer, said, “I am fed up with the government machinery whose failure led to heavy traffic jam.” T N Mishra, a retired government schoolteacher, also remained stuck in the long traffic snarl. “No traffic cop is visible. Attempts to contact senior police officers to pass on the message also proved futile,” Mishra, a chronic asthma patient, said. The Chhath devotees were the worst sufferers. “Today is ‘nahay-khay’. It’s already 10am and I have not reached home. My family members are waiting for me,” rued Mamta Devi of Kudhani in Muzaffarpur district. Paswan Chowk on Hajipur side seems to have turned into a bottleneck. “The cops assigned to regulate traffic are not properly trained. Either home guards or policemen on the verge of retirement are deployed on the bridge,” said Rabhivir Singh of Jandaha in Vaishali district. Ambulances carrying patients were also seen stuck in the traffic congestion. However, some youths volunteered to help the ambulance drivers cross the bridge. Overtaking of vehicles also cause traffic jam. “Most of the people don’t follow traffic rules,” said Ganesh Kumar of Runnisaidpur in Sitamarhi district. Vaishali SP Maneesh could not be contacted for his comments. However, a police officer posted near Ramashish Chowk said, “The situation will not improve till senior officials show interest in sorting out the perennial problem of traffic jams.” The constable, however, blamed the heavy flow of vehicles during festival season for the long traffic jam. Around one lakh vehicles cross the bridge every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mahatma-gandhi-setu-jam-a-nightmare-for-commuters/articleshow/79288693.cms||Ramashankar
November 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar: RJD demands sacking of education minister||PATNA: Opposition RJD on Wednesday demanded removal of education minister Mewalal Choudhary for his being an accused in the recruitment scam when the Tarapur MLA was the vice-chancellor of Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) from 2010 to 2015. Mewalal was a named accused in the FIR lodged against him for allegedly committing irregularities in the appointment of assistant professors and junior scientists in BAU. The case is still pending in a Bhagalpur court, as per the affidavit submitted by Choudhary to the Election Commission. TOI could not get Mewalal’s comment despite repeated attempts as he first did not pick up the call and later switched off his mobile phone. RJD chief Lalu Prasad and his son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who is also the leader of the opposition Mahagathbandhan, criticized chief minister Nitish Kumar over the issue. RJD even uploaded his video on its Tweeter handle in which the minister could be seen faltering and not reciting the national anthem correctly. “Mewalal Choudhary, who has several cases of scam on him does not even know the national anthem. Nitish Kumar Ji, is there any shame left? Where has the inner conscience gone?” the RJD tweet read. Lalu said Nitish by appointing a recruitment scam accused in his first cabinet has shown his priority. “Look at the irony. BJPians who were looking for Mewalal till yesterday are quiet now,” Lalu’s tweeted sharing a small news item in which BJP senior and former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi had demanded Mewalal’s arrest. Tejashwi said the CM has given an open call for loot and rewarded corruption. “While an accused has been made the education minister, no one from minority community was given a ministerial berth,” Tejashwi tweeted. However, HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi criticized Tejashwi for running a campaign against Nitish. “For the first time I am seeing that someone who is the son of a convicted person and who himself is facing corruption charges is running a campaign against corruption and someone else,” Manjhi tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-demands-sacking-of-education-minister/articleshow/79289604.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 19, 2020||Patna||MHA withdraws 2 regular CRPF battalions from Bihar||PATNA: Anti-Maoist operations in the state may be affected as the Union home ministry has ordered for permanent withdrawal of two regular CRPF battalions from Bihar to be redeployed in Chhattisgarh. This withdrawal will cut the CRPF strength in the state by one-fifth. Sources said advance parties of both battalions have already left the state. The two battalions were deployed in Gaya, Aurangabad, Lakhisarai, Jamui, Munger and Banka, which are labelled LWE-affected districts by the Union home ministry, along with Arwal, East Champaran, Jehanabad, Kaimur, Muzaffarpur, Nalanda, Nawada, Rohtas and West Champaran. Six battalions, including a CoBRA battalion, were deployed in Bihar till now. Six more teams of another CoBRA battalion were also deployed here. Apart from CRPF, three SSB battalions and a few state police STF teams are also engaged in anti-Maoist operations in the state. CRPF Bihar sector headquarters on Wednesday confirmed the withdrawal orders to TOI. “Actual withdrawal deadline is November 20,” public relation officer MK Singh said. Singh said it’s up to the state government how it manages the vacuum that would be created by the withdrawal of the two battalions. “We have the relocation order, and it has to be followed in any condition,” he said. As per sources, one of the battalions which are getting withdrawn had headquarters in Aurangabad. “This battalion operates in Aurangabad and Gaya, both Maoist-affected districts,” a source said. “The second battalion getting redeployed has headquarters inside Moin-ul-Haq stadium but is engaged in anti-Maoist operations in Lakhisarai, Jamui, Munger and Banka. Teams of this battalion are also deployed at Bheembadh in Gaya which is core Maoist infested area,” a senior official engaged in the anti-Maoist operation said. He said those from Bihar in these two battalions would now have a tough time in getting posted near home for 100 days after serving in LWE zones. State police headquarters source said the talks to withdraw the two CRPF battalions from Bihar was going on for around three years, but things kept getting delayed. “Relocation orders suddenly came during the assembly election period,” a senior headquarters officer said. He said that one more reason for relocation is that Chhattishgarh government had already created the infra for the deployment of these two battalions and was awaiting their arrival since long.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mha-withdraws-2-regular-crpf-battalions-from-state/articleshow/79288719.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 19, 2020||Patna||Setu choked, Patna reels from traffic jams ahead of Chhath||PATNA: Massive traffic jams at several locations in Patna since Tuesday ahead of Chhath led to the authorities holding meetings on Wednesday to find ways to resolve the bottlenecks primarily caused by the closure of a lane on the Mahatma Gandhi Setu, which connects North and South Bihar. The eastern lane was shut for vehicular movement three days ago, just when people residing in neighbouring states, as well as other parts of the state, started pouring in ahead of Chhatth. It resulted in snaking queues on the outskirts of Patna and even in the city on Tuesday. Traffic was chaotic between Zero Mile and Gandhi Setu. Police said traffic remained slow on roads leading to Daniwaya from Fatuha which faced a jam on Tuesday, adding, vehicle movement also remained slow on highways leading to Gaya from Punpun in Patna on Wednesday. Patna DM Kumar Ravi held meetings with his counterparts in Vaishali and Bhojpur to regulate the movement of heavy and empty commercial vehicles on Gandhi Setu, JP Setu and Koilwar bridge. “After taking permission from the Indian Railways, an alternate route has been mapped for empty trucks and small vehicles or passenger buses via JP Setu to enter Patna from Vaishali. This alternate movement would start from Wednesday night itself,” Ravi said. At a high-level meeting on Wednesday, it was decided that sand-laden trucks coming via Koilwar bridge will not be allowed towards Gandhi Setu in Patna. “Magistrates and police officers posted at six places along with additional force near Deedarganj, Gandhi Setu, Bypass will monitor and regulate traffic movement in three shifts so that no disruption takes place,” Ravi said. The DM assured that the effect of these steps would be visible on the ground from Thursday evening. “We are continuously monitoring the situation. Teams of district transport office will take action against overloaded vehicles trying to enter Patna through Gandhi Setu,” Ravi said. The DTO has collected Rs 11,32,500 in fines from 21 overloaded vehicles since November 16, he informed. The DM said Chhatth devotees would have to reach the ghats on foot to encourage them to celebrate the festival at home. “That’s why no parking spots have been allowed near the ghat. All vehicles will be stopped far away from the ghats for which drop gates have been erected at 114 spots,” DM added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/setu-choked-patna-reels-from-traffic-jams-ahead-of-chhath/articleshow/79289565.cms||Debashish Karmakar
November 19, 2020||Business||Danfoss plans to increase exports of electronic drives from Chennai||Danfoss Industries , a manufacturer of energy efficient products has announced that it will increase exports of electronic drives from the present 30% to 50% over the next couple of years. “We have invested in manufacturing facilities and also created an innovation centre from electronics manufacturing. We are witnessing strong overseas demand for the drives that we make here. From a situation where we imported these drives from the US, we now export 30% to the US and the aim is to increase it to 50% over the next couple of years,” said Ravichandran Purushothaman, President, Danfoss India.The Danfoss Group has invested Rs 1,000 crore over the past six years towards strengthening its local manufacturing and powering its capabilities towards India-focussed R&D and innovation. Since the company began its independent operations in India, Danfoss India has quadrupled its localisation efforts in terms of production and supply chain capabilities and projects 90% localisation by 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/danfoss-plans-to-increase-exports-of-electronic-drives-from-chennai/articleshow/79289887.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Business||Court rejects AstraZeneca’s plea on diabetes drug patent||MUMBAI: The Delhi high court has rejected global pharma major AstraZeneca’s application seeking a restraining order against marketing of a blockbuster anti-diabetes drug Dapagliflozin by domestic companies, including Torrent, USV, Micro Labs, Eris LifeSciences and Zydus, thus paving the way for affordable diabetes drugs in the Indian market. With nearly a dozen companies launching generic versions at competitive prices, the stage is set for a price war between the players to get a slice of the growing Rs 15,000-crore diabetes market. AstraZeneca had sued several generic companies for the infringement of patents covering Dapagliflozin. In a keenly watched court battle, the high court in a hearing on Wednesday concluded that its patent is “prima facie invalid as it lacks inventive merit”, legal sources told TOI. AstraZeneca holds two patents for Dapagliflozin in India — the first expired in October, while the second will expire in May 2023. Simply put, the second patent was not found to have inventive merit over what was already existing in prior art (earlier patent). The order by Justice Mukta Gupta, accessed by TOI, said “since the defendants have prima facie laid a credible challenge to the validity of suit patent on the ground of obviousness and for non-compliance of section 8(2) of the Act, this court finds that the plaintiffs have not made out a prima facie case for grant of interim injunction which is declined”. AstraZeneca’s Dapagliflozin is sold under the brand Forxiga, and is part of a popular class of drugs called SGLT2 inhibitors, valued around Rs 4,500 crore (MAT October 2020), approved for use in type 2 diabetes. It is also distributed by Sun Pharma and Abbott Healthcare under the brands Oxra, Oxramet, Oxramet XR and Gledepa, Gledepa MET IR and Gledepa MET XR respectively. Recently, certain generic versions have entered the market, nearly halving the therapy cost for patients. “The court also found that failure to share vital information under section 8 (2), with the Indian Patent office was a breach enough to deny an interim order to the patent holder”, S Majumdar, counsel on behalf of Torrent, said. The company has faced patentability objections in the US, which it failed to disclose here. When contacted, an AstraZeneca spokesperson said, “The order contains several positive findings in its favour, especially on those issues which formed the main thrust of the attack. AstraZeneca has been informed that findings mainly on two issues have been rendered against it. We are currently studying the order of the high court, and are committed to taking all steps which are necessary in law in order to protect and enforce its patent for Dapagliflozin, which it believes to be a world-class invention.” Majumdar added, “For a suit patent to be revoked under section 64(1)(a) no prior publication is required. However, if there is a prior patent for the same invention, no second patent can be granted. Even the definition of invention under section 2(1)(j), the Act provides that invention means a new product or process involving an inventive step and capable of industrial application.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/court-rejects-astrazenecas-plea-on-diabetes-drug-patent/articleshow/79291466.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
November 19, 2020||Business||India is second in global ransom payouts for cyberattacks: Survey||Chennai: Indian organisations were worst hit by ransomware attacks among all Asia Pacific (APAC) nations during the pandemic, and globally, India Inc stood second when it came to ransom pay-outs and more than a third paid between $1 million — $2.5 million to hackers for such cyberattacks. 74% organisations in India suffered a ransomware attack this year compared to 67% of Australia’s companies 52% in Japan, and 46% in Singapore, a global survey by cybersecurity enterprise Crowdstrike found on Wednesday. More than one-third (34%) Indian organisations paid between $1 million – $2.5 million to the hackers to get back their data and system access in the last 12 months- second to only Singapore (69%). 19% organisations in the US and 10% in the UK paid between $1 million – 2.5 miliion. The 2020 Global Cyber Security Attitude Survey also found that India Inc is particularly threatened by cyber attacks originating from China and Pakistan due to rising geopolitical tensions. Over half (51%) of Indian companies said that nation-state attacks will be the biggest concern for 2021. 77% of cybersecurity experts across the Asia Pacific region are more concerned about ransomware attacks due to the pandemic, and respondents in India are the most worried lot in the region at 83%.“Over the last 12 months there has been a significant surge in attacks experienced by Indian organisations, and now the attitude has shifted from ‘if there will be an attack’ to ‘when’ an organisation will suffer from an attack,” Michael Sentonas, CTO, CrowdStrike, told TOI. Most IT security executives surveyed in the study admitted that their companies haven been focusing more on perimeter security rather than threat hunting, and increased use of personal devices by end users in remote work scenarios has made it more difficult to safeguard themselves from potential attacks.12% of Indian organisations said Covid-19 has slowed down the detection time of a cyber security incident in their organization by more than a week compared to the global average of 8%. 86% of Indian companies said their spending on security tools has accelerated as a result of pandemic, compared with a global average of 76%. However, almost half said it is becoming difficult to hire a cyber security personnel for a remote work environment. Survey conducted by Crowdstrike interviewed 2,200 senior IT decision makers and IT security professionals worldwide in August and September, including 300 from India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-is-second-in-global-ransom-payouts-for-cyberattacks-survey/articleshow/79290107.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
November 19, 2020||Patna||Huge rush in Delhi-Gaya flight||GAYA: There is a heavy rush of passengers on Delhi-Gaya air route for the four-day Chhath festival, which commenced on Wednesday with the ‘Nahay-Khay’ rituals. During Chhath, people prefer to be at home with their families. However, with the surge in airfare the homecoming is not a smooth affair and the same has happened for flights operating on Delhi-Gaya route. Incidentally despite the hike, many Gaya natives are taking the air route to reach their home town as trains running on this route are already full. The IndiGo airlines is getting bookings upto 90℅ of the allotted capacity. Currently, IndiGo operates a daily flight on the Gaya-Delhi route. IndiGo regional head at Kolkata Vijay Matta said, “The passenger response is very good during the Chhath. The flight, which operates on the Delhi- Gaya route, is almost full. Last year, the response was around 60℅. We are expecting good passenger response for the Gaya to Delhi flights also after the Chhath is over,” he said. Bodh Gaya-based travel agency proprietor Sandeep Kumar said, “People willing to come to Gaya during Chhath have three options —air route, trains or some private. But due to Chhath, most of the trains including the Rajdhani Express, Purushottam Express, Mahabodhi Express, Kalka Mail and other trains have no seats left. Bus is also not preferred . Hence majority are opting for flight, although there is variation in the fare, which is obvious in view of the passengers’ demand,” he said. The IndiGo flight’s base fare from Delhi to Gaya is Rs 4060. But there is an increase in the fare due to passengers’ demand. According to the information available on internet, the fare on Delhi-Gaya route on Wednesday varied upto Rs 8,576. Similarly, Thursday’s fare showed a variation upto Rs 7,316 followed by Rs 4,376 on Friday and Saturday. The base fare for Gaya to Delhi flight is Rs 4,087. On November 22 and 24, the fare for Gaya to Delhi is showing a variation upto Rs 5,663 and Rs 5,347 respectively. On remaining days, till November 29, the variation is maximum upto Rs 4,823.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/huge-rush-in-delhi-gaya-flight/articleshow/79288616.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Patna||New govt must take measures to revamp higher education in Bihar: Academics||PATNA: Will the new NDA government headed by Nitish Kumar do something concrete for revamping higher education in Bihar? This question has started haunting the minds of academics once again. If one sincerely examines the performance of Nitish government during the last 15 years in the field of higher education, the overall progress appears to be quite dismal. Problems which existed two to three decades ago have not been resolved as yet and the institutions of higher education have miserably failed to deliver during the period. The new government would have to take extra pains in getting its policy decisions implemented for bringing the derailed system on the right track, feel the academics. One of the major tasks before the new government would be to enhance the state’s gross enrolment ratio (GER), says Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president Kanhaiya Bahadur Sinha. “Bihar’s GER to the tune of 13% against the national average of 26% is lowest in the country. As many as 25 districts out of 38 in the state are educationally backward. With nearly 1,000 degree colleges located in different parts of the state, there are only seven colleges for one lakh students, much less compared to other states,” says Sinha. Sinha pointed out that there is an acute shortage of engineering and medical colleges and polytechnics, compelling a vast majority of the youth to migrate to other states. To reach an all India level, the state needs additional 373 general colleges (arts, science and commerce), 236 engineering colleges, 139 medical colleges, 253 education colleges and 163 polytechnics, he added. Patna College’s former principal Nawal Kishore Chaudhary feels the government should open more colleges, especially for girls, in different parts of the state to increase GER. In rural and mufussil areas, most guardians do not send their daughters to coeducational institutions. There should be greater emphasis on opening colleges in educationally backward regions, he suggests. Chaudhary further suggests provision of scholarships to meritorious students and expansion of vocational education in colleges. Placement cells must be established in all the colleges with a view to providing jobs to the educated youths, he adds. “Competent and qualified teachers should be appointed against all the vacant posts of teachers as more than 50% of the sanctioned strength is lying vacant in different colleges and universities of the state,” asserts Patna University Teachers’ Association general secretary Abhay Kumar. Kumar further says that infrastructural facilities should also be enhanced in the existing institutions for modernization of libraries and laboratories. Besides, sufficient number of supporting staff must also be appointed in all the colleges and university departments for ensuring their smooth functioning, he adds. PU English department’s former head Shiva Jatan Thakur observes that acute shortage of qualified teachers in colleges and universities has been adversely affecting the quality of teaching and research. The government would have to focus on enhancing the quality of research and training and publication of research work in reputed journals so that the state’s institutions may attain higher ranks in the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF). He hopes the government would initiate steps for releasing all the arrears of revised pay to the working and retired university teachers and non-teaching staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-govt-must-take-measures-to-revamp-higher-education-academics/articleshow/79288713.cms||B K Mishra
November 19, 2020||Business||HUL to halve food waste in 5 years||Mumbai: Hindustan Unilever (HUL) will lead the parent Unilever’s commitment of halving food waste and raising nutritional standards by 2025, through innovations and communications. HUL’s executive director (foods and refreshment) Sudhir Sitapati said, “Despite over-producing food calories, India still faces three big challenges of nutrition — not enough calories for the poor, unsafe eating out and a diet excessive in carbohydrates but deficient in protein and micronutrients. India has a disproportionately high prevalence of health issues like wasting & stunting, anaemia and diarrhoea caused by unbalanced nutrition and an unhygienic environment.” HUL said it spends around 25% of all food advertising on television in India, and it plans to help lead a food processing revolution in the country that is “healthier, safer and has less wastage”. Key brands in its nutrition portfolio include Horlicks, Boost, Hellmann’s, Kissan, Knorr and Brooke Bond Red Label. Food and refreshments contributed 19% to HUL’s 2019-20 revenues. In an announcement, Unilever said it wants to double the number of products containing impactful amounts of vegetables, fruits, proteins, or micronutrients like vitamins, zinc, iron and iodine, delivering positive nutrition by 2025. Of Unilever’s foods portfolio, 85% will support a diet providing a maximum of 5gm of salt intake a day by 2022. WHO recommends that adults consume less than 5gm (just under a teaspoon) of salt per day. In packaged ice cream, on the other hand, Unilever said 95% of products will contain no more than 22gm of total sugar and 250 Kcal per serving by 2025. The global consumer products company said the objective is to help people transition towards healthier diets and to help reduce the environmental impact of the food chain. Unilever’s foods & refreshment division president Hanneke Faber said, “These are bold, stretching targets, but as one of the world’s largest food companies, we simply must contribute to transforming the global food system. It’s not up to us to decide for people what they want to eat, but it is up to us to make healthier and plant-based options accessible to all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hul-to-halve-food-waste-in-5-years/articleshow/79291625.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar minister courts controversy over Lord Hanuman’s images in office||PATNA: Paying obeisance to God in a temple or at a religious place is not a news. But when a minister’s official chamber is decorated with an image of Lord Hanuman and that too soon after assuming charge of the department took the employees concerned by surprise. The new state agriculture and cooperative department minister, Amrendra Pratap Singh, has got several images of Lord Hanuman installed in his offices located on the second floor of Vikas Bhawan (new secretariat). “The images were installed much before the arrival of the minister after taking oath of office. He had told the officials concerned to comply with the order. Nobody objected to it for obvious reasons,” a senior employee of the department said, preferring anonymity. Singh, the BJP MLA from Ara in Bhojpur district, however, didn’t find anything wrong with it. “I am a devotee of Lord Hanuman. My day starts with prayers to the God,” he said, adding, “It’s a personal thing and shouldn’t be blown out of proportions.” But retired IAS officer V S Dubey said it was a wrong practice. “Any such thing in the offices is in gross violation of the government rules,” he said on Wednesday. Dubey said it would send a wrong message among the followers of other religions. “Ours is a secular country. So constitutional sanctity must be maintained. I think the people at the helm should intervene and remove the images immediately,” he told this newspaper. Patna high court’s senior advocate Yogesh Chandra Verma agreed with Dubey. “The minister’s action is ‘anti-Constitutional’. It’s against the oath of office he has taken. The person holding a constitutional post shouldn’t display his/her loyalty towards any particular religion,” he said. On Wednesday, the minister visited the ‘Krishi Bhawan’ at Mithapur and enquired from the senior officials about the ongoing projects for farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/minister-courts-controversy-over-lord-hanumans-images-in-office/articleshow/79288761.cms||Ramashankar
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Second round of focused sampling to begin today||LUCKNOW: In wake of the impending second surge of Covid-19, the state government would be launching the second round of focused sampling to cover people from different walks of life including vendors, jail inmates, children in protection homes, school teachers and staff among others. “Continuing its effort to counter the pandemic virus with a robust testing strategy, the state is launching the second round of focused sampling from Thursday,” said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. Under focused testing exercise -- spread over the next 12 days -- health teams will visit and collect samples from certain pre-decided, but highly vulnerable set of people to assess the presence of the pandemic virus in the population. “While on one hand the exercise aims at breaking the virus chain by bringing out asymptomatic hidden cases, it also targets creating awareness about the importance of prevention in the people,” said a senior health official. As per the plan, health teams would visit urban slums between November 19 and 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/second-round-of-focused-sampling-to-begin-today/articleshow/79291845.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Business||Ex-L&T Finance chief Deosthalee passes away||MUMBAI: Former Larsen & Toubro Finance Holdings chairman Yashwant Moreshwar Deosthalee passed away in a city hospital on Wednesday. The 74-year-old finance whiz was not keeping well for some time. He is survived by his wife Leena and daughters Deepa and Minal. Deosthalee joined the construction and engineering major L&T in 1974. He became a board member in 1995 and in 2011 he was appointed chairman of L&T Finance Holdings. Deosthalee, or YMD to colleagues, was instrumental in diversifying L&T into financial services. He retired from the conglomerate in 2017. He was part of the L&T team that battled unfriendly takeover bids in the 2000s. A Hindustani classical music aficionado, Deosthalee also co-produced a Marathi film Rajwade and Sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/ex-lt-fin-chief-deosthalee-passes-away/articleshow/79291620.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: ‘Feluda 2’ lodges fake profile complaint after imposters post indecent content||KOLKATA: He has essayed the role of Feluda with elan, but Bengali actor Sabyasachi Chakraborty has now turned to the police to help him out of a predicament. Chakraborty has lodged a complaint with Kolkata Police, alleging that unknown miscreants were operating fake social media profiles with his picture and name, and posting indecent content. The actor said fake Facebook accounts have surfaced over the past three years and this is the second time he has been forced to make a police complaint. “It had started three years ago when some friends would suddenly call up to ask if I have joined Facebook. For the record, I have not joined either Facebook or Twitter or Instagram. I had gone to the cyber cell in 2019 against such fake profiles and they promised to look into my complaints. Two or three such profiles were deleted soon after. I have a fan club that contacts me on WhatsApp, and they, too, helped spread the word against the fake profiles. Things returned to normal after that,” he told TOI. “But since the end of October, some unidentified cyber crooks began posting objectionable and indecent photographs, including those of women. My friends suggested I take legal action. It was based on this advice that my lawyer went to the detective department with the complaint. My lawyer suggested I make my stand clear on this issue. I created a video and, since I am not on Facebook, my wife shared it from her account,” Chakraborty added. In the video posted three days ago, Chakraborty urged his fans and people in general not to believe that he had posted the content on those profiles. He also requested the unidentified cyber crooks to refrain from such things. “I have done as suggested by my lawyer. I hope that good sense prevails, but these social media attacks have now reached epic proportions,” he told TOI. “Chakraborty has no profile on any networking site. He had noticed these fake profiles being run in his name on October 30, but ignored them. Later, people pointed out that objectionable photographs were being posted by those profiles. He then approached us,” an officer said. Sleuths have identified an IP address used to create and operate the profiles. But they are yet to draw up a formal FIR. “Investigations have begun based on the evidence produced. We will get to the bottom of the case,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/feluda-2-lodges-fake-profile-plaint-after-imposters-post-indecent-content/articleshow/79289758.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 19, 2020||Business||RBI ready to meet deposit shortfall at Lakshmi Vilas Bank, says executive||CHENNAI: The RBI-appointed administrator of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) has said he has the central bank’s assurance to meet any shortfall in paying back depositors and there was no need to panic. The statement came a day after LVB was placed under a 30-day moratorium and cash withdrawals were capped at Rs 25,000 per customer for a month. LVB administrator T N Manoharan said, “We have not sought any liquidity from the regulator so far. We are confident of meeting the requirement of depositors’ withdrawals by the bank itself. And wherever required, we have the backing of the regulator to ensure that there is no deficit or shortfall on this account.” Read AlsoLakshmi Vilas Bank has enough liquidity to pay back depositors: RBI appointed administratorThe RBI-appointed administrator for Lakshmi Vilas Bank TN Manoharan on Wednesday said the top priority is to assure LVB depositors that their money is safe. Manoharan also stated while adding that he's confident of timely merger with DBS India. He further mentioned that the bank has Rs 20,000 croreCurrently, under special powers vested with the RBI, depositors can withdraw up to Rs 5 lakh for emergency purposes, with proof. Manoharan also said the bank has been monitoring the availability of currency in its chests to avoid any shortage of liquidity in any of its branches. The top priorities were to ensure the scheme of amalgamation is progressively taken and completed smoothly and allow the depositors to withdraw the permissible amount till the end of moratorium period. “LVB does not face any liquidity issue for now. Deposits saw a marginal decline from Rs 20,973 crore as on September 30, to Rs 20,115 crore now. Advances grew marginally from Rs 16,620 crore to Rs 17,000 crore in the same period, largely driven by gold and jewellery loans,” he added. Commenting on deposit rates, Manoharan said, “Decisions on interest rates and products will be addressed after the merger completes. No commitments can be made now.” He said all employees of LVB will continue to be in service after the amalgamation and deemed to be appointed by DBS Bank India (DBIL). Their remuneration and terms and conditions of the service will remain unchanged. Read AlsoThe rise and fall of 94-year-old Lakshmi Vilas BankThe proposed amalgamation of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) with DBS Bank of Singapore brings the curtains down on a 94-year-old institution, which was started by a group of enterprising men to promote trade in Western Tamil Nadu.Some shareholders have opposed the move, protesting the delisting of the shares after the amalgamation process and that the value of the shares would be nullified. “One needs to wait and watch as the November 20 deadline to hear feedback is still days away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-ready-to-meet-deposit-shortfall-at-lvb-says-exec/articleshow/79289949.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||MLA bats for Bangla cricketer in Kali Puja row||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress MLA and the chief patron of the Kali Puja committee in Kankurgachhi Paresh Pal has come out with a statement clearing the air of controversy surrounding Bangladeshi cricketer Shakib Al Hasan’s attendance at the puja inauguration last week. The player had received a death threat in Bangladesh, shortly after which the all-rounder issued a public apology on social media. “I share a close bond with Shakib and invited him to the puja. But he hadn’t inaugurated it. The puja was inaugurated by our minister Firhad Hakim. Shakib reached the venue 10 minutes after the inauguration. We only felicitated him for his achievements. My constituency has a 35% Muslim population who also attend the puja. I don’t understand what the fuss is all abo,” Pal, the Beliaghata MLA, told TOI on Wednesday. Last Thursday, the cricketer was present at the 59th Shyama Puja of Amra Shobai Club at Kankurgachhi. In videos circulating over social media, Shakib was seen lighting a candle. He returned to Bangladesh on Friday and on Sunday, a man made a Facebook Live video threatening to kill him for “hurting Muslim sentiments” and threatened to “cut him into pieces with a chopper for blasphemy”. The man later deleted the video, but the Bangadeshi cops arrested him on Tuesday morning. Meanwhile, Shakib released a video on social media clarifying that he hadn’t inaugurated the puja and had barely stood there for two minutes for photo ops. “Being a practising Muslim, I always try to follow the religious customs. Please forgive me if I have done anything wrong,” he said in the video. Pal confirmed it and said, “I am a secular person. Bangladesh is my homeland and I have cordial relations with several Bangladeshi residents. It was a personal invitation to Shakib and I will continue to invite people from Bangladesh, which can only enhance the feeling of brotherhood between residents across the border.” “I don’t know what happened. But if it has, it is unfortunate and we should condemn it. Any sort of communalism should be condemned,” Hakim said when asked about his opinion on the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mla-bats-for-bangla-cricketer-in-kali-puja-row/articleshow/79289789.cms||Saikat Ray
November 19, 2020||Business||JSW acquires Chettinad’s port assets||Chennai: JSW Infrastructure has completed the acquisition of Chettinad Group’s port business. This acquisition allows JSW Infrastructure ownership and operational control of a deep draft international coal terminal and a bulk terminal at Kamarajar Port (KPL) in Ennore as well as coal and bulk commodity terminal at New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT). JSW Infrastructure said it was investing more than Rs 1,000 crore to acquire as well as modernise these port assets, which has a combined cargo handling capacity of 17 million tonnes per annum (MTPA). JSW Infrastructure joint managing director Arun Maheshwari said, “The newly acquired terminals will have business synergies with our upcoming 30MTPA coal export terminal at Paradip Port, which is scheduled to commence operations during the first half of 2021.” In FY20, all the terminals at KPL handled 31.8MTPA cargo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/jsw-acquires-chettinads-port-assets/articleshow/79290121.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||Expelled from Congress, Mulla joins BJP, says will bring in minority votes||Panaji: Withing 24 hours of being expelled by Congress for criticising the party leadership, former Congress minority cell chairman Urfan Mulla joined Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Wednesday, claiming that over a thousand of his supporters have also switched over. Mulla said he will work to get more and more minority community members into BJP fold and help ‘dispel the misinformation against BJP spread by Congress among minority community members’. He said he will work to consolidate the minority community votes for BJP in the upcoming polls. “The discipline that is there in BJP is missing in Congress. There is no one at the helm of the party in Goa who has command over the party affairs. Congress’ five former chief ministers are each looking in a different direction on different issues and it was a pain for others like me to get them on the same page,” Mulla said. He said he was not given his due after working for over 20 years for the party. “Look at deputy CM Babu (Chandrakant Kavlekar), even though he worked for decades with the Congress, he was not given his due. When he came into BJP, he was finally appreciated,” Mulla said. Kavlekar, who was present at the event of Mulla’s joining BJP, said more and more are realising the flaws with Congress in Goa and are choosing to come out of its fold. “Congress is only using party members at the time of elections to work for it, even though those like Mulla were working for close to 20 years for the party. BJP works for all communities and it shows in how the party has presence in every constituency in the country,” said BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/expelled-from-congress-mulla-joins-bjp-says-will-bring-in-minority-votes/articleshow/79292196.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Howrah: Unemployed youth kills parents, attempts suicide||HOWRAH: Unemployment and the consequent financial distress, despite his masters in computer application (MCA) degree, drove a youth to murder his parents and inflict stab injuries on himself in the family’s Shibpur flat. The youth was taken into custody on Wednesday. Police broke into the flat on Wednesday morning after people in the neighbourhood on Shibpur’s Kaipukur Lane complained of foul stench emanating from inside. Once in, officers found the blood-stained bodies of Gopa Bose and her husband Pradyut. While Gopa’s body was lying on the sofa in the hall of the third-floor flat, Pradyut’s was on the bed in the room next to it. In another room, police found the couple’s son Subhajit seated on his bed with blood smeared all over himself. He was alive and sleuths realized that he had killed his parents and then tried to end his life by stabbing himself. He had inflicted stab wounds on his chest, hands and feet. Locals said they had been getting a foul smell from inside the flat since Sunday. The stench slowly grew stronger and on Tuesday evening, neighbours repeatedly knocked on the Boses’ door, but got no response. On Wednesday morning, the stench became unbearable and neighbours informed Shibpur police station. A team of cops reached the flat and broke in. It was then that neighbours and cops realized that Subhajit had been sitting inside the flat after murdering his parents. While bodies of Subhajit’s parents, both sporting stab wounds, were sent for post-mortem, their son, who is in his late 20s, was taken for questioning. The murder weapon was also seized by the cops. During interrogation, Subhajit told police that he got a job in March and had a April 1 joining date. However, he failed to do so due to the lockdown. Since then, he had tried but could not get a job. During this time, his family slipped into acute financial distress and they did not even have money to buy medicine and food for days. During this time, he was often told by his parents to earn money. It is this frustration and constant pressure at home, he claimed, that prompted him to give his parents sedatives on Kali Puja. Late in the night, he then strangulated them to death. He then sat by their side thinking of ways to kill himself, he said. According to relatives, Pradyut had retired from a state public sector undertaking and the family was in grave financial distress for some years now. Subhajit’s parents would often berate him about his inability to find a job, which left the youth frustrated and angry, the relatives agreed. They added that they suspect a frustrated Subhajit snapped as he couldn’t bear the jibes any more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/unemployed-youth-kills-parents-attempts-suicide/articleshow/79289748.cms||Rupak Banerjee
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: RT-PCR testing capacity to be raised to 60,000 a day by month-end||NEW DELHI: Delhi’s RT-PCR testing capacity will be ramped up to 60,000 tests a day by the end of this month, even as 45 doctors and 160 paramedics from the central armed police forces (CAPFs) have flown into Delhi for deployment at the DRDO hospital near IGI Airport and at the 10,000-bed Covid care centre in Chhatarpur. As first reported by TOI on November 16, 10,000 additional RT-PCRs a day started from November 17, two days after home minister Amit Shah reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the capital with Delhi government brass and outlined a 12-point action plan. Five RT-PCR laboratories, including at AIIMS, have begun to function round the clock and ICMR will deploy 10 mobile testing laboratories, with a total capacity of 20,000 Covid-19 tests, in a phased manner beginning next week. The ICMR is also helping in augmenting testing capacity of Delhi laboratories by 2,000 tests a day with deployment of more manpower, increasing the number of shifts, placing more equipment and through engagement of private sector laboratories. The joint efforts of ICMR and Delhi government are aimed at raising the testing capacity to around 60,000 a day, the home ministry said on Wednesday. Among other measures taken as per directions issued following the November 15 review meeting chaired by Shah, are adding more ICU beds and BIPAP beds in the capital that has witnessed an increase in Covid-19 cases. DRDO will, over the next 3-4 days, add 250 ICU beds and create 35 BIPAP beds at its Covid hospital near Delhi airport. The public-sector Bharat Electronics Ltd has sent 250 ventilators from Bengaluru, which are expected to reach by the weekend. The health ministry has also provided 25 BIPAP machines to Delhi government. Indian Railways is also making train coaches available at Shakur Basti railway station for a Covid care-cum-isolation facility that will accommodate 800 beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rt-pcr-capacity-to-be-raised-to-60000-a-day-by-month-end/articleshow/79291388.cms||Bharti Jain
November 19, 2020||Patna||Sun worship popular since Vedic period: Experts||PATNA: Modern youth might wonder why is Chhath puja, the tradition of worshipping the setting and rising sun, so popular in Bihar and adjacent regions alone when sun worship happens to be an important part of mythology and folklore in every ancient civilization of the world. According to historians, every known civilization shows evidence of sun worship by the people for their well-being as it was considered most essential for their survival. But, the sun worship in the form of Chhath puja became quite popular in Magadh region during the Gupta period (319-550 AD). “Magadh literally means ‘the land of sun worshippers’, as the people of this region have been observing this puja right since ancient times. In this region, a number of sun temples are found, which clearly indicate that the people in the area have been worshipping the Sun as a god. There are famous Sun temples at Dev in Aurangabad, Dakshinaarka Sun Temple in Gaya and Badgaon and Aungari in Nalanda district, which attract a large number of devotees from far and wide,” says Patna University ancient Indian history and archaeology department’s former head Jayadeo Mishra. Eminent astrologer and Sanskrit scholar Jata Shankar Jha ‘Viranchi’ says the concept of sun worship is as old as the mankind itself. In societies that were primarily agricultural and depended on the sun for life and sustenance, it is no surprise that it became deified. “Surya (also known as Aditya) is the Hindu god of the Sun. He is considered the creator of the universe and the source of all life. He brings light and warmth to the world,” says Jha. “Besides, the old scripture, ‘Samba Purana’ (Surya Purana) of the Gupta Period is a vivid commentary on the importance of sun for all living creatures. The Rigveda contains hymns of worshipping the Sun and some similar rituals as followed in this festival. Even though sun worship finds no mention in the Indus Valley Civilization, the Rigveda has got vivid description of sun worship. The rituals mentioned in this holy scripture resemble somewhat to those of the present Chhath festival,” he adds. “Even as the Chhath festival in its present form is now celebrated in entire Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhesh region of India and Nepal, it is also celebrated at all the places where people of Bihar have migrated to over the years, including in countries like Mauritius, Fiji, South Africa, Trinidad and Tobago, Guyana, Surinam, and Jamaica, the United States, the United Kingdom, Republic of Ireland, Australia, New Zealand, Malaysia, Macau, Japan and Indonesia,” says Veer Kunwar Singh University’s former botany department head A K Sharan. Magadh University’s retired professor of history, Asha Tripathi, holds that the people of Magadh region, which has been the birthplace of two important religions — Buddhism and Jainism — have always been rebellious in nature. As most of them did not believe in idol worship, they preferred worshipping the Sun. That way, Chhath puja was very close to nature and most eco-friendly festival transcending the rigid caste system. All the devotees without any distinction of caste, colour or economy, arrive at the bank of rivers or ponds for extending prayers to the Sun,” she adds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/sun-worship-popular-since-vedic-period-experts/articleshow/79288533.cms||B K Mishra
November 19, 2020||Patna||Bihar Covid-19 toll crosses 1200-mark||PATNA: Altogether 734 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,28,680. With officially seven deaths reported by the state health department on Wednesday, the toll crossed 1200 mark and reached 1,201. However, with 2,21,811 recoveries, there are 5,666 active cases in the state. As per the data shared by the health department, three deaths were reported from Patna, following which the toll reached 305, followed by one death each from Jehanabad, Munger, Supaul and Vaishali. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths and both the deceased were from Patna district. One was a 57-year-old male of Punaichak and another was an 82-year-old male from Punpun in Patna district. AIIMS-Patna nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said that JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh, who was admitted on Sunday after he tested positive for Covvid-19, was recovering well. He further informed that 17 patients were admitted and eight were discharged and as on Wednesday, there were 153 patients in the hospital. No death was reported from NMCH. Of total 734 new cases, 285 were from Patna, taking the tally to 39,832.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-covid-19-toll-crosses-1200-mark/articleshow/79288759.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 19, 2020||Patna||Patna: Many throng ghats as Chhath festivities begin||PATNA: The four-day Chhath festival started on Wednesday with ‘nahay-khay’. Devotees in large numbers thronged different ghats on the bank of the Ganga to take a dip in the holy river before starting the rituals. They also carried Ganga water home to use for cooking ‘prasad’, which mainly comprised ‘chawal’ (rice), ‘chana dal’ (split Bengal gram) and ‘lauki’ (bottle gourd). Many devotees will use the Ganga water on Thursday for preparing the ‘kharna prasad’ of rice, milk and sugar or jaggery. Lakhs of devotees will fast the whole day on Thursday and eat the ‘kharna prasad’ in the evening. And then their almost 30-hour-long fast will begin from Friday till they offer ‘arghya’ to the rising sun on Saturday morning. Sixty-year-old Basanti Devi of Vijay Nagar, who took a dip in the Ganga on Wednesday, said, “I have been keeping fast and celebrating Chhath for the last many years. This year, I will pray that the coronavirus goes away.” Basanti was accompanied by her husband Jagdish Mishra, a retired government official, who also keeps fast and performs Chhath rituals with her. Managing the preparations at Patipul Ghat, one Sanjay Sinha said nothing could deter a devotee from performing Chhath rituals. “Even a pandemic cannot stop them,” said Sinha and praised the arrangements made by the administration. “But people should also take care and ensure that they put on masks and maintain distance. Though instructions have been issued, many people are not following the norms. It is not possible for the administration to get everyone put on a mask,” he said. Since many people are emotionally attached with Chhath, they come home on the occasion from their workplaces outside the state. Some of them could be spotted on the Ganga ghat. Alok Sharma, who works with a multinational company in Delhi, was one of them. “My mother performs Chhath rituals every year and we come here during this period,” said Sharma, who collected the Ganga water with his sister Sharmila Kumari and son Dhrupad Sharma. “It gives mental satisfaction,” he added. Vineeta Rani, who lives in Mumbai, has also come with her children to participate in the Chhath festival at her mother’s place. “Though Chhath is celebrated in every part of the world where Biharis reside, the feeling of doing it in Bihar is different,” said Vineeta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-throng-ghats-as-chhath-festivities-begin/articleshow/79288559.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 19, 2020||Patna||MGB candidates ready to challenge Bihar poll verdict in court||PATNA: More than a dozen Mahagathbandhan (MGB) candidates, who lost the recent assembly election by small margins, will challenge the verdict in courts after Chhath. They are collecting data and consulting legal experts on the instruction of their senior party leaders. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said the MGB partners have already lodged complaints with the Election Commission alleging irregularities in counting of votes. Gajanand Shahi alias Munna Shahi, who contested on a Congress ticket from Barbigha, told TOI over phone that he lost by a margin of only 113 votes. “I was leading all through but still lost the election. I had asked for recounting, but my request was not accepted,” said Shahi. He will collect the certified data and then move the court after November 22. Even RJD candidate from Parbatta, Digambar Prasad Tiwari, said he will challenge the verdict after Chhath. “I did not lose this election, rather I was made to lose by 951 votes only,” said Tiwari. Mahagathbandhan leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav in his first press conference after the results were declared had threatened to take legal course if the Election Commission failed to satisfy the candidates. RJD’s Parihar candidate Ritu Jaiswal also said she was ready for the legal battle. “Injustice has been done. I will fight against it,” Ritu said. She questioned the counting process. “CCTV camera surveillance is a must at the counting centre, but there was just one videographer. How can he cover 14 tables? How come two-thirds of the votes by postal ballots got rejected when most of the voters were educated teachers? Also, in case two-thirds of the postal ballots are rejected, recounting should have been done,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mgb-candidates-ready-to-challenge-poll-verdict-in-court/articleshow/79288670.cms||Sheezan Nezami
November 19, 2020||Patna||Prefer rooftops instead of river banks: Saran DM||CHHAPRA: This year, as the Chhath puja is being celebrated under different circumstances due to the Covid-19 pandemic, devotees have been advised to prefer rooftops or their premises to offer ‘arghya’ to the Sun God and avoid going to the river banks or ponds. Section 144 has been clamped in the district and river patrolling is being done to prevent any tragic incident. Crackers and private boats have been banned and no food stalls will be allowed to be set up near the ghats. Even organising cultural events or fairs have been banned. Saran district magistrate Subrat Kumar Sen and SP Dhurat Sayaali S on Wednesday appealed to the devotees and others to follow the Covid protocol like maintaining social distancing, using mask, sanitizers and avoid entering into the river water as diving or plunging into the water may prove infectious. The DM also said that those above the age of 60 and children below 10 years are not allowed to come to the Chhath ghats. The district administration has, however, deployed river divers, SDRF teams (State Disaster Response Force) and ambulances at each ghats as a precautionary measure. Sen also directed the officials to visit each of the ghats and not to allow the devotees to throng the ‘dangerous ghtas’. Even the Banwari Lal pond in front of Rajendra College is not safe. He has also directed the officials to arrange barricading of river banks, sanitise them and provide continuous power supply. “The violators of the prohibitory orders could be booked under section 51 and 60 of Disaster Management Act and Section 188 and other sections of the IPC,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prefer-rooftops-instead-of-river-banks-saran-dm/articleshow/79288647.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Patna||Administration, Patna civic body to provide ‘Gangajal’ on doorsteps||PATNA: Keeping in mind the Covid-19 pandemic, the district administration along with the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) is providing ‘Gangajal’ to people in the city on their doorsteps with an appeal to perform the Chhath rituals at home. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal said each ward has been given one water tank to provide Ganga water to the devotees. “One to two litres of water will be given as per the requirement. The ward councillor will facilitate this service in their respective wards,” said Agarwal, adding the idea was to help those who did not want to throng the ghats to avoid crowds. He further said all the devotees who have rooftops or terraces were requested to perform Chhath at home. “However, we have ensured all the facilities and taken safety measures at the ghats too,” said Agarwal, adding that he was expecting the crowd at the ghats to be half this year. PMC has prepared 71 ponds in six circles for Chhath. Maximum 33 such ponds are in Kankarbagh circle, followed by 19 in Patliputra, 10 in New Capital, seven in Bankipore and two in Azimabad circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/administration-pmc-to-provide-gangajal-on-doorsteps/articleshow/79289539.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Varanasi||18 lakh population of Sonbhadra district to get piped water supply||VARANASI: The countdown for the end of water woes in Sonbhadra, a district housing its 83% population in difficult terrain, will start from November 22 when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch the Jal Jeevan Mission virtually for ensuring piped water supply to each household latest by 2022. PM will also interact with villagers of Parasi, Jhilo of Duddhi block and Gurmura village of Obra on the occasion. District magistrate S Rajalingam told TOI on Wednesday, “Under Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), 15 projects worth Rs 3,200 crore are going to be launched in the district. Except those areas which have already been covered under the water supply system restoration scheme in the recent past, all others, including 1,389 villages, will be covered under JJM. Our district is lucky as it has been selected in the initial phase of the mission.” Preparations are afoot for the virtual launch of Jal Shakti ministry’s JJM by the PM at 11.30am on November 22, he added. “The survey for the piped water supply system in the district was completed and tenders for all 15 projects have been awarded. The work will start immediately after formal launch by the PM. The projects will benefit over 18 lakh population of the district,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/18l-population-of-sonbhadra-dist-to-get-piped-water-supply/articleshow/79289660.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
November 19, 2020||Mysuru||MP CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan visits Melukote again||MANDYA: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan visited temple town Melukote and offered puja to Sri Cheluvanarayana Swamy on Wednesday. This is Chouhan’s third visit as he is said to have vowed to offer puja to Cheluvanarayanaswamy if he returns to power by toppling Kamal Nath led Congress government. He visited the temple for the first time after losing the election in November last year. He visited again soon after becoming CM in June this year. He reportedly vowed to come back and offer puja if he assumed power. In his last visit, Chouhan vowed to offer a silver chariot to the deity. On Wednesday, he told the temple priests that the chariot would be made soon, and he would offer it personally. “I must always be conscious that power should be used for the betterment of common people as it must be a gift of god,” he said. Pandavapura sub-division assistant commissioner Shivanandamurthi, tahsildar Pramod Patil and temple’s executive officer Mangalamma welcomed Chouhan and his family members. Senior pontiffs and priests of Melukote were present.  Senior police officers from Madhya Pradesh assisted the Mandya police in ensuring tight security. The entry of devotees was strictly prohibited during Chouhan' visit for a few hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mp-cm-visits-melukote-again/articleshow/79288945.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Implement environment recovery plans after pandemic ends, say greens||NAGPUR: Thousands of Indian citizens have urged the country’s policymakers to implement green recovery plans post the Covid-19 pandemic. Environmental organization Greenpeace India has submitted these recommendations to Niti Aayog. Being collated since June this year, these recommendations are a part of an initiative called #TowardsBetter and have prepared in consultation with various stakeholders that includes farmers, workers, urban dwellers and other experts. Highlighting that the lockdown led to significant improvement of air and water quality, the recommendations state that the future choices should be holistic and inclusive. The citizens have urged the government to promote a decentralized model of renewable energy which cannot only help in getting universal energy access but also mitigate climate crisis by replacing fossil-fuel based energy production. “The government needs to support rooftop solar and other forms of decentralized energy solutions that reduce the demand for coal-based electricity. Moving our energy generation from sector from fossil fuels to renewable would help to prevent pre-mature deaths and vast savings in health costs,” they stated in their submission. They further demanded an increase in the number of electric vehicles. “The automobile industry is expecting a relief package from the government and after pandemic, it will take some time to remove the fear of using public transport from the minds of people. This is an opportunity to promote e-bikes and e-scooters. Cycling should also be promoted for near-distance travelling,” the recommendations added. The citizens have also raised concerns over empowerment of farmers. Pointing out that small and marginal farmers constitute nearly 80% of the country’s farmers, they stated, “The recovery plans should envisage special programmes to create an enabling environment for small and marginal farmers to steadily move towards natural and ecological farming methods. Subsidies for adopting water conservation irrigation systems should also be higher for this segment of farmers.” They also highlighted how indiscriminate use of fertilizers and chemicals in agriculture has been causing tremendous pollution in ground and surface water sources. “Soil Organic Carbon (SOC) has the potential to improve the soil structure and enhance the groundwater level. It not only minimizes emissions of greenhouse gases but is also capable of trapping the atmospheric carbon in the soil, thus improving the air quality,” the recommendations added. Reacting to the submission of Green Recommendations to the NITI Aayog, Binu Jacob, executive director at Greenpeace India said, “Green recovery would promote sustainable and just society better than return-to-normal stimulus measures. NITI Aayog has advocated for sustainable development goals in the past, we are hopeful that the think-tank body would seriously consider the green recommendations endorsed by citizens of the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/implement-env-recovery-plans-after-pandemic-ends-say-greens/articleshow/79290128.cms||Manka Behl
November 19, 2020||Goa||GFP tells CM to release white paper on tourism||Panaji: The government should immediately denotify the Goa Tourism Policy, 2020, as it fails to address key issues in Goa, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Wednesday. GFP also demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant release a white paper on the status of Goa’s tourism sector and the process followed by KPMG while drafting the policy. GFP vice-president Dilip Prabhudesai said the policy fails to take into account concerns raised by tourism stakeholders. “I think the chief minister should listen to his own minister, Michael Lobo, on this issue,” Prabhudesai said. He also said that Sawant should agree to Lobo’s demand for tourism minister Manohar Agjaonkar to be dropped from the post. “If the CM is transparent, he should present a white paper on tourism, right from the Goa Tourism masterplan of 2016 to this policy,” Prabhudesai said. GFP said the policy offers no new ideas. Panaji: The government should immediately denotify the Goa Tourism Policy, 2020, as it fails to address key issues in Goa, said Goa Forward Party (GFP) on Wednesday. GFP also demanded that chief minister Pramod Sawant release a white paper on the status of Goa’s tourism sector and the process followed by KPMG while drafting the policy. GFP vice-president Dilip Prabhudesai said the policy fails to take into account concerns raised by tourism stakeholders. “We demand that the tourism policy should be immediately denotified and I think the chief minister should listen to his own minister, Michael Lobo, on this issue,” Prabhudesai said. He also said that Sawant should agree to Lobo’s demand for tourism minister Manohar Agjaonkar to be dropped from the post. “If the CM is very transparent, he should present a white paper on tourism, right from the Goa Tourism masterplan of 2016 to this policy. What is the amount paid to the consultant, how much has been paid and why were Rs 3 crores and Rs 5 crores paid to KPMG. We should know what happened to tourism in the last four years,” Prabhudesai said. GFP said the policy offers no new ideasand also ignores key aspects of Goa’s tourism potential, particularly bird watching, nature trails, monsoon tourism and waterfalls. “Things that have been said for the last 25 years by the government, things that have been discussed and never implemented have come up again in this policy. The timing is so bad that even the BJP cabinet ministers have said that the policy is meaningless and that the tourism minister himself is on his way out,” he said. GFP alleged that the tourism policy has been hastily notified to benefit “certain hidden agendas for certain vested interests”. “KPMG received Rs 5 crore to prepare this policy, which is a 12 page document. This 12 page document will decide and shape Goa’s tourism sector. The policy preface itself says that 40% of Goa depends on tourism but took only 12 pages to decide what happens to this 40%,” Prabhudesai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-tells-cm-to-release-white-paper-on-tourism/articleshow/79292346.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: People’s manifesto pours out lake woes||HYDERABAD: The usual sadak (roads), bilji (power), paani (water) aside, strengthening of Hyderabad’s drainage system and restoration of its lakes — in light of the recent floods — are two other issues that residents want all contesting parties to address this election season. There’s also the unending mosquito and dog menace that’s found its way into this People’s Manifesto, being drafted by 4,300 resident welfare associations (RWAs) across the city, less than two weeks ahead of the civic polls. The initiative has been spearheaded by the United Federation of RWAs, a civic forum that fights to resolve civic issues on behalf of the residential colonies. “We are hoping that through the manifesto, the RWAs can also impress upon political parties to add local issues in their election manifestos too and give some assurance of resolving them,” said B T Srinivasan, general secretary, UFERWAS. He said that RWAs have decided to extend their support to candidates who promise to take up their concerns on priority. Still reeling under the impact of the recent floods, members of RWAs said that they are strongly focusing on environmental issues this time together with Hyderabad’s ailing drainage system. “Many residential colonies experienced inundation during the recent floods primarily because of a poor drainage system. While new residential colonies have come up all along the GHMC periphery, there’s no storm water and underground (UGD) drainage system in place. This needs to be addressed urgently,” said a RWA member who was seconded by Major Shiva Kiran, president of the Greenlands RWA. The need for regular potable water supply — still missing from areas mainly in Cyberabad limits — is another issue, say RWA members. Contrary to the claims of the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board about supplying water every alternate day, residents of some areas say they are getting it only thrice in a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/peoples-manifesto-pours-out-lake-woes/articleshow/79291392.cms||Sunil Mungara
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: New Town vigil pays off, stubble burning cases dip||KOLKATA: The effort of locals and volunteers engaged by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) to check the problem of stubble burning seems to have paid off. There have been fewer incidents of stubble burning in the last 2-3 days, say local residents and birders. Recently, residents of a housing complex in Action Area IID raised alarm after seeing a local dweller setting stubble on fire on a large open plot in front of their complex. “It was afternoon when we saw a youth setting the grass on the plot opposite our housing complex on fire. I, along with my wife, rushed to catch the miscreant. We chased him but he managed to escape. The police were immediately alerted and we fetched water from our housing to douse the fire,” said Kingshuk Chakraborty, a resident of Greenfield Ambition apartment complex. Locals said that a few days ago they had spotted another youth roaming aimlessly at the spots where stubble burning was happening close to their housing complex. “When some of the local residents along with the security staff approached him, he said that he had come to chew tobacco. When quizzed further, he ran away,” said a local resident. NKDA officials said that they were taking several steps to prevent the matter. “It is a problem that has been occurring on a large scale and it will take some time to completely get rid of it. But the nuisance has already been prevented in some areas. Awareness campaigns are on with the help of announcements and signage boards. We are also conducting drone surveillance,” said a NKDA official. A group of six volunteers is doing rounds on bikes across the township divided in zones to keep an eye on stubble burning, the official added. Besides, a WhatsApp group has been formed where residents can inform and post pictures if they come across cases of stubble burning anywhere in New Town. “We feel the problem has been checked a bit. We are constantly keeping an eye and informing the police whenever we are noticing any incident,” said Subho Dasgupta, a resident of Moonbeam apartment complex. “There have been fewer cases but it needs to be completely checked. We are constantly keeping an eye on the issue,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-vigil-pays-off-stubble-burning-cases-dip/articleshow/79290164.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Chhath festivities begin with ‘Nahay Khay’ rituals||LUCKNOW: Festive fervour gripped the city on Wednesday as devotees observing Chhath Puja began the celebrations with the ritual of ‘Nahay Khay’, observed on the first day of the four-day festival, amid Covid-19 check. After waking early in the morning and taking a bath, devotees, as part of the preparation of the ‘prasad’ for the ritual, cleaned wheat and distributed the food among their families. “Wheat is used in preparation of ‘prasad’ and ‘dauras’, ‘soops’, basket, coconut and fruits are bought for the puja”, said Suman Yadav, a resident of Hasanganj. “Ritual of nahay-khay is a symbol of purity and strict discipline, the first day of Chhath when we take a bath in the holy river and clean ourselves before preparing food. On Friday, main offering, ‘arghya’, will be given to the sun god on the river banks. Married women will observe a fast of 36 hours for their husband and son and devotees traditionally will offer wheat, milk, sugarcane, bananas and coconut to the sun god,” said Sunita Rai, who will be celebrating the festival at her home. Arti Jha said items prepared on the first day are highly nutritious. “Three food items are prepared as part of of nahay khay ritual — rice, ‘chana dal’ and bottle gourd. We consume these food items before beginning our fast on the second day. These items have high nutritional value since they are easily digestible and act as essentials to prepare our body for the 36-hour-long fast,” she added. While many devotees will throng the ghats of Gomti — Jhulelal Ghat, Lakshman Mela Ghat, Kudiyaghat and Mankameshwar Ghat, most will perform the puja in nearby parks due to the pandemic. “Every year around 10 lakh devotees perform puja at the Lakshman Mela ghat. However, due to the coronavirus scare, people have become more alert this time and many ‘vratis’ will perform puja at their home or nearby parks,” said Prabhunath Rai, president of Akhil Bharatiya Bhojpuri Samaj, who will also be celebrating the festival at his home in a swimming pool decorated for the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chhath-festivities-begin-with-nahay-khay-rituals/articleshow/79291896.cms||Aditi Singh
November 19, 2020||Trichy||DMK man booked for casteist remark||Trichy: An audio clip, purportedly about Trichy DMK north district secretary Kaduvetti N Thiagarajan making derogatory remarks against a community in a chat with another man, has landed him in trouble with police registering a case on Tuesday. Kattuputhur police, attached to Trichy rural police, filed a first information report (FIR) against Thiagarajan, of Kaduvetti village in Trichy district, on charges of uttering obscene words, intentionally insulting to provoke anyone or any community to commit offence against anyone or community thereby breaking the public peace, criminal intimidation under IPC and transmitting obscene material under IT Act, 2000. Thiagarajan, who belongs to a numerically dominant community in the belt, was heard abusing the person and his community over phone over the personal issue of someone else. Police found that the audio was recorded in March. However, Thiagarajan alleged that it was fabricated. “Out of political vengeance, anti-social elements created an audio record as if I am speaking and circulated it on social media. We have lodged a police complaint,” he said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dmk-man-booked-for-casteist-remark/articleshow/79291394.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Letter to SEC is fake: Sanjay||Hyderabad: A letter carrying signature of state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar to State Election Commission created a flutter on Wednesday. The letter allegedly asked SEC to stop distribution of Rs 10,000 flood relief ahead of GHMC polls. Sanjay said he would take a vow at Bhagyalaxmi temple if it is proven that he had written the letter. He said: “If CM KCR is a Hindu, he should also come to the temple and take a vow.” Sanjay said, “Someone forged my signature,” hinting at TRS leaders. BJP state unit on Wednesday lodged complaint with cyber crime wing at Basheerbagh on the letter. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/letter-to-sec-is-fake-sanjay/articleshow/79291395.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Three booked after celebratory firing videos go viral||PRAYAGRAJ: Pratapgarh police on Wednesday registered two separate FIRs with Kotwali police station under section 307 (murder attempt), and section 286 ( negligent conduct concerning explosive substance) against three persons after two videos of celebratory firing went viral on social media. In the first case, Kotwali police have registered an FIR under section 286 and 307 of IPC against one Prince Singh, who is a resident of Awas Vikas Colony. The FIR states that the man had allegedly made celebratory firing using his licensed pistol and rifle without any permission which resulted in chaos and fear like atmosphere in the area. The video of the firing had gone viral on social media in no time. In the second case, Kotwali police registered an FIR under similar sections against two brothers, Aman Singh and Guddu Singh, residents of Sadar Bazar alleging that they were also involved in celebratory firing and had fired several bullets sans permission. Their act caused discomfort and brief confusion among residents at Sadar Bazar area. SP (Pratapgarh) Anurag Arya said that the cops had been instructed to ensure the arrest of all three persons who were involved in the celebratory firing. He also added that police have been making efforts to obtain more details regarding the celebratory firing incident. SP also said that police had taken cognizance of the videos of celebratory firing that went viral on social media during the festive season and registered two separate FIRs with Kotwali police in this connection. He added that weapons would also be seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/3-booked-after-celebratory-firing-videos-go-viral/articleshow/79289729.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kanpur||Mauranipur first Bundelkhand tehsil to bag ISO certification||JHANSI: Mauranipur tehsil of Jhansi district is the first tehsil which has been accredited with ISO 9001:2015. The certification, which is first of its kind in Bundelkhand, was announced on Tuesday after a detailed audit.  The quality management system of Mauranipur tehsil office which has been assessed and approved in accordance with guidelines of ISO 9001:2015,will be helpful in providing better services in land record management, revenue collection and redressing public grievances, apart from implementing Central and the state government welfare schemes. Mahila help desk at tehsil headquarters Also, the tehsil will have a number of new improved things which will help people in their day- to-day official work. To give a professional look, government employees are now seen in uniforms adorned with I-cards showing their names, designations and phone numbers. The tehsil headquarters has a reception counter and a separate mahila help desk. All government offices in the tehsil have undergone infrastructural change to provide better facilities, including a new filing system. The tehsil offices now display the quality policy. To make work easy for visitors, flowcharts in local language have been put on display. DM Jhansi, Andra Vamsi congratulated SDM Mauranipur and his entire team for the feat. SDM Mauranipur, Ankur Srivastava whose efforts have brought laurels to the tehsil, said, “Our mission is to provide maximum benefits to people, improve revenue work, solve land issues, recover government dues under the tehsil’s ambit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mauranipur-first-bundelkhand-tehsil-to-bag-iso-certification/articleshow/79289846.cms||Arindam Ghosh
November 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Central team to assess steps taken to control air pollution in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: A team of the Union government will assess the steps taken by the UT administration to control air pollution in Chandigarh. A senior UT official said the team, including members of the Rajya Sabha, will visit different states and Union Territories, including Chandigarh. The team will review the work carried out by the states and the UTs in improving the air quality in their respective areas. The team will check steps taken by the UT administration as compared to the action plan submitted by them, which mentioned various plans from promoting battery-operated vehicles, green buffers along the traffic corridors, introducing intelligent traffic management system etc. The action plan was submitted to the Union government in 2018. The UT in its action plan had also submitted that they had already launched extensive drive against polluting vehicles and had even prepared a plan to widen roads and improving infrastructure to avoid decongestion of roads. The other initiatives mentioned in the action plan included synchronisation of the traffic signals in the city, turning open areas into green covers and introducing water fountains at major traffic intersections wherever feasible with the use of tertiary treated water, The UT submitted that the ambient air quality of the city gets mainly affected by the construction and demolition waste and increasing number of vehicles. The UT had submitted, “There has been an increase of around 60% in the number of vehicles in 10 years with no change in the length of roads. Increase of light motor vehicles (LMVs), basically cars, by more than 100% in the past 10 years in comparison to approximately 48% increase in two-wheelers. This has resulted in more congestion, ultimately contributing to air pollution.” The UT had also stated other factors, including road dust re-suspension, horticulture waste and stubble burning in the neighbouring states, leading to air pollution. The administration is also working on promoting hybrid and electric vehicles. Chandigarh has the highest density of vehicles in India with around 12 lakh registered ones, including two-wheelers and four-wheelers. The number of vehicles per house on an average is two, which has led to a sharp deterioration in air quality. To cut down the pollution level, the Chandigarh Transport Undertaking (CTU) will induct electric buses. At present, around 3,000 e-rickshaws are plying on the city roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/central-team-to-assess-steps-taken-to-control-air-pollution/articleshow/79288983.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Victory in GHMC polls certain: K Chandrasekhar Rao||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao said TRS will secure more than 100 wards in the GHMC elections and all surveys have indicated the victory of the party. “Earlier, some parties insulted our party and said the TRS has seized to exist. But, people have blessed the party in every election. In the GHMC elections also, people will give a majority to the TRS,” KCR said at the GHMC elections preparatory meeting at Telangana Bhavan on Wednesday. Charging BJP with resorting to a smear campaign, KCR said during Dubbak polls, BJP supporters posted on social media that TRS candidate Solipeta Sujatha said she did not find minister Harish Rao’s name on the ballot paper. He alleged that the BJP was trying to disturb the city’s communal harmony. “After the TRS came to power, the city did not witness any such communal incidents,” he said. “If law and order is under control, private investors come and invest in the city. Amazon has come forward to invest Rs 21,000 crore in Hyderabad and Rs 2 lakh crore investments have been made in six years,” the CM said.  He said the party had taken up developmental works costing Rs 67,000 crore in Hyderabad. “But, the BJP is spreading lies on government schemes,” he said. The CM said though there was property loss in Hyderabad due to recent floods, the Centre did not come to the rescue of the government while the state government had released Rs 550 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/victory-in-ghmc-polls-certain-kcr/articleshow/79291420.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kanpur||One killed, 60 hurt in Agra expressway accident||KANPUR: The driver of a private Volvo sleeper tourist bus was killed while 60 passengers were injured after the bus turned turtle and fell into a ditch on Agra-Lucknow Expressway near Machaiya village under the limits of Taalgram police station in Kannauj district on Wednesday. The police said they received a call at around 7 am that a bus has overturned and fell into a deep ditch near 176 mile stone at Machaiya village after which UPIEDA personnel and a police team from Taalgram police station rushed to the spot and launched a rescue operation. The bus was carrying 60 passengers, besides the conductor and driver on board. Bus driver Manjeet Singh, a native of Fatehgarh Sahib district in Punjab, died following critical injuries, said SHO Taalgram Swadesh Yadav. The bus was heading towards Delhi from Bihar, Yadav further said and added, “Injured passengers have been admitted to Tirwa Medical college, while family members of the deceased bus driver were informed about the tragedy. After primary treatment, the bus passengers were later transferred in other bus and it later left for it’s onward journey.” “It seems that the bus driver dozed off and further lost control over vehicle. Further investigations are underway in this regard,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/1-killed-60-hurt-in-agra-e-way-accident/articleshow/79289836.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: After festive lull, testing picks pace||LUCKNOW: Testing for coronavirus patients picked pace again on Wednesday after a brief lull during the festive season. Over 1.21 lakh samples were collected and tested in the past 24 hours against the average 70,000-80,000 test during the Diwali season. The previous average of 1.5 lakh tests daily would be achieved in a day or two, said additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad. The total number of tests done so far in the state has reached 1.73 crore. Prasad said districts have been told to ramp up testing in the wake of the risk of a second surge in the state. “Some western UP districts are facing the ripple effect from NCR region and the similar risk looms large on the other districts too. Therefore, people must take precautions and get themselves tested even at the slightest risk,” he said. Meanwhile, 2,390 fresh cases were reported in the past 24 hours, taking the state’s tally to 5.17 lakh on Wednesday. As many as 2,524 persons have recovered during the same period. The state has 21,959 active cases, of which 9,672 are under home isolation. Officials said the number of Covid-19 deaths has reached 7,441 in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/after-festive-lull-testing-picks-pace/articleshow/79291851.cms||Shailvee Sharda
November 19, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: KMC house session suspended amid chaos||KANPUR: The first session of Kanpur Municipal Corporation (KMC) in the current financial year was suspended after chaos on Wednesday. Following verbal attacks, counter-attacks and taunts between deputy leader of BJP Mahendra Kumar Shukla alias Dadda and corporator Ramesh Hati (also of BJP), when mayor Pramila Pandey intervened to pacify them, heated arguments took place between her and the corporator. An indecent comment made by the BJP’s deputy leader against Ramesh Hati created an ugly situation in the house. Ramesh Hati alleged that Mahendra Shukla had taken illegal possession of a dharamshala which was the KMC’s property. Thereafter, the mayor suspended Mahendra Shukla for six months from the house. According to a senior corporator, this was the first time when a corporator, who was also a deputy leader of the house, was suspended for six months. It was rather strange both of them belong to BJP, he added. The mayor and the municipal commissioner later suspended the house meeting for thirty minutes. The proceedings of the house began in the morning with a presentation of the budget. The total budget outlay was over Rs 11.98 billion (Rs 11 billion, 98 crore, 62 lakh and 33 thousand). The house passed the budget outlay of Rs 1.85 billion for the jalkal department. Municipal commissioner AkshayTripathi informed the house that since eight months of the current financial year have passed, therefore, a supplementary budget has also been included in the present budget. Later, the corporators raised a demand of Rs one crore in the form of funds ‘for the corporators to be spent in the city’s development as the municipal corporation had failed to develop the city. The house proceedings were suspended for half-an-hour on this issue as every corporator started demanding funds for the development of his/her ward. Some corporators even brought hand-pushed carts in the house and alleged that it was substandard. They claimed that the stuff used in manufacturing the carts were of such a bad quality that their wheels take the shape of a rectangle when garbage is loaded on them. They alleged large scale corruption had taken place in purchasing these carts. Following chaos and allegations of corruption on KMC officials, the house could not discuss the agenda. Naveen Pandit, a corporator of Govind Nagar said the house had to ratify the increase made in rent of the Motijheel lawn and the electric crematorium but that too could not be discussed. It was decided that matters like hike in the rent and other development work which had already been passed by the working committee of the house would be put in the next meeting of the house, Pandit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kmc-house-session-suspended-amid-chaos/articleshow/79289819.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Lockdown lessons: New app with info on New Town amenities, civic services||KOLKATA: Residents of New Town can now locate the nearest medical store or an electrician or find people to rent their apartments and order food by just tapping their mobile screens. The lessons, learned during the pandemic in delivering essential services and disseminating information, prompted the residents of New Town to develop their own mobile app. The app — available in Google Play Store and App Store as New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum — not only provides locals with information about the amenities in the township but can also help local municipal bodies to provide a range of services with reduced turnaround time and cost of delivery. “During the lockdown we realised that we don’t have any proper database on the services and amenities available in New Town. For example, the locations of medical stores in New Town and their timings or doctors residing in the area. Many senior citizens in New Town faced problems due to this. We decided that we need to aggregate information of all the services and amenities available in the township and came up with the app,” said Samir Gupta, joint convenor of the New Town Residents’ Welfare Forum. The app unveiled last week lists several services under different categories, from medical stores to coaching centres, from meat shops to book stores. It has also an inbuilt messaging system and a discussion forum, where residents can brainstorm over any topic. “The app has been developed keeping in mind all the needs of a community with a diversified demography and the people of various age groups. The app is user-friendly and we are ensuring that every service listed in the app is verified,” said Joy Das, a software professional, who has developed the app for the NTRWF. On Wednesday, Chaitali Dasgupta searched for a mathematics teacher in New Town for her 12-year-old son. “I got several leads along with phone numbers,” said the resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lockdown-lessons-new-app-with-info-on-new-town-amenities-civic-services/articleshow/79290175.cms||Zeeshan Javed
November 19, 2020||Kanpur||Kanpur: Remedy in black magic book spurred rape-murder||KANPUR: The gruesome Ghatampur incident in which a six-year-old girl was hacked to death and her vital organs like liver were devoured in an occult ritual, was hatched after the accused read about a black magic remedy for progeny in a book purchased from a stall at a railway station. After interrogation of the accused during ongoing investigation, on Wednesday, SP (Rural) Brijesh Kumar Srivastava said, “The accused Parshuram said he got married in 1999 but his wife Sunaina had not been able to conceive since. He revealed that he bought a book on black magic from a stall at a railway station and after reading a remedy for having progeny in it, he lured his nephew Ankul and his friend Beeran, to carry the heinous crime believing that it will help his wife give birth to a child.” He persuaded Ankul and Beeran to kidnap and kill the girl and then bring her lungs and other vital organs, the SP added. Ankul and Beeran got heavily drunk and then abducted the girl from Bhadras village while she had gone out to buy firecrackers on November 14 (Diwali night), said Srivastava. They took her to a nearby jungle, where they raped the girl before killing her. “The killers thereafter cut out lungs and other organs from the body so that Parashuram and his wife Sunaina could perform black magic for bearing a child,” said police officials. “The accused have been charged under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and sent to jail,” they added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/remedy-in-black-magic-book-spurred-rape-murder/articleshow/79289830.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal govt staff to get 21-day quarantine leave for Covid||KOLKATA: State government employees will be entitled to a “quarantine leave” of up to 21 days if they or any other member of their family is infected with Covid-19 or any of the other four diseases notified by the government on Wednesday. The special leave for five diseases has taken the total number of infectious diseases for which the state government employees can avail of the special quarantine leave to 14. The government staff are already entitled to 30 days of earned leaves, 15 days of sick leaves and 14 days of casual leaves annually. According to the notification, apart from Covid-19 four other diseases — SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), MARS (Middle East respiratory syndrome), avian influenza (H5N1)/novel influenza and Crimean Congo haemorrhagic fever — have also been included in the list. “Quarantine leave may be granted by the head of office on the certificate of a medical officer or public health officer for a period not exceeding 21 days or in exceptional circumstances, 30 days. The excess of 30 days shall be debited to leave account and the excess days may be combined with other leaves,” an official said. A member of state expert committee on Covid, Sukumar Mukerjee said, “This was important because many government employees are getting infected and it will certainly benefit them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-staff-to-get-21-day-quarantine-leave-for-covid/articleshow/79290180.cms||Saibal Gupta
November 19, 2020||Goa||Green tribunal dismisses appeal to save Mandrem structure near turtle sites||Panaji: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has dismissed an appeal filed by a resort owner in Mandrem, who had questioned an order by Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) asking for demolition of illegal structures near the turtle nesting sites on the beach. “We do not find any violation of principles of natural justice in the facts and circumstances already noted. The perusal of order reveals that there is a sufficient compliance of principles of natural justice. Since the inspection has been carried out by the competent authorities in compliance of the orders of the tribunal, we are of the view that there is no need of further inspection,” the tribunal has said, in its order. The tribunal said it found nothing wrong with the GCZMA order which asked for illegal obstructions and high volume loudspeakers to be removed from near the nesting sites. “The constructions being illegal, affecting the turtle nesting sites which need to be preserved, there is no error in the impugned order. Accordingly, the appeal is dismissed,” the NGT said. The tribunal said it issued directions in November 2017 constituting a three-member committee, which furnished its report after a visit to the site in Mandrem. The report found that the construction in Mandrem near the turtle nesting site had been set up in violation of coastal regulation zone (CRZ) norms. “The tribunal directed further action accordingly. GCZMA passed an order for demolition of illegal construction on May 2, 2019 against which a writ petition was filed before the high court. Initially, stay was granted, but after GCZMA followed the requisite procedure and passed further order, the high court disposed of the matter,” NGT noted. “The learned counsel for the appellant had argued that there is no compliance of natural justice and the request for further inspection has been refused by the authority concerned. We are unable to accept the submissions. The matter has been duly gone into by GCZMA as is clear from its exhaustive order,” the NGT said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/green-tribunal-dismisses-appeal-to-save-mandrem-structure-near-turtle-sites/articleshow/79291447.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||Valley of words to commence in virtual mode from Friday||Mussoorie: Valley of Words (VoW), a major literature and arts festival of Uttarakhand, would commence from Friday in virtual mode. This three-day-long event is expected to reach out to thousands of people from across the globe. Addressing mediapersons through a virtual press-conference, Dr Sanjeev Chopra, director of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) and honourary curator of VoW, said that this year the festival is being held online due to the Covid-19 pandemic. “Virtual is the new real. It will take the ‘valley’ to the world with participation from several countries particularly from France and the USA,” Dr Chopra said, while adding that 28,000 people have already registered for the event. He said that this event would focus on literature as well as contemporary topics like China-US relations, introducing military history in school curriculum, and artificial intelligence. The festival would commence with “blessings” from Tibetan spiritual guru Dalai Lama, followed by an inaugural address by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan and union minister Dr Jitendra Singh would deliver the keynote address. “The festival would digitally host over 200 authors, poets, publishers, and thought leaders from across the globe,” Dr Chopra informed. He added that this festival would also have sessions with participants from France. A session on “Rajah’s, Nawabs and Firangi’s” would see the participation of French scholars and Brigadier Sukhjit Singh, the Maharaja of Kapurthala. Started in 2017, VoW is an open access festival that features authors, poets, thespians, artists, photographers, philatelists, balladeers, puppeteers, policymakers, diplomats, academics, activists, parliamentarians, jurists, students, and teachers of the leading schools from various parts of the country as well as from abroad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/valley-of-words-to-commence-in-virtual-mode-from-friday/articleshow/79288988.cms||Anmol Jain
November 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Just 10% taxpayers yet to pay dues||CHANDIGARH: With the civic body receiving Rs 46 crore in tax from both commercial and residential properties, around 90% taxpayers under both the categories have paid their dues. The move is quite crucial as the municipal corporation (MC) is passing through a financial crunch and using its own sources of revenue to fulfil monthly committed liabilities, like salaries and wages. According to records of the civic body, 17,000 owners of commercial properties out of 26,000 have paid their property tax through different modes. Similarly, out of around 1 lakh residential properties, over 90,000 have made their payments and related dues. The tax branch has also successfully settled many property tax related disputes and received the amount pending against properties for many years. “No doubt, we had to issue notices to many property holders under both the categories and sealed premises of some defaulters after giving them multiple opportunities to pay their pending amount. It is for the first time that a good number of people have paid their property tax. In many cases, we had to settle issues related to sale of property, division in property and pending arrears,” said an official of the MC. Besides depositing the tax amount through e-Sampark centres, people had also made payments online. “Since the process of filing the property tax has been largely computerised and file of each individual case prepared, tax payers will not face any hassles in the future,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/just-10-taxpayers-yet-to-pay-dues/articleshow/79288986.cms||Deepak Yadav
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||A family’s century old bond with Lucknow University||LUCKNOW: As Lucknow University turns 100, a family in the city is also set to celebrate its century-old bond with the institution. It was in 1920 when the owner of Munshi Nawal Kishore Press, one of the biggest printing press in Asia, donated Rs 51,000 for the establishment of the university. This has been revealed in a historical document of the United Provinces of Chamber of Commerce, Cawnpore, the replica of which will be gifted to the university’s Tagore Library by the great great grandson of Munshi Nawal Kishore, Lav Bhargava, who is the chief trustee of Meher Bhargava foundation. “Munshi Nawal Kishore Press and LU shared a great bond. The historical document, which is our proud possession, says: ‘Of the large number of donations made by the estate from time to time, a donation of Rs 51,000 to Lucknow University and Rs 30,000 to the Banaras Hindu University by Munshi Nawal Kishore needs special mention.’ My chartered accountant says the present value of the amount donated in 19th century runs into crores of rupees,” says Bhargava. “A famous match held between the teams of Sir Maurice Garnier Hallett, governor of the United Provinces and Munshi Ram Kumar (Bhargava family) at LU grounds in 1944 also speaks about our friendship and association with the university,” he adds. Nawal Kishore Press has also donated a large number of books to LU’s Tagore Library.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-familys-century-old-bond-with-lu/articleshow/79291875.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||When Lucknow University echoed with voices of Mahatma Gandhi & Jawaharlal Nehru||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow University campus, which has been a witness to many historical moments in its 100 years’ journey, is set to add another jewel in its crown with the seven-day centenary celebrations from Thursday. Arts Quadrangle and Malviya Hall (earlier the Bennett hall) –which once resonated with speeches of great personalities like Mahatma Gandhi, Subhas Chandra Bose, Jawaharlal Nehru, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and Jayaprakash Narain – are decked up for the occasion. The institution came into existence in the summers of 1862. When the first Viceroy of British India, Charles John Canning, drew his last breath in London, around 4,500 miles away, a group of taluqdars of Awadh decided to donate eight annas (half a rupee) from their annual income to start an academic institution in his memory. Two years later, Canning High School was born and housed in Aminuddaullah Palace in Aminabad with 200-odd students. With time, the institution grew into a higher education college and shifted to the current location. On August 12, 1920, it was converted into a residential university, among firsts in the country. It was from this quadrangle, on November 20, 1938, Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose addressed students after inaugurating an event. Making a historical speech warning the British, Bose said: “India will not have any constitution framed by foreigners. The country will place demands for its own constitution to the British government. If the demands are rejected, another mass civil disobedience movement would be started.” Earlier, on September 27, 1929, the Hall was blessed with the presence of Mahatma Gandhi. The occasion was the inauguration of the Lucknow University Student Union. Bapu did not like the welcome address delivered in English and politely conveyed his sentiments to students while exhorting them to use and promote ‘swadeshi’ languages. Later, on August 25, 1974, Socialist idealogue Jayaprakash Narayan gave a call to students from here to fight against corruption and protect the country’s democracy from the forces with dictatorial tendencies. He said the battle against corruption and struggle for getting their rights will not be easy and students will have to cover this arduous journey alone.The Arts Quadrangle was also a witness to LU’s silver jubilee celebration on January 20, 1949, in which Pt Jawaharlal Nehru along with 14 eminent other personalities including legends like Maulana Abul Kalam Azad and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan were awarded honorary degrees. All these events were published in various prominent newspapers of that time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/articleshow/79291880.cms||Mohita Tewari
November 19, 2020||Agra||Mathura temple land case: Court defers hearing to Dec 10||Agra: The Mathura district court, on Wednesday, adjourned the hearing of the case seeking ownership of 13.37 acres of the Shri Krishna Janmasthan temple land and removal of Shahi Idgah mosque filed by a Lucknow lawyer and five others, on behalf of deity "Lord Sri Krishna Virajman", till December 10.According to an advocate, of the four defendants, Shri Krishna Janmabhoomi Trust did not appear before the court on Wednesday.Moreover, the court has given time to the petitioners to file a reply of the petitions by the priests’ body and a social organisation condemning the petition for the removal of the Shahi Idgah mosque "built within the Katra Keshav Dev temple", arguing that the issue can create “communal disturbance".The plea to remove the Idgah "built on Shri Krishna Janmasthan temple land" was dismissed in a civil court on September 30, following which the petitioners moved the district court against the order last month. The appeal was admitted in the court of district judge Sadhna Rani Thakur.Meanwhile, two new pleas were filed, one each by priests’ body and social organisation, pleading that the sensitivity of the matter needs to be understood since the issue can disrupt the “communal harmony of Mathura town”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mathura-temple-land-case-court-defers-hearing-to-dec-10/articleshow/79286978.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mysuru||Karnataka: Man hacks wife to death in Channarayapatna||HASSAN: Suspecting his wife’s fidelity, a man hacked her to death at Kachenahalli village in Channarayapatna on Wednesday night. Gangadhar, 27, had married Pooja, 25, six years ago. The couple have a 5-year-old son. Gangadhar was working in a hotel at Shivamogga. When Covid lockdown was announced he returned to his native place. Thereafter he joined a hotel in Hassan as a supplier. He used to pester his wife Pooja to bring more dowry from home. “I had given 45 grams of gold as dowry during her wedding. Eight months ago my daughter came to stay with me as her husband was torturing her to bring more gold. She was allowed to enter her husband’s house only after I gave her two sets of earrings. On Wednesday night he attacked my daughter with a machete and hit her on her head and neck. We rushed her to the taluk hospital where doctor declared her dead,” said Shivaswamy, Pooja’s father and complainant. Gangadhar’s mother lives separately in the same village. When she learnt about the incident in the morning, she rushed to her son’s house and consumed poison. She was rushed to the district hospital for treatment and said to be out of danger. The accused is in police custody. “The accused used to torture his wife often suspecting her fidelity,” said superintendent of police R Srinivas Gowda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-hacks-wife-to-death/articleshow/79289871.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Covid-19 testing declines to 63% in November despite rise in infections||CHANDIGARH: The testing for Covid-19 infection has come down to 63 % this month. There were 45,299 tests in September, when over 300 cases were reported every day. Moreover, the cases are rising after Diwali, which was foreseen by the public health experts. There have been 733 cases in the past one week, with an average more than 100 cases per day. However, the testing has not increased proportionally. In the past one week, 6,171 tests have been done in the city. The city’s total positivity rate in the past one week has been 11.6%, while the national average is 4.1%. So the overall testing has come down in the country. Dr Rijo M John, a Kerala-based health economist and a former consultant with the WHO, said, “There is a sharp fall in cases only because of consistent decrease in daily testing. It does not mean that Covid-19 cases are not rising in Delhi. It only means you are not detecting them, leading to further spread, the total positivity rate keeps rising.” The spread in Delhi can bring a rise in the cases in the city. “When the surge started in the city, it was mainly attributed to the travelers from Delhi in the city. So one should be watchful again as the capital is seeing a second wave again,” said a public health expert at the PGI. Many countries are witnessing a second wave. Cautioning about this, Dr Parvinder Chawla, senior consultant, internal medicine at a flu clinic at a private hospital, said, “At our flu clinic, the weekly footfall have shown a steady decline over the last few weeks from the maximum 262 in the second week of September. The footfall, after falling to 47 in the last week of October, has started rising again in November. The proportion of SARS-CoV-2 results reported positive have also shown a concomitant rise.” She said, “80% of the people who catch this infection have an asymptomatic or mild infection not requiring hospitalization and 20 % have moderate to severe infection requiring hospitalisation. Secondly, we have seen that it is the elderly and those with high-risk medical conditions, who are more vulnerable and tend to comprise the 20% group. While the 80% group contributes more to the spread of infection, the 20% group contributes more towards the hospital and ICU occupancy and death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/covid-19-testing-declines-to-63-in-nov-despite-rise-in-infections/articleshow/79288991.cms||Shimona Kanwar
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||OB slide in WCL mine, 3 drill machines buried||CHANDRAPUR: A large section of overburden (OB) caved into Padmapur opencast coal mine under WCL Chandrapur area on Wednesday afternoon. Though no fatality was reported, three large drill machines, including two new ones, were buried under tonnes of soil. Sources said while work was underway in the first shift at Padmapur opencast mine, a large chunk of overburden started sliding down. The workers in the mine were startled by the sudden slide and rushed out to safety. The drill operators also abandoned their machines and fled to safety. Sources told three drill machines were buried under the OB slide completely. The caving of the OB dump continued for several hours. Senior officials of Western Coalfields Limited (WCL) rushed to the spot to inspect the damage. General secretary of central committee of Indian National Trade Union Congress (Intuc) KK Singh said there was no loss of life or injury to any miner. He, however, claimed that the OB fall was so large that it could keep the coal mine closed for nearly a month keeping around 1,000 miners workless during the period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ob-slide-in-wcl-mine-3-drill-machines-buried/articleshow/79290189.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 19, 2020||Goa||Porvorim locals, MLA protest water shortage||PANAJI: Irked with the recurring water shortage problem, Porvorim residents, along with local MLA Rohan Khaunte, protested outside the public work department’s office, a short distance away from the assembly complex. The residents have threatened to lock the PWD office if the government does not find a permanent solution to their water woes within seven days. The protesters, who sat with empty vessels and buckets, said that they were being given false assurances that water would be supplied on a regular basis. Ironically, the Centre’s jal shakti ministry states that Goa is the first state in the country to provide 100% tap water connections. Protesting locals said that taps frequently run dry, while water is wasted due to broken pipelines. Khaunte alleged that water meant for Porvorim was being diverted to Calangute and Saligao and the constituency was receiving 13MLD water instead of 16MLD. “An influential tanker mafia is the reason behind artificial shortage of water to Porvorim constituency. The water is being supplied to five-star hotels in Calangute and Saligao,” he alleged. Khaunte said that residents have been suffering for over a year and that tankers have stopped supplying water since November 10. PWD officials said the department tankers have stopped supplying water due to breakdowns and due to a delay in framing SOPs. Khaunte said that PWD officials ignore requests and complaints regarding water supply. The MLA said that he had also approached PWD minister Deepak Pauskar but was yet to hear from him. He alleged that police personnel manhandled the protesters, especially women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/porvorim-locals-mla-protest-water-shortage/articleshow/79292353.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: More night shelters to ensure Covid-19 protocol in winter peak||LUCKNOW: Tasked to ensure social distancing norms in view of the pandemic, the state government has decided to build more night shelters in the run-up to winter. In an order to district magistrates, the department of revenue sought daily sanitisation of shelter homes, while provisioning adequate sanitizers and masks for free. The department also decided to geo-tag shelter homes, which may also be photographed for uploading on ‘apda prahari’ mobile application. “Covid-19 protocols need to be followed strictly,” said additional chief secretary, revenue, Renuka Kumar, in a missive to the department of urban development for implementation by local bodies. She said, more shelter homes would be set up to ensure nobody sleeps in the open in peak winter. The move is aimed to provide relief to migrants who often come in search of employment. For implementation of Covid-19 protocols, the state government sought appointment of senior officials as nodal officers for night shelters. The department also sought deployment of caretakers, whose name, designation and mobile numbers would be put up at entrance of night shelters. The state government also asked district authorities to launch surprise inspections to ensure implementation of mandatory norms. The caretaker will also be required to maintain a register for comments by officials. The district administration would arrange mattresses, quilts, clean bed sheets, safe potable drinking water, lavatory and kitchen. Local bodies would also be required to facilitate bonfires near shelter homes, which should be in close proximity to hospitals, medical colleges, bus-stations, railway stations and construction sites. For this, the district administration may take help of municipal bodies and development authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/more-night-shelters-to-ensure-covid-protocol-in-winter-peak/articleshow/79291860.cms||Pankaj Shah
November 19, 2020||Goa||Margao body’s part occupancy to Aquem bldg project revoked||Margao: Director of urban development Tariq Thomas has passed an order cancelling and revoking the ‘part occupancy’ certificate issued by the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) for a commercial project at Aquem, Margao. Thomas, in his order dated November 13, pointed out to the inspection report of the deputy director of municipal administration which had found discrepancies between the sanctioned plan and actual construction of the building, while also observing that the South Goa Planning and Development Authority (SGPDA) had failed to verify the factual position of the construction before granting it the development permission in September 2019. The order has been passed on an appeal filed by Aquem resident Shirish Kamat against the occupancy certificate granted by MMC. Significantly, Kamat had alleged that the authorities had violated all rules while granting permissions for the project bowing to “political pressure” . He had pointed out that the project stands on a wet land which is in an open space. “It is very clear that (the developer) neither applied for permissions as regards deviation or internal changes as per regulations of the Goa (Regulation of Land Development and Building Construction) Act 2008 nor submitted the revised drawings while initially applying for completion certificate and occupancy certificate,” Thomas noted in his order. Further pointing out to a condition contained in the development permission that a completion certificate has to be obtained from SGPDA before applying for the occupancy certificate, Thomas observed that no such document had been placed on record. Thomas directed MMC to “ensure conformity with the rules and regulations while processing permissions and/or completion certificate issued by SGPDA and after strictly complying with all legal requirements and ascertaining that the building is constructed as per the approved plan, may issue fresh occupancy certificate to the (developer).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margao-bodys-part-occupancy-to-aquem-bldg-project-revoked/articleshow/79291464.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Firearm owners to hand them in||Hyderabad: Depositing one’s firearms with the police, service flying squads, static and flying surveillance teams are measures being taken ahead of the GHMC polls. “Arms licensed holders to deposit their weapons in the police stations or with authorized arms dealers before November 19,” read a statement by Hyderabad CP Anjani Kumar. There will be 30 flying squads and 30 static surveillance teams. Flying surveillance teams will check for volitions and other threats. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/firearm-owners-to-hand-them-in/articleshow/79291465.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Bus service resumes on 2 routes, stopped at one in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Considering the demand, the city bus service by a private operator has resumed on two routes, while one has been discontinued. The routes were closed during lockdown and the service remained suspended for almost two months. The service has been resumed from bus stand to Kohara and Meharban to bus stand, while that from Metro to bus stand has been discontinued. Another route that is functional is from Clock Tower to Sahnewal. The bus operator claimed that they have started the route from Meharban to the bus stand via Rahon Road, but due to the pathetic condition of road, the commuters faced problems and the staff also complained of deep potholes and water stagnation. Manager of Horizon Connect Transways Limited, the firm which is handling the operation and maintenance of buses in the city for the MC, Jaskirat Singh said, “We are considering one or two more routes where the service can be started as now colleges have reopened so passengers’ number will increase.” The bus service was discontinued in March and was resumed in July after lockdown, but only on one route. Now it is available on three routes. But the authorities are silent on starting the service on new routes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bus-service-resumes-on-2-routes-stopped-at-one/articleshow/79289013.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||Smart city work makes traffic snarls a routine affair in Doon||Dehradun: The work for Smart City projects left midway at some parts of the city is causing major inconvenience to the commuters despite Doon DM and Smart City CEO Ashish Srivastava having told officials that in case of any inconvenience to commuters, the officials from the concerned department will be held responsible. On Wednesday, a TOI team visited Subhash Road, EC Road and Lansdowne Chowk where the Smart City barricades have been placed in the middle of the road to cover the dug-up portion of the road. Several commuters whom the team spoke to, claimed that the barricades are hardly visible at night and can lead to accidents. Nalin Kapoor, a regular commuter at Lansdowne Chowk, said, “When the authorities have started re-carpeting the roads in other parts of the city, then these minor spots can be repaired in less than a day. They can at least put up reflective ribbons or sign boards till the repairing work resumes.” Another resident of Dalanwala BD Rawat added, “Even if the work is still underway, officials can have better arrangements in place to ensure smooth flow of traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/smart-city-work-makes-traffic-snarls-a-routine-affair-in-doon/articleshow/79288998.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Covid-19 doubling faster in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: The district's active Covid-19 cases are close to 765, while the doubling rate based on the weekly growth rate has decreased substantially to 169 days. Going by Tuesday's state bulletin of the health department, the cases are getting double faster. On Oct 31, the doubling rate in Ludhiana was its highest at 301. The present value suggests more new cases than recoveries. The last few months of data suggests a gradual increase in the doubling rate from July 9 to October, with intermittent fall. The figure for Ludhiana was 15.7 days on July 9, which increased to 18 days by July 17 but dropped to 12 days on July 31. From August 1 to 15, the doubling rate increased from 13 to 16 days, while increased from 18 days on August 17 to 28 days on August 31. It increased further from 37 days on September 2 to 39 days on September 15, and then 55 days on September 25 and 100 days on October 7. It remained at 106 days from October 8 to 21 and reached 270 days on October 22, before reaching 301 days on October 31, before falling to the current value. A doubling rate of 169 days puts Ludhiana at 13th position among the districts. Tarn Taran is at number one and the safest with a doubling rate of 1,409 days, while Ferozepur is number two with 628 days, and Fatehgarh Sahib number three with 450 days. Mohali has the lowest doubling rate of 92 days. With new drops in the doubling rate in several districts, the health department advises caution. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district's doubling rate can increase further with public support. He requested the residents to follow the Covid-19 protocol of wearing a mask while going out, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene, and stepping out only if necessary. He also asked the residents to stop tolerating the violators. Local resident Harpreet Singh said: “I see the battle fatigue among people, yet I'd ask the civic authorities to enforce the Covid rules to keep the majority from suffering because of the violators.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-doubling-faster-in-ludhiana/articleshow/79289005.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Thapar university pressuring for offline exam in December: Students||PATIALA: Amid the Covid-19, the decision on conducting final year examination in offline mode next month by Thapar Institute of Engineering Technology (TIET), Patiala, has left students and parents worried. A group of students conducted an online survey of the seventh-semester engineering students and claimed around 90 per cent of students are unwilling for offline examination. The students claimed that the authorities of the institute were forcing them to give end semester examinations in offline mode and for this, students have been asked to reach the college campus by November 25, after which students will be quarantined for 14 days period. The students said around 36 % of the seventh semester students have their CAT examination scheduled for November 29, whereas the college is conducting the examination from December 7. There are over 900 students in the seventh semester. The authorities claimed that the students, who are unwilling to appear in offline examination this year, will be provided ‘U’ grade which means un-attempted. They said the students will be given a chance to appear in the examination in June-July next year. However, students who have already been placed in companies, are worried if the companies will accept their unofficial U-grade and give them any relaxation. TIET registrar Gurbinder Singh said, “It is not possible for us to conduct online examination. We have given three options to students. First, they can reach and undergo quarantine period and each individual will be provided separate hostel room. Second, they can come as a day-scholar to appear in the exam. Third, they can opt for U-grade, which means they can skip the examination this year and appear in June-July next year.” He said the placement companies will be informed about the U-grade students as passed in the sixth semester and mostly the companies do not seek seventh-semester degree immediately. He said the exams will start from December 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/thapar-varsity-pressuring-for-offline-exam-in-dec-students/articleshow/79288995.cms||Bharat Khanna
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BJP to frame strategy for Council polls||LUCKNOW: Five days after he was appointed incharge of UP, BJP national vice-president Radha Mohan Singh will hold a meeting of party office-bearers in Prayagraj on Thursday to chalk out strategy for the upcoming teachers and graduate constituency Legislative Council elections. According to UP BJP state general secretary Amar Pal Maurya, the party has finalised out schedule of meetings of its leaders for the 11 teachers and graduate constituency seats. While Singh will be in Prayagraj for Allahabad-Jhansi graduate seat, UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh will hold a meeting in Kannauj and Agra for teachers and graduate constituency seats. UP BJP general secretary (organisation) Sunil Bansal will accompany Radha Mohan Singh to Prayagraj and then to Varanasi on November 20. The two would hold meeting of party workers in Moradabad on November 21. The same day Swatantra Dev Singh and UP BJP vice-president Santosh Singh would chart out party strategy for Lucknow teacher constituency seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-to-frame-strategy-for-council-polls/articleshow/79291917.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Three burnt alive after car catches fire||PRAYAGRAJ: A couple and a man were burnt alive as the car they were travelling in caught fire after ramming a tree near Pasna village on Koraon-Meja Road, under the limits of Koraon police station, in Prayagraj late Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as Anil Singh (35), who was the owner of the car, his driver Pintoo Bharatiya (25) and the latter’s wife Swati (22). The three were returning after attending a wedding function and were residents of Mahuwari Kala in Industrial Area. SP (trans-Yamuna) Chakresh Mishra said, “Police have approached the victims’ families to compile more details.” Although Anil had told his family that he was going to attend a wedding when he was leaving the house, they did not know whose wedding he had attended, police said. Anil’s neighbours told the police that the three had left his house around 11pm on Tuesday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/three-burnt-alive-after-car-catches-fire/articleshow/79289745.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Allahabad||Allahabad: Testing made mandatory for coronavirus patients’ neighbours||PRAYAGRAJ: In a bid to contain the spread of Covid-19, district health department have made testing mandatory for the adjoining five houses of a patient. The step will be applicable irrespective of whether the patient is being admitted to a hospital for treatment or under home isolation. Nodal and additional chief medical officer Dr Rishi Sahai said, “Once a patient (all genders and ages) tests positive for the Covid-19, health department teams will conduct testing of the patient’s family members and those living in the five houses (from all four directions) of the patient’s house.” He added that this exercise would help the health authorities to contain the spread of Covid-19, and the department would also be able to identify fresh patients and treat them. “We are conducting testing of around 6,000 people every day and efforts are underway to increase testing in urban, semi-urban and rural areas, even as the caseload in Prayagraj district is less than 1,000 patients. The focus is on those pockets and colonies from where the increasing number of patients have been reported in the recent days,” said Sahai. Besides testing, a mass-level awareness campaign on the three safety norms of wearing a mask, maintaining social distancing and observing proper hygiene like hand wash has also been launched in the city. Health department statistics show that 24,094 patients out of the total 25,395 patients have already been cured and the recovery percentage in the city is 94.87%. Data also claimed that testing of around 3.50 lakh people was done in Prayagaj district till now. Health officials said that the city had reported more cases ( more than hundred) in the past two days. On Tuesday, the city reported 104 cases, while the caseload on Monday was 149.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/testing-made-mandatory-for-corona-patients-neighbours/articleshow/79289741.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||CRS inspects Majerhat ROB||Kolkata: The commissioner of railway safety (CRS) visited Majerhat bridge site on Wednesday while load-testing was on. Load-testing of the new cable-stayed bridge, which is actually a rail overbridge (ROB), commenced on Monday. A span of the old ROB had collapsed on September 4, 2018 and the construction of a new bridge is nearing completion. CRS, an autonomous body under the ministry of civil aviation, gives safety clearance to any new railway project. The ROB is under the ambit of the Eastern Railway (ER) and needs clearance from the railways at various stages. The final safety nod comes from the CRS. On Wednesday, Anant M Chowdhary, CRS, eastern circle, visited the upcoming bridge, along with ER engineers. “The CRS expressed satisfaction over the way the load-testing is being carried out,” said an engineer of the state public works department (PWD), which is implementing the Rs 250 crore Majerhat ROB reconstruction project. The Haryana-based SP Singla is constructing the bridge. On Thursday, a truck will be driven across the bridge to study the deflection caused by a moving loaded vehicle. “This way, the deflection caused by static and mobile load will be recorded,” said an engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/crs-inspects-majerhat-rob/articleshow/79290186.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
November 19, 2020||Goa||Clear dues by Dec 31, warns Margao officer||Margao: Chief officer of the Margao Municipal Council (MMC) Agnelo Fernandes has urged all those who have defaulted in paying their outstanding dues to the civic body, to clear their arrears by December 31 so as to avoid any punitive action. “Defaulters are also informed that failure on their part to pay their dues before December 31 shall be deemed to be their willful default in non-payment of dues,” Fernandes said, adding that punitive action by the MMC could include cancellation/suspension of lease agreements as well as sealing of the premises. However, those who are “regular in payment” may clear their dues before March 31, 2021, Fernandes said. Sources said that the MMC recovery outstandings stand at over Rs 5 crore, a major component of which is house tax arrears. There are several defaulters who have not paid their dues for several years, it was informed. As regards trade tax, Fernandes said that late payment of trade tax attracts penalty of 25 %, and if payment is delayed beyond one month, 50% of the amount is charged as penalty. “Owing to Covid 19 pandemic, individual notices to house owner cannot be sent. Queries or complaints, if any, will be entertained in writing within 30 days, thereafter vigorous steps will be taken for recovery of the dues,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clear-dues-by-dec-31-warns-margao-officer/articleshow/79291463.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: 5 succumb to Covid, 85 test positive||LUDHIANA: Five residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 85 tested positive on Wednesday. As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 35-year-old man of Deepak Cinema Road, who had diabetes and hypertension; a 78-year-old man of Narinder Nagar near Samrala, who had diabetes and coronary artery disease; an 84-year-old man; a 60-year-old woman of Agwar Lodhi in Jagraon, who had diabetes and cardiac diseases; and a 52-year-old man. Besides, six outsiders succumbed to the virus and 19 tested positive here on the day. Civil surgeon Dr Rajesh Bagga said the district toll tally has risen to 875 and that of outsiders to 358. To date, 42,22,250 persons have been tested. Of the 85 new cases, 38 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 14 positive cases’ contacts, 23 from OPD, seven through tracing process, one severe acute respiratory infection case and two others. The local health department officials said the district case count was 21,665 and that of outsiders 3,021. So far, 20,020 patients have recovered, which constitutes 92.40% of the total cases. There are 767 active patients. The number of persons home quarantined is 1,453. On Wednesday, 153 persons were quarantined and 1,686 samples collected. The number of ventilators in private hospitals is 147, including four government ones at CMCH. Ten patients, including four Ludhianvis, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/5-succumb-to-covid-85-test-positive/articleshow/79288999.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||‘CM assured us land process for double-tracking will stop’||Margao: Nuvem MLA Wilfred D’Sa on Wednesday said that chief minister Pramod Sawant has assured a delegation of six sarpanchs and two zilla panchayat members from Nuvem constituency led by him, that land acquisition by the South Western Railway (SWR) for the double-tracking project will be stopped. “The chief minister has assured us that coal imports into Goa will be reduced phase-wise, and eventually no coal will be allowed to come to Goa,” D’Sa told reporters after the meeting with the chief minister. As regards the double-tracking issue, D’Sa said that Sawant informed them that railways minister will soon come to Goa, and issues pertaining to both the coal transportation and double-tracking, would be raised with him and resolved. “The chief minister has already given directions, though not in writing, to stop all the work of double-tracking. However, once the railways minister comes to Goa, a decision will be taken officially with regards to stopping land acquisition for the track doubling project,” D’Sa said. He said that the demand of his constituents and also that of those spearheading the agitation is that the land acquisition process for the double-tracking should be cancelled. D’Sa, who is also the South Goa Planning Development Authority chairman, said that all the BJP MLAs and ministers from South Goa are firm on one thing: opposed to the coal transportation. “They have all expressed their views to the chief minister,” he said. Sawant, he said, has explained to them that double tracking is needed for tourism, pharma cargo and other commodities and not for coal. He also assured that coal handling would be stopped in a phase manner, said D’Sa. Sarpanch of Majorda also brought to the notice of the chief minister about the letters written by him to the railway authorities highlighting the issues concerning the locals there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-assured-us-land-process-for-double-tracking-will-stop/articleshow/79291467.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Three die as car catches fire||Prayagraj: A couple and a man were burnt alive as the car they were travelling in caught fire after ramming a tree in Koraon area of Prayagraj late on Tuesday. The deceased were identified as Anil Singh (35), his driver Pintoo Bharatiya (25) and the latter’s wife Swati (22). They were returning from a wedding and were residents of Mahuwari Kala in Industrial Area. SP (trans-Yamuna) Chakresh Mishra said, “Police have approached the victims’ families to compile more details.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-die-as-car-catches-fire/articleshow/79291934.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Healthcare workers in Ludhiana may start getting Covid vaccine from January||LUDHIANA: The district health authorities may start giving Covid-19 vaccine shots to the government and private healthcare workers from January. The health department has already prepared the data of its healthcare workers in the district to administer the vaccine as and when it is available. A senior health department officer, who is monitoring the process, told The Times of India that they were now waiting for data from private healthcare setups. “Private institutions are expected to submit the data in a week. We will update it on a government website made for the purpose,” said the officer. The officer added that they have heard that results of the phase three trial of a Covid-19 vaccine by a reputed company were expected by November-end or early December and it was safe and effective. He said if all went well, they would start vaccination by January. District immunization officer Dr Kiran had earlier told the Times of India that they have adequate facilities for storage of vaccine whenever it comes. Health department officials said they have deep freezers and ice-line refrigerators at the district vaccine store. The immunization wing of the department has been catering to a population of around 45 lakh of Ludhiana, so they were adept at handling the process. They added that the vaccination would be done in phases for effective management of the exercise. “Since healthcare professionals are working in the frontline, they need to be protected so that they can effectively fight the pandemic,” said Ludhiana president of Indian Medical Association Dr Sunil Katyal. Acting district immunization officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they had additional storage facility for the vaccine and they can transport the vaccines, when it arrives, in special vans. The officer indicated that they can handle about five lakh such vaccines, which would be given in batches, first to healthcare workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/healthcare-workers-may-start-getting-covid-vaccine-from-jan/articleshow/79289019.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 19, 2020||Goa||Davorlim locals disrupt rail work||Margao: Tense moments were witnessed at Davorlim Wednesday morning after locals tried to stop the work of double-tracking of the railway route in the village. Police intervention, however, averted any law and order problem. Sources said that trouble began when a group of irate locals rushed to the railway track where the doubling work was being carried out and tried to disrupt the work. The contention of the locals was that the Railways had started work on the land beyond the railway property even before the completion of the land acquisition process. Police warned the locals against creating obstacles in the railways’ work and threatened to arrest those who violated the law. Arguments also ensued between the police and the locals for a brief while with the protestors questioning the move of the police to threaten them with arrests when all that they were demanding was justice. However, peace was restored once the work on the railway track was suspended. The protestors have been maintaining a vigil to oppose attempts by South Western Railways (SWR) to go ahead with the track doubling work though the Railways has completed laying the double track along the major part of the rote from Sanvordem to Margao. On November 2, in a midnight protest, a large number of protestors had converged at the railway tracks in Chandor in a bid to thwart any attempt by the Railways to begin double tracking work by closing the level crossing. Squatting on railway tracks, the protestors had kept a night-long candle light vigil, and dispersed only the next morning. The Maina Curtorim police had later booked an offence against all the protestors (mostly unidentified) for “forming unlawful assembly and rioting.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/davorlim-locals-disrupt-rail-work/articleshow/79291469.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Cops helping TRS: Raghu||Hyderabad: Dubbak MLA M Raghunandan Rao on Wednesday alleged police are hand in glove with the TRS government. “During the by-election, police manhandled our cadre but our workers did not lose their cool. People voted in favour of the BJP,” he said. “I appeal to the people to give Dubbak kind of verdict in GHMC polls,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-helping-trs-raghu/articleshow/79291470.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Drive out fear of visiting thanas from people: Lucknow police commissioner||LUCKNOW: Hours after taking charge as Lucknow police commissioner, Dhruva Kant Thakur, said all efforts must be made to drive out the fear of visiting thanas from people. In his first interaction with newsmen as CP, Thakur said on Wednesday, “I will strive to create an atmosphere where people don’t have fear of visiting a thana. The dalits and other weaker sections should also have no fear in approaching police. If a person demands an FIR be registered, then it must be lodged under legal provisions. All investigation officers must ensure disposal of cases in a time frame.” If a complainant wants only action and not an FIR, then police must do so. It must be ensured that those coming to thana get maximum satisfaction from their visit, Thakur added. All the recent policies of the chief minister, like setting up help desk for women complaints and making them feel comfortable will be followed in letter and spirit, said the CP. “The basic premise of commissionerate is maximum welfare of people. The presence of so many officers must make people comfortable, and providing solutions to their problems should be the objective of policing,” he added. Talking about challenges, Thakur said social media poses a big challenge, and is both a boon and bane. “It is a boon because it is fast and message reaches rapidly across to many, and a bane since rumours also spread very fast and trigger communal strife before efforts are made to curb it,” he added. Social media is also being used to radicalize people and persuade them towards destructive thoughts which is very challenging for police in contemporary times, said Thakur. Sale and purchase of illicit liquors will be curbed and action against mafia dons will continue in the city. The police will continue its efforts to streamline traffic in the city and continue foot patrolling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/drive-out-fear-of-visitingthanas-from-people-cp/articleshow/79291886.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand cabinet meet: Ownership rights to women, KV in Almora, housing policy discussed||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand cabinet, which met on Wednesday under the chairmanship of chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, constituted a committee to suggest steps to give ownership rights to women in the state. The committee will be headed by chief secretary and will have additional chief secretary, secretary revenue, and secretary law as its members, according to cabinet minister Madan Kaushik, who is also the government spokesperson. The cabinet observed that the women of Uttarakhand are the driving force of the state’s economy but they face issues in securing loans. For the ambitious Riverfront Development Project, the cabinet approved the transfer of 0.4250 hectare land at Brahamawala in Dehradun from Mussoorie Dehradun Development Authority (MDDA) to Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC). The cabinet also gave its go ahead to the amendments in the Uttarakhand Housing Policy and in the service rules of Provincial Armed Constabulary (PAC) and Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) personnel. It was also decided that 0.113 hectare land will be alloted to Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan for setting up a Kendriya Vidyalaya at Deoghat in Almora district. Among other decisions, the cabinet also approved the launch of the Chief Minister Meritorious Students Award Scheme to provide cash awards to meritorious students in the state. Under the scheme, students bagging first, second, and third positions in their graduation final year exams will be given respective cash rewards of Rs 50,000, Rs 30,000, and Rs 15,000. Meanwhile, the students securing first, second, and third positions in their masters will be awarded Rs 75,000, Rs 60,000, and Rs 30,000 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cabinet-meet-ownership-rights-to-women-kv-in-almora-housing-policy-discussed/articleshow/79289028.cms||Gaurav Talwar
November 19, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Idol wing gets back three stolen 15th century idols||TRICHY: The state idol wing CID took possession of three antique bronze idols of Rama, Sita and Lakshmana, stolen from Sri Rajagopalaswamy temple in Anandamangalam in Nagappattinam district, at a function in New Delhi on Wednesday. Union minister of state for tourism and culture Prahlad Singh Patel handed over the idols to additional director general of police (ADGP), idol wing CID of TN, Abhay Kumar Singh. “It was a proud moment for everyone to bring back the antique idols from a dealer in London with the efforts of the Union minister and High Commission of India in London,” ADGP Singh told TOI, adding that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s support helped them a lot. He said the idols will be flown to Chennai by Thursday and handed over to HR&CE department, after which they will be taken to Sri Rajagopalaswamy temple. The idols, believed to be dated back to 15th century, were stolen in 1978 and a case was registered then. Despite some accused in the case being convicted during the period, the idols were not recovered. Routine checks on web pages of dealers of Indian art gave them profile of a UK-based dealer, who was confirmed to have the stolen idols.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/idol-wing-gets-back-three-stolen-15th-c-idols/articleshow/79291468.cms||Gokul Rajendran
November 19, 2020||Goa||Cong workers prevent ISL players from attending practice at Nagoa||VASCO: The Goa Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) prevented Mumbai City FC from training at the panchayat ground in Nagoa on Wednesday. The players, preparing for the Indian Super League (ISL), were forced to return to their hotel after not being allowed to get off the bus for almost two hours. The GPCC members said they were protesting non-Goans being engaged by the league organisers. GPCC members started gathering outside the Nagoa ground from 3pm onwards. When the bus with the players reached the ground at 4pm, the protestors led by its vice-president Sankalp Amonkar stopped them getting out of the bus. They sat around the bus, protesting against the government and the ISL management for engaging services of a Bengaluru-based company. “I had made it clear on November 10 that Goans should be given first preference. When the event is happening in Goa, then Goans should get the first opportunity to earn. Right from coaches to taxis to sound system to even the groundsmen have been brought from outside Goa,” said Amonkar. For about two hours, ISL officials and police tried to convince GPCC members to let the players get out of the coach, but the protestors remained adamant. Police force from Vasco, Verna and other police stations were brought to the site. Around 6pm, the driver was forced to return to the team hotel with the players. According to sources, the organisers will now meet leader of opposition Digambar Kamat and GPCC president Girish Chodankar on Thursday. South Goa Superintendent of Police Pankaj Kumar Singh told TOI, “No case has been registered as we received no complaints from anyone.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-workers-prevent-isl-players-from-attending-practice-at-nagoa/articleshow/79291502.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hubballi||Karnataka: ‘Proposed body for Marathas, not Marathi-speaking people’||HUBBALLI: Against the backdrop of Kannada activists and organisations gearing up for the Karnataka Bandh condemning the state government’s decision to institute a Maratha Development Authority, many eminent personalities and writers among the Marathi community in Karnataka are at pains to explain that they too were staunch Kannadigas. “We are not ‘Marathi speaking people’. Our mother tongue has been Kannada for decades together,” many of them have said. On the other hand, many activists and thinkers have highlighted the lack of clarity in the CM’s order. Veteran Kannada writer Sarjoo Katkar pointed out that the term ‘Maratha’ referred to a community, very much along the lines of Kurubas, Lingayats por Vokkaligas. “There are nearly 50 lakh people across the state who belong to the Maratha community. A look at the history books will inform us that the Marathas’ migration to Karnataka started in the 16th century. It started during Shahaji Maharaj’s era. Although Shahaji was a feudatory king of the Bijapur Sultanate, he was allowed a military regiment of his own, and won over many areas in South Karnataka. But the migration of Marathas to Karnataka increased manifold in the 17th century when Chatrapathi Shivaji extended his dominion to Karnataka. Since both Shahaji and Shivaji both brought carpenters and other artisans as part of their retinue, they have spread across the state. Over the centuries, most members of the Maratha community have adopted Kannada as their mother tongue. So, this should not be connected to any language,” said Katkar, who belongs to the Marathi community. Ramakrishna Marathe, a researcher, said that, while Marathas were classified as a subsect of Kshatriya community in some states, they were grouped under ‘3B’ category in Karnataka. “They have been demanding for ‘2A’ status. However, in some districts, Marathas are classified under ‘Scheduled Caste’ category,” he said. RTI activist Bheemanagouda Paragonda, however, questioned the timing of the state government’s decision to institute Maratha Development Authority, given that the byelection to both the Basava Kalyan assembly constituency, and the Belagavi Lok Sabha seat. “Normally, dedicated authorities are constituted for the development of either a particular geographical region or language or for the welfare of a community such as the Ambedkar Development Corporation. The chief minister’s order lacks any legal perspective,” Paragonda said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/proposed-body-for-marathas-not-marathi-speaking-people/articleshow/79289032.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: ‘Budget stay at shrine for devotees was Yogi Aditynath’s dream’||LUCKNOW: Laying the foundation of a guest house for devotees from UP to the revered pilgrimage site Badrinath was a long, cherished dream being realized for chief minister Yogi Aditynath, said additional chief secretary, home and religious affairs, Awanish Awasthi, who had accompanied the CM on his three-day to Badrinath-Kedarnath in Uttarakhand. Yogi himself hails from Garhwal region, and is still emotionally attached with the Himalayas, which were his home before he settled in Gorakhdham Peeth. CM Yogi Adityanath went to the hill state on a three-day November 15-17 tour. He reached Kedarnath on Sunday with Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat but they were stranded in the British period circuit house due to heavy snowfall. Yogi laid the foundation of Rs 11 crore UP Tourism Bhawan to provide budget stay to devotees visiting Badrinath, Kedarnath shrines during the Char Dham Yatra also including Gangotri and Yamunotri. The facility would be run by Uttar Pradesh State Tourism Development Corporation. Speaking to TOI Awasthi said, “It was a dream of the chief minister to build a facility in Badrinath for the devotees from UP. It was because of his conviction that the work for a guest house at Haridwar has already started and now the foundation for a similar facility in Badrinath has been laid.” The CM wants speedy completion of the guest house in Badrinath and hence Rs 4.44 crore out of Rs 11 crore has already been released, said Awasthi. Pilgrims from UP will get a comfortable place to stay within budget, he added. The proposed 40-room tourist guest house in Joshimath tehsil of Chamoli district will be a green building constructed in Garhwal style of architecture and is expected to be ready in two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/budget-stay-at-shrine-for-devotees-was-cms-dream/articleshow/79292017.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Sujeet Pandey’s police training college posting; more than what meets the eye?||LUCKNOW: The unceremonious shifting of the first commissioner of Lucknow police, Sujeet Pandey, with his posting to the arms training college (ATC) Sitapur, out of the boundaries of the state capital, has come as a surprise not only for IPS officers, but also in the political circles. However, DK Thakur’s appointment as the new police commissioner of Lucknow sends a strong message by the BJP-led government. Thakur had hit the headlines during the BSP regime when his photograph trampling Samajwadi Party workers during a protest had grabbed nationwide attention. More surprising though is that Pandey has been shunted to PTC Sitapur, a post which is viewed as reserved for an IPS officer who has been an eyesore to the ruling party. In the SP government, IPS Sulkhan Singh remained in PTC Unnao for three years as during the Mayawati regime earlier, he had probed the police recruitment during Mulayam government. Another IPS officer, Vijay Kumar was posted at PTC Sitapur for his reported proximity to Mayawati. But since Pandey does not sport any such badge, his posting to PTC Sitapur is disturbing the IPS circles as it was Pandey who established the police commissionerate as first commissioner and despite having two health issues -- first he was hospitalised for about a fortnight and then his entire family was struck with coronavirus -- Pandey had risen to the expectations. Pandey had also led the anti-Mukhtar Ansari operation in Lucknow by seizing his multi- crore SUVs and demolishing his alleged illegal empire. It is nearly one year since the commissioner of police has been working from the camp office of the SSP as neither he has been given a functional office of the police commissioner nor a residence of his stature. As senior police officers debated over the factors behind the ungraceful departure of an officer who apparently has an impeccable record, majority viewed that chief minister Yogi Adityanath was annoyed over the delay in the suspension of a police inspector after the hooch tragedy in Lucknow. As soon as the CM landed in Lucknow from his three-day Badrinath-Kedarnath visit late on Tuesday evening, he ordered for Pandey’s departure immediately and Thakur assumed charge late in the night. However, some are of the view that the hooch tragedy and delayed action was not reason enough as there have been cases earlier when there have been many more deaths in other districts where the SPs were not disturbed from their positions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sujeet-pandeys-police-training-college-posting-more-than-what-meets-the-eye/articleshow/79292004.cms||Subhash Mishra
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||5 from Kolkata on Oscar jury; panel starts online viewing||KOLKATA: Though a large part of 2020 has seen no release of movies, India will still be sending an entry for the Academy awards. This is the first year when a good number of OTT releases are among the 27 movies that are currently being viewed online by jury members who will finally select the Indian entry to the Oscars. Last year, Zoya Akhtar’s ‘Gully Boy’ was selected as India’s Oscar entry. Director Aparna Sen, who chaired the jury, had announced the selection of Ranveer Singh’s film in Kolkata in the presence of the jury members who were chosen by the Film Federation of India (FFI). This year, the jury is being chaired by Rahul Rawail. A still from 'Sir'Sources say as many as five jury members are from Kolkata. They include, directors Satarupa Sanyal and Atanu Ghosh, music director Prabuddha Banerjee, singer Iman Chakraborty and costume designer Sabarni Das. Surprisingly, not a single Bengali film is in contention this year. Last year, there were three films in contention — ‘Nagarkirtan’, ‘Tarikh-A Timeline’ and ‘Konttho’. According to sources, some of the Hindi films submitted for consideration include ‘Sir’, ‘Shikara’, ‘Gunjan Saxena’, ‘Shakuntala’, ‘Bahattar Hoorian’, ‘Malang’, ‘Chhlaang’, ‘Gulabo Sitabo’, ‘Chhapaak’, ‘Bhonsle’, ‘AK vs AK’, ‘Kaamyaab’, ‘Serious Men’, ‘Bulbbul’, ‘I Pad’, ‘Atkan Chatkan’ and ‘Chintu Ka Birthday’. Few among these have already been released on OTT platforms. Two Marathi (‘The Disciple’ and ‘Bittersweet’) and two Malayalam (‘Moothon’ and ‘Jallikattu’) are also in contention. Director Nila Madha Panda's Odia movie titled “Yesterday’s Past” ("Kalira Atita") has also been submitted. "It is almost like a silent film about a man and the sea. The film is based on the vanishing villages on the sea," Panda said. A still from 'Yesterday's Past'According to Ananth Mahadevan, the director of “Bittersweet”, the Oscars are a tough proposition and it is very important that the film representing a country ticks all the importance boxes of an eventual Oscar shortlist. “Bittersweet”, he said, has an original subject and has never been explored on the Indian screen. The film is on the crime being committed on women sugarcane cutters in India by advising them to remove their uterus (hysterectomy) so that they do not lose four days of work every month due to their menstrual cycle. “It is rooted in its country of origin, is about human rights and tells an emotionally charged story and has an international appeal – these are all the requisite boxes to tick for an Oscar jury. It will be a privilege to represent the country with such unusual content that received rave reviews at the Busan International Film Festival,” Mahadevan said about his film that has already been selected for the competitive section of the forthcoming Kolkata International Film Festival. Shiladitya Bora, whose company Platoon One Films is distributing “Sir” in India, told TOI that the film has been submitted for selection. “It is a tender love story exploring a contemporary urban-rural class divide, with the domestic help Ratna as the dynamic protagonist, hanging on to her dream against all odds. We believe in the potential of the film as the subject matter is contemporary and relevant, and takes on a social issue (like the Oscar winning film, "The Help") through a positive story (like "Life is Beautiful").” Over the next few days, the jury members will watch all the 27 movies online to select one Indian entry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/5-from-kol-on-oscar-jury-panel-starts-online-viewing/articleshow/79290234.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Diwali homecoming: Ram, Lakshman, Sita idols stolen from Tamil Nadu return after 42 years||NEW DELHI: Three medieval-era bronze idols of Ram, Lakshman and Sita, stolen from a Tamil Nadu temple in the 1970s before surfacing in Britain recently, were handed over to the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday, ending a quest that began 42 years ago. These idols along with a fourth of Hanuman, belonging to the Sri Rajagopalaswamy Temple in Anandamangalam, Nagapattinam, were photographed and documented in 1958, and their record remained with the French Institute of Pondicherry since. But between November 23 and 24, 1978, all four idols were stolen. The thieves were later caught, but by then the idols had changed hands and left the country. The Hanuman idol was traced to a museum in a Southeast Asian country, but the whereabout of the rest was unknown until three years ago when a private initiative called India Pride Project spotted the Ram statue while going through the website of British Association of Antique Dealers. Inquiries were made in India and Britain, and an important tip from the UK boosted the search. In August 2019, after receiving the information, the Indian high commission contacted the Idol Wing of Tamil Nadu Police. The details matched, so the high commission contacted the Art and Antiques unit of Scotland Yard. The British police met the owner of the idols and he agreed to hand them back. On September 15, Metropolitan Police, London, which had taken custody of the statues, gave them to the high commission. On Wednesday, Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel, flanked by Abhay Kumar Singh, ADGP of Tamil Nadu Police’s Idol Wing, and other ASI officials, were present at an event where the recovered idols were unveiled. The Ram, Lakshman and Sita statues measure, respectively, 90.5cm, 78cm and 74.5cm. They are in the Vijaynagar style, distinguished by the tall headgear or kulavi, derived from the Persian kula or cap. The culture ministry said at the event that since 2014, 40 artefacts stolen from India had been returned, many of which are now in the museum at Purana Qila. But the battle to stop theft of antiquities, their documentation and streamlining channels of return is still a continuing process. Art historian and museum expert Deepthi Sasidharan said that while the government made efforts, “the robust trade of antiquities across borders is proof of the basic weaknesses”. Sasidharan said, “I am unaware of any public portal where you can submit a query and an agency speedily responds. The National Mission on Monuments and Antiquities exists but the site lists 12,61,982 registered antiquities, but there’s no way to monitor the movement of these antiquities. Quick superficial changes can quickly obliterate their identities.” While gratified to see national treasures returned, she was insistent that “a robust national registry is imperative”. Another expert, choosing to remain anonymous, also wondered what happened to the retrieved artefacts away from the media glare. “In museums abroad, at least, they are well taken care of and preserved in temperature-controlled environments. What happens once such objects are back in India is anybody’s guess,” the expert said. “There’s a need to build good mechanisms, but these occasional returns shouldn’t be the only way for us to take notice of the bigger problem of theft, and in some cases, re-theft after artefacts are recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/diwali-homecoming-ram-lakshman-sita-idols-stolen-from-tn-return-after-42-years/articleshow/79291489.cms||Manimugdha S Sharma
November 19, 2020||Goa||Save Mollem: 21-yr-old student sends video appeal to PM||Panaji: Mithila Prabhudesai, a 21-year-old medical student from Goa, has appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a video message, which has since gone viral, to save the state’s pristine forests at Mollem from the three infrastructure projects. “As a citizen of the state, I don’t want my Goa to be ruined. I don’t want my Goa to be a coal hub. I request the PM to please redirect the state to change their stand on this issue and dissolve the plan. We don’t want to destroy Goa,” she said. Prabhudesai, who is a part of the team handling social media of the Mollem memory project — an Instagram page that amplifies the movement, said that the PM has the final word for such projects and therefore his intervention is necessary. “We have the BJP government at the state and the Centre. Whenever such projects are passed, it first goes through the state to the centre and then comes back to the state with environmental clearances. So, both state and Centre have a role in it. I hope the PM directs the state government to change its stance,” she said. In her video message, she explained how the flora and fauna of the forest areas will be hampered if these projects are allowed. She listed the drastic effects on water bodies, like the Dudhsagar, and archaeological sites at Tambdi Surla. “Goa is synonymous with greenery and we don’t want to lose that,” she said. The medical student also pointed out that deforestation of the area could create a passage for animals into human habitats, which may prove to be a health risk with the possible transmission of zoonotic diseases. “The current pandemic that we’re in — Covid-19 — is said to have zoonotic origins. Diseases like malaria, HIV/AIDS also have zoonotic origins. Furthermore, coal will have an impact on the respiratory system causing diseases such as pneumoconiosis, COPD and asthma,” she said, adding that she is an asthma patient herself and finds it difficult to lead a normal life with the disorder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/save-mollem-21-yr-old-student-sends-video-appeal-to-pm/articleshow/79291520.cms||Nida Sayed
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Public gathering on Chhath can become super spreader: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: A week after Delhi government banned public gatherings to celebrate Chhath Puja due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the high court on Wednesday upheld the move, saying any such event could turn into a “super spreader of the infection”. Refusing to entertain a plea challenging the ban on Chhath celebrations at public places such as ponds and riverbanks, a bench of Justices Hima Kohli and Subramonium Prasad underlined that the city was in the throes of “a third wave of infection” when it was necessary “to scale down to contain the infection and not to escalate the same”. Calling the petition meritless, the bench scoffed at a claim of the petitioner, Durga Jan Seva Trust, that it is only seeking permission to hold a gathering of 1,000 people. “Oh really! Today when Delhi government is not allowing marriages with over 50 persons, you want only 1,000 persons. How come?” it wondered. “In today’s day and time, the petitioner/trust’s desire to celebrate Chhath Puja at such a large scale at public places is belied by the existing ground reality prevalent in Delhi.” The trust had challenged the November 10 order of Delhi Disaster Management Authority not to allow public gathering for Chhath Puja on November 20. “Trust has lost sight of the Covid pandemic situation in Delhi where even as per the respondent/Delhi govt, a third wave is under way. The daily infection rate in the past one week is hovering between 7,800 and 8,593. Daily death rate has crossed double figures and has touched 104 just a few days ago,” the court observed, adding that the city has over 40,000 active cases. While religious sentiments of all sections of the society must be respected, “the right to life and health of the public at large cannot be sacrificed at the altar of a right to celebrate a festival, however significant it may be for a particular community”, the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/public-gathering-on-chhath-can-become-super-spreader-hc/articleshow/79291519.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Shivpal Yadav rules out merger with Samajwadi Party||LUCKNOW: Putting to rest all speculations of his return to Samajwadi Party in the near future Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party – Lohia (PSP-L) chief Shivpal Yadav on Wednesday said there will not be any merger. He, however, said his party may enter into an alliance with the Samajwadi Party ahead of the 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Shvipal was addressing reporters on the sidelines of an event in Bahraich. He said the scope of a merger ended long back and now his party will only enter into an alliance only if a respectable number of seats are offered. Shivpal had defected from the SP in October 2018 alleging that he was being sidelined by then chief minister and party president Akhilesh Yadav. He is, however, member of the SP in the UP assembly. Shivpal’s statement gain significance in the light of the recent comments of Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav who had announced that his party will not contest from Jaswantnagar seat from where Shivpal is a sitting MLA. “If our government is formed, we will give him a cabinet berth,” Akhilesh had said recently at a press conference in Etawah. The PSP-L chief lambasted the ruling BJP stating that the bureaucracy is dominating the scene to the extent that officials are not paying heed to recommendations and requests of even ruling party MLAs and ministers. He also attacked the government at the Centre stating that demonetisation has left a lasting impact in the GDP. “They (BJP) promised two crore jobs every year, but failed to keep their word …. The number of unemployed youths is constantly on the rise,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shivpal-rules-out-merger-with-sp/articleshow/79291926.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Biggest promotion drive in khaki: 23k cops to get prop up||Lucknow: In what is being touted as the biggest promotion drive in a year, Uttar Pradesh Police will promote 23,659 cops as head constables over the next fortnight. Already, 7,584 personnel from various police wings bagged promotions two months ago. Senior officials said, the move followed directives by chief minister Yogi Adityanath, who seeks to inculcate responsibility in the force by boosting their morale. Additional director general of police, recruitment & promotion board, Renuka Mishra, told TOI the process is being fast-tracked and will be complete in 15 days. “It will also be one of the biggest-ever promotion drive in the history of the police department,” she said. The officer also said, promotions in different police wings and Provincial Armed Constabulary had touched 31,243 this year. So far, 7,584 candidates were promoted against 16,189 vacant posts because many could only meet the merit criteria. Also, many cops were unfit or had pending cases against them, she said. “For the first time, promotions will clear the backlog since 2010 and constables appointed thereafter will get timely promotions,” she added. As per records, more than 300 sub-inspectors were physically unfit and could not be promoted and around 80 of them had cases pending against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biggest-promotion-drive-in-khaki-23k-cops-to-get-prop-up/articleshow/79292025.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Agra||After 43 days of arrest, jailed Kerala journalist gets access to his lawyer||Agra: For the first time since his arrest, jailed Kerala journalist Sidhique Kappan spoke to his lawyer on Tuesday. In a five-minute conversation over the phone, the journalist, who had been arrested with three others on their way to meet the family of the alleged gang-rape victim in Hathras, told his lawyer he had been arrested six and a half hours before the time mentioned in the FIR. “I got a call from an unidentified number around 4.20pm on Tuesday,” Wills Matthews, Kappan’s legal counsel engaged by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ), told TOI. “At first, I was confused when I heard him. I had been trying to meet him or speak to him for weeks.” Kappan had been arrested on October 5 and, since then, had not been allowed to meet his lawyer in Mathura Jail where he has been incarcerated. Jail authorities had cited Covid-19 concerns. KUWJ had approached the Supreme Court last month to intervene to allow his lawyer to meet him. Kappan’s call came a day after the Supreme Court issued notices to the Centre, UP and the state police chief on his bail application. “He had only five minutes. He sounded good. He told me he is getting food and medicines on time,” said Matthews. “He told me they had been arrested at 10.20am. The police FIR says they were arrested at 4.50pm. It’s a major discrepancy, which we will raise in court.” The next court hearing is on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/after-43-days-of-arrest-jailed-kerala-journalist-gets-access-to-his-lawyer/articleshow/79287050.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||15 lakh diyas to light up Kashi ghats on Dev Deepawali||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has given directions to organize a grand celebration to mark the festival of Dev Deepawali on November 30. Compared to last year when 10 lakh earthen lamps or diyas were lit on 84 ghats of Varanasi, this year the government plans to light at least 15 lakh diyas. The CM and Governor Anandiben Patel are likely to take part in the celebrations, which come days after the two participated in the Deepotsav in Ayodhya on the occasion of Chhoti Diwali on November 13. The CM has said that the programme should reflect a never-before grnadeur and a laser and projector show on the Ganga’s water should show the glory of Kashi, Shiv and the holy river. Avnish Mishra, joint director at the tourism department, said that a much larger celebration has been planned this year as compared to previous years and cultural programmes are being organized at 20-25 ghats. “Arrangements will be made to allow tourists to view these from the middle of the river where they will be taken by boats. This year we are making sure that new programmes are organised. The Ganga Aarti will also be grander but we will ensure that people follow physical distancing to view it,” he said. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that the government has desired that the Dev Deepawali is as grand as the Deepotsav that was organized in Ayodhya. The festival of Dev Deepawali finds mention in the Shiva Purana where it was celebrated to mark the day when Vishnu killed a demon named Tripura Sur who was torturing gods during the month of Kartik. After he was killed, the gods celebrated Diwali. It is believed that on this day, all the gods and goddesses descend on Varanasi’s ghats. Meanwhile, the CM has also given directions to organize functions at all cow shelters on the occasion of Gopashtmi on November 22. Local MPs, MLAs, councilors, gram pradhans and other public representatives should be invited for these events. A special programme on health check-ups for the animals in the shelters should also be organized. The CM has directed the animal husbandry department to carry out an immunization drive against diseases and it should be ensured that veterinarians visit shelters regularly. During winter, the animals should be kept warm and well fed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/15l-diyas-to-light-up-kashi-ghats-on-dev-deepawali/articleshow/79291912.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Thermal scan, sanitization must before entry to ghats||LUCKNOW: Devotees thronging Lakshman Mela ghat and Jhulelal ghat for Chhath Puja on November 20 will first have to undergo thermal checking and sanitization before the ritual of offering ‘arghya’ to the sun god. Besides, entry without a mask will be prohibited. As the main day for puja nears, district magistrate Abhishek Prakash and commissioner of police DK Thakur inspected Gomti river banks. Lucknow Municipal Corporation will be holding a cleanliness drive and putting up Covid-19 help desks. Ensuring that overcrowding doesn’t take place, barricading at necessary points for maintaining social distancing will be put, while police personnel will ensure security at the ghats. No devotee will be allowed without masks and measures for thermal screening are also being made. “For the safety of devotees, preparations are underway at the ghats for Chhath rituals. Changing rooms for women will also be set up and regular sanitization will be carried,” said municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/thermal-scan-sanitization-must-before-entry-to-ghats/articleshow/79291902.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Road to safety: UP 112 cops to be deployed on state highways, expressways||LUCKNOW: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to deploy UP 112 cops on state highways and expressways to ensure safety and round-the-clock assistance to passengers. In the first phase, 18 police response vehicles (PRVs) of UP 112 will be deployed on Lucknow-Agra Expressway. Besides providing security and help, UP 112 police will also provide information to people regarding routes, refreshments, hotels, hospitals and other essential facilities. Deployment of cops on highways and expressways will not only help in reducing road accidents but will also ensure instant aid to people sustaining injuries in road accidents. Additional director general of police, UP 112, Asim Arun said cops would identify and penalise people indulging in overspeeding and flouting traffic rules. “Cops will check unnecessary stoppages on highways which cause accidents. During foggy conditions, such activities add to fatalities. Some hospitals are being listed to deal with emergency situations,” he said. “Cops will remove unsafely parked vehicles and illegal fencings which have been done at places to erect unsafe local by-lanes. Illegal hotels and shops will also be removed on priority for better, smoother and safer traffic movement,” Arun added. The ADG said high-quality reflective stickers have been put on all PRVs so that they are visibile from a distance. “Cops have been provided high visibility jackets. PRVs will be connected with the control room of the Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) for better coordination,” the officer added. “In the first phase of the exercise, 18 PRVs have been deployed on Lucknow-Agra Expressway. Once the trial is successful, PRVs will be deployed on Yamuna Expressway and state highways,” Arun further informed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/road-to-safety-up-112-cops-to-bedeployed-on-up-highways-e-ways/articleshow/79291967.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||Two-day old newborn found in Rishikesh forest||Haridwar: A two-day-old unclaimed newborn was rescued from the forest area of Lakshman Jhula region in Rishikesh by the police on Wednesday morning. The newborn baby was sent to the civil hospital from where he was referred to a higher centre. The police have also deployed two women constables to take care of the baby. Meanwhile, the officials are trying to search for the parents of the infant. Pramod Uniyal, SHO of the Lakshman Jhula police station, told TOI, “A newborn was found by the locals in the wee hours on Wednesday morning on Neelkanth motorway and they informed the police. We rescued the child and sent him to the civil hospital. The baby is out of danger now and we are searching for his parents. A case is being registered against those (unidentified) who threw the newborn in the forest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-day-old-newborn-found-in-rishikesh-forest/articleshow/79289061.cms||MS Nawaz
November 19, 2020||Goa||20-yr-old held with ganja worth Rs 14k||Colva: Quick on the heels of three raids by the anti-narcotics cell on Tuesday, Colva police arrested Saheel Rajabholi, 20, a resident of Navelim, Margao, with 140g of narcotic substance alleged to be ganja worth Rs 14,000 in the international market. Colva police said that upon receiving information that the accused was carrying narcotic substances, they detained him at the under-construction Western bypass at Benaulim. After conducting a search, they found the accused in possession of the narcotic substance. The accused has been booked under provisions of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985. Police said that upon receiving information that the accused was carrying narcotic substance, they detained him at the under-construction Western bypass at Benaulim||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/20-yr-old-held-with-ganja-worth-rs-14k/articleshow/79292495.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Two scribes accused of spreading fake news in Fatehpur, FIR lodged||LUCKNOW: An FIR was lodged against two journalists in Fatehpur district for allegedly spreading fake news on Twitter about alleged rape and murder of two minor dalit girls on Thursday. The FIR has been lodged against one Dhara Singh Yadav and a journalist of a news channel. The complaint was lodged by station officer of Asothar, Ranjeet Bahadur Singh. Singh, in his FIR, alleged that he was on patrol duty in Chichni village and Bala Bala town when it came to light that a private channel journalist and Dhara Singh Yadav were spreading fake news on Twitter about the killing of two minor girls in the area. “While the girls had died trying to pluck water chestnut from a lake, the two journalists were spreading fake news to create animosity between the Dalit and other communities. The journalists were spreading baseless news on Twitter that the girls’ bodies were thrown in the lake with their hands and legs tied and that they were raped and their eyes taken out. This was leading to enmity between the Dalit community and other groups,” he said. He cited the post-mortem report which stated that the minor girls died due to drowning and no damage was caused to their eyes or other body parts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-scribes-accused-of-spreading-fake-news-fir-lodged/articleshow/79291986.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mysuru||Man held for raping woman in Chamarajanagar||MYSURU: A physically challenged woman was allegedly sexually assaulted at Puttanapura village in Chamarajanagar taluk. According to police, the survivor is pregnant now. Additional superintendent of police Anita Haddannavar on Wednesday told TOI that they have arrested Basavanna, the accused, based on a complaint filed by the survivor. He is in judicial custody. Under the pretext of marrying the woman, the accused allegedly raped her when she came to work as a daily wage labourer at his field, police stated. Two held for robbing gadgets City police have arrested two persons on charges of robbing a cellphone and a laptop. The accused are Mohammad Zameer Ur Rehman alias Zameer, 20, of Kalyangiri, and Shoheb Aktar alias Shoheb, 21, of Raghavendra Nagar in the city. On November 13, the duo allegedly robbed Srirag, a resident of Shakthi Nagar, of his cellphone at knife-point. The same day, they allegedly threatened Mohammad Zawad at his house in Kalyangiri and escaped with his laptop. Based on the complaints from the victims, Udayagiri police arrested the duo near Madegowda Circle at Rajiv Nagar on November 17. The robbed gadgets have been recovered. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/man-held-for-raping-woman/articleshow/79289941.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||DMC starts ‘Loan Mela’ for street vendors||Dehradun: In order to extend financial support to the street vendors under the Pradhan Mantri Atma Nirbhar Scheme, a two-day-long ‘loan mela’ was organised at the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) office on Wednesday. Several banks have put up their stalls to offer interest-free loans up to Rs 10,000 to street vendors for starting their business. The vendors identified by DMC can avail benefit under the scheme. According to the officials, the fair will witness over 16 banks clearing loans for street vendors. On Wednesday, 106 street vendors contacted the bank officials to secure loans. Further, more than 96 new applicants, willing to start their street vends, participated in the mela. The bank officials guided these applicants on the loan application process. Subsequently, 49 new loan applications were filed on the DMC portal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-starts-loan-mela-for-street-vendors/articleshow/79289102.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Prevention best cure, says Yogi Adityanath in Chhath at home plea||LUCKNOW: Cautioning people against prevalence of coronavirus, chief minister Yogi Adityanath appealed to people to celebrate Chhath Puja at home. The CM said till a vaccine was available for Coronavirus, prevention was the best cure and, therefore, devotees should try and perform the puja at home. “People can use tubs or a large utensil for the rituals,” he suggested. The CM’s appeal comes even as he has issued directions to local administrations to prepare ghats for community Chhath Puja, which us traditionally performed by women in rivers, ponds and other large water bodies. Reviewing the Covid-19 situation in the state on Wednesday morning, Yogi stressed on random testing for Covid-19. ‘Ensure infra for patients’He observed that several countries and even some states in India were witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 and therefore, UP should be on high alert against increasing cases. He said that availability of ICU beds must be assessed to ensure that if at all cases in UP started rising, there would be ample health infrastructure available to patients. Yogi said that contact tracing and surveillance should be further strengthened, adding that special attention should be paid to contact tracing of those who enter UP from other states. The state’s programme of contact tracing has been recognized by the World Health Organisation as “exemplary” in containing the spread of the virus. He added that integrated command and control centres should be operated continuously as they are crucial in containing the spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prevention-best-cure-says-cm-in-chhath-at-home-plea/articleshow/79292023.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Shimla||5 MoD employees stranded in snow, rescued after 3 days by by Lahaul-Spiti cops||MANALI: Five employees of Jabalpur Vehicle Factory (JVF), who had been stranded in snowfall at 14,000-ft high Sarchu for the past three days, were rescued by Lahaul-Spiti police with the help of the disaster management cell on Tuesday night. The employees, working under the ministry of defence, were on duty and got stranded while coming from Leh to Manali. Suddenly it started snowing and their vehicle broke down amid heavy snowfall. Sarchu being located in isolated area, nearly 100 kms away from nearest habitation and without mobile signal, they got stranded with no hope for any help. Lahaul-Spiti superintendent of police Manav Verma said, “They were stranded at Sarchu for three days. And their vehicle broke down. We received a distress call from one of their relatives on Tuesday afternoon who informed us about their situation. Police team and disaster management cell jointly carried out the rescue operation. The team immediately left for Sarchu. All of them were brought to Keylong safely in the night time.” The rescued persons were identified as Srikant Sahu, Alok Verma, Kunjilal Meena, Ganesh Prasad and Munna Kumar. According to sources, the lucky five got some help from Border Roads Organisation (BRO) at Sarchu where some jawans were still stationed. They succeeded in contacting their senior officials about their condition. Only then Lahaul-Spiti police was contacted for help. The SP said that all five persons are employees of Jabalpur Vehicle Factory under ministry of defence and they were on official duty. The Manali-Leh highway had been completely blocked after the snowfall. Verma said people should contact Lahaul police before traveling towards Leh or coming from Leh. “We have distributing two 24 hours helpline numbers – 8988098067 and 8988098068 – where people can inform police or get latest updates before driving on this road.” Two local residents Vijesh and Rajat, residents of Shansha village of Lahaul, who are the member of The Great Himalayan Rescue and Adventure Sports Association, voluntarily joined the rescue operation with their personal four-wheel drive vehicles. “Their efforts and contribution are remarkable,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/5-mod-employees-stranded-in-snow-rescued-after-3-days/articleshow/79290244.cms||Suresh Sharma
November 19, 2020||Mysuru||Five held for smuggling rosewood logs||MADIKERI: The district forest squad has arrested five people for smuggling rosewood logs from reserve forests in Somwarpet taluk. The accused had cut four rosewood trees inside Hudguru reserve forest 10 days ago. They had then smuggled the logs to the estate of Abhishek in Hanagallu Shettalli village. When they were attempting to load the logs to a vehicle on Tuesday night, Somwarpet forest assistant conservator CD Nehru, assistant officers S W Sumanth, MK Manu and others raided the premises.The foresters warned them by shooting in the air and arrested Abdul Rehman, Yaduru Raja. BS Ramesh, Mohankumar and Sampath of Hangallu Shettalli village and seized logs worth Rs 1.5 lakh and a car. All of them were remanded for judicial custody. Two other accused - Abhishek and Nanda of Hangallu Shettihalli - are absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/five-held-for-smuggling-rosewood-logs/articleshow/79289878.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Ambagilu to Manipal 4-lane road to come up under TDR||UDUPI: A move by the Udupi Urban Development Authority (UUDA) to use transferable development rights, a first in its history, will provide a parallel connectivity route to the education hub of Manipal via Perampalli. The 20-metre 4-lane bitumen road from NH-66 junction at Ambagilu to Manipal via Perampalli will offer people a substitute road to Manipal, compared to the present Kalsanka-Manipal road, which is congested despite being a 4-lane facility. Udupi MLA Raghupathi Bhat, who laid the foundation stone for this work on Monday, told TOI that UUDA is offering TDR option to land owners, 197 of them, along the 3.9 km stretch from Ambagilu to Manipal, for the first time. Unlike other cities, UUDA is offering owners twice the development rights through TDR, compared to 1.5 times development right offered by other urban development authorities in the state, the MLA said. Raghavendra Kini, president, UUDA, said the state government has sanctioned Rs 16 crore to the public works department to take up reconstruction work of owners who could lose their compound or a portion of their house to facilitate this work. “The project requires UUDA to acquire 7.3 acres of private land under TDR,” Kini said, adding the TDR option of 2 times the market value will stand the owners in good stead. With nearly 40% of motorists having work in Manipal– the seat of the district administration—development of this parallel four-lane road will help the stakeholders who need to commute to district offices at Rajathadri, he said. “The work has been allotted to three contractors who are expected to complete the same by May 2021,” Kini said, adding the current project will see 3 km out of the 3.9 km of the road, developed into a four-lane road. “MLA Raghupathi Bhat is approaching the state government for an additional Rs 5 crore grant to complete the remaining 900 metre stretch,” Kini said. The road comes with a divider, drains and bitumen layer that can endure the monsoon. If the landowners come forward to reconstruct the compound wall on their own, as per their design, the PWD will compensate them as well, Kini said, adding the project is a win-win for all stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/ambagilu-to-manipal-4-lane-road-to-come-up-under-tdr/articleshow/79289097.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Vidarbha’s daily cases cross 1,000 mark after 10 days||NAGPUR: After a gap of 10 days, Vidarbha’s fresh Covid caseload again crossed the 1,000-mark for the fourth time this month on Wednesday. Recoveries count too dropped to month’s lowest across the 11 districts of Vidarbha at 635, which also brought down the percentage by 1 point. With 1,019 new cases, 17 deaths and 635 recoveries, Vidarbha’s count rose to 2,13,265, 5,790 and 1,98,198, respectively. Nagpur’s daily cases jumped by 127 in a day to 389 with testing too rising closer to pre-vacation level at 6,900. Seven Covid patients were declared dead. The district’s Wednesday recoveries were more than half short at 175 than new cases, leaving 3,301 active cases. It has 1,07,213 total cases, 1,00,374 recoveries and 3,538 fatalities. Two districts each in Nagpur (Gondia and Gadchiroli) and Amravati (Buldhana and Washim) divisions didn’t’ report any Covid death in the day. Beside Nagpur, Covid deaths were reported from Bhandara (3), Wardha (1), Chandrapur (2), Amravati (1), Akola (1), Yavatmal (2). New cases were reported from Bhandara (114), Wardha (59), Gondia (98), Chandrapur (107), Gadchiroli (78), Akola (30), Amravati (45), Yavatmal (39), Buldhana (49) and Washim (11). Similarly, the 635 discharged patients were reported from Nagpur (175), Bhandara (43), Wardha (70), Gondia (81), Chandrapur (61), Gadchiroli (41), Akola (4), Amravati (36), Yavatmal (59), Buldhana (42) and Washim (23). Amravati: With the addition of 45 new cases, the district’s Covid caseload crossed 17,000 mark at 17,017 on Wednesday. A 70-year-old female from Girijavihar locality was the 372nd Covid casualty reported on Wednesday. 36 patients got discharge taking the total recoveries to 16,279. There are 366 active patients including two taking treatment in Nagpur and 203 in home isolation. Gadchiroli: No Covid death was reported on Wednesday. New cases count increased by 78 while 41 recoveries were reported. The district now has 466 active cases, while total cases are 7,049. So far, 73 have succumbed to the disease while 6,510 defeated Covid and declared recovered in the district. Washim: No fatality was recorded on Wednesday. The district reported the lowest number of day’s cases in Vidarbha at 11 while 23 patients recovered. Death toll remained at 144. The new cases took the tally to 5,918, discharged rose total count to 5,616 while 158 are active. Buldhana: No death took place while 49 new cases and 42 recoveries were reported on Wednesday. The district now has 10,608 cases, 10,073 recoveries, 132 deaths and 403 active cases. Here too, just two deaths have been reported in the last 10 days, providing much needed relief to the health officials. Bhandara: The district reported three deaths, 114 new cases, and 43 recoveries on Wednesday. The district has 705 active cases. Total caseload is 9,716 cases, and 8,774 discharged patients. Death toll rose to 237. Gondia: The district reported 98 new cases, 81 recoveries but no deaths. It was the only other district in Nagpur division not to report a Covid death beside Gadchiroli. The new positive patients took the tally to 11,018 and Covid death toll to 145, recoveries 10,266 and 607 active cases. Akola: The district reported 30 new cases, 4 recoveries and one Covid death on Wednesday. The cases tally climbed to 8,836. So far, 286 people have died of Covid. With new recoveries, the tally touched 8,173. 377 are active patients. Chandrapur: 107 new cases took the case tally to 17,951 on Wednesday. Two deaths were reported during the day and the toll has now climbed to 277. In all, 61 patients were discharged, bringing the total recoveries to 15,483. 2,191 people under treatment in the district. Yavatmal: The district recorded 2 deaths — a 72-year-old man from Wani and a 50-year-old-man from Umarkhed. Out of 493 test reports received on Wednesday, 39 were positive. 301 are currently undergoing treatment in the district. 10,847 have tested positive so far, of whom 10,160 have recovered, including 59 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Wardha: A 79-year-old man from Hinganghat died during treatment taking the death toll of the district to 227. 59 new cases and 70 recoveries were reported. The caseload of the district has climbed to 7,121 and the recoveries to 6,490. Active patients under treatment are 404. The new cases were from Wardha (35), Deoli (14), Hinganghat and Samudrapur (3 each), Karanja (2), Selu and Arvi (1 each).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vidarbhas-daily-cases-cross-1000-mark-after-10-days/articleshow/79290253.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 19, 2020||Trichy||739 buildings found unsafe in Trichy city, owners get notice||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has identified 739 buildings as unsafe structures and has issued notices to the owners to either vacate or strengthen the buildings to avoid untoward incidents resulting in casualties. The number of unsafe structures were identified in a recent survey carried out by the corporation on residential and commercial buildings. In 2018-19, the number of unsafe structures across all 65 wards, was at 398, while it went up to 510 in 2019-2020. Official sources said that they had served the notices under the Corporation Act well ahead of the monsoon. As a result, 49 of the weak buildings have been demolished, 47 vacated and 14 have undergone strengthening, so far. “If cracks are spotted developing from the window, the building is vulnerable to collapse suddenly. Settlement (downward movement) of the building is the next sign. If these signs were witnessed, a site inspection by a structural expert is imminent,” K Muthukkumaran, professor, department of civil engineering, NIT Trichy told TOI. Seepage of rainwater through cracks within the buildings is another sign of collapse. Old houses that share a common sidewall in areas such as Woraiyur, Rockfort and Srirangam have been asked to check the stability periodically since the weakness of one building will impact adjoining structures too. As the bearing capacity of the soil is influenced by floods and heavy rain, the monsoon period is identified as the most vulnerable time for building collapses. Experts said that any mild and intermediate deviations in the stability can be restored economically. “Some of the weak buildings were demolished while a few still stand. The owners are apathetic to our fears,” a resident of Big Bazaar street said. “Residents are not understanding the seriousness of weak structures, so they refuse to vacate. We have lodged 73 police complaints seeking the support of law enforcement agencies to evacuate them from the structures,” a senior corporation official said. The buildings, if strengthened, should avail a stability certificate from the relevant authorities to remove their property name from the list of unsafe buildings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/739-buildings-found-unsafe-in-trichy-city-owners-get-notice/articleshow/79291623.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Two hospitals issued notices for dumping biomedical waste||CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation has initiated action against two private hospitals for dumping PPE kits and masks in corporation bins, minister for municipal administration S P Velumani said on Wednesday. The minister said many hospitals had hired vendors who had been dumping medical waste in the bins. The civic body had already raised a complaint with the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB). “They may be penalised to the tune of Rs 17 lakh after the TNPCB procedure is completed,” he said. On Friday, TOI reported that a city hospital had dumped medical waste along with solid waste in bins on the Avvai Shanmugham Salai in Teynampet zone. The next day, workers found similar biomedical waste in roadside bins on Luz Church Road. The TNPCB issued notices to Apollo Hospitals on Greams Road and Meenakshi Hospital after the civic body raised a complaint. TOI has a copy of the notices. “We have given both hospitals seven days’ time to respond. Based on that, we will take it up with the board and levy environmental compensation on them,” said Umayakunjaram, DEE, Chennai, TNPCB. The official said blue and yellow bags should be used to dispose of biomedical waste. But the biomedical waste was found in green bags used to dispose of solid waste. “We are not sure if this is the first time that they were disguising biomedical waste as solid waste and disposing them in corporation bins or it has come out in the open only after the new contractor has taken over. We will issue a general instruction and conduct special drives to check on other hospitals as well,” said the official. Deputy commissioner, health, Divya Darshini said they were investigating the issue. “Based on the complaints, we will take action. If vendors are involved, we will take action against them as well,” she said. TOI reached out to both the hospitals for comment. The public relations officer of Apollo Hospitals said she would get back but did not respond to calls later. Meenakshi Hospital said the HR cell can comment on the matter but it was not available at the moment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hospitals-slapped-with-notices-for-dumping-biomedical-waste-in-bins/articleshow/79290248.cms||Komal Gautham
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Thieves drill hole in shop ceiling, flee with phones, watches||LUDHIANA: Burglars struck at a mobile shop on Pakhowal Road near Punjab Mata Nagar Chowk early on Wednesday. They escaped with Rs 35,000, new and old smartphones and Apple watches, causing a loss of Rs 3 lakh, said the shop owner. Jai Narang, owner of Narang Electronics, said in his police complaint, “I live on Pakhowal Road and the shop is near my house. I closed it around 9.30pm on Tuesday and went home. On Wednesday around 9.30am, my employee opened the shop and found it ransacked. Burglars have stolen Rs 35,000, four Apple watches, two iPhones and five other cellphones.” The store does not have a concrete ceiling. “It has a tin ceiling with plaster of Paris. The thieves drilled a hole in it to gain entry,” he added. SBS Nagar police post ASI Balwinder Singh said, “The thieves have been captured on the CCTV cameras installed at the shop. They are wearing masks. It seems to be the handiwork of a known person as the accused knew about the weak ceiling. A case has been registered under sections 457 (trespassing) and 380 (theft) of the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/thieves-drill-hole-in-shop-ceiling-flee-with-phones-watches/articleshow/79289113.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chennai||LVB will pay all depositors: Admin||Chennai: The RBI-appointed administrator of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) has said he has the central bank’s assurance to meet any shortfall in paying back depositors and there was no need to panic. The statement came a day after LVB was placed under a 30-day moratorium and cash withdrawals were capped at Rs 25,000 per customer for a month. LVB administrator T N Manoharan said, “We have not sought any liquidity from the regulator so far. We are confident of meeting the requirement of depositors’ withdrawals by the bank itself. And wherever required, we have the backing of the regulator to ensure that there is no deficit or shortfall on this account.” Currently, under special powers vested with the RBI, depositors can withdraw up to Rs 5 lakh for emergency purposes, with proof. Manoharan also said the bank has been monitoring the availability of currency in its chests to avoid any shortage of liquidity in any of its branches. The top priorities were to ensure the scheme of amalgamation is progressively taken and completed smoothly and allow the depositors to withdraw the permissible amount till the end of moratorium period. “LVB does not face any liquidity issue for now. Deposits saw a marginal decline from Rs 20,973 crore as on September 30 to Rs 20,115 crore now. Advances grew marginally from Rs 16,620 crore to Rs 17,000 crore in the same period, largely driven by gold and jewellery loans,” he added. Commenting on deposit rates, Manoharan said, “Decisions on interest rates and products will be addressed after the merger completes. No commitments can be made now.” He said all employees of LVB will continue to be in service after the amalgamation and deemed to be appointed by DBS Bank India (DBIL). Their remuneration and terms and conditions of the service will remain unchanged. Some shareholders have opposed the move, protesting the delisting of the shares after the amalgamation process and that the value of the shares would be nullified. “One needs to wait and watch as the November 20 deadline to hear feedback is still days away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/lvb-will-pay-all-depositors-admin/articleshow/79290249.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Speeding SUV kills pedestrian, 2 cyclists||LUDHIANA: A speeding SUV killed a pedestrian and two cyclists on Sherpur flyover on Wednesday morning. Till the filing of the report, the police had identified only one of the deceased — the pedestrian, Ritesh Miglani, 45, a resident of Dugrapuri, Haibowal. Ritesh’s cousin Vishal Miglani said, “Ritesh and I are wholesale fabric traders. On Wednesday morning, we left home to collect payments from different areas. We hired an auto-rickshaw to reach near Mohan Dai Oswal Hospital from where Ritesh collected payments. Thereafter, we were walking on the flyover to catch a bus to Samrala.” “Ritesh was about 100 metres ahead of me. I was talking on cellphone while walking when I saw a speeding SUV hitting a cyclist in front of me. The collision threw the cyclist off the flyover. After that, the SUV ran into Ritesh and another cyclist ahead of him. I ran towards the SUV and nabbed its driver. He identified himself as Dharminder of Uttar Pradesh. He said he was an Armyman and commuting from Pathankot with his wife and daughter. I then rushed back to check my cousin. The crash had killed him and the two cyclists on the spot,” he added. Moti Nagar police station assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Dhanwant Singh said, “The SUV driver was speeding. He first hit a cyclist, then a pedestrian and thereafter another cyclist. Passersby nabbed the accused driver as he tried to flee. Dharminder was driving to Uttar Pradesh from Pathankot with his family when the accident took place. We are yet to know his rank, as he is being questioned.”  “We are trying to identify the two cyclists, who seem to be migrant labourers. No identity proofs were found on them. On the complaint of Vishal, an FIR is being registered against the accused,” the ASI added. Elderly parents lose their sole support Vishal said, “Ritesh has two sisters who are married. He lived here with his father, who has limited sight, and physically-challenged mother. He was the only support of his elderly parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/speeding-suv-kills-pedestrian-2-cyclists/articleshow/79289121.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||2 dead after bike rams into truck at Usgao||Ponda: Two persons died on Wednesday after their two-wheeler collided with a mining transportation truck at Barazan, Usgao. Ponda police said that Chandrakant Lavappa Dhali, 20, from Pale, and Alisha Sebastian Fernandes, 22, from Tar Matha, Pale village in Bicholim, were riding to their respective work places in Ponda, when their vehicle crashed into the truck that was wrongly parked near the rural medical dispensary. The duo are believed to have died on the spot due to head injuries, police said. Police said that the truck was proceeding towards Codli mine to load fresh ore when it stopped midway at Usgao due to lack of fuel. The accident occured when the truck driver, Nau Zore, 48, had gone to purchase diesel from a nearby fuel station. Ponda PI Mohan Gaude said that the mishap could have been averted if Zore had switched on the vehicle’s indicators to warn motorists. The truck driver, a resident of Surla-Pale, Bicholim, was arrested for obstructive parking and deaths by negligence. Some people spotted the victims and informed the driver who rushed to the site immediately.Dhali was working at a photocopy machine repair shop in Ponda town, while Fernandes was employed with a ticket booking agent. An offence has been registered at the Ponda police station against driver Zore under Section 122 (Obstructive Parking) of Motor Vehicle Act, Sections 336 (Endangering to human lives) and 304A (Causing Death by Negligence) of IPC. Zore has been arrested and lady PSI Rashmi Bhaidkar is an investigation officer. Police have handed over the bodies after conducting an autopsy at GMC, Bambolim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2-dead-after-bike-rams-into-truck-at-usgao/articleshow/79292655.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai Corporation to set up innovation centre to use data better||CHENNAI: The Greater Chennai Corporation is all set to construct a Rs50crore green building at its HQ to host an innovation think tank that will analyze its data and propose solutions to civic problems. Posts of data officer and innovation officer were also approved by the Chennai Smart City Limited’s board meeting held at Ripon building on Wednesday. Commissioner G Prakash said the civic body had data on various aspects of the city as it had conducted many studies using experts from IIT-Madras and NGOs. “To maintain and update this data, a data officer will be appointed. And the innovation officer has to use this data and come up with solutions for various problems. For example, every year, the civic body de-silts the stormwater drains and collects 3 lakh tonnes of silt. This can be put to use in a better manner. Interns will be appointed on a stipend to study the city’s data and suggest solutions. So far advertisements have been given for 12 interns. We will hire more,” he said. Raj Cherubal, smart city CEO, said all advanced cities had a data officer and an innovation hub. “We have a lot of data on traffic, usage of corporation infrastructure, utilities, lakes, greenery and other amenities. But we are unable to put them to use to come up with solutions as we are busy with projects,” he said. The board also approved two other big-ticket projects - renovation of two schools under CITIIS challenge and the Villivakkam suspension bridge. “Corporation high school at Manikanda street and corporation higher secondary school at Nesapakkam will be renovated at a cost of Rs4.5crore and Rs 3.4 crore respectively,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/civic-body-to-set-up-innovation-centre-to-use-data-better/articleshow/79290257.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Aurangabad||M’wada: Cracks wide open in BJP ahead of elections||Aurangabad: The BJP camp — preparing for Marathwada graduates’ constituency elections on December 1 — has received two blows, giving an early advantage to the opposition. Former Union minister Jaising Gaikwad, who had represented the graduates’ constituency in the past, has officially left the BJP after he was denied the ticket. The saffron party is also worried as Ramesh Pokale has not withdrawn his nomination despite an appeal from the top-brass. Gaikwad has not been in active politics for a considerable time and it is believed that his exit will not deliver a very big blow to the BJP during the upcoming polls. However, Pokale, a close confidant of BJP functionary Pankaja Munde, is believed to have considerable following in the OBC community from the region. While speculations were rife that Pokale may opt out of the race, his decision to stay in the fray has raised many eyebrows. The stand taken by him is directly linked to Munde, who was initially in favour of giving ticket to another supporter Pravin Ghuge instead of Shirish Boralkar, whose name was finalised by the party brass. As per official data, a total of 35 candidates are in a fray for the Marathwada Graduates’ constituency elections after 10 aspirants withdrew their nominations. Rohit Borkar (AAP), Kunal Kharat (AIMIM), Nagorao Panchal (Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi) and Abdul Rauf (Samajwadi Party) are among the candidates who will be trying their luck in the upcoming polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/mwada-cracks-wide-open-in-bjp-ahead-of-elections/articleshow/79288014.cms||---
November 19, 2020||India||Chinese vaccine shows results in early trials, holds promise||NEW DELHI: Results of early phase 1/2 randomised clinical trials of a Chinese Covid-19 vaccine - CoronaVac - have shown it to be safe and generating a good antibody response in adults aged 18 to 59 years, adding to the list of vaccines under trial that have been proven safe. The vaccine candidate, developed by Sinovac Life Sciences in Beijing, contains an inactivated SARS-CoV2 virus. The results of the trial have been published in the 'Lancet Infectious Diseases' journal. However, the efficacy of the vaccine is yet to be tested in next phases of the trial. While the average levels of neutralising antibodies induced by CoronaVac was lower than levels seen in people who had Covid-19, researchers still believe the formulation could provide sufficient protection against the virus based on their experience with other vaccines and data from animal model studies. Findings show the vaccine candidate could induce an antibody response in participants within 28 days of the first immunisation, by giving two doses 14 days apart. Researchers found most adverse reactions were mild, with the most common symptom being injection-site pain, which is in accordance with previous findings for another inactivated vaccine. Scientists said studies will be required to test the vaccine candidate in other age groups, as well as in people with pre-existing medical conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chinese-vaccine-shows-results-in-early-trials-holds-promise/articleshow/79293370.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala government to move SC against proposed MBBS fee hike||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has decided to approach the Supreme Court against the increase in the MBBS course fee that has been upheld by the high court. Health minister K K Shailaja has confirmed the government’s decision to challenge hiking of fees for the present academic year. “Every year certain self-financing medical college managements are trying to scuttle the admission procedures. This cannot be accepted. Infact they are openly challenging the students who are seeking admission to the MBBS course,” said the health minister. Meanwhile, the commissioner of entrance examination (CEE) has announced one more chance for the students to register their options in the wake of the notification of higher fee structure as demanded by the managements of the self-financing medical colleges. The candidates will be permitted to choose fresh options till Thursday noon. The first allotment list will now be published on November 20. The fee regulation committee had earlier fixed fee ranging from Rs 5.85 lakh to Rs 7.19 lakh for the MBBS course in various self-financing colleges. However, the managements had challenged this fee structure in the high court. The new fee structure is almost three times the amount recommended by the Justice R Rajendra Babu committee. As per the new notification, the annual fees for the MBBS course in the self-financing colleges range between Rs 11 lakh and Rs 30 lakh. The annual fees in the general seat in self-financing medical colleges will be between Rs 11 lakh and Rs 22 lakh. The fees for the NRI seat will be between Rs 20 lakh and Rs 30 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-to-move-sc-against-proposed-mbbs-fee-hike/articleshow/79289188.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Rare four-horned antelopes spotted near Aurangabad||Aurangabad: A herd of four-horned antelopes were spotted in Sarola near Aurangabad, leading to excitement among wildlife experts. Listed as vulnerable on the list of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), these antelopes, also called as chausinga, have distinct four horns as against two in most of the other bovids and are relatively smaller in size. Wildlife photographer Waseem Quadri, who spotted the four-horned antelopes, on Wednesday said he could not believe his eyes when he came across the beautiful animals. “I have spotted chinkara, blue bull (nilgai) and blackbuck in and around Sarola in the past, but I was on cloud nine to see the four-horned antelope. It was my first encounter with the four-horned antelope and I will never forget it,” he said. Aurangabad district forest officer Vijay Satpute said spotting of four-horned antelopes is a rarity in the district. “These antelopes are not even spotted at Gautala-Autramghat wildlife sanctuary. The latest finding has put Sarola under our radar and we will improve our vigil in the area for the protection of the local biodiversity,” he said. Satpute said the survival of four-horned antelope is threatened due to habitat loss, poaching and grazing competition with livestock for resources. “As per studies in the past, the four-horned antelopes are found only in India and Nepal. These animals are listed in the Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) and their poaching attracts criminal action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rare-four-horned-antelopes-spotted-near-aurangabad/articleshow/79288069.cms||Prasad Joshi
November 19, 2020||Goa||Gaude says no complaint of spoilt onions received from ration shops, consumers||Panaji: Days after videos of spoilt onions being sold at fair price shops (FPS) were circulated on social media, civil supplies minister Govind Gaude on Wednedsay said that no complaints were received from FPS owners and ration card holders. He said that it is the responsibility of the FPS owners to bring it to the attention of the respective civil supply inspector so that they can exchange the onions. “We have given directions to civil supplies inspectors of each taluka that if we receive complaints from any FPS owner or ration card holder, it is our duty to exchange the quantity of the onions,” he told TOI. TOI had earlier reported that onions will be sold to ration card holders in the state at a subsidised price of approximately Rs 35 per kg. These are being supplied to Goa after the council of ministers resolved to accord approval for purchase of 1,045 metric tonnes of onions from the National Agriculture Cooperative Marketing Federation (NAFED) at about Rs 28,000 per metric tonne. “Onions are perishable goods and come from NAFED in Nagpur to Goa in bulk quantity. The civil inspectors cannot check every onion. We have spoken to NAFED and informed them that if we receive any damaged onions, we will replace them. It is not possible for us to go in each and every bag, hence random checks are done,” he said. On Wednesday, the department of civil supplies extended the distribution of onions to ration card holders to November 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gaude-says-no-complaint-of-spoilt-onions-received-from-ration-shops-consumers/articleshow/79292658.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Goa||Mridula Sinha, state’s first full-fledged woman guv, dies||PANAJI: On April 24, 2017, seeing hundreds of postgraduate and doctorate students seated before her, then Goa governor Mridula Sinha could not resist the urge to administer her by-then famous ‘marriage oath’. On stage was then President Pranab Mukherjee, but Sinha would not be deterred from asking the youngsters to pledge that they would necessarily get married and do everything in their capacity to make their marriage work. Her term — from August 2014 to October 2019 — as Goa’s first full-fledged woman governor, was marked by such speeches, dishing out marriage-related advice to youngsters in creative and humorous ways. Sinha, a noted Hindi writer and poetess, passed away on Wednesday at 77, and, not surprisingly, was remembered by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, among other party bigwigs like LK Advani. From building a shed for a cow at Raj Bhavan for her daily pooja to throwing open the doors of the historic Portuguese-era residence to citizens year-round for the first time, Sinha’s tenure was unusual on several counts. “Smt Mridula Sinha Ji will be remembered for her efforts towards public service. She was also a proficient writer, making extensive contributions to the world of literature as well as culture. Anguished by her demise. Condolences to her family and admirers. Om Shanti,” tweeted the PM. In October 2015, she took everyone by surprise when she, as Goa University chancellor, unexpectedly declined to give her approval to a varsity executive council decision to give a service extension to the then university vice-chancellor. “Her flagship programme on ‘We and the constitution with Goa University’ was very well received, and she was about to finish her book on her experiences as governor of Goa. She had an indefatigable spirit and told me she attended 108 webinars and completed writing two books during the Covid pandemic,” said Goa University political science professor Rahul Tripathi. Born on November 27, 1942 at Chhapra in Bihar, Sinha admitted in one of her farewell speeches in Goa that she had no idea about the coastal state’s rich cultural heritage, which was on par with her home state, until she had the opportunity to live here. “It is really shocking to learn about the sad demise of Smt. Mridula Sinha ji, former Governor of Goa. She was a tall leader with extensive work at grassroots yet had an immense passion for art and literature. For me, she always came across as a motherly figure! Her passing away is a great loss to the nation”, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said following her demise. While in Goa, she was also appointed by Modi as brand ambassador of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. She held a postgraduate degree in psychology and had served as a lecturer and principal in educational institutes in Bihar, besides having authored over 46 books, most prominently the biography of Rajmata Vijayraje Scindia. “Mridula ji was a fine human being. She touched everyone with her warmth and compassionate nature and it was always a pleasure to meet her. She was very kind to host me along with my family at the Goa Raj Bhawan in January 2019, and we spent a memorable week with her and her family. The nation has lost a remarkable leader. To me, it is a personal loss. May her soul rest in peace. My heartfelt condolences to Dr Ram Kripal ji, Nawin and all members of her family,” LK Advani said on her passing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mridula-sinha-states-first-full-fledged-woman-guv-dies/articleshow/79291637.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
November 19, 2020||Hubballi||Man shot at near graveyard in Vijayapura||VIJAYAPURA: The district has witnessed another shooting in 20 days. A person was injured in the incident occurred at a graveyard near ZP office here late on Wednesday night. Vijayapura SP Anupam Agarwal said that the there was a group clash over financial transactions between Tulasiram and Paddu Rathod, a resident of Barakotri tanda. “Tulasiram opened fire at Rathod, and the latter is admitted to Ayush Hospital. Doctors have said that he is out of danger,” he added. The SP visited the spot a long with his subordinates. Jalnagar police have registered a case. In a similar incident at Kannal Cross on November 2, two persons were murdered and five were injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/man-shot-at-near-graveyard-in-vpura/articleshow/79289189.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Trichy||Roads in peripheral wards of Trichy inaccessible after rain||Trichy: The heavy rain that lashed Trichy in the past few days have adversely affected the residents of peripheral wards near Thiruverumbur in Trichy Corporation limits. As the roads dug up for underground drainage (UGD) lines were not re-laid on time, there are potholes filled with muddy water causing two-wheelers to get stuck.Residential roads in New Town Muthu Nagar, Sri Ram Nagar, Balaji Nagar and Kailash Nagar in Thiruverumbur vicinity of ward number 63 were recently dug up for UGD pipeline installation.Although, the locals had raised this concern to the corporation even before the onset of monsoon, the residents said that their pleas were ignored by the authorities. “Only the main roads of the residential localities were reworked recently, the residential streets were ignored. People are slipping quite frequently,” A Sathik Basha, a resident of Muthu Nagar said. The residents said that pending UGD work must be completed at the earliest to lay new roads in the peripheral wards, particularly in ward 63. “We have a few minor UGD works left. In the meantime, we will level the damaged roads with gravel to make it accessible. Once the UGD project concludes, new bitumen roads shall be laid,” an official source with the corporation said. The officials added that temporary road restoration work shall be carried out at the earliest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/roads-in-peripheral-wards-of-trichy-inaccessible-after-rain/articleshow/79291638.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Aurangabad||Four vehicle theft cases in Aurangabad in 2 days||AURANGABAD: Cases of vehicle theft are on the rise in the city as four separate incidents were registered with different police stations between Tuesday and Wednesday. In the first case, a four-wheeler — owned by Vijay Nade (42), a resident of Chattrapati Nagar — got stolen between Sunday and Monday. As the vehicle could not get traced after a thorough, the owner lodged a complaint with City Chowk police on Tuesday. In second incident, another four-wheeler was stolen between November 5 and November 6 from Garkheda area. The owner, Santosh Mhaske (41), has lodged a complaint with Pundalik Nagar police station. In the third incident, unidentified thieves fled with a motorbike owned by Padam Thole (36), a resident of Samarth Nagar, on November 3. “The complainant had parked his vehicle at Mondha Naka when the incident took place,” a police officer said. In the last case, 42-year-old Pradeep Narwade lost his two-wheeler on Saturday when the motorbike was parked near his home. In all the cases, police have failed to make any breakthrough.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/4-vehicle-theft-cases-in-aurangabad-in-2-days/articleshow/79288088.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Rs 26 crore fraud detected by GST sleuths||NAGPUR: The Directorate General of Goods and Service Tax Investigation’s (DGGSTI) Nagpur Zonal unit has unravelled an alleged racked involving fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) claims of Rs26.09 crore. The ITC was availed by recording fake transactions to the tune of Rs131 crore, said the press release issued by DGGSTI. The press release said this was part of an inter-state racket, with one of the entities located in Chandrapur district and two in Karnataka. Searches revealed that the firms were non-existent and the documents uploaded on the GST portal were also fake. It was also found that the two firms based in Karnataka had registered on the same date and shown the same e-mail address in the records. The two only dealt with each other. In another case, the anti-evasion wing of the central GST department, which is an independent branch, arrested businessman Shabbir Fakhruddin Ali, who runs M/s Moiz Construction on similar grounds. A press note says that Ali’s firm had issued fake invoices to various firms without actually supplying the goods. This led to various entities claiming fake ITC to the tune of Rs2.94 crore. The supplies were allegedly made between January and February, and the firm had also not filed its returns. No premises to store goods which were shown to have been supplied could be found. Ali was later released on bail. Claiming ITC helps reduce tax liability proportionately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs26-cr-fraud-detected-by-gst-sleuths/articleshow/79290294.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chennai||V K Sasikala pays Rs 10-crore fine, gets ready to walk out of Bengaluru prison||CHENNAI/BENGALURU: V K Sasikala, former Tamil Nadu chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s aide and a co-accused in the disproportionate assets case, will be out of jail probably by January, as she has paid the Rs 10 crore fine imposed by a Bengaluru special court. Sasikala’s lawyer Raja Senthur Pandian said the demand drafts were drawn by Sasikala’s husband N Natarajan’s brother M Palanivel (Rs 3.25 crore), Palanivel’s wife Vasantha Devi (Rs 3.75 crore), Hema, wife of Dr S Venkatesan (Rs 3 crore) and Sasikala’s nephew Vivek (Rs 10,000). Sasikala, her sister-in-law J Ilavarasi and nephew V N Sudhagaran are about to complete the four-year jail term imposed by a special court on September 27, 2014, and upheld by the Supreme Court on February 14, 2017. The trio entered the Parappana Agrahara jail in Bengaluru the next day. Charges against Jayalalithaa, however, abated as she was no more when the Supreme Court delivered its judgment. The special court had slapped Rs 100 crore fine on Jayalalithaa, and Rs 10 crore each on these three. Initially, the presiding judge cited the special court judgment and insisted on breaking fixed deposits, selling gold and diamond jewelleries and auctioning of properties belonging to the accused. However, Pandian submitted a petition clarifying as to how the process would be tedious and time-consuming, and that it could take years. He then offered the DDs furnished by Sasikala’s family members. ‘Bengaluru jail authorities informed’However, Pandian submitted a petition clarifying how the process would be tedious and that it could take years. He then offered the DDs furnished by Sasikala’s family. The court then accepted the fine amount and passed necessary orders. Authorities of Parapana Agrahara Central Prison were informed of the development through an official intimation from the court on Wednesday, Pandian added. Similar fines will be paid by Ilavarasi and Sudhakaran shortly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sasi-pays-rs-10-crore-fine-gets-ready-to-walk-out-of-prison/articleshow/79290300.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||Soon, every hotel will have to keep rooms for Covid guests||PANAJI: Health minister Vishwajit Rane on Wednesday said that the government is in the process of issuing a new standard operating procedure (SOPs) for hotels. It will be mandatory for every hotel to reserve rooms for isolating their guests who may test positive after coming to Goa “The new SOPs are in the process of finalisation,” Rane told reporters after a meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant. The health minister also stated that there is no need for Goa to test people at borders. “Having a medical system in place and knowing what strategy to follow to contain the spread of the virus”, he said, is sufficient to keep the things under control, while replying to a query that some states have been testing people coming from other States. Since earlier this month, Goa has witnessed increase in tourist arrivals not just from neighbouring States but also from North India. For the first few months of the pandemic Goa too, tested every traveller entering the State but the practice was subsequently stopped as lock down measures were eased. T’aking a potshot at AAP MLA Raghav Chadda, Rane said that those claiming that the system in Delhi is better than in Goa should be asked why the Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/soon-every-hotel-will-have-to-keep-rooms-for-covid-guests/articleshow/79291659.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kochi||No violation of norms in appointment: CDB||THRISSUR: Cochin Devaswom Board (CDB) officials, who run Sree Kerala Varma College here, on Wednesday claimed that they had not violated any rules in the appointment of Prof R Bindu, wife of CPM acting state secretary and LDF convener A Vijayaraghavan, as vice-principal (VP) of the college. However, principal A P Jayadevan, who tendered his resignation to protest Bindu’s appointment, said the management’s claim was contrary to facts and that they have only reiterated the false arguments they stated earlier. CDB president A B Mohanan in a statement said as per Section VI of UGC regulations issued on July 18, 2018, a senior faculty member can be appointed as VP. Based on this, Calicut University had issued a notification on February 26, 2020, approving these regulations, making it clear that these regulations will have retrospective effect from July 18, 2018. Government had sanctioned Rs 13.5 crore from the KIIFB fund for the development of the college. CDB felt it would be better to divide the responsibilities of the principal considering the importance of this project. It was in this context that CDB decided to create the post of VP, he said. When contacted, Jayadevan said there is no mention of VP post in the statutes of Calicut University and Kerala government. “Even if we are trying to rely on UGC regulations, a VP is appointed based on the recommendations of principal. Even then, there is no creation of a new post, as has been done by CDB in this case. Also, a senior member is appointed as VP to support the principal. But in this order, the VP appears to be having more powers, in some cases,” Jayadevan said, adding that he is yet to receive an official reply to his request for relieving him from the principal post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-violation-of-norms-in-appointment-cdb/articleshow/79289219.cms||T Ramavarman
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||NGT orders joint panel to probe rule compliance by CSTPS||Chandrapur: The principal bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) in New Delhi has directed Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) to form a joint committee to probe compliance of environmental norms by Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station (CSTPS). The committee has been given three months to submit its report. The order comes in the wake of non-appearance of representatives of MPCB and CSTPS before the NGT bench for hearing. Industrialist and president of Chandrapur MIDC Industries Association Madhusudan Roongta had filed a writ petition with Nagpur bench of Bombay high court in 2017 highlighting violation of environmental norms by Maharashtra State Power Generation Co. Ltd’s Chandrapur Super Thermal Power Station, and Western Coalfields Limited (WCL), Chandrapur. The petitioner had alleged emissions from the plant to be beyond the limits prescribed under clause 25 of Schedule-I of Environment (Protection) Rules, 1986. There is also non-compliance of notification dated January 25, 2016, issued by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF&CC), requiring fly ash disposal by December 31, 2017, the petitioner had claimed. The MPCB and the power plant filed their replies denying violations and urged the matter should be transferred to NGT. Accordingly, the division bench of the high court had, vide order dated January 1, 2020, transferred the matter to NGT’s Pune bench. After the matter was transferred to the NGT, no one appeared on behalf of the applicants and the matter was referred by the Pune bench to principal bench in New Delhi. In view of the non-appearance on behalf of the applicants, who had themselves demanded shifting of the case, the principal bench ordered CPCB and MPCB to form a joint committee to verify status of compliance of norms. MPCB has been named as nodal agency for coordination and compliance. As MPCB was a party before the high court and had also filed a response, it has been directed to provide the already available set of papers to CPCB. When inquired about the progress into the matter, officials from regional office of MPCB here claimed the office is yet to receive the orders. The NGT orders might have arrived at MPCB headquarters, but higher-ups have neither issued any directives to regional office and nor any joint committee has been constituted so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ngt-orders-joint-panel-to-probe-rule-compliance-by-cstps/articleshow/79290304.cms||Mazhar Ali
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Graduate constituency voters decline by over 81,000||NAGPUR: The total number of voters for graduates’ constituency polls this year has come down by 81,769, as per a new list released by district administration on Wednesday. In the June 20, 2014, polls, which BJP’s Anil Sole had won, there were 2.88 lakh voters in the list. This year, the district administration prepared a completely new list based on valid documents like Aadhaar card and university degree marksheet. As per the statistics released by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, 1.91 lakh male and 95,904 female voters were registered in 2014. This year, the numbers are 1.25 lakh and 81,024, respectively. The highest decline is among males in Nagpur district — down by 47,825 voters. A new column of ‘others’ that includes transgender has been added in the list this year. Kumar informed that this year 320 polling booths would be set up across six districts in the division with more than half in Nagpur alone. In 2014, 256 booths were set up for the process. “After the December 1 elections, the counting would take place at Mankapur indoor stadium on December 3. There would be a preferential pattern of voting. We’re hoping that the results would be out on the same day,” Kumar said, adding that besides the election card, the voter can bring other valid identity cards like Aadhar, PAN, licence and others. This year’s polls would be held under strict Covid-19 protocol with masks being made mandatory for every voter at polling booths. All visitors would also be subjected to the thermal scanning and if temperature is found to be above the normal, they would be given a token and allowed to exercise their franchise in the last two hours of polling. “We’ve already uploaded a voter list on the government website. Voters can find out their names from the list. We’ve roped in 1,811 government staff for the polling duties. About 31 candidates have filed nominations. Of them five were rejected while seven withdrew, leaving 19 candidates in the fray,” said Kumar. Meanwhile, Shikshak Bharti, which had withdrawn its candidate Kishore Warbhe from the polls, extended its support to Maha Vikas Aghadi nominee Abhijit Wanjari. “We’ve taken this decision to avoid division of votes while fighting with BJP. All our activists would campaign for Wanjari. The Maha Vikas Aghadi has assured us that they will not contest next MLC polls and support our candidate. We’ve a strength of over 25,000 voters which would help MVA candidate to win,” coordinator Atul Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/graduate-constituency-voters-decline-by-over-81k/articleshow/79290341.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 19, 2020||Goa||Poker player held in Goa for robbing $3.3k in Delhi||PANAJI: Goa police on Wednesday arrested professional poker player Amrita Sethi, 27, who is accused of robbing $3,300 (over Rs 2.4 lakh) in Delhi. She and an associate, Akshat Jhamb, committed the robbery on November 5, and Delhi police had been trying to trace them. Being a poker player and regular visitor to Goa, it was suspected that she would visit the state. Thus, Goa police constituted three teams headed by police inspectors Rahul Parab, Manguesh Naik and Sudesh Naik. Police said it soon emerged that the duo recently visited some casinos in Goa, and were traced to Arpora. Sethi and Jhamb were handed over to a Delhi police team. Police also took into its custody the accused’s Delhi-registered car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/poker-player-held-in-goa-for-robbing-3-3k-in-delhi/articleshow/79291686.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kochi||Tribespeople stage protest against Anakkayam project||KOCHI: Members of Kadar tribe on Wednesday staged standing protests against the proposed small-hydel project at Anakkayam that needs felling trees in 20 acres linked to their livelihood. The tribal people, including women and children, stood carrying signs with messages like ‘Adaavikkoppam, kaadanmaarkkoppam’ and ‘Adaviye vettikalanchire dam benda’. The word ‘adaavi’ means forest in the scriptless language of Kadar community, who used Malayalam alphabets for writing slogans. After the agitation to save Athirappilly, this is for the second time that Kadar tribe is up in arms against KSEB, whom they allege didn’t seek their consent before going ahead with the proposed project. Protest demonstrations declaring solidarity with the community of Kadars and Malayars were conducted across the state by various environmental organizations, including the Chalakkudy River Protection Forum. Since the season for collecting forest produce had started and tribal folks were away in the forest, protests could not be organized at Thavalakkuzhippara and Sholayar settlements. In Pokalappara, standing protests was led by chieftain Subrahmanian and Vazhachal CFR Coordination Sangham secretary Ajitha G. Protests were also held in Poringalkuthu ooru, Malakkappara ooru and Vachumaram ooru. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tribespeople-stage-protest-against-anakkayam-project/articleshow/79289270.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||As high-end properties woo tourists, small hotels struggle||PANAJI: Even as a majority of upscale hotels have resumed business, at least 2,500 smaller hotels — largely two- and three-starred — that depend mostly on budget foreign and domestic tourists, have yet to begin operations. The need to compete with the lowered tariffs and attractive stay packages offered by four- and five-starred properties has only added to their woes. Domestic tourists also prefer high-end hotels on the presumption that these will scrupulously follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) implemented amid the Covid-19 pandemic. “Of the 4,000 registered hotels in the state, just about 1,100 have commenced their operations, but most smaller hotels haven’t for want of business,” said president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), Nilesh Shah. He said that while the number of three-starred hotels that have resumed is not likely to be more than 60, the only silver lining is the resumption of casinos that could in turn spur the reopening of small hotels in and around the state capital over the next few days. Domestic tourists stay in the state for an average of 3-4 nights as against a period of 7-20 days logged by charter tourists and other foreign arrivals that comprise mostly British and Russian nationals. Chief operating officer (COO) at Sita Travels, Ernest Dias, attributed the absence of charter tourism as a major stumbling block for two- and three-starred hotels. “While swankier properties have been able to stay afloat by slashing room tariffs, how long they will be able to sustain themselves in this fashion is the question as the domestic tourist rush is seen only during weekends and extended weekends,” he said. Since 2010, more than half of the charter flights that Goa received have been from Russian destinations. The 2013-14 tourist season saw the sunshine state receiving its highest number of 1,128 charters, with as many as 895 of these coming from Russia. An industry insider said many tried to cash in when charter arrivals into the state witnessed a growth over the past two decades, specially after charters from Russian destinations grew. While the ’80s and ’90s saw predominantly British and European charter tourists, they were later outnumbered by Russian travellers. “Anybody and everybody who could raise capital chose to build hotels in the coastal belt without sparing a thought for sustainability. Now, they are facing the music,” the source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-high-end-properties-woo-tourists-small-hotels-struggle/articleshow/79291677.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 19, 2020||Trichy||Kulumani-Jeeyapuram road widening work initiated to decongest Trichy||Trichy: The state highways department has initiated preliminary work to widen the narrow Kulumani-Jeeyapuram road as an alternative link road for the congested Trichy-Karur national highway. Once the road is widened, people coming from the western districts can enter Trichy city without passing through the accident-prone hotspots. The project will also benefit locals from Vayalur road, Puthur and Woraiyur. The 4km-long road, being used by two-wheelers and passenger cars to skip the congested Karur road near Chathiram bus stand will be widened at an estimated cost of Rs 8 crore and expected to be completed in nine months. The project involves establishing 18 culverts of 12.5m width across small irrigation canals and retaining walls in steep road curves. “A much-needed project for people entering Trichy from Karur and Coimbatore districts This proposal will help dozens of villages to have better connectivity with both Karur and Trichy,” P Aiyarappan, president, road users’ welfare organisation said. At present, the road is only 5.50m wide, it will be widened to 7m by utilising the highways department land.“We have cleared the site and completed the survey on the Kulumani road. A tender is floated, civil work will be initiated at the earliest to convert the intermediate lane road as a proper two-lane road,” a senior state highways department official told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/kulumani-jeeyapuram-road-widening-work-initiated-to-decongest-trichy/articleshow/79291694.cms||Deepak Karthik
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Wild elephant found electrocuted||Coimbatore: A 30-year-old wild elephant was found electrocuted in Sirumugai on Wednesday.The forest officer in Sirumugai range had received a call from residents of Pudukkadu village near the Pethukuttai reserve forest about the male elephant carcass near a banana farm.A forest ranger, who visited the spot, found that the fence around the farm was electrified. “We found electricity diverted from the motor room at the farm to the fence. The landowner, 40-year-old Murugesan, admitted to have electrified the fence stealthily to prevent wild boars from entering the field,” said a statement from the forest department.The officials picked up the landowner for interrogation. After Pudukkadu residents stopped the forest department vehicle that was carrying the landowner, officials informed the Sirumugai police. A police team reached the spot to pacify the villagers. Subsequently, the village elder agreed to bring the landowner to the Sirumugai range office for investigation.The carcass was sent for autopsy. The department has registered a case.More than 20 elephants have died in the district this year, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/wild-elephant-found-electrocuted/articleshow/79290392.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Showers turn parts of city into cesspool||Coimbatore: Moderate rain continued to hit parts of the city through Tuesday and until Wednesday afternoon, leading the district to record 31.2mm rainfall.Though the quantum of rainfall was not heavy, city roads remain clogged. With Avinashi flyover underpass getting closed off, cars were stuck for more than 10 minutes from Tuesday night until Wednesday evening.Movement of moisture-laden winds from the low-pressure system over the Arabian Sea to the Bay of Bengal continued to bring showers across the district. The Coimbatore south taluk recorded the most rainfall at 45mm, followed by Chinnakalar, which received 42mm and Sholayar, 41mm.Within the city, the airport recorded 31mm rain and TNAU 34mm, taking the quantity of rainfall received during the northeast monsoon to 122.1mm.The showers also led to maximum and minimum temperatures in the city dropping to 29C and 21.9C, compared to the usual 32Rs C. While people welcome the change in weather and farmers are sowing crops, motorists and residents living in low-lying areas in the city were affected by rain.Vellalore Road and many roads in Ganapathy and Rathinapuri turned slushy and muddy. Roads that lacked bitumen topping and those dug up for relaying water and sewage lines were most affected. Motorists and pedestrians in many localities were found struggling.City’s underpasses including Lanka Corner, Ramnagar underpass near Kikani school and Avinashi flyover kept getting flooded despite officials trying to drain water. The Perur causeway was submerged for the fourth time in the year on Wednesday, making it difficult for two wheelers. The few who tried, got stuck in the sludge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/showers-turn-parts-of-city-into-cesspool/articleshow/79290388.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Nilgiris hikes green tax on vehicles||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district administration has increased the green tax on vehicles entering the hills.Presently, only Rs 30 is collected as green tax from all vehicles at Burliar, Kunjappanai and Kakkanallah check posts. From December, a green tax of Rs 100 will be levied from buses and trucks, Rs 70 from maxi cabs and tourist taxis, Rs 30 from cars and jeeps, Rs 15 from three-wheelers and Rs 10 from two-wheelers. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-hikes-green-tax-on-vehicles/articleshow/79290376.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Aurangabad||CAP resumption brings relief to over 12,000 students in Aurangabad||AURANGABAD: In Aurangabad, the resumption of the Centralised Admission Process (CAP) on Thursday will be coming as a relief to more than 12,000 students who are yet to get admission. The display of the vacancy list for the second-round of regular admission and other formalities are scheduled to begin from Thursday. M K Deshmukh, the acting deputy director of education for Aurangabad, on Wednesday said, “Despite a loss of two months, the remaining CAP will be completed in a smooth and student-centric manner. Students and parents should not worry about academic loss as the entire academic calendar would be decided in keeping with the recent inevitable situation.” The education department has stated that students whose admission got rejected/cancelled and those who got first preference but did not take admission during round-one are also eligible for the second-round of regular admission. The CAP authorities have appealed to students to visit the official portal aurangabad.11thadmission.org.in for more details.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cap-resumption-brings-relief-to-over-12000-students-in-aurangabad/articleshow/79414116.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||High-rises approach PCB over Dhapa waste burning||Kolkata: Residents of at least two highrise complexes off EM Bypass have approached the pollution control board and the civic authorities pleading their intervention to prevent illegal burning of waste at Dhapa and its surrounding areas, causing air pollution and severe health problems.TOI on Wednesday highlighted how the Dhapa fumes are back as the city approaches another winter, exposing thousands of Kolkatans in the rapidly growing area off the busy EM Bypass to one of the worst types of air pollution, capable of causing severe health problems, especially in the middle of the pandemic.After the article was published, several residents living in highrises and clustered communities on and off EM Bypass and even parts of New Town and Salt Lake approached TOI speaking about the problems they have been facing because of the waste burning. “We had written to the state PCB and local police station in September this year alerting them about the situation. Apart from stubble, several items like rubber, scrap, plastic and other waste materials are also burnt regularly, leading to toxic fumes constantly billowing in this area. In winter, its effect is felt maximum with a pall of smog lowly hanging in the area, especially affecting residents between second to eighth floors,” said Indranil Chowdhury, secretary, resident welfare organization, Silver Spring Complex on EM Bypass.With six active patients and around 50 others recovering from Covid-19 in Silver Spring, the smoke is especially dangerous at this point as it can easily affect the weakened lungs of the Covid survivors. Urbana resident Jayanta Guha had moved into his 16th-floor apartment at the highrise complex at Chowbaga to escape the pollution of the city and breathe in fresh air that the vast green east Kolkata wetland produces in abundance. But to his horror, he now faces the suffocating smoke and unbearable stench. An official of Bengal NRI — the developers of the posh complex said they have already approached the local civic body over the issue and now multiple residents have also been registering complaints at the police station as well as at the PCB office, seeking government intervention. Urbana has 10 active Covid-19 cases and around 90 recoveries in the last six months.The open burning of waste was made illegal in 2016 by the National Green Tribunal, which announced a fine of Rs 25,000 per violation. The Bengal environment department subsequently issued a circular banning open waste-burning.But according to Kolkata Municipal Corporation sources, Dhapa’s fires are self-sustained because of the methane generated and thus are difficult to stop. “Fire tenders are deployed at Dhapa on a daily basis every year but dousing the fires using fire-tenders is a short-term solution. We need to cut off the oxygen supply, for which we are exploring long-term solutions,” said a KMC official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-rises-approach-pcb-over-dhapa-waste-burning/articleshow/79290390.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||62 dilapidated buildings turn ticking time bombs||Coimbatore: With the monsoon showers lashing the city incessantly, the civic body has directed the people residing in dilapidated buildings to vacate them in two days and warned to seal them if they failed to comply with the order.In a press statement, city corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian said they had identified 81 dilapidated buildings in their limits and issued notices to their occupants under Section 327 of Coimbatore City Municipal Corporation (CCMC) Act, 1981 a month ago, directing them to vacate the premises immediately as the buildings were unsafe to live in.The city corporation has also placed boards in front of some of the identified buildings, stating “this building has lost its stability and is no longer safe to use it. It poses a threat to the lives of the public. So, usage of the building is prohibited under the CCMC Act”.The city corporation has already demolished 19 of the identified dilapidated buildings, 13 of which were beyond repair. The city corporation head said they had asked the occupants of the remaining buildings to vacate the premises in two days. “If they don’t comply, we will seal the buildings with the help of police officials.”About a month ago, district collector K Rajamani had instructed the local bodies to identify buildings that were in bad shape after a house collapsed on Chetti Street at Selvapuram, claiming four lives, following the incessant rainfall. Subsequently, 223 such buildings were identified in the district and notices were issued to 81 of them.Earlier in 2019, a compound wall that was 20ft high and 100ft long had collapsed on a row of houses, killing 17 people, at Nadur village at Mettupalayam in the district. The wall apparently collapsed after it became weak because of the incessant rainfall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/62-dilapidated-buildings-turn-ticking-time-bombs/articleshow/79290397.cms||Nivedha Selvam
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Eviction drive gathers pace||Coimbatore: The city corporation on Wednesday demolished 31 houses, which were constructed illegally along river Noyyal and at Sunnambu Kalvai near Kunniyamuthur.While 31 houses were constructed along the river, five were on the road leading to the river, a corporation official said. “We had issued eviction notices to the occupants a year ago and the Tamil Nadu slum clearance board had allotted flats to them at the housing unit in Kovaipudur. We demolished the vacant houses – four on the road and 27 along the river.”Meanwhile, corporation officials continued the eviction drive along Muthannankulam at Kumarasamy Nagar for the second consecutive day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/eviction-drive-gathers-pace/articleshow/79290424.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Residents demand regular water supply||Coimbatore: Residents of the Tamil Nadu slum clearance board’s (TNSCB) housing unit at Malumichampatti, on the city outskirts, on Wednesday staged a road roko demanding regular supply of water.They have been facing water shortage for the last six months, said Manikandan, a resident of the unit. “When we moved in two years ago, non-potable water was supplied twice a day and drinking water daily. Now, non-potable water is supplied only for an hour a day and drinking water is supplied once in two to three days. This is not adequate to meet the needs of 2,500 residents here,” he told TOI. “As water is supplied during the afternoon hours, it does not even last till the morning. Some residents have started storing non-potable water in buckets, others visit their relatives’ houses to bathe.” Whenever the residents escalated the issue, TNSCB officials sent water trucks, said S Danushkodi, president of the residents’ welfare association. “But the problem persists. The situation has turned worse after more families move in six months ago.”People from five areas, including Eachanari, Ukkadam and Kumarasamy Nagar, are residing in the unit after local bodies demolished their houses, which were constructed on government lands and along water bodies. A TNSCB official said the problem will be solved soon. “We have eight borewells on the housing unit site. As underground water level has reduced over a period of time, sufficient quantity of water is not obtained through the borewells. We are in talks with panchayat authorities to dig two borewells in panchayat land. Once they are set up, the problem will be resolved,” he said. “We have been supplying 50% more drinking water to the unit.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/residents-demand-regular-water-supply/articleshow/79290426.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kochi||Check candidates’ coalition affiliation before polls: Kerala HC||KOCHI: Kerala State Election Commission should obtain a declaration from candidates about the coalition to which they are affiliated to prior to the election, the Kerala high court has directed. The directive was issued by justice A Muhamed Mustaque after considering a petition filed by K Sivadasan of Koduvally in Kozhikode through advocate T R Harikumar. After considering the case regarding disqualification of candidates for defection, the court said, “Before parting with this judgment, it is appropriate to direct the Election Commission to insist on obtaining a declaration from the contestants of a coalition to produce the declaration that the contestant is part of the coalition.” The court issued such a directive after noting that the present law does not allow for recording the coalition to which a candidate belongs to prior to the election. As the coalition to which a candidate belongs to is not recorded now prior to the election, a party loyalist who competes as an independent candidate will be punished as per anti-defection law when he joins his party’s coalition after winning, the court noted. Sivadasan, the petitioner, had won from ward number 28 of Koduvally municipality as an independent candidate after ‘palm’ symbol was allocated to a candidate named C M Gopalan by the district Congress leadership. UDF coalition of municipal committee had supported Sivadasan. After winning, Sivadasan declared that he is an independent member belonging to UDF coalition. A rival party member moved an election petition alleging that Sivadasan, who was elected as an independent member, has defected to the coalition and the Election Commission disqualified Sivadasan under Defection Act. While setting aside Sivadasan’s disqualification, the court said, “Anti-defection law is in the nature of a punishment depriving one’s status as a member and to debar him from contesting future elections. Therefore, one cannot be punished on account of lack of clarity and shortcomings in the law. It will be a great injustice to deprive a person, who declared himself as a loyal to the coalition, by stretching the meaning of ‘coalition’ out of context of anti-defection law, that too at the hands of a rival political party member.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/check-candidates-coalition-affiliation-before-polls-hc/articleshow/79289323.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||MP CM offers prayers to Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala||Tirupati: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan offered prayers to Lord Venkateswara at the Tirumala temple on Wednesday. He was accompanied by his wife, Sadhana Chouhan, and other family members. Chouhan was accorded a traditional welcome by TTD priests and officials and led into the sanctum sanctorum. He also took part in Sundarakanda Parayanam held at Nada Neerajanam dais opposite Tirumala temple. Before leaving, he was handed over the temple’s Teertha Prasadams and a photo memento by additional EO A V Dharma Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/mp-cm-offers-prayers-to-lord-venkateswara-at-tirumala/articleshow/79288162.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Corpn school student gets medical seat||Coimbatore: J Dharani, a corporation school student who obtained 461 marks in the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET), has got admission in the Stanley Medical College in Chennai under the horizontal reservation for government school students.The 20-year-old girl had attended medical counselling for the 7.5% reservation for government school students that took place at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium in Chennai on Wednesday. She is placed 22nd in general ranking and 10th in BC community ranking under the horizontal reservation. Dharani was a student of the Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School at RS Puram and completed Class XII in 2017. She studied on her own for three years. As she could not get 300 marks, she joined a private coaching centre in 2019 after obtaining a scholarship. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/corpn-school-student-gets-medical-seat/articleshow/79290409.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mysuru||Work on hale Unduwadi project will start in three months, says MP Pratap Simha||MYSURU: Work on the much-delayed Hale Unduwadi drinking water project will start in three months, promised Mysuru MP Pratap Simha on Tuesday. Simha, who participated at a meeting to review the progress of drinking water projects at the Mysuru zilla panchayat auditorium, said, “Apart from the Hale Unduwadi project, we will work on drafting proposals to supply drinking water to all parts of Chamundeshwari, Hunsur and Periyapatna assembly constituencies.” The MP said that all the drinking water projects would be completed before the Lok Sabha elections scheduled in 2024. “All the departments concerned have been directed to prepare a detailed project report on all the initiatives to be submitted to chief minister BS Yediyurappa. We will seek funds from both the state and central governments for the projects,” Simha added. Pointing out that, once completed, the Hale Unduwadi project would ensure supply of drinking water to 50 villages, Simha added, “But the scope of the project will be extended so as to ensure 20 more villages in Chamundeshwari assembly constituency also benefit from the project.” The MP also assured the ZP members and officials of work on the second and third stages respectively of the Melapura and Hongalli projects, aimed at supplying drinking water to Mysuru city, would start soon. “This will help address the persisting problem of drinking water to Roopa Nagar, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Saraswathipuram, JP Nagar and Alahalli. Nearly Rs 150 crore has been earmarked for these projects under the Amrut scheme,” he added. Simha also directed officials of the water board to ensure that domestic water meters were installed in all households. “All Mysuru city needs is 180 million litres every day, but owing to leakage, 260 million litres is being supplied. The authorities must ensure that each household in Narasimharaja constituency has a water meter,” he said. Mysuru ZP chief executive officer D Bharathi and chief engineer of Karnataka Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board Siddappa Nayak were among those who attended the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/work-on-hale-unduwadi-project-will-start-in-three-months-says-simha/articleshow/79290018.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Active Covid cases dip by 73% in Nilgiris in a month||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district has seen a 73% dip in active Covid-19 cases over the past one month.On Wednesday, the district had only 165 active cases, compared to 629 on October 18.While the hill retreat logged 17 new cases on the day, taking the tally to 7,162, 23 patients were discharged from treatment centres. The total number of recovered patients now stands at 6,957.The recovery rate has also improved to 97% from 89% on October 18. At 0.55%, the Covid fatality rate in the district, where 40 people succumbed to the virus so far, is also the least in the state.While the daily spike has come down, the impact of relaxation of e-pass system and festival season would be known only in the coming weeks.Dr P Balusamy, deputy director, public health, says, “We don’t see any surge in cases. We have to wait at least another 10 days to see whether there is going to be an impact or not.” Despite the decrease in the number of new cases, he said, they were testing around 2,000 people a day as in the past and monitoring containment zones strictly. The district has tested 1, 96,584 people so far. Presently, there are around 16 containment zones in hill station.According to him, as part of containment measures, they have been keeping track of admissions to the government and private hospitals and subjecting people with fever, cough and cold for Covid-19 testing. “Their contacts are also tested. Fever camps are active as in the past.”At check posts, he said, nasal swabs were being lifted from people from other districts and states. “Random samples are taken from people who travel in buses. These are the areas we mainly concentrate to contain the spread of the virus.”Of the 165 active cases, nine patients are being treated at government facilities in Coimbatore, 36 patients are in home and the remaining are admitted to the government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur and two Covid care centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/active-covid-cases-dip-by-73-in-nilgiris-in-a-month/articleshow/79290435.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Cockfights begin in north Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Reports of cockfights have started flowing in from parts of Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts months before the annual Sankranti festival. People from across age groups and professions gamble on this blood sport. Recently, Visakhapatnam rural police busted a number of cockfight events and seized roosters, cash and even arrested a few organisers. Cockfights are a traditional sport turned gambling extravaganza, said a senior police official who informed that incidence of cockfights in north AP is lower than other parts of the state. The roosters made to fight these wrestling matches are often priced as high as Rs 10,000. Prices depend on variety and colour. Kaki, Dega, Kakinemali, Myla, Rasangi and Pachchakaki are considered the most ferocious roosters. While police are spreading out across the region to stop the sport, cockfight organisers are putting up a tough challenge and moving to newer areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cockfights-begin-in-north-ap/articleshow/79288176.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Smart city gets new CEO||Coimbatore: Three years after the post of the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Coimbatore Smart City Limited (CSCL) became vacant, the state government appointed N Rajakumar, joint commissioner of commercial tax department in Chennai, to the post on Monday.“The appointment will expedite the smart city works. The CEO will attend the meetings conducted by the state and central government,” a senior corporation official said.In 2017, former Coimbatore city corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan and deputy commissioner P Gandhimathi interviewed 20 candidates to the CEO post and appointed R Suganya, daughter of former AIADMK Perur MLA K P Raju. Political parties and civic activists launched protests, saying that Suganya lacked experience and was ineligible. The protests prompted her to resign within a few days.Since then, the post had been lying vacant. The corporation commissioner was given the additional charge of CEO. R Raveendran, secretary of Residents Awareness Association of Coimbatore (RAAC) said that the appointment would reduce the workload of the corporation commissioner. “He will now be able to concentrate on civic works. I hope smart city works will get the required attention now,” he said.DMK MLA N Karthik said the appointment was made too late. “The smart city projects are being implemented without any transparency, without any supervision and using low-quality materials. What can a new CEO do? The appointment is just an eyewash.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/smart-city-gets-new-ceo/articleshow/79290430.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Pet shops, breeders shy away from getting registered||Coimbatore: Only 115 pet shops and two breeders in the district have registered with the animal husbandry department so far, despite the district administration’s mandate to get them registered on or before November 23.A source with the animal husbandry department says while only a fraction of the pet shops and breeders in the city have registered with the department, the number of registrations was much higher than that of other districts. “In most districts, except Chennai, the number of registrations is hardly 25 to 30.”The district administration had issued a public notice two months ago, asking all pet shops and people involved in breeding and selling pets such as dogs, cats, rabbits and fishes to register with the animal husbandry department, as per the Pet Shops Regulation Act, 2019.Dr K Murthy, joint director, animal husbandry department, says, “Pet shops have to declare the items they sell and if it includes animals, the square feet available, size of cages and the source of animals.”Breeders, he says, must mention the breeds they have, how many times the parent has been mated and given birth, whether parent animals have certificates, space available and veterinarians they have on call, among other details. “This is to prevent cruelty and abuse of animals for profit.”After receiving the applications for registrations, the animal husbandry department will forward them to the headquarters in Chennai and the Tamil Nadu Animal Welfare Board. “They will examine them and grant registrations. As of now, we haven’t been asked to inspect the shops and breeders who have applied for registration. There is also no information on extension of the deadline,” says Murthy.In fact, the animal welfare board is yet to announce what action would be taken against the pet shops and breeders, who don’t register within the deadline.The Pet Shop Owners’ Association, meanwhile, says all its 40 members have registered themselves under the new act. Its vice-president Suresh, who owns Kovai Pets Mart, says, “We welcome the move as it brings in rules to run a pet shop and breed animals. The process is easy too. We hope it would help weed out illegal operators and shops flouting rules.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pet-shops-breeders-shy-away-from-getting-registered/articleshow/79290442.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Madurai||HC seeks govt response on ordinance, legislation to ban online gambling||Madurai: The Madras high court has sought a response from the state government on the steps taken by it to pass an ordinance or an amendment or a legislation to ban online gambling. The court also directed the central government to come out with its stand on online gambling as several people are losing their lives due to it. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by S Muthukumar, an advocate and resident of Madurai district who sought to ban online rummy games and other online gambling games, and also to frame appropriate law and rules to prohibit online gambling. Additional advocate general M Sricharan Rangarajan submitted that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had issued a statement with regard to imposing a ban on online gambling in the state. He further submitted that the state government is contemplating to bring an ordinance or amendment or a legislation in this regard. Taking cognizance of the submissions, a division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi observed that since the chief minister had made it clear that the online gambling would be banned in the state, the government should submit its response. It may be recalled that during the previous hearing, the court observed that it is disheartening to know that 10 people who were addicted to the online rummy games and unable to pay the debts after losing their money, had committed suicide in the state. The court had also asked whether the state government was planning on regulating online gambling by bringing in a comprehensive framework on a par with other states such as Telangana, Assam, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Nagaland.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-govt-response-on-ordinance-legislation-to-ban-online-gambling/articleshow/79290444.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Coimbatore||Lockdown sees newfound love for pets||Coimbatore: Senthil Reddy, who lives in a village on the outskirts of Trichy, bought a boxer pup four months ago. With his children stuck at home, he thought it would be easier to handle a new pup.He says, “We have been planning to get a dog for a long time. When the lockdown was imposed, I felt it would give my children some screen-free time.”Reddy isn’t the only one who bought a pet during the lockdown. Pet shops and breeders say there has been a spike in demand for pets, be it dogs, cats or birds (lovebirds and finches, among others), after the lockdown was imposed. Many families with children, young couples and working professionals have bought pets to keep them company, occupied and to soothe their mind.K Deepak, president, Indian Dog Breeders Association, who breeds golden retrievers and boxers, confirms there has been a spike in demand for pets of late. “The buyers were mostly families with children and young IT employees who have moved back to the district from Bengaluru to work from home. The new buyers mostly want medium sized breeds such as labradors, boxers and golden retrievers or small breeds such as beagles, French bulldogs and Shih Tzus.”Vithun, a city-based second year visual communication student, had bought a golden retriever pup two months ago to keep him and his brother occupied at home. “I thought we could take care of it and train it as we are at home. It would also be a security for the house.”The surge in demand has shot up the prices of pets by 40%. This has also attracted many new breeders to the field.R K Raja, who used to run computer centre for students at Subramania Nagar, says business is almost nil as the schools and colleges haven’t reopened so far. “I always had dogs that I used to send for mating. The pups I got in return were either sold or given away. With no business happening, I bought one more rottweiler and a female labrador and started breeding. I have had a litter of pups so far and they all have been sold out.”Another new breeder is building constructor P Guhan, of Thondamuthur, who along with his wife, has chosen to breed German shepherds. “People are willing to spend more on a well-bred dog with German import parents. So, it is encouraging.”The price of German shepherds and boxers is anywhere near Rs50,000, especially if both the parents are direct imports. “The price of labradors with Indian parents has increased to upwards of Rs15,000 from Rs10,000 and that of rottweilers has shot up to Rs25,000 from Rs15,000,” says Raja. Boxers and Beagles are priced above Rs30,000, compared to Rs15,000-Rs20,000 earlier. The British and French bulldogs with Indian parents are also priced upwards Rs30,000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lockdown-sees-newfound-love-for-pets/articleshow/79290447.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: AIADMK to focus on ways to win majority seats on its own||CHENNAI: On the eve of Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Tamil Nadu, the ruling AIADMK has called for a high-level meeting of the recently appointed zonal office bearers, ministers and district secretaries on Friday to strategize for the 2021 election to win a majority of seats on its own. Party coordinator O Panneerselvam and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami will commence poll planning at the ‘micro-level’ involving booth level committees. The AIADMK wants to contest in a majority of the seats to form a government on its own even as “friendly” partners are banking on a good number of seats. “The meeting will provide clarity on the role of the zonal office bearers, most of them ministers and district secretaries. Each will be assigned the task of winning a sizable chunk of the vote bank to help us form the next government on our own,” said a senior minister. The revamped IT wing has recently appointed 20,000 functionaries across the state, while 17.5 lakh office-bearers of the Ilaignar Ilampengal Pasarai constituted by former CM J Jayalalithaa to infuse young blood, were nominated to party election booths. The AIADMK is mulling appointing 20 women members in each booth. The AIADMK is irked by the ‘power-sharing’ concept being floated by certain allies in the run up to the polls and would not concede to demands of prospective allies for more seats than they are allotted. “The Friday meeting at the party headquarters will not discuss power sharing or seat arrangement but will set the tone for winning a majority of seats on our own. The politically astute leadership knows what is best for the party,” said a senior leader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-to-focus-on-ways-to-win-majority-seats-on-its-own/articleshow/79291721.cms||Julie Mariappan
November 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Corona’s ‘popularity’ is now on poll trial||KOLLAM: As long as 24-year-old Corona Thomas can remember nobody poked fun at her rather innocuous name all these years. But all of that started changing after a virus by that name started spreading rapidly across the world. “Now, many people joke about my name and give me peculiar looks. Some shout at me, Go Corona, go away!” Thomas, the BJP pick for Mathilil division of Kollam Corporation says local residents welcome her warmly during campaigning as she is already known to the voters. “My unique name has made me popular and I have been featured on TV programmes,” she says. BJP supporters in the region say though the word corona denotes a relentless scourge, the voters in the Mathilil division will rather remember the strong and successful fight put up by Thomas against the pandemic. She has been able to instill courage among all those around her, they say. That was when the novel coronavirus started making its way into her neighborhood and her home. Besides herself and her husband, her parents too got infected. “As I was in the advanced stage of pregnancy, we were all worried. I got admitted to Parippally Medical College Hospital on October 10. On October 15, I gave birth to my daughter. She too tested positive for the virus, adding to my concerns,” says Thomas. However, beating all odds, she managed to recover and returned home safely with her daughter after about 10 days. So, how did Corona come by her moniker? Corona says her father Thomas Francis, an artist, and mother Sheeba Thomas chose the name Corona for her, which means the aura around stars or the moon, after naming her twin brother, Coral Thomas. She got interested in BJP after her marriage to Jinu Suresh, a BJP worker, about six years ago. “It’s my interest in BJP politics that prompted me to contest on a BJP ticket,” says Corona. Asked about her winning prospects, she points out that the BJP candidate who was fielded from the Mathilil division during the last elections was defeated by a UDF candidate by a margin of only 175 votes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/coronas-popularity-is-now-on-poll-trial/articleshow/79289359.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Madurai||Plea seeks to monitor stone quarries||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought a response from the authorities in a plea which sought to monitor stone quarries in Theni district in order to prevent illegal mining. A division bench of justices N Kirubakaran and B Pugalendhi was hearing a public interest litigation filed by V Pethuran. The petitioner stated that currently 49 stone quarries and crusher units are functioning at the patta land parcels in the district. All the quarries functioning in the district are carrying out illegal mining by taking more quantities of stones than the permissible limit by violating the norms. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-seeks-to-monitor-stone-quarries/articleshow/79290453.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Marketing exec dies in road mishap||Hyderabad: A 30-year-old marketing executive died in a road accident near NFC on Tuesday night. The victim was identified as Md Qasim Sharif, 30, from Mahmoodguda. While returning from his office at Chengicherla, Sharif lost control over his two-wheeler near Marriguda culvert close to NFC, fell under the culvert and died due to injuries, Kushaiguda police said. A case was registered under section 304-A of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/marketing-exec-dies-in-road-mishap/articleshow/79291727.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: ACB officials arrest deputy exec engineer||VISAKHAPATNAM: A deputy executive engineer working in the panchayat raj sub-division at Salur in Vizianagaram district was arrested by the ACB on Wednesday for amassing illegal assets. The assets of 55-year-old Karri Nageswar Rao include several land parcels, houses, house sites, cash, gold, silver, vehicles, and other items, the market value of which would be in excess of Rs 25 crore as per prevailing market rates. ACB officials conducted simultaneous raids at five places in Vizag and Vizianagaram. Documents pertaining to three flats, a shopping mall, seven house sites, 11.4 acres of agriculture land were seized, besides three four-wheelers and three two-wheelers. Apart from the immovable assets, ACB officials also seized Rs 2,090 in cash, bank deposits of Rs 20 lakh, over 475 grams of gold jewellery and over 3.8 kg of silver ornaments. Karri Nageswar Rao joined service as assistant executive engineer in 1989 and was promoted as deputy executive engineer in 2005. He has worked in various departments including AP Tourism and GVMC. The officer will be produced before the ACB court in Vizag city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/acb-officials-arrest-deputy-exec-engineer/articleshow/79288196.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Increase beds for Covid patients in private hospitals: Gehlot||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday said in this critical period of Covid pandemic, private hospitals also should increase beds and provide treatment at the prescribed rate. He directed administrative officers and the medical department to ensure that people do not have any inconvenience in getting treatment in private hospitals. Gehlot was addressing the Covid-19 review meeting at the chief minister’s residence. He said due to the festive season, weddings, pollution and cold, infections might increase rapidly in the days to come. Keeping this in mind, expansion of other medical facilities including oxygen and ICU beds are necessary in state and private hospitals. Change medical protocol The CM said there was a difference of symptoms among patients. He said that if there is a need to change the medical protocol, then a team of experts should study it so that we could provide better treatment to Covid patients. Pulse oximeters will be given to Asha workers Gehlot said in many cases it had been revealed that people die due to sudden drop in oxygen levels. The state government has already provided pulse oximeters to ANM level medical personnel across the state. Now pulse oximeters will be given to all ASHA workers also so that people could easily check their oxygen levels. Disease spreading in villages too The chief minister said so far 573 deaths have been reported due to Covid in villages, which is 27 per cent of the total fatalities. He urged villagers to fully comply with health protocols and get treatment if they have cold and cough. He directed officials to increase testing in rural areas too. He said if any patient had any difficulty in getting admission in hospital, contact the centralized helpline number 181. Secretary (medical and health) Siddharth Mahajan said so far 2,089 Covid deaths had been reported in the state of which 1,468 were males and 621 females. While there were 573 deaths in rural areas, the urban areas contributed 1516. These include 1,264 persons over 60 years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/increase-beds-for-covid-patients-in-private-hospitals-gehlot/articleshow/79290475.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||3 Rajasthan cadre IPS officers to join central forces||Jaipur: Three IPS officers of Rajasthan cadre will be sent on central deputation, an order issued by the state department of personnel said on Wednesday. ADG (Reorganisation and Rules) Hemant Priyadarshy will join the CRPF as IG till March 31, 2025. DIG (SOG) Vikas Kumar and director of Intelligence Training Academy (Jaipur) Param Jyoti will join as DIG-BSF and DIG-CISF, respectively, for a period of five years, according to the orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/3-rajasthan-cadre-ips-officer-to-join-central-forces/articleshow/79290478.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||CT scan positive cases don’t make it to Karnataka’s pandemic data||BENGALURU: Those with test negative for Covid-19 through the RT-PCR method, but show positive for the disease in a CT scan are treated for SARS-COV-2 infection, but they are excluded from the state government’s bulletin on pandemic cases. The reason: The government’s data is based only on lab reports. Officials admit that to that extent, government statistics on the pandemic are inaccurate. The state had issued a circular mandating a CT scan for those who show symptoms, but test negative through RT-PCR. The circular was to root out false negatives by correlating clinical features, CT thorax findings and laboratory investigations. If the clinical assessment correlates, then such cases are considered as proxy syndrome. The health department said such cases can be termed ‘Covid-19-like illness’ or ‘Covid-19-probable cases’. Based on the clinical assessment, a unique ‘reporting and data’ (CORAD) score is attributed to such cases. A score of 4 indicates suspected infection, 5 is typical of Covid and 6 is equal to RT-PCR positive. “These cases are considered severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) with Covid-like infection,” staff at a general hospital in Bengaluru said. “The government doesn’t consider them Covid cases, but at least 10 such patients were put on remdesivir and they responded well.” Dr V Ravi, member of the state Covid task force and senior professor and head of neurovirology lab in Nimhans, admitted the number of cases officially reported could be just the tip of the iceberg. “The state’s Covid data is based on lab reports as per an ICMR mandate,” he said. When contacted Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, said, “It’s a valid point raised. We should consider them as Covid cases and report them separately in a column in the bulletin. I will look into it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ct-scan-positive-cases-dont-make-it-to-karnatakas-pandemic-data/articleshow/79289367.cms||Sunitha Rao R
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Police SI arrested while accepting bribe in Jaipur||JAIPUR: The ACB arrested a sub-inspector stationed at Nokha police station in Bikaner while accepting a bribe of Rs 8,000. The cop had asked the complainant for Rs 1 lakh for removing certain names from an FIR. On November 16, the complainant had lodged a case claiming the SI Hanumanram Bishnoi (59) had demanded bribe following which the ACB laid a trap. “The complainant said the accused cop had asked for Rs 1 lakh for removing the names of two of his family members from an FIR. After negotiation, the cop agreed for a bribe of Rs 15,000 and we arrested him while he accepted Rs 8,000,” said an official. ACB has been cracking down on corrupt government officials and regularly arresting them. On Wednesday, officials organised a meeting with traders in Ajmer to inform them about the zero tolerance policy and asked them to inform ACB in case any government official demanded bribe. Just last week, ACB arrested more than half-a-dozen government officials in separate cases of corruption. Cops arrested one employee of Jaipur Heritage Nagar Nigam for accepting bribe from a contractor. Another person was arrested for demanding bribe for land registration in Jhunjhunu while five persons of transport department were arrested in Dungarpur for extortion. A Nagar Palika’s official was arrested in Jhalawar with cash for which he had no explanation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/si-arrested-while-accepting-bribe/articleshow/79290471.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: DMK high-level panel will discuss getting cadres fired up for polls||CHENNAI: The DMK’s high level ‘strategy committee’, which is scheduled to meet on November 23, will discuss constructive steps to be taken by the party to galvanize party cadres for the ensuing assembly election in Tamil Nadu. The meeting will also deliberate on the revised electoral rolls released recently. “Our party president (Stalin) always prefers to have a discussion and deliberation with party seniors on important issues. While the DMK’s executive and general council meetings are usually an elaborate exercise, he opted for a ‘strategic committee’ comprising party seniors for specific discussions,” DMK Rajya Sabha MP and party spokesperson T K S Elangovan told TOI. “While initially this committee had 20 members, it has now gone up to 30,” he added. The EC has also released the revised electoral rolls. “We will deliberate on the rolls and to prepare party cadres for the elections,” he said. Meanwhile, the DMK continued its exercise on revamping party districts into smaller units by creating new ones in Chennai and Thanjavur regions. “The revamping has been taken up for better administration and efficient handling of party affairs. With the latest revamp, the DMK has 79 party districts. New ones are created based on feedback from partymen and the leadership will decide whether there could be more districts in the offing,” DMK headquarters’ secretary and Rajya Sabha MP R S Bharathi said. On Wednesday, Stalin concluded his interaction with zonal level office bearers, meeting those from Chennai region. He has interacted with office bearers from all 234 assembly segments in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/dmk-high-level-panel-will-discuss-getting-cadres-fired-up-for-polls/articleshow/79291725.cms||D Govardan
November 19, 2020||Agra||57 fresh Covid-19 +ve cases in Agra||Agra: At least 57 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 8,332. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College (SNMC) and two staffers of the district hospital. Also, a 44-year-old man passed away while undergoing treatment at the SNMC. The resident of Namner locality was suffering from diabetes, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease and other medical conditions. According to the health department, the Covid patient died due to a co-morbid condition. So far, 158 deaths of Covid patients have been reported in Agra district. The current Covid sample positivity rate in Agra district is 2.6% and the fatality rate is 1.9%. Moreover, 65 Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday. Of the 8,332 cases, 7,678 [92.1%] have been declared "cured and discharged". The number of active Covid cases in the district has decreased from 505 on Tuesday, to 496 on Wednesday||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/57-fresh-covid-19-ve-cases-in-agra/articleshow/79288205.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Liquor sales plunge 25% during Diwali week in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Liquor sales during the Diwali week this year fell by 25% in terms of volume and 10% in value compared to same period last year due to Covid. Beer sales were the hardest hit falling 31% in the week leading to Diwali day while whiskey sales contracted by 14%, according to an official in excise department. Liquor sales fell to 5.72 lakh cases in the week compared to 7.64 lakh cases the same period last year declining by 25%. However, the revenues decreased by a lesser margin to Rs 146 crore from Rs 162 crore during the same week last year as prices of liquor have been increased this year. “It was a lacklustre Diwali week. People have been cutting back on discretionary spends as the pandemic has eroded their incomes. Job losses, economic uncertainties, fear of getting infected with coronavirus and reluctance to join social gatherings, all weighed on the poor offtake,” said the official preferring anonymity as he was not authorized to speak to media. Even though bars in hotels and restaurants are open, the recent surge in Covid cases held back people visiting the watering holes which generally generates good business in the festive times, said hoteliers. So far this year, the sales of liquors are estimated to have declined by 25% compared to the last year. The official said, “Even though proper calculation are yet to be done, going by the initial numbers, the sales are down by 25% so far this year.” Liquor is a large source of income for the state government but this year sales have been impacted by lockdown when retail shops and bars in hotels and restaurants were shuttered. Had it not been for the increase in prices, the revenues could have fallen further due to subdued demand. Recently, the state government has also reduced bar licence fees to help the restaurants and hotels to tide over the difficulties they face due to Covid pandemic. Given the current situation, the target of Rs 12500 crore revenue for the current financial year looks difficult to achieve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/liquor-sales-plunge-25-during-diwali-week/articleshow/79290501.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||RTU yet to act on staff who put Rs 7crore PF cash in private firm||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan Technical University (RTU) is yet to take action against its officials responsible for investing Rs 7 crore of provident fund in a private finance company. The governor house had directed the university for action against errant officials in November 2019. The illegal practice of investing in a private finance company to reap the monetary benefits surfaced in June 2018. Documents possessed by the TOI say that PF investment committee of RTU headed by the then V-C N P Kaushik, finance controller R L Parsoya and assistant registrar (finance) Manoj Jangid allegedly went beyond the set norms for PF investment and invested Rs 7 crore of provident fund of the university in a private finance company ‘Dewan Housing Finance’ in November 2017. The committee allegedly violated all norms for investment and manipulated other committees for approval of investment. Moreover, the investment was made through an agent that brought commission of Rs 8.30 lakh to the PF committee members. Later, Dewan Housing Finance collapsed causing a huge loss of Rs 7 crore investment to the university. Again, assistant registrar (finance) Manoj Jangid, with no financial eligibility and background, was placed to deal with PF fund of Rs around 100 crorers for last 10 years, read the documents. The inquiry report by Kota divisional commissioner held the two officials guilty of violating the norms of PF fund and recommended for action against the then finance controller of the university R L Parsoya and assistant registrar, who is still holding the charge of PF Fund, Manoj Jangid but unfortunately, no action has been initiated so far, the source further said based on the copies of inquiry obtained through RTI. On action against the two officials found guilty in PF investment fund, V-C of RTU, Kota Dr R A Gupta initially expressed ignorance, but later said the action was initiated against the two officials. However, he could not explain what kind of action was initiated against as two officials as they are still working without any action against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-action-against-rtu-officials-yet-in-pf-scam/articleshow/79290512.cms||Rajiv Saxena
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Customers express anguish over Lakshmi Vilas Bank’s status quo, throng branches||CHENNAI/ TRICHY: Teary eyes, angry discussions and hurried exits were witnessed at several branches of Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB), a day after being placed under a 30-day moratorium with withdrawal limits and receiving RBI’s proposal to merge with DBS Bank India Limited (DBIL). Venkatesan R, 79, with Rs 15 lakh of his retirement settlement in FD account, expressed his anger and disappointment at the bank’s poor management. He stated his wish to close his account once the moratorium ends. “We laid our trust on the 93-year-old history of the bank, which is now over. Once you burn your fingers, why repeat the same mistake,” he asked. Branches of LVB saw milling crowds of depositors, especially senior citizens, eager to end their relationship with the bank. A shareholder, who has held shares of LVB for the past three generations, 79-year-old R Dhandayudham said though not worried much about the safety of his deposits of Rs 15 lakh, he could not sell his 10,000 shares of the bank. “The stock brokers have informed us there is a long queue of sellers, but no buyers for LVB shares. This is such a hasty move by the regulator to make such a huge announcement without keeping the interests of over 80% of individual shareholders.” In Trichy, police were deployed at three branches at Thillai Nagar, Sri Rangam and Cantonment to avert untoward incidents, police said. “LVB was established in Karur and grew with contribution of farmers and small merchants. It was very sad to hear the present state of the bank,” Karur MP S Jothimani said. “RBI has clarified on savings accounts, but not a word on the current accounts. Several commercial establishments, merchants and traders have current accounts with LVB. When they approached the bank on Tuesday, they were told that they could not transact any business for a month. The finance ministry should help,” she added. Many customers waited at various branches as technical glitch led to delay in withdrawals. ATMs of the bank were also not functioning. With a cash liquidity limit of Rs 10 lakh per LVB branch, by noon the tellers had to rush to their currency chest for a refill in T Nagar. According to a senior official, the chest holds a liquidity of Rs 500 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/customers-express-anguish-over-lvbs-status-quo-throng-branches/articleshow/79291728.cms||Mamtha Asokan
November 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: ‘No entry’ board for election campaigns||KOTTAYAM: A banner erected in front of this house at Koodappulam in Ramapuram panchayat in the district has a ‘polite message’ for politicians, ‘entry restricted’. But it also displays the house owner’s son’s phone number, saying candidates and party workers can contact him to seek votes. The banner put up by Santhosh Kumar explains further that entry has been restricted as his parents, both aged above 85, lives there. According to Kumar, a Covid death in the neighbourhood provoked him to take the step. “I and my father have heart ailments and my mother is an alzheimer’s patient. The move is not political,” he said. Kumar was a bartender at a hotel in Kottayam till lockdown. Since then the whole family was depending on a cow whose milk they sold for a living. However, after three neighbours tested Covid positive, Kumar had to undergo quarantine which put an end to milk supply too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-entry-board-for-election-campaigns/articleshow/79289382.cms||Jaikrishnan Nair
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jaipur: Man held for taking picture of girl in trial room||JAIPUR: An employee of a garment showroom was arrested for taking photographs of a girl while she was changing clothes in the trial room. The incident happened in a mall located in Adarsh Nagar. The accused was identified as Anil Meena who was sent two days of police remand on Wednesday. “When the girl along with her mother and brother was shopping on Tuesday, they went to a garment showroom where the accused worked. The girl went to the trial room and the accused somehow managed to click her photograph,” said an official of Transport Nagar police station. When the girl realised this, she along with the family complained to the store manager but instead of checking the veracity of the allegations, he threatened the complainants following which the family lodged a case at the police station. The accused was produced in court on Wednesday and sources claimed that few lawyers manhandled him as well. He was booked under IPC Section 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-held-for-taking-pic-of-girl-in-trial-room/articleshow/79290509.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Discom to register FIR against staff for power gadget theft||AJMER: Ajmer Vidhyut Vitran Nigam (AVVNL) on Wednesday ordered to register an FIR against three officials and three employees after a truckload electric equipment that had to be unloaded in Pratapgarh district from Jaipur went missing. AVVNL has already suspended these employees and also sent the matter to the ACB. The incident came out when a truck loaded with electric equipment started from Jaipur but went missing. These equipment were to be used to provide electricity connection in villages of Dalot and Arnod sub-division of Partapgarh district. When inquiry was conducted, no equipment was found anywhere. AVNNL after preliminary inquiry found irregularities and corruption at the sub-division and store of AVVNL at Partapgarh and suspended suspended assistant store controller of Partapgarh PC Bundela, acting assistant engineer of Arnod substation Narendra Singh, acting assistant engineer of Dalot Ravishanker, Dalot store in-charge Durga Lal Nagar, technical assistant of Partapgarh Abhay Singh Rao and technical assistant of Arnod Mukesh Kasana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/discom-registers-fir-against-staff-for-equipment-theft/articleshow/79290530.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Agra||Three involved in triple murder case arrested after encounter in Mathura||Agra: Mathura police has arrested three of a five-member gang after a brief encounter for their alleged involvement in cases of loot and murder after offering lifts in their autorickshaws. Police said during interrogation, the accused confessed to have committed three murders — including the murder of businessman Dileep Agarwal who was on his way home on Diwali night — and loots in Mathura since February. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover said the accused were identified as Sachin Baghel, Dharmendra Singh and Shivam— all residents of Mathura district. Acting on a tip-off that a few criminals were on their way to commit a crime in an autorickshaw, a police team was dispatched immediately to nab them, said the SSP. After waylaying the auto near Mawali road around 4 am, police asked the accused to surrender, but they opened fire at the police team. In the retaliatory firing, Sachin and Dharmendra sustained bullet injuries in their legs. Police arrested three accused, while one of their accomplices Rahul escaped. The injured were admitted to a hospital, where their condition is stated to be stable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/three-involved-in-triple-murder-case-arrested-after-encounter-in-mathura/articleshow/79288227.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mysuru||Deepavali this year was cleaner, less polluting in Mysuru||MYSURU: Across the state, guidelines issued by the government to ensure a safe and muted Deepavali, in view of Covid-19, resulted in both air and noise pollution levels dropping markedly during the festival this year. Data from the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) confirmed the reduction in pollution levels this Deepavali. The authorities collected data from monitoring stations installed in Hebbal, KR Circle and the First Grade College in Kuvempunagar between November 14 and 16. The authorities compared the levels of polluting gases such as sulphur-di-oxide, nitrogen-di-oxide and PM2.5 and PM10 levels at these stations during Deepavali. Both noise and air pollution registered a marked decrease this Deepavali compared to 2019, the data showed. On Balipadyami this year – November 16 – the ambient noise level was 66LeqdB(A), it was 75.2LeqdB(A) on October 29 (Balipadyami) in 2019. The prescribed ambient noise level is 55LeqdB(A). However, the authorities found pollution level this year was very much less compared to 2019 Deepavali festival. The standard level of SO2 is 80 ug/m3, NO2 is 80 ug/m3, PM10 is 100 ug/m3 and PM2.5 is 60 ug/m3. Regional environment officer for KSPCB Mysuru Prakash BM attributed the reduction in noise and air pollution levels to directions issued by the court and government directing dealers to sell only green crackers. “In addition to this, people were cautious owing to the pandemic, not to mention, heightened awareness among the public about the impact of crackers on the environment resulted in pollution levels dropping this Deepavali,” Prakash told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/deepavali-this-year-was-cleaner-less-polluting-in-mysuru/articleshow/79290165.cms||Lakshmikantha BK
November 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Jaggery fetches Rs 5,100 per quintal in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Top grade jaggery fetched Rs 5,100 per quintal, less than last year due to comapratively poor quality, during the auction at the Kolhapur APMC on the occasion of Diwali Padwa on Monday. The price of the same jaggery was recorded at around Rs 5,600 per quintal last year, but the untimely rain this time around adversely affected the quality, said farmers. Padwa is the time when the jaggery feches the highest price, but it reduces later. Kolhapuri Jaggery is most sought after by people across the country and buying it is one of the wishlists of tourists. The price for the third grade jaggery was recorded at Rs 2,800 per quintal. The farmers were expecting at least around Rs 4,500 per quintal. Over 250 houses in the district are involved in jaggery making. They use good quality sugar cane with high proportion of juice and sweeter than the cane used for producing sugar. Ananda Patil, a farmer from Kagal, said, “I make around eight tonnes of jaggery every season. This time, due to the untimely rain, the quality of cane deteriorated. Also, many farmers prefer sending sugar cane to mills. The production of jaggery will be less this season.” Farmers demanded that jaggery makers should refrain from using chemicals that bring golden colour to the product because it affects the quality of the final produce. Kolhapuri jaggery got its fame mainly because it is organic. Malawi mangoes arrive in APMC The APMC received Malawi mangoes or ‘winter’ mangoes for the second consecutive year. Zuber, a trader who received 25 dozens of these mangoes, said he is expecting around Rs 1,500 per dozen. The mangoes taste like the Alphonso from Konkan. The variety was planted in Malawi in Africa and the produce has been hitting the markets in Maharashtra for the last three years . Egyptian onions sold for Rs 1,250/kg The Sureshkumar Sundardas trading firm in APMC received 1,250 kg of Egyptian onions. The onion prices in Kolhapur city had touched around Rs 90 a kg, but it is now selling for Rs 60. The traders in the APMC claimed that the Egyptian onions will be sold at around Rs 40 per kg, thereby bringing down the prices of other variety of onions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/jaggery-fetches-rs-5100-per-quintal-in-kolhapur/articleshow/79288218.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Discom to register FIR against staff for power gadget theft||AJMER: Ajmer Vidhyut Vitran Nigam (AVVNL) on Wednesday ordered to register an FIR against three officials and three employees after a truckload electric equipment that had to be unloaded in Pratapgarh district from Jaipur went missing. AVVNL has already suspended these employees and also sent the matter to the ACB. The incident came out when a truck loaded with electric equipment started from Jaipur but went missing. These equipment were to be used to provide electricity connection in villages of Dalot and Arnod sub-division of Partapgarh district. When inquiry was conducted, no equipment was found anywhere. AVNNL after preliminary inquiry found irregularities and corruption at the sub-division and store of AVVNL at Partapgarh and suspended suspended assistant store controller of Partapgarh PC Bundela, acting assistant engineer of Arnod substation Narendra Singh, acting assistant engineer of Dalot Ravishanker, Dalot store in-charge Durga Lal Nagar, technical assistant of Partapgarh Abhay Singh Rao and technical assistant of Arnod Mukesh Kasana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/discom-registers-fir-against-staff-for-equipment-theft/articleshow/79299394.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||RPSC to conduct exams for various posts in coming days||Ajmer: Rajasthan Public Service Commission, which will conduct different selection examinations in the coming week in Ajmer and Jaipur, issued the admit cards on its official website. According to the commission, the screening exam of physiotherapist-2018 will be from 10am to noon on November 23. The agricultural research officer exam-2020 will be held from 10am to 1pm on November 24 and inspector workshop and boilers exam- 2020 will be held the next day from 10am to 1pm. The commission directed candidates to download their admission cards and reach the examination centre at least an hour before with a photograph and identity card. The commission directed the candidates to follow Covid guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rpsc-to-conduct-exams-for-various-posts-in-coming-days/articleshow/79290548.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ajmer||Ajmer: Guest houses and hotels in dargah region full with devotees||AJMER: After reports that all guest houses and hotels in the dargah region were full for the last 4 days, the district administration has started to enforce social distancing among devotees. It is after eight months that hotels, guest houses and dargah bazaar are seeing huge footfall. The devotees, mostly from Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, came to Ajmer to offer prayers in the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty. “Our rooms are full and we are forced to tag rooms full board outside the hotel,” said a hotel owner in Dhan Mandi. Though the dargah administration has made arrangements to screen people and enforce social distancing norms, large number of devotees are floutung norms. “At present, offering of chaddars and flowers is ban because of Covid guidelines,” said official. Ajmer SP Kunwar Rashtradeep inspected the dargah region and directed police to see that the crowd does not gather at one place. Arfan Mohammad of Baroda said looking at the Diwali holidays, his family had planned to visit of dargah of Ajmer. Another devotee from Muradabad in Uttar Pradesh said they are taking precautions against Covid. Shops in the Dargah Bazaar are crowded too. “The last time our hotels were full were in March. After so many months, the colourful life of dargah is back,” added a restaurant owner. He said workers who went away during lockdown to their villages, have returned and working again. The dargah guest house of dargah committee is also full and there is a waiting period of 15 days. “When the permission of opening of dargah was given, many devotees came and returned the same day. But now devotees are staying for three to four days,” said a khadim. The trend is to relax during their stay as most of the devotees came on their own vehicles. Devotees also went out in markets at Nallah Bazaar, Naya Bazaar, Dhan Mandi and Dargah Bazaar. “They are purchasing clothes and general items,” said Naresh, a shop owner at Nallah Bazaar. Looking at the large number of devotees, extra police force has also been deployed to maintain social distancing. Khadims are hopeful that looking at the trend and Covid largely remaining controlled, footfall of devotees will remain till the month of December. Photo Shaukat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/guest-houses-and-hotels-in-dargah-region-full-with-devotees/articleshow/79294544.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Ajmer: Guest houses and hotels in dargah region full with devotees||AJMER: After reports that all guest houses and hotels in the dargah region were full for the last 4 days, the district administration has started to enforce social distancing among devotees. It is after eight months that hotels, guest houses and dargah bazaar are seeing huge footfall. The devotees, mostly from Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, came to Ajmer to offer prayers in the dargah of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisty. “Our rooms are full and we are forced to tag rooms full board outside the hotel,” said a hotel owner in Dhan Mandi. Though the dargah administration has made arrangements to screen people and enforce social distancing norms, large number of devotees are floutung norms. “At present, offering of chaddars and flowers is ban because of Covid guidelines,” said official. Ajmer SP Kunwar Rashtradeep inspected the dargah region and directed police to see that the crowd does not gather at one place. Arfan Mohammad of Baroda said looking at the Diwali holidays, his family had planned to visit of dargah of Ajmer. Another devotee from Muradabad in Uttar Pradesh said they are taking precautions against Covid. Shops in the Dargah Bazaar are crowded too. “The last time our hotels were full were in March. After so many months, the colourful life of dargah is back,” added a restaurant owner. He said workers who went away during lockdown to their villages, have returned and working again. The dargah guest house of dargah committee is also full and there is a waiting period of 15 days. “When the permission of opening of dargah was given, many devotees came and returned the same day. But now devotees are staying for three to four days,” said a khadim. The trend is to relax during their stay as most of the devotees came on their own vehicles. Devotees also went out in markets at Nallah Bazaar, Naya Bazaar, Dhan Mandi and Dargah Bazaar. “They are purchasing clothes and general items,” said Naresh, a shop owner at Nallah Bazaar. Looking at the large number of devotees, extra police force has also been deployed to maintain social distancing. Khadims are hopeful that looking at the trend and Covid largely remaining controlled, footfall of devotees will remain till the month of December. Photo Shaukat||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/guest-houses-and-hotels-in-dargah-region-full-with-devotees/articleshow/79290545.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||As cases plummet, 87% of Covid-19 beds lie vacant in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the ever-declining Covid-19 numbers in the last two months, over 87 per cent of beds available at the 152 Covid-19 designated hospitals spread across the state remained vacant as of Wednesday. For a state, which had the second highest caseload in the country and once witnessed excessive pressure on hospitals, there are only 16,500 active cases now. Of the nearly 30,000 beds available in the state, only 3,900 beds were occupied by patients. The state government had denotified nearly 100 Covid-19 hospitals – from the peak of 248 hospitals to the presently serving 152 hospitals. For example, 32 hospitals had extended their services in the disease epicentre East Godavari when the virus was at its peak in the state. But now only 11 hospitals have been earmarked for the Covid-19 services in the district by excluding the rest from Covid-19 treatment. According to the state health officials, Andhra Pradesh has come a long way in its fight against Covid-19 since the days of its preparation on a war footing for the pandemic, which could place an unprecedented pressure on its health system, in February-March. From augmenting the capacity of Covid-19 healthcare facilities and testing footprint to tweaking the treatment, tracing and testing strategies at regular intervals, the health department constantly ramped up its capacities over the last seven months. At one point in September, there were more than 1.05 lakh active cases. However, the state has leveraged the home isolation facility and Covid Care Centres, starting May, to reduce the burden on hospitals. Meanwhile, the state reported 1,236 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative caseload to 8,57,395. The toll increased to 6,899 as nine more people succumbed to the disease. As many as 1,696 patients were declared cured on Wednesday. There are currently 16,516 active cases with 8,33,980 cumulative recoveries, translating to a recovery rate of over 97%. Dr K Rambabu, the state nodal officer for Covid-19, said factors like large-scale testing, early preparation for the pandemic by augmenting the health infrastructure and testing facilities, extensive contact tracing, etc. have helped the state in dealing with the pandemic. “Even though the daily case numbers have significantly reduced, we request the public to follow all Covid-19 precautions,” said Dr Rambabu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/as-cases-plummet-87-of-covid-19-beds-lie-vacant/articleshow/79288242.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 19, 2020||India||Unicef: 25% of schoolkids from Covid-hit families may drop out||NEW DELHI: An assessment of the impact of Covid-19 pandemic on children by Unicef covering 5,773 socio-economically vulnerable families shows that about one in every four mothers was not sure of their child going back to school after the pandemic. Community volunteers who reached out to 300 habitations in 12 districts across seven states in August- September found children engaged as paid worker or pushed into child labour, the situation being similar in both rural and urban areas. The seven states where the assessment was done are Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra. Unicef started the community-based monitoring in June-July in states where it runs programmes to understand the emerging challenges. The same communities and families were covered in round two of assessment in August-September to compare the emerging trends. Results show that while economic situation of the families under study remain challenging, select government services improved compared with results of Wave-1 in June-July period. Times ViewThe Unicef finding reveals how the outbreak has been calamitous for the underprivileged adversely affecting them in every walk of life. The disparity between the rich and the hard-up also reflects in the digital divide. Those in power should keep these harsh truths in mind while framing policies.Interestingly of 5773 families covered, 17% families are headed by a female member while 1049 families have returnee migrant workers. The economic profile of families covered included casual workers, salaried workers and those with no jobs. During the outreach, volunteers spoke to 2300 mothers with children in the age group of 6-19 years. Besides, the digital divide in learning too remains a concern with around 47% mothers in rural and 66% mothers in urban districts saying that their children are using either a smart phone or a computer for education. A very large section of children still lack the tools to access online education.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/unicef-25-of-schoolkids-from-covid-hit-families-may-drop-out/articleshow/79293647.cms||Ambika Pandit
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Maharashtra: 437 people to vote for Dhule-Nandurbar MLC poll||NASHIK: A total of 437 voters, including Members of of Legislative Assembly along with elected representatives of local self governing bodies in Dhule and Nandurbar district of the Nashik division, will cast their vote in the by-election of the Member of Legislative Council (MLC) from Dhule-Nandurbar Local Authorities constituency on December 1. The returning officer for the MLC election and the district collector of Dhule Sanjay Yadav said, “The election has been announced by Election Commission of India (ECI) and will be conducted through ballot paper with the voters having to give their preferences. The election has been scheduled on December 1 and the counting will be held on December 3,” Yadav said. The by-election was necessitated after sitting MLC Amrishbhai Patel had resigned on October 1 and switched over to BJP just before the assembly elections. Yadav also pointed out that the process of filing the nominations and the final date of withdrawal were already completed and that the elections were to be held on March 30, but were deferred owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. “The same will now be conducted on December 1,” Yadav said. There are two candidates in fray — Amrishbhai Patel from BJP and Abhijeet Patil from Congress. It is a straight fight between the two contestants,” deputy district election officer Pradeep Bhamare said. The 437 electors include MLAs, along with corporators of the Dhule Municipal Corporation, elected members of Dhule and Nandurbar zilla parishad, members of two municipal councils and municipalities and the chairpersons of various panchayat samitis from both districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/437-people-to-vote-for-dhule-nandurbar-mlc-poll/articleshow/79288279.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Man who faked death by killing friend held||Jaipur: The police have arrested a person who had staged his own death two years back in Ratangarh in Churu. The accused had burnt his own friend alive in order to get the insurance claim which was in his own name for his family. The accused was identified as Kailash Kumar who had burnt alive his friend Kishanlal in September 2018. “Two years back, a completely burnt body was found in a charred car and through the vehicle’s registration papers, we tracked down Kailash’s family. What raised our doubts was that his family denied that the body was of Kailash and we initiated an investigation. We found that Kailash was under a lot of debt and after his death, his family would get over Rs 40 lakh,” said a police official. Another fact which triggered the investigation was that while the vehicle and body were completely burnt, the registration papers were intact. Kailash had intentionally left them behind so that the cops would think that the body was his. He was arrested from Jaipur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-who-faked-death-by-killing-friend-held/articleshow/79290564.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Udaipur||Kartika month begins, but no mooing of cattle in Pushkar this year||AJMER: There will be no mooing of cattle in the holy town of Pushkar during the Kartika month this year as the international cattle fair has been cancelled. Though a large number of devotees, mostly from rural parts of Rajasthan, are continuously coming to the temple town to perform rituals and take a dip in the Pushkar Sarovar. Pushkar town wears a festive mood after Diwali every year, but this year the charm is missing due to the pandemic. Last year, around 15,000 foreign and six lakh domestic tourists participated in the fair. The tourism industry has taken a hit of around Rs 250 crore. Camel brokers said they got calls from cattle farmers to participate in the fair, but because of the guidelines, the fair was called off. “Basically, farmers wanted to sell their animals as they needed money, but they do not have market,” said Gautam Tak, a cattle broker from Pushkar. Owners of hotels and restaurants are upset as the cattle fair was the peak business season for them. “For the first time in my life, my hotels have no bookings,” said Mahesh Kumawat. Many famous restaurants are now selling tea and bread. “Pushkar emerged as a hub for continental and European cuisine, but we have no workers and customers now,” said a restaurant owner. “We had some bookings in the last two months which were of mostly domestic tourists from Delhi, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat,” said a guest house owner. A few foreign tourists arrived in Pushkar till November 15, but hotel owners are now getting bookings only from domestic tourists, “During Diwali vacation, we had good bookings from Gujarat, Delhi and from Punjab and are still hoping to get good business in the coming days,” added another hotel owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/kartika-month-begins-but-no-mooing-of-cattle-in-pushkar-this-year/articleshow/79294494.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh govt to distribute 25 lakh house site pattas on Dec 25||VIJAYAWADA: The government has finally zeroed in on December 25 for distribution of long-pending house site pattas to the poor. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy told district collectors to prepare for the distribution of house site pattas to all eligible beneficiaries in the 13 districts. The government has planned to hand over the house site pattas to 25 lakh people. The chief minister interacted with district collectors and the SPs from his Tadepalli camp office on Wednesday as part of Spandana, the grievance redressal programme. He told the collectors that the government would take up construction of at least 10 lakh houses in the first phase. The beneficiaries will be given D-form pattas on the day of distribution, the chief minister said and asked collectors to map the house sites with beneficiaries. The house site distribution was originally planned for July 8, 2020, but was deferred twice due to court cases. Finally, the government decided to distribute pattas to beneficiaries excluding the areas which were identified for house sites and are in the court dispute. Referring to the YSR Jagananna Thodu, the self-employment programme, the collectors informed the chief minister that around 9.69 lakh beneficiaries have been identified. The scheme is to be launched on November 25. The chief minister instructed officials to ensure that all loan accounts of all sanctioned beneficiaries be immediately opened. The chief minister directed district collectors to expedite the completion of material component works like village secretariat buildings, Rythu Bharosa Kendras, YSR health clinics, YSR pre-primary buildings and bulk milk cooling units. The district collectors shall monitor the works effectively and ensure progress is achieved. The chief minister urged collectors to continue focusing on Covid-19 case management. He told them the government is targeting to have 100,000 Arogya Mitras by the end of this year. Each empanelled public and private hospital will have at least one Arogya Mitra to support beneficiary verification, authentication, query management, grievance redressal and handling emergency cases under the Arogyasri programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-to-distribute-25-lakh-house-site-pattas-on-dec-25/articleshow/79288314.cms||Gopi Dara
November 19, 2020||Bareilly||Two groups clash at funeral of man who ended his life, turn cremation ground into battlefield||Bareilly: Peace eluded a 25-year-old man — who allegedly ended his life after a tiff with his in-laws in Sihawali village of Sambhal district — even after his death as two groups clashed during his funeral on Tuesday afternoon leaving scores injured. The melee saw members of both groups attacking each other with wooden sticks stacked for the funeral pyre even as cops tried to control them. A video of the incident set social media abuzz with condemnation. Jaspal married Jyoti during the Covid-19 lockdown, but their relationship soon hit a rough patch, said police. Jaspal had gone to meet his in-laws along with wife on Bhai Dooj (Monday) when he had a tiff with his in-laws and his brother-in-law thrashed him, said police. Upon returning home, Jaspal locked himself in his room and hanged himself to death, said police. After the incident, Jaspal’s kin refused to allow his wife and in-laws to join his last rites. The situation aggravated further when the in-laws and their relatives were stopped from entering the cremation ground, said police. Soon, a police team was called in, and they tried to resolve the matter through mediation. Even as policemen were speaking to both parties, a few family members of Jaspal lit the funeral pyre enraging his in-law’s side who tried to quench the funeral pyre, said police. In the ensuing fight, scores of people from both sides sustained injuries Police said extra forces led by Hayatnagar SHO Vidyut Goyal reached the spot immediately and sent back home more than 200 people gathered at the cremation ground, while the funeral was performed as per the rituals. Circle officer Arun Kumar Singh said, “Police have not received a complaint from any party, so far, but taking suo motu cognisance of the matter sub-inspector Dharmendra Gautam registered an FIR under sections 147 (rioting) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are identifying the accused from video clips. They will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-groups-clash-at-funeral-of-man-who-ended-his-life-turn-cremation-ground-into-battlefield/articleshow/79288327.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Kartika month begins, but no mooing of cattle in Pushkar this year||AJMER: There will be no mooing of cattle in the holy town of Pushkar during the Kartika month this year as the international cattle fair has been cancelled. Though a large number of devotees, mostly from rural parts of Rajasthan, are continuously coming to the temple town to perform rituals and take a dip in the Pushkar Sarovar. Pushkar town wears a festive mood after Diwali every year, but this year the charm is missing due to the pandemic. Last year, around 15,000 foreign and six lakh domestic tourists participated in the fair. The tourism industry has taken a hit of around Rs 250 crore. Camel brokers said they got calls from cattle farmers to participate in the fair, but because of the guidelines, the fair was called off. “Basically, farmers wanted to sell their animals as they needed money, but they do not have market,” said Gautam Tak, a cattle broker from Pushkar. Owners of hotels and restaurants are upset as the cattle fair was the peak business season for them. “For the first time in my life, my hotels have no bookings,” said Mahesh Kumawat. Many famous restaurants are now selling tea and bread. “Pushkar emerged as a hub for continental and European cuisine, but we have no workers and customers now,” said a restaurant owner. “We had some bookings in the last two months which were of mostly domestic tourists from Delhi, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat,” said a guest house owner. A few foreign tourists arrived in Pushkar till November 15, but hotel owners are now getting bookings only from domestic tourists, “During Diwali vacation, we had good bookings from Gujarat, Delhi and from Punjab and are still hoping to get good business in the coming days,” added another hotel owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/kartika-month-begins-but-no-mooing-of-cattle-in-pushkar-this-year/articleshow/79294493.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ajmer||Kartika month begins, but no mooing of cattle in Pushkar this year||AJMER: There will be no mooing of cattle in the holy town of Pushkar during the Kartika month this year as the international cattle fair has been cancelled. Though a large number of devotees, mostly from rural parts of Rajasthan, are continuously coming to the temple town to perform rituals and take a dip in the Pushkar Sarovar. Pushkar town wears a festive mood after Diwali every year, but this year the charm is missing due to the pandemic. Last year, around 15,000 foreign and six lakh domestic tourists participated in the fair. The tourism industry has taken a hit of around Rs 250 crore. Camel brokers said they got calls from cattle farmers to participate in the fair, but because of the guidelines, the fair was called off. “Basically, farmers wanted to sell their animals as they needed money, but they do not have market,” said Gautam Tak, a cattle broker from Pushkar. Owners of hotels and restaurants are upset as the cattle fair was the peak business season for them. “For the first time in my life, my hotels have no bookings,” said Mahesh Kumawat. Many famous restaurants are now selling tea and bread. “Pushkar emerged as a hub for continental and European cuisine, but we have no workers and customers now,” said a restaurant owner. “We had some bookings in the last two months which were of mostly domestic tourists from Delhi, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat,” said a guest house owner. A few foreign tourists arrived in Pushkar till November 15, but hotel owners are now getting bookings only from domestic tourists, “During Diwali vacation, we had good bookings from Gujarat, Delhi and from Punjab and are still hoping to get good business in the coming days,” added another hotel owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/kartika-month-begins-but-no-mooing-of-cattle-in-pushkar-this-year/articleshow/79294495.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Kartika month begins, but no mooing of cattle in Pushkar this year||AJMER: There will be no mooing of cattle in the holy town of Pushkar during the Kartika month this year as the international cattle fair has been cancelled. Though a large number of devotees, mostly from rural parts of Rajasthan, are continuously coming to the temple town to perform rituals and take a dip in the Pushkar Sarovar. Pushkar town wears a festive mood after Diwali every year, but this year the charm is missing due to the pandemic. Last year, around 15,000 foreign and six lakh domestic tourists participated in the fair. The tourism industry has taken a hit of around Rs 250 crore. Camel brokers said they got calls from cattle farmers to participate in the fair, but because of the guidelines, the fair was called off. “Basically, farmers wanted to sell their animals as they needed money, but they do not have market,” said Gautam Tak, a cattle broker from Pushkar. Owners of hotels and restaurants are upset as the cattle fair was the peak business season for them. “For the first time in my life, my hotels have no bookings,” said Mahesh Kumawat. Many famous restaurants are now selling tea and bread. “Pushkar emerged as a hub for continental and European cuisine, but we have no workers and customers now,” said a restaurant owner. “We had some bookings in the last two months which were of mostly domestic tourists from Delhi, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat,” said a guest house owner. A few foreign tourists arrived in Pushkar till November 15, but hotel owners are now getting bookings only from domestic tourists, “During Diwali vacation, we had good bookings from Gujarat, Delhi and from Punjab and are still hoping to get good business in the coming days,” added another hotel owner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kartika-month-begins-but-no-mooing-of-cattle-in-pushkar-this-year/articleshow/79290572.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Agra||16-year-old dalit girl gang-raped in public toilet in UP's Etah||AGRA: A 16-year-old Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped in a public toilet in UP’s Etah by three people from her village, including a former village pradhan. While the incident happened on Monday, the FIR was registered only two days later, on Wednesday, as the minor’s family was allegedly turned away by the police station where they tried to register a complaint. According to the family, the FIR was registered against three people only after they managed to approach district magistrate Sukhlal Bharti during the Tehsil Diwas — a bimonthly affair when senior officers address grievances of the public in each tehsil — and he intervened in the matter. The girl’s mother in her statement said the teenager had gone to a public toilet to accompany her six-year-old brother when she was raped. The FIR named former village head Rajiv, 50, and his two acquaintances Akash, 18, and Anil Kumar, 22. They also allegedly threatened to kill the girl if she complained about the incident. The former pradhan is on the run but the other two accused were arrested on Wednesday, said additional superintendent of police Om Prakash Singh. When asked about the delay in lodging an FIR in the matter, Aliganj police station house officer, Pankaj Kumar Mishra claimed they had not received any complaint from the family. “We received the complaint on Wednesday and registered a case against the three men under 376 D (punishment for gangrape), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and the SC/ST Act”. Circle officer (Aliganj) Ajay Kumar said the girl was sent for a medical examination at the district hospital. “We will add sections of Pocso Act to the FIR once the girl’s age is determined since we don’t have any valid documents that mention her age as of now,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/16-yr-old-dalit-girl-gang-raped-in-public-toilet-in-etah-cops-turn-family-away/articleshow/79288345.cms||Deepak Lavania
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Groom, 81, bride, 72, renew vow taken in 1955, great-grandkids among baraatis||YAVATMAL: Loni, a nondescript village in Arni tehsil in Yavatmal district, witnessed a unique marriage on November 16 and 17. The bride was 72-year-old and the groom 81. The couple, which had got married 65 years ago, once again tied the knot and performed all wedding rituals right from haldi to saat fere. And what’s more, their sons — both above 50 years old now — donned the role of parents of the bride and groom and performed the rituals. Sitaram Hiwrale and Nirmala Ingole had first married on November 16, 1955, in Khandala village of Arni tehsil. Both were minor then. Sitaram was 15 while Nirmala was barely 6. As per the custom then, the marriage was an arranged one. @TOIPune Sitaram Hiwrale and Nirmala Ingole had first married on November 16, 1955, in Khandala village of Arni teh… https://t.co/xNstRnUcBk— TOI Cities (@TOICitiesNews) 1605762329000“The couple completed 65 years of married life this year, but they hardly have any memories of their wedding. So, we decided to solemnize their wedding again,” said elder son Pundlik, a farmer. Younger son Pandit is gram sevak in Loni. Their elder sister Tulja Jogdand, her daughter and grandchildren also participated in the marriage function. Tying the knot again and reaffirming the marriage vows on golden or diamond jubilee of wedding is not new in India, but this marriage has many specials attached to it. #Yavatmal : Groom, 81, bride, 72, renew vow taken in 1955, great-grandkids among baraatishttps://t.co/wRspAkcSC9 https://t.co/S6sE9JjopV— TOI Pune (@TOIPune) 1605761860000“The idea was floated by my daughter, who is a doctor. Our family readily agreed to arrange this unique event as we have very high regards for our parents. Both have worked really hard all their life for our education and success,” said Pandit. The family printed invitation cards and selected only 50 of their relatives due to Covid-19 restrictions. The marriage function was performed at their ancestral house in Loni. The elderly couple’s children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren enthusiastically attended the function. Both bride and the groom said they had to agree for the event as their grandchildren insisted. “I thank God as we are in good health at this age. We could participate in all rituals as per the family tradition. Our happiness lies in our family’s happiness,” said Sitaram, the groom.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/groom-81-bride-72-renew-vow-taken-in-1955-great-grandkids-among-baraatis/articleshow/79290632.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
November 19, 2020||Bareilly||Man kills self as sister refuses to meet on Bhai-Dooj||Bareilly: A man allegedly consumed poison after he was not allowed to enter the house by his married sister on Bhai-Dooj due to a property dispute. He died during the course of his treatment at a hospital in Bareilly. The incident was reported from Umedpur village under the jurisdiction of Bhuta police station where one Guddu Rathore (20) had gone to meet his sister Maya Devi on Bhai Dooj but she refused to meet him. Deeply hurt, Guddu consumed poison and later, informed his wife Chandrakali and sister Maya about it. Guddu was admitted to the district hospital on Monday where he died during his treatment the following day. Guddu was attached to his elder sister. Since Maya did not get any property share, communication between the siblings was strained. Bhuta SHO Vedpal Singh said, “It is a case of suicide and no complaint was lodged by the family members. We have handed over the body to the family after autopsy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-kills-self-as-sister-refuses-to-meet-on-bhai-dooj/articleshow/79288351.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 19, 2020||Bareilly||UP: Two groups clash at funeral of man who ended his life, turn cremation ground into battlefield||BAREILLY: Peace eluded a 25-year-old man — who allegedly ended his life after a tiff with his in-laws in Sihawali village of Sambhal district — even after his death as two groups clashed during his funeral on Tuesday afternoon leaving scores injured. The melee saw members of both groups attacking each other with wooden sticks stacked for the funeral pyre even as cops tried to control them. A video of the incident set social media abuzz with condemnation. Jaspal married Jyoti during the Covid-19 lockdown, but their relationship soon hit a rough patch, said police. Jaspal had gone to meet his in-laws along with wife on Bhai Dooj (Monday) when he had a tiff with his in-laws and his brother-in-law thrashed him, said police. Upon returning home, Jaspal locked himself in his room and hanged himself to death, said police. After the incident, Jaspal’s kin refused to allow his wife and in-laws to join his last rites. The situation aggravated further when the in-laws and their relatives were stopped from entering the cremation ground, said police. Soon, a police team was called in, and they tried to resolve the matter through mediation. Even as policemen were speaking to both parties, a few family members of Jaspal lit the funeral pyre enraging his in-law’s side who tried to quench the funeral pyre, said police. In the ensuing fight, scores of people from both sides sustained injuries Police said extra forces led by Hayatnagar SHO Vidyut Goyal reached the spot immediately and sent back home more than 200 people gathered at the cremation ground, while the funeral was performed as per the rituals. Circle officer Arun Kumar Singh said, “Police have not received a complaint from any party, so far, but taking suo motu cognisance of the matter sub-inspector Dharmendra Gautam registered an FIR under sections 147 (rioting) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). We are identifying the accused from video clips. They will be arrested soon.” Watch Two groups clash at man's funeral in UP's Sambhal district||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-groups-clash-at-funeral-of-man-who-ended-his-life-turn-cremation-ground-into-battlefield/articleshow/79288344.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 19, 2020||Kolhapur||NCP faces rebellion in Pune MLC election||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: Nationalist Congress Party is facing rebellion over its nomination for the Pune division graduates’ constituency, a seat that the party is keen to snatch from the BJP. Shrimant Kokate, who had sought nomination from NCP, has not withdrawn from the fray despite several leaders trying to convince him to do so. Kokate is considered to be close to several top party leaders. Sources close to Kokate said that he has been working in the constituency for the past two years and was not willing to withdraw at the last moment. Kokate has considerable following in western Maharashtra because of his aggressive stand on social issues. Bhaiyya Mane, who is the director of Kolhapur district central cooperative bank, withdrew from the fray. Mane is considered close to rural development minister Hasan Mushrif. BJP, which has made this election an a prestige issue, heaved a sigh of relief when N D Chowgule, a close associate of former minister Sadabhau Khot withdrew his nomination papers. Maharashtra BJP president Chandrakant Patil intervened and convinced Chowgule to withdraw his nomination. Khot has announced that his supporters would work for BJP candidate. After the completion of the scrutiny of nomination papers, 62 candidates remain in the fray. While the main fight is considered to be between Sangram Deshmukh of BJP and Arun Lad of NCP, other political parties have also fielded their candidates. Roopal Patil-Thombare of Maharashtra Navnirman Sena and Prof Sharad Patil of Janata Dal (Secular) are other prominent candidates. Lad is also supported by Shiv Sena and Congress. While Lad is contesting the election for the second time, it is the maiden contest for Deshmukh. Sharad Patil won the election in 2002. He, however, lost in 2008 to BJP’s Chandrakant Patil, who held the seat for two times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ncp-faces-rebellion-in-pune-mlc-election/articleshow/79288336.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Trichy||Rail users seek halt at Papanasam||Trichy: Rail users have appealed to the railway authorities to allow stoppage for Mysore-Mayiladuthurai-Mysore special express train at Papanasam though the station has annual revenue of Rs 1.25 crore. They have appealed to allow halt for the train at the station as the temple town is located at centre of various pilgrimage sites. Southern Railway had included Papanasam among the other stations in the list of stoppages when it announced the Mysuru-Mayiladuthurai-Mysuru superfast daily festival special train (Number 06231/06232) on October 20. But, when the train commenced its service on October 26, it skipped the station to the shock of rail users in Papanasam, T Saravanan, secretary, Rail Users Association and member of DRUCC of Trichy railway division, said. “This has made hundreds of passengers from Papanasam to travel 25km to reach Thanjavur to board the superfast. Being a pilgrimage centre in the district, a large number of devotees arrive at Papanasam,” he said. Hundreds of passengers from Papanasam and surrounding areas rely on the train to reach Hosur, Bengaluru, Mysuru as most of them are working in IT field, he alleged.  The station is handling around 2,700 passengers on a daily-basis earning around Rs 40,000 a day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rail-users-seek-halt-at-papanasam/articleshow/79291772.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Pune||Cars drive Dasara-Diwali registrations in Pune RTO||PUNE: The Pune regional transport office (RTO) recorded a 41% rise in car registrations this Dasara-Diwali as compared to the same period last year, indicating a huge pending demand and inclination towards four-wheelers in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. Two-wheeler registrations, Pune RTO officials said, also stayed decent with a marginal drop in numbers this festive season as against last year’s. Higher car registrations also meant better revenue for the Pune RTO, which earned Rs 4 crore more this Dasara-Diwali as against the same period last year. “More people buy new vehicles during Dasara than Dhanteras-Diwali period in Maharashtra. The trend this year, however, has been a little different, with the vehicle sale volume staying somewhat the same during Diwali and Dasara in the state. This can be attributed to the fact that a majority of people couldn’t buy vehicles during Akshay Tritiya or Gudi Padwa due to Covid-19 spread then. Even RTOs were shut down from March to mid-May,” a senior Pune RTO official told TOI. During Dasara-Diwali period last year, as many as 2,878 cars were registered with the Pune RTO. This figure jumped to 4,068 this year. In case of two-wheelers, around 11,500 vehicles were registered during the festive period las year, which came down to a little above 10,000 this year (see box). Businessman Ajinkya Bhate, a resident of Shivajinagar, bought a sedan during the Diwali week this year. “Since I couldn’t buy the car during Akshay Tritiya and Gudi Padwa earlier this year due to the Covid-induced lockdown, the initial plan was to completely drop the idea of buying a vehicle this year. It was later decided to make the purchase during Diwali as it is considered auspicious. I have bought the car in easy monthly instalments and hope that it will bring good luck to me and my family members,” he said. The RTO officials said registrations of public transport as well as commercial vehicles were still a major concern, considering a major portion of its revenue comes from these segments. “We get the maximum revenue from the registration of public transport and commercial vehicles, including autorickshaws and cabs. However, their registration continues to stay poor. Though the registration of goods carrying vehicles this year is less than that of last year, the gap isn’t major. We hope to attain the pre-Covid figures in terms of registrations of private vehicles by the end of this financial year, provided all goes well. As far as the public transport vehicles go, the state government needs to intervene,” another RTO official said. Experts said people were opting for more cars to ensure trouble-free commute for themselves and their family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cars-drive-dasara-diwali-registrations-in-pune-rto/articleshow/79290608.cms||Joy Sengupta
November 19, 2020||Chennai||‘BJP working to form govt in Tamil Nadu in next 10 years’||CHENNAI: A day before taking over as BJP national women’s wing president, Vanathi Srinivasanspeaks to Shanmughasundaram J about the national parties ambitions in Tamil Nadu. Expressing disappointment over allotment of five seats for the BJP in the 2019 LS polls, she said her party would bargain hard during seat-sharing negotiations with ally AIADMK and get its due share this assembly election. Q: Is the Vetrivel Yatra a boon or bane for the BJP in TN? For the past 30 years, under the guise of rationalism and Dravidianism there is a culture in TN to hurt Hindu sentiments. Many of our party functionaries were murdered by fundamentalists. Consecutive state governments were not sensitive enough to deal with those forces. We want to expose the hypocrisy and take this message to the people of TN through the yatra. We are ready to follow the Covid-19 protocols. But the TN government and police are not cooperating. They are looking at us as a threat. We are here to complement them and not to compete with them. So, the yatra is definitely not a bane. Q: Will the row over the yatra affect the alliance? The leadership in Delhi takes calls regarding alliance. As of now, we have a strong and formidable alliance here. We are here as a state unit to raise issues affecting people. Though our ideologies are different, we (alliance) have come together for a common purpose to serve people. So, I don't think the alliance will be affected. Q: What do you think about your party colleagues openly criticising AIADMK’s CM candidate EPS? When the CM’s convoy passes, ministers and a large number of party workers gather along the route. We are asking why no action is being taken against the AIADMK, when police is arresting our party leaders and cadres citing crowding. Our colleagues are referring to the CM to highlight that police are not treating all equally. Q: BJP leaders have taunted the AIADMK saying it had a secret pact with the DMK to stall the BJP’s growth in TN. How do you substantiate it? Except for their leadership, there is hardly any difference between the DMK and the AIADMK. They have the same set of ideologies - regionalism, language pride and rationalism. We are a national party with a different ideology. For any regional party a new player entering and gaining political importance is a cause of irritation. I don’t want to say they worked together, but they do have a common agenda. Q: What did you think of the ‘Namadhu Amma’ article? The provocation seems to be your threat to the government regarding the Vel yatra. Unnecessarily denying permission or creating trouble for Vel Yatra would create a wrong impression about the government among people. Somehow it was reported as if I was threatening the government. Q: The AIADMK was tough in seat allocation for the LS polls. How many seats is the BJP expecting for the assembly election? The state unit will decide on seats. They have already started work for the 2021 polls and prepared a list of favourable constituencies. We were disappointed in the number of seats allotted to us in the 2019 polls. This time we will negotiate hard and get our due share. Q: Will the recent spat affect seat sharing? I don’t think so. Political parties working on their respective agenda is separate from their electoral alliances. Q: Has the BJP changed its narrative from being an alternative to Dravidian parties? How does the AIADMK come into these grand plans? Every political party has an agenda to form their own government. It is the ultimate goal. We are working hard for it and the next 10 years are critical for us to achieve our goal and emerge as a single largest party in the state. In between, we need political victories. For that, we are forming an alliance. Now, we are in the transition period. From a cadre-based party we are evolving into a mass leader-based party in Tamil Nadu, as many celebrities and prominent persons from various walks of life are joining the party. Q: Do you think Rajinikanth will enter politics? If he does, what is the BJP’s strategy? Like other people, we are also waiting for Rajinikath’s entry. Let him start the party, then we will talk about it. Q: Has the BJP reached out to M K Alagiri, or vice versa? How would he help your party? Are there any more surprises in store? I am not aware of M K Alagiri joining the BJP. But we have a lot of people who we will bring on onboard. In the coming days, we will have a lot of surprises. Many prominent politicians from regional parties are approaching us. We also inducted persons with criminal cases. There is nothing wrong in it as they were punished for their crimes. But we never compromise on party discipline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/bjp-working-to-form-govt-in-tn-in-next-10-years/articleshow/79293007.cms||Shanmughasundaram J
November 19, 2020||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Farmer spends Rs 1.5 lakh cyclone relief to build volleyball court for girls||THANJAVUR: A woman farmer and former teacher from Peravurani in Thanjavur has spent the Rs 1.5 lakh government compensation she received as cyclone relief to construct a volleyball court for the government girls higher secondary school in her native place. Bakiyalakshmi Thiruneelakandan, 36, said it was her dream to help many girls aspiring to become state and national players who were hamstrung by the non-availability of a volleyball court. A native of Nadakadu, she had taught at a private higher secondary school for seven years but was forced to resign to take care of agriculture after the sudden demise of her husband Thiruneelakandan in 2016. The 1.5 lakh she got was for the coconut trees on one-and-a-half acres which perished when cyclone Gaja struck the delta on November 16, 2018. “I found that though several girls aspire to play for our state and country, their parents are unwilling to send their wards for practice because the coaches take them to various places looking for a good volleyball court. Five students who studied at the school got admission in various sports hostels in the state. But, their parents prevented them from joining hostels”, she said. “Students Nisha, Samyuktha had played for state and were even selected for other levels. But they could not pursue it as a profession. So I decided to construct a proper volleyball court at the school using the compensation,” she said. “With the permission of the school administration, I have completed 80% of the work spending ₹1.2 lakh. The remaining work, halted due to the lockdown, will be done when school reopens,” she added. Despite the havoc wreaked by Gaja, she has been earning decently by cultivating intercropping in the coconut grove.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmer-spends-rs-1-5l-cyclone-relief-to-build-volleyball-court-for-girls/articleshow/79291764.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
November 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||French funds to aid Smart Campus project||Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) will give a facelift to 45 municipal schools in Visakhapatnam at a cost of Rs 65 crore. The GVMC has got Rs 52 crore (80% of the project funding) for its Smart Campus project from the French Development Agency under the CITIIS (City Investments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain) challenge. As per the conditions of the CITIIS challenge, the FDA will fund a maximum of Rs 80 crore for each selected project or 80% of the project cost. The GVMC submitted proposals to the tune of Rs 65 crore for its schools modernisation project, which made the final cut out of its three shortlisted projects. While the GVMC has got Rs 52 crore for the project from the FDA, the remaining Rs 13 crore will be spent out of its own exchequer. Consequently, the GVMC appointed AECOM as the project management consultant, which would help the civic body in studying conditions of municipal schools and prepare a detailed project report (DPR) for development of these schools. The project is aimed at modernising the public schools as smart campuses by retrofitting GVMC schools to create 21st century education infrastructure for every strata of society. Apart from the 45 schools chosen for this project, 50 more schools are being developed under the state government’s Nadu-Nedu programme. The GVMC has 147 municipal schools under its limits with an enrollment of about 20,000 students. GVMC commissioner G Srijana said designs would be finalised by the end of January 2021 by concluding the stakeholder meetings. “The plans are being prepared in a technically innovative manner and put before the school development committees, parents and school managements for their inputs and feedback. Such meetings were already convened at a few schools. The remaining schools would also be covered soon,” said Srijana. The project aims at comprehensive upgradation of educational infrastructure such as smart classrooms, smart labs, improvements in school physical infrastructure (water, drainage, playgrounds, play courts, toilets), universal accessibility and facade improvement into a single project called ‘Smart Campus’. It is expected to provide a clean and green education campus and provide outdoor activity areas for students to increase opportunities for physical activity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/french-funds-to-aid-smart-campus-project/articleshow/79288353.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
November 19, 2020||Pune||Daily tally & toll shoot up in PMR, recoveries slow down||Pune: The Covid-19 daily cases and fatalities shot up in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Wednesday, with the tally (722) rising to its highest since November 5, while the toll (23) jumping to its maximum since November 8. Besides, 524 patients recovered in the region on Wednesday. The PMC limits added 384 cases in the last 24 hours, which were more than double of 168 recoveries from the municipal areas. The PCMC areas recorded 158 new cases against 95 discharges on Wednesday. In the rural areas, 261 patients recovered as against 180 cases in the last 24 hours. With this, the total positive caseload reached 3.32 lakh in PMR, while recoveries increased above 3.15 lakh. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that six people succumbed to Covid-19 in the PMC limits on Wednesday, while 13 died in the rural and cantonment areas and four from the PCMC limits. The total death count in the region has increased to 8,219, with more than 50% deaths from the PMC limits. Meanwhile, the number of active patients in the region reached 9,470 by Wednesday night. As many as 3,856 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 5,564 were in home isolation. The PMC and PCMC limits had more cases in home isolation, while the rural and cantonment areas had more patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals. A total of 6,144 tests were conducted in the region on Wednesday, pushing the total tests above 15.17 lakh. More than 7.73 lakh tests have been conducted in the PMC limits so far, followed by 4.32 lakh in the PCMC limits and 3.10 lakh in the rural and cantonment areas in PMR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-tally-toll-shoot-up-in-pmr-recoveries-slow-down/articleshow/79290630.cms||Sarang Dastane
November 19, 2020||Kolhapur||KMC chief fines officers without masks, late-comers||Kolhapur: Soon after taking charge as the administrator of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), civic chief Kadambari Balkawade has started keeping the house in order. On Wednesday, Balkawade paid a surprise visit to several departments and found that 22 staffers arrived late to work while 32 officials came without wearing face masks. Balkawade slapped the erring officials with fine of Rs 100 each and issued notices to them warning of taking disciplinary action if found guilty for the second time. A senior officer requesting anonymity said, “She (Balkawade) paid a visit to the offices at around 10.30 am. By this time, the work in these offices should begin. However, it was found that many officers were arriving late, thus delaying the work. Also, some of those who arrived late did not wear face masks. She has asked not to allow private vehicles in the KMC main building. Also, those arriving with their grievances must be screened for temperature and oxygen levels.” The five-year tenure of the current civic body ended on Monday. The civic body comprising corporators, mayor and deputy mayor posts, now cease to exist till fresh elections are held. Balkawade assumed charge as KMC administrator on Sunday; however, Wednesday was the first working day after she assumed charge due to Diwali holidays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kmc-chief-fines-officers-without-masks-late-comers/articleshow/79288361.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana HC: Is TRS MLA Ramesh a German citizen?||HYDERABAD: Wondering why it is taking so much time for the central government to ascertain whether a legislator is holding a valid German passport, Justice Challa Kodanda Ram of the high court on Wednesday directed the home ministry and the Indian embassy in Germany to inform the court whether Vemulavada MLA Chennamaneni Ramesh is still holding a passport of the European country or not. The judge was dealing with a plea pertaining to the citizenship issue raised by Adi Srinivas, a Congress leader from Vemulawada, charging the legislator with misleading the authorities with incorrect information about his citizenship. Ramesh had settled in Germany and worked there too prior to his political entry in the state. He was elected as MLA thrice, but could not get out of the citizenship tussle. According to Ravi Kiran Rao, the counsel for Srinivas, Ramesh claimed he surrendered his German passport when he decided to enter politics in the state. “The reality is he did not relinquish his German citizenship till today. He travelled to Germany in December 2019 and even now he is in Germany,” the counsel alleged. The central government had conducted an inquiry and concluded he suppressed certain vital information to re-acquire Indian citizenship. He had to necessarily stay in India for a specific period before applying for Indian citizenship. Though he did not stay in India during the period, he evaded answers in the relevant column that sought replies to specific queries. The status of citizenship tussle now is that Ramesh claims he relinquished German citizenship and lost Indian citizenship. But Srinivas claims he was misleading the country and the courts with false declarations while retaining his German citizenship even now. The judge directed central government to inform the court by December 16 about the current status of German citizenship of the MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-hc-is-trs-mla-ramesh-a-german-citizen/articleshow/79291831.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: Kolhapur registers 19 cases, Sangli adds 50||KOLHAPUR: Kolhapur district reported 19 Covid-19 cases, including five from the city, along with two deaths on Wednesday. The district has so far reported 48,792 cases out of which 1,670 have succumbed to the contagion. The total number of cases in the city has reached 14,820. A total of 14 patients were discharged from various facilities in the district on Wednesday, taking the total number of treated people to 46,525. At present, the district has 597 active cases. Sangli reports 50 cases, 1 death Sangli district registered 50 coronavirus cases along with one death on Wednesday. With this, The total number of cases in the district has reached 46,214, of which, 1,683 have succumbed to infection. A total of 44,186 have been discharged after successful recovery, said health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-registers-19-cases-sangli-adds-50/articleshow/79288381.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Meerut||Woman cop heading anti-Romeo squad alleges harassment by SHO in UP’s Kairana, probe ordered||Meerut: A woman police constable heading the anti-Romeo squad in UP’s Kairana town has alleged that her senior, a station house officer (SHO) she was reporting to, has been harassing and publicly insulting her for the last several months.The constable, in a recorded video message, said, “The SHO unnecessarily creates pressure on me. When I protest, he humiliates me publicly. Whenever I go to my barrack for medicine or anything else, he uses derogatory terms against me. This is despite the fact that I work from seven in the morning till late night.”The woman said that she has met the DIG of Saharanpur range, who she claimed has assured an “impartial inquiry” into the matter.On his part, the SHO has denied the allegation.“The woman constable disappeared a day before Diwali and her phone was also switched off for the next three days. She didn’t inform or take any prior approval for the leave despite being the head of the anti-Romeo squad. This was dereliction of duty for which a report was filed. And this is not the first time she has done such a thing. Her charges against me are in retaliation for the action I had taken,” the officer said.Meanwhile, the woman constable got support from various quarters.Kairana Bar Association has demanded action against the SHO. A delegation from the association on Wednesday met the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and gave him a memorandum addressed to chief minister Yogi Adityanath.Khadag Singh Chauhan, a lawyer who led the delegation, said, “The SHO has misused his position. This is so ironic that the victim woman constable is also entrusted with the task of protecting town’s women from harassment. We have demanded immediate action against the SHO.” This comes just three weeks after a woman constable posted in anti-Romeo squad in Bulandshahr leveled sexual harassment charges against SHO of the police station she was posted. A probe into the allegation has been ordered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/woman-cop-heading-anti-romeo-squad-alleges-harassment-by-sho-in-ups-kairana-probe-ordered/articleshow/79288388.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Vegetable vendor shot dead near Besa||NAGPUR: Two unidentified gunmen shot dead a vegetable vendor near busy Besa Power House Square on Wednesday. Police have identified the deceased as Umesh Dhobde, a resident of Somalwada. Dhobde used to operate a vegetable shop in Somalwada area. The attack is suspected to be a fallout of an altercation between him and two persons last month, said police. According to police, Dhobde had gone to a gas godown in Tajbagh on a two-wheeler along with two friends at around 4.30pm. He had an altercation with two persons there. While he was returning, two motorcycle-borne men intercepted him near Power House Square and the duo fired at him from point blank range. Leaving a profusely bleeding Dhobde behind, the assailants fled from the spot. Following an alert from locals, Sakkardara police reached the spot and rushed the injured Dhobde to Government Medical College and Hospital. He, however, breathed his last while undergoing treatment. Police tried to scan CCTV footage in the area for clues, but found that cameras installed by Nagpur Municipal Corporation as well as at a shop were out of order. Preliminary probe revealed that a month ago, Dhobde had an altercation with two persons, identified as Deepak and Rakesh. A case was registered with Besa police then. Police suspect that the duo might have committed the crime. Sakkardara police have registered a case under Section 302 of IPC and have launched a manhunt to nab the assailants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vegetable-vendor-shot-dead-near-besa/articleshow/79289426.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Lower testing causes uptick in positivity rate, experts say next two weeks crucial||PUNE: The fall in daily testing has caused the district’s weekly test positivity rate to rise slightly. Health department data on Wednesday showed that the weekly positivity rate, which had slid to 10% last week, had risen to 11% during the November 11-17 week.  On November 16, the day the district saw the lowest number of daily tests, the positivity rate had surged to 20% in Pune, its highest daily rate since October 16. Dr Subhash Salunke, advisor to the state on Covid control, said, “Positivity rate going up is not a good sign. It shows transmission continues while testing is low. Increased testing will help identify the portion of the population that’s still vulnerable. It will also ensure early diagnosis and timely treatment.” Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state Covid task force, said testing over the next two weeks will be vital, considering temperatures have been dropping in many parts of Maharashtra. “If we see a spike in cases in these two weeks, we know we are seeing what we experienced after the Ganesh festival. We need to ensure our guard is up,” he said. Joshi also warned people against skipping tests. “It’s an alarming trend that has come to our notice — people are starting to treat themselves without getting tested. This is dangerous. If it continues, we’ll never have a clear picture if numbers rise.” He added that Covid testing should also not be limited to those approaching laboratories or those with clear symptoms. “We cannot stop the contact tracing process. Clearly, the formula of testing, tracing and tracking cannot be ignored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/lower-testing-causes-uptick-in-positivity-rate-experts-say-next-two-weeks-crucial/articleshow/79290636.cms||Neha Madaan
November 19, 2020||Bareilly||Woman electrocuted after coming in contact with immersion rod, son dies in bid to save her||Bareilly: A 61-year-old woman and her 32-year-old son, residents of Wazidkhel locality, were electrocuted after coming in contact with an immersion rod water heater in kotwali area of Shahjahanpur city on Wednesday morning. The woman, Rehana, electrocuted as soon as she immersed the rod in a water-filled iron ( a good conductor of electricity) bucket, while her son Nizakat who rushed to save his mother on hearing her screams got electrocuted, too, said police. The mother-son duo was rushed to a hospital, where doctors pronounced them dead upon arrival. Police sent the bodies for autopsy. Nizakat was a businessman who used to sell batteries for inverters. Kotwali SHO Pravesh Singh said, “It was an accident, and thus, the family refused to lodge a complaint. We have completed the formalities and handed over the bodies to the family.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/woman-electrocuted-after-coming-in-contact-with-immersion-rod-son-dies-in-bid-to-save-her/articleshow/79288383.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||‘Not appropriate to seek more time in habeas corpus pleas’||Vijayawada: The high court on Wednesday expressed displeasure over repeated requests for time by the state government in habeas corpus petitions. The high court bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice J Uma Devi observed that it was not appropriate for asking for time even after the case was taken up for daily hearing. The senior counsel representing the police department, S S Prasad, on Wednesday sought for adjournment for a day. The bench observed that the case was posted to Wednesday up on his request on Tuesday. Now, again time is being sought because of which the case is not moving forward, the bench observed. The bench appealed to advocates to cooperate with the court for disposal of justice. Justice Rakesh Kumar said they cannot allow any requests for time henceforth. The bench said they will have to assume the police department is not willing to present their arguments if they seek time again. Justice Rakesh Kumar said that if the HC cannot take the case to its logical conclusion after hearing thus far, he will have to regret it for the rest of his life, after retirement. He appealed for support to the court for speedy disposal of cases. He directed the petitioner’s counsel P Raviteja to present arguments on the aspect of constitutional breakdown. The bench also told advocate general and other lawyers representing various petitioners to present their arguments in this regard. The high court bench said on Wednesday that it will have to assume the police department is not willing to present their arguments if they seek time again||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/not-appropriate-to-seek-more-time-in-habeas-corpus-pleas/articleshow/79288376.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Now, scientists look to maintain sea pH levels along Vizag coast||Visakhapatnam: With pH levels in sea water along the coast of Visakhapatnam reaching international standards after decades, scientists and environmentalists are now drawing up a blueprint to maintain the pH levels keeping in mind industrial developments and other activities in the beach city. Scientists attribute the reduction in acidity levels of the sea water was mainly due to the lockdown. Now as the situation inches back to normal, there are apprehensions that water in the Bay of Bengal along the coast of the state’s commercial capital may turn acidic again. “We cannot do away with industrial developments and economic activities. We have to find out the ways to save the nature and are drawing up a blueprint to make it happen. An important aspect of the blueprint would be to deploy scrubbers into the sea in a planned way. There are various types of scrubbers that mechanically and chemically arrest pollutants released from industries,” secretary general of Asian Marine Conservative Association (AMCA), Anupam Ghosh, told TOI. Since November 7, a team of four scientists led by Ghosh have been carrying out research at various beaches along the coastline to check acidification levels in the water. Their research has revealed that current pH level of sea water along the coastline of Visakhapatnam is around 7.6 to 8.3. The international standard varies between 7.5 and 8.5, depending on local conditions. For decades, pH level along the shore of Visakhapatnam used to be below 7. “Visakhapatnam is set to get the country’s first Coastal Management Resource Centre (CRMC) by early next year. The main responsibility of the centre would be to implement the blueprint. Our volunteers at the centre will be trained on how to implement measures that would save water in the wake of industrial and economic development,” the AMCA secretary general said. The CRMC will be working in close co-ordination with Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), the state pollution control board (APPCCB), fisheries’ unions and other stakeholders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/now-scientists-look-to-maintain-sea-ph-levels-along-vizag-coast/articleshow/79288450.cms||Arpit Basu
November 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||WCW dept takes up adoption awareness drive||Visakhapatnam: The department of women and child welfare (WCD) will be observing November as International Adoption Month and conducting awareness campaigns about legal methods of adoption. The pandemic has hampered the adoption process this year due to lockdown, travel restrictions and closure of courts with just four adoptions taking place so far this year in contrast to 19 adoptions last year. Since the inception of government sishu griha in 2005 in Visakhapatnam district, 124 children have been adopted between 2006 and 2020, of which five are inter-country adoptions. Officials say that usually around 70% of children up for adoption are abandoned ones while some are surrendered or relinquished by biological parents. Girl children are preferred for adoption compared to boys. Speaking to TOI, district child protection officer (DCPO) A Satyanarayana said, “Most children taken for adoption are from Sishu Griha (below six years of age), while some are from Child Care Institutions (above six and below 18 years of age). Three types of children are given for adoption — orphans, abandoned and surrendered by poor parents.” The DCPO also informed that currently there are 60 children — four in sishu grihas and 56 in CCIs —who are awaiting adoption, of which 21 are male and 39 are female. Of the 60, 23 are children with special needs. “Court order has been received for inter-country adoption of four children. Some more procedures related to their birth certificates have to be completed before they can be sent for adoption to their parents from USA, Italy and Spain. Prospective parents from any Indian state can adopt the children but consent of older children (above six years) is a must about their choice of parents and state,” Satyanarayana said. As per official statistics, around two-thirds of children adopted are girl children. Out of the five international adoption, four are female children while among the intra-country adoption from the district, 69 were female children and 49 were male.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/wcw-dept-takes-up-adoption-awareness-drive/articleshow/79288494.cms||Sulogna Mehta
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||CM to launch Jagananna Thodu on November 25||Vijayawada: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch ‘Jagananna Thodu’ scheme on November 25. The scheme will provide ID cards and interest-free loan of Rs 1,000 to street vendors. The government has received 6.29 lakh applications for the scheme, which have already been linked to the applicants’ bank accounts. Speaking to district collectors from his Tadepalli camp office, Jagan asked them to prepare the payment schedule by Nov 24. He also told them to accept applications from eligible vendors who could be added to beneficiary list at a later date. On NREGS works, he said Rs 150 crore worth of works are being executed in the state per week. He also asked for completion of construction work of village and ward secretariat buildings, Rythu Bharosa Kendras, YSR health clinics, anganwadi centres and compound walls for all government schools by March 31, 2021. The CM said 5,812 procurement centres have been set up at the RBK level and 4,29,481 farmers have already registered for various crops . “E- procurement is compulsory. The crop should be procured within 15 days of registration at RBKs and payments should be done within 15 days of procurement of the crop,” he directed. — Gopi Dara||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-launch-jagananna-thodu-on-november-25/articleshow/79288575.cms||Gopi Dara
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Prez Kovind to visit Tirumala on Nov 24||Tirupati: TTD executive officer K S Jawahar Reddy reviewed the arrangements in place for the visit of President Ram Nath Kovind to the temple city on November 24. The President is scheduled to arrive at Renigunta airport at around 10.45 am on Nov 24. After worshipping at Tiruchanoor temple, he will travel to Tirumala by road at around 11.40 am. The President would be accompanied by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy and governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan. After offering prayers to Lord Venkateswara at around 12.40 pm, the President will rest for some time at Sri Padmavathi guest house before leaving for the airport, from where he is scheduled to go to Ahmedabad at around 4.10 pm. Jawahar Reddy directed all departments concerned to strictly adhere to all protocol and Covid-19 guidelines without any deviation during the President’s visit.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/prez-kovind-to-visit-tirumala-on-nov-24/articleshow/79288478.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Nagpur: Down with fever for 10 days, Covid positive youth doesn’t go to hospital, dies||NAGPUR: Staying back at home for more than 10 days after testing positive and having a fever proved fatal for a 36-year-old man from Saoner. The man passed away at GMCH a couple of days back. The incident comes against the backdrop of physicians and general practitioners in the city noticing people are hiding influenza-like illness (ILI) symptoms, and preferring self medication. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said the Saoner resident had been ill for 10 days before getting admitted. “This has come as a major worry for us, as it indicates people are taking Covid lightly and depending on teleconsultation in improper way,” he said. The deceased reported to GMCH with severe pneumonia. Dr Gawande said like him there are many who are risking their lives by taking over-the-counter drugs. In the wake of a possible second wave post-Diwali, state public health department has laid emphasis on identifying ‘super spreaders’ and testing them on priority. “Leave aside getting themselves tested, patients with ILI symptoms such as fever, cough, and cold are hiding their symptoms and taking over-the-counter medicines, bypassing Covid testing,” said OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar. Dr Marar added, “The resurgence of Covid seen in the last couple of days in Ahmedabad is the result of carelessness shown by public during relaxation in lockdown. People should have been proactive in getting their testing done as there are free testing centres across towns.” Dr Ashish Badkal, intensivist at IGPA Hospital and Research Centre’s Covidalaya, observed that patient phone calls have gone up in last two days. “It was expected to increase after Diwali. Calls have gone up for complaints of fever and pneumonia, which ultimately turns out to be Covid. I am advising CT and admission if score is moderate,” Dr Badkal said. Physician Dr Pinak Dande said the fear that doctors will ask for a Covid test, hospitalization and then 14–day isolation are hounding people. “Patients are taking telephonic consultation. Young population is suffering but not turning up at hospital. Only those with morbid conditions are coming for consultation,” Dr Dande said. Dr Sushrut Babhulkar, director of Sushrut Hospital, said the trend of hiding ILI symptoms is limited to rural areas only. “I think people are taking due care in urban areas. Basically, hiding Covid status must be happening in rural areas because of stigma,” he said. Apprehending the situation will worsen because of this trend, Dr Marar said during this Covid break, the authorities should have concentrated on infrastructure development in the form of beds and planning manpower resources. “They had enough time to do so. Unfortunately, we are not observing any positive step in this direction,” he said. Dr Sadashiv Bhole, one of the directors of Seven Star Hospital, said the initial enthusiasm of teleconsultation has waned. “People are freely moving so there should not be any hesitation in visiting a doctor. It is necessary for people to freely go to the hospital rather than stay at home hoping the infection will subside on its own. If ILI patients seek timely advise, many deaths can be prevented, and hospital stay can be reduced,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/down-with-fever-for-10-days-covid-ve-youth-doesnt-go-to-hospital-dies/articleshow/79290663.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Zoos, eco-tourism parks set to reopen||Amaravati: The forest department has decided to reopen zoological and ecotourism parks across the state. Minister for forests and environment, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, directed officials to take all safety measures while allowing visitors to eco-parks. All zoological parks and eco-tourism parks within the reserve forests were closed down around eight months ago due to Covid-19. Taking the recent unlock guidelines issued by the Centre into consideration, principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) Prateep Kumar recently submitted a report to the state government seeking clearance to reopen the zoological parks and tourism parks. Based on the recommendations of the PCCF, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy granted the green signal to resume tourist activity in the zoological parks. However, the minister directed the officials to be alert in protecting the animals and tourists from Covid-19. “We will take all safety measures including providing sanitisers and maintaining the social distance while allowing the tourists,” said Prateep Kumar. Kumar said that Sri Venkateswara Zoological Park (Tirupati), Indira Zoological Park (Visakhapatnam), eco-tourism park (Kambalakonda-Vizag) and all urban forest parks (Nagara Vanam) would be reopened with immediate effect. He said that instructions have been issued to conservators and divisional forest officers to strictly follow the guidelines of the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) while reopening the zoos in the state. The PCCF asked officials to keep all surroundings in the parks clean and maintain utmost hygienic conditions to prevent the spread of virus. He said that all community-based eco-tourism parks would also be reopened for the tourists. The PCCF directed officials to be more alert while allowing visitors into Nagara Vanams where more rush is expected than in the zoological parks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/zoos-eco-tourism-parks-set-to-reopen/articleshow/79288468.cms||Samdani MN
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||CBI to submit final report in Dr Sudhakar case in 2 wks||Vijayawada: The CBI on Wednesday told the AP high court that it will submit a final report in Dr Sudhakar case within two weeks. The CBI has already submitted two status reports to the high court. The second report was submitted in a sealed cover as it contained sensitive details. The high court took suo moto cognisance of the letter written by TDP functionary V Anita on the manner in which Dr Sudhakar, a government doctor, was arrested. Senior counsel P Veera Reddy acted as amicus curiae, and argued that the sequence of events that led to the arrest of Dr Sudhakar left many unanswered questions which needed a through investigation. Taking his arguments into consideration, the HC ordered a CBI probe and transferred the case, which was registered by the police against Dr Sudhakar, to the CBI. Following the HC’s direction, the CBI registered two separate cases and started investigating the matter, including the conspiracy angle. The HC allowed the CBI’s to file a final report and posted the next hearing to November 26. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cbi-to-submit-final-report-in-dr-sudhakar-case-in-2-wks/articleshow/79288390.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mysuru||Mysuru residents protest tree felling||Opposing the construction of buildings by cutting trees in parks, residential streets and major roads, activists of Parisara Samrakshana Vedike held a protest outside Mysuru City Corporation Office (MCC) on Sayyaji Rao Road in the city on Wednesday. They strongly condemned the civic authority for giving permission to construct buildings in parks flouting Supreme Court directions. They urged the government to suspend the officials who had given permission for such activities. They also criticised the officials for large-scale felling of trees under the guise of removal of dead trees and selling at less price colluding with timber merchants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/mysuru-residents-protest-tree-felling/articleshow/79290117.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Man who brought Andhra folk music, left ideals to Tamil films||By R RangarajWhen former chief minister J Jayalalithaa was once asked about her film days and who her favourite music director was, pat came the reply — T Chalapathi Rao.Jayalalithaa, a connoisseur of music, had a first-hand experience of watching Rao at work, when she played the lead role in Kannada movies ‘Mane Aliya’ (1964), ‘Mavana Magalu’ (1965) and ‘Badukuva Daari’ (1966) and the Tamil film "Maadi Veettu Maappillai’ (1967). Few may remember that this year marks the music director’s birth centenary, but his evergreen songs are popular to this day.Rao’s forte was in blending innate classicism with catchy melodic and rhythmic patterns that people could grasp and remember even if they heard the song once. Such was his mastery.Music came naturally to him from a young age. When his sister Damayanthi was learning music at home in Vuyyuru, Andhra Pradesh, Rao unconsciously imbibed it too. The years that he spent in rural Andhra Pradesh, in mixing folk with traditional music arrangements, provided a strong foundation for him. It was not just music but also the political consciousness of the region (Communist)strongly influenced him. His elder sister used to draw the hammer and sickle symbol as kolam in front of her house. Rao was drawn to the left movement early on, which impacted his outlook and his music career. Farmers in his village headed the communists’struggle. Andhra Prajanatya Mandali (People’s Theatre), a cultural wing of the Andhra Communist Party, was formed in 1943 on the lines of the Indian People’s Theatre Association (IPTA), a radical organisation. Rao became an integral part of the IPTA, waging struggles against British imperialism and the zamindari system in India using folk forms. In 1948, when the government banned the communist party and its front organizations, many writers and artists went underground and several(like Chalapathi Rao) sought refuge in the Chennai film industry. Veteran music director M B Sreenivasan had said that Rao came to Chennai against this backdrop. A leftist himself,Sreenivasan and Chalapathi, among others, founded the Cine Musicians Union in Chennai to safeguard the interests of those employed in the music industry. Rao became its general secretary and evenpaid from his pocket to help a large number of needy musicians. "When a person comes to me for help, I must help him", was his motto. His first Tamil film, ‘Amara Deepam’ (1956), was a challenge of sorts.The film starring Sivaji Ganesan, Padmini, Savitri had three composers working on it. One was Carnatic icon G N Balasubramaniam, who composed the song "Enge Maraindhanaiyo", the other was leading music director G Ramanathan, who composed a narikuravar (gypsy) song "Naadodi Koottam Naanga Thillelo", alongside whom Rao created a folkstyled composition "Naanayam Manushanukku Avasiyam". Four other songs of Rao were hits too — Thenunnum Vandu, PachhaiKilipadudhu, Jalilo Jimkana, creating a new trend of ‘gibberish’ songs with Thanjai Ramiah Das, a Lambaadi — gypsy song. Noted director C V Sridhar, who had written the story and dialogue for ‘Amara Deepam’, was struck by the virtuosity of Rao and decided to work with him for his films. It was Sridhar who signed Rao for ‘Meenda Sorgam’ which turned out to be a musical hit. His music continued on the path of lofty arrangements with lyricist Kannadasan, P Susheela and AM Rajah in ‘Meenda Sorgam’ (1960) for the songs "Mana Naattiya Medaiyil, Thuyilaadha Pen Onru Kanden" and "Kalaiye En Vaazhkkaiyin Dhisai Maatrinay ". ‘Punar Jenmam’ again had two outstanding numbers — "Engum Sondham Illai" and "Ullangal onraagi thullum poadhile". A little-known fact came from S Janaki who said she recorded her first Tamil songs for Vidhiyin Vilaiyaattu in April 1957, for Chalapathi, but the film never got released. Once actor N T Rama Rao wanted to work with the music director and asked him to visit his house with the tunes. Chalapathi Rao politely refused and sent word that the actor was welcome to drop in at his studio. An angry NTR retracted the offer. As the famous song in ‘Amara Deepam’ goes "Naanayam Manushanakku Avasiyam" — Integrity was the music director’s watchword, it was something he never compromised upon. (The writer is president of Chennai 2000 Plus Trust)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-who-brought-andhra-folk-music-left-ideals-to-tamil-films/articleshow/79293011.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||SEC meets governor, says govt stalling poll process||Amaravati: State election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar met governor Biswa Bhushan Harichandan on Wednesday and complained that he was not getting cooperation from the government for conduct of local body elections. He also briefed the governor about the measures initiated by the commission for the elections. The meeting lasted for around 45 minutes. Ramesh Kumar told the governor that conduct of elections to local bodies was a constitutional obligation and the state government is deliberately stalling the process. Stating that some top people in the government were behind the government’s non-cooperative attitude, he urged the governor to prevail upon the top officials to cooperate with the commission. Sources said the SEC also showed the letter written by chief secretary Nilam Sawhney to the governor to defend his argument. Alleging that the chief secretary showed disrespect to the constitutional authority of the commission by making suggestions, Ramesh Kumar said the SEC may have to approach the high court if the government’s non-cooperative attitude continues. “The SEC, as an autonomous body, has full authority to decide and conduct the elections to local bodies. It is unfortunate that the state government is deliberately creating hurdles to the constitutional process,” he said. Meanwhile, civil supplies minister Kodali Nani alleged that Ramesh Kumar is acting at the behest of TDP supremo N Chandrababu Naidu. “Nimmagadda should behave like a constitutional authority and protect the decency and dignity of the chair he holds,” he said. TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu shot back, and dared the government to go for the elections. “Why are they scared to hold local body polls? They know they have lost the trust of public,” said the former minister. Government advisor (public affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy said YSRC is opposing elections keeping in view the safety of public in the current situation. “YSRC is going to win over 90 per cent seats whenever the elections are held. Winning elections is not a big issue for us. We have a bigger responsibility of safeguarding human lives,” said Sajjala. “If the chief secretary writes a letter explaining the ground reality, the SEC takes it as an insult to his constitutional authority. The chief secretary has the responsibility to protect the people of the state,” Sajjala added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-meets-governor-says-govt-stalling-poll-process/articleshow/79288528.cms||Samdani MN
November 19, 2020||Bareilly||3 dead, 30 hurt after Bihar-bound bus collides with truck in UP||Bareilly: A speeding Bihar-bound bus crammed with around 78 workers mainly returning home for Chhath Puja overturned after colliding with a truck in UP’s Moradabad leaving three passengers dead and more than 30 injured on Tuesday night. The bus was coming from Ludhiana, Punjab, and the driver was said to be drunk. SP (city) Amit Kumar and district magistrate Rakesh Kumar Singh rushed to the district hospital after getting the information about the accident. The passengers were returning home to Bettiah. Five of them are reported to be critical. Two of the deceased were identified as Shivji Lal Jugnu and Gunheri Lal. Jugnu was a resident of Bettiah while the other two belonged to Lauriya. Their family have been informed and are yet to reach Moradabad. Prakash, one of the passengers, said, “Most of us work as porters at a wholesale mart in Ludhiana and were returning home to celebrate Chhath Puja. The driver started drinking in the evening. He was driving fast. One of us even asked him to go slow, but he didn’t listen.” The accident was reported near Dalpatpur village and two persons died on the spot while one succumbed during treatment, circle officer (CO) Anil Kumar Yadav said on Wednesday. "Five of the injured have been referred to a higher medical facility, the remaining have non-critical injuries. We will take action against the bus driver once the investigation is complete," Yadav added. An FIR has been registered against the driver for rash driving. "We had a word with the bus transport company. They have been asked to arrange for another bus to send the survivors home,” the CO further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-dead-30-hurt-after-bihar-bound-bus-collides-with-truck-in-up/articleshow/79288398.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||YS Jagan Mohan Reddy to open Tungabhadra Pushkarams||TIRUPATI: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the Tungabhadra Pushkarams on Friday. The pushkaram will start on November 20 and go on till December 1. The CM will be landing at Orvakal airport and fly to the APSP battalion premises by helicopter and then reach the Sankal Bagh Pushkar ghats by road. Officials of the district administration led by collector G Veerapandian and SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa inspected the final arrangements on Wednesday. Within a span of two days, officials managed to inspect all 23 ghats set up for the convenience of devotees. District collector G Veerapandian who expressed satisfaction over the arrangements in place, directed officials of various departments to ensure the inaugural of the Tungabhadra Pushkaramsis carried out without any untoward incidents. He also directed officials to strictly ensure visiting devotees do not take a dip in the river waters in line with the Covid-19 guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-to-open-tungabhadra-pushkarams/articleshow/79288542.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
November 19, 2020||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Illegal land transfer scam busted, 10 held||VIJAYAWADA: On Saturday, Krishna district police arrested 10 ten persons for allegedly fabricating documents and illegally registering land belonging to a complainant at Mandapakala village under Koduru police station limits. Initially, it was perceived as a standalone incident, but investigation revealed that eight persons, including a photo studio owner, are part of a larger forgery and illegal land transfer network. When cops raided the photo studio belonging to one of the accused, they found several fake pattadar passbooks. Police said the modus operandi is not uncommon and the district has seen similar cases. Police said the accused usually create fake stamp papers by forging stamps and signatures of revenue officials and prepare settlement pattas and receipts for fake land cess. Speaking to TOI, Avanigadda circle inspector BB Ravi Kumar said the accused would either secretly keep a colour copy of the pattadar passbook that comes in for photocopying or would lure farmers in desperate need of having a one to legitimise their land. “Little do they know that the persons who voluntarily indulge in paying middlemen could end making them an accused in the case even if they are originally a victim,” Kumar told TOI. The main accused in the recent case Nancharaiah has cases against him for cheating 39 persons by capitalising on their need for a passbook. “Each member of the group plays different roles, such as landlords, lawyer, document writer, studio professionals who create fake stamps and Aadhaar cards for the crime,” the circle inspector added. Police sources indicate that there are revenue officials who act in collusion with these racketeers. “We could nab Nancharaiah because we managed to get a direct witness of the transaction and deals he had with the victim,” Kumar added. Later, the accused would quickly sell of the registered land to monetise the value.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/illegal-land-transfer-scam-busted-10-held/articleshow/79288405.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Duo held for attacking 4 city cops||NAGPUR: Kalamna police have arrested two men from Punjab for their attempt to kill four policemen, including a police sub-inspector (PSI) and an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) when they went to rescue a teenager from their clutches, late Tuesday night near Kalamna Agriculture Produce Market Committee. Kalamna police received a tip-off at around 10.30pm about two persons Samshersingh Majorsingh Randhawa (24) and Mandipsingh Suryavirsingh Siddhu (26) — both residents of Amritsar — who allegedly tied one Girish Mansukh Sahu (17), a resident of Vijay Nagar, Kalamna, to the diesel tank of a truck with a rope at Kalamna market. The accused were beating Girish and threatened to kill him with a knife over some issue. Acting swiftly, a team of Kalamna police comprising PSI Navnath Patvadkar, ASI Madansingh Janakwar, constables Arvind Yadav and Vijay Tidke reached the spot and tried to free Girish from the duo’s clutches. Before the cops could get a grip on the situation, the duo started attacking them with iron rods and injured them. The police, however, succeeded in freeing Sahu and also arrested the duo. Further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/duo-held-for-attacking-4-city-cops/articleshow/79289445.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Nashik||‘Will ensure water supply to locals’||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: State water resources minister Jayant Patil has assured that all steps would be taken to ensure that the locals from Surgana and Dindori talukas get drinking water supply while implementing diversion schemes for the parched regions of the district. Patil visited the minor irrigation schemes in Surgana and Dindori taluka on Tuesday. He noted that Surgana talukas receives high rainfall, but most of the water runs off towards the Arabian Sea. “There is a need for water diversion from this region using lift and tunnel system so that the problems in several talukas are resolved. We will stress on better water storage through minor irrigation department,” Patil said. He said that they have taken up some projects in the region, but were facing issues about rehabilitation and compensation to the farmers. “These will be studied and resolved so that the region gets MID tanks to ensure tapped water supply to the residents of the villages,” Patil said. There are some technical issues that need to be resolved as far as the the water diversion schemes are concerned. About 80% of the work of both — Manjarpada diversion scheme and Dhondalpada diversion scheme — has been completed. The last mile completion work is pending due to technical reasons. “We will take all therequired steps to ensure these works are finished as soon as possible to provide relief to the parched areas of Nashik district that include Niphad, Nandgaon, Yeola Chandwad talukas,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/will-ensure-water-supply-to-locals/articleshow/79288420.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||23-year-old murdered by three||Nagpur: Yashodhara Nagar police have launched a manhunt for three assailants after they murdered a 23-year-old man in north Nagpur. The police have identified the deceased as Mohammed Tehsin Mohammed Mubeen Ansari, a resident of Garib Nawaz Nagar.According to police, the deceased was going to his sister’s house at around 9pm on Tuesday. On way, three unidentified youths in the age group of 20-25 years, intercepted him near Amarnath Ice Factory, Yogi Arvind Nagar. Before he could understand anything, the trio started beating him up mercilessly. In the melee, one of the assailants took out a knife and stabbed Tehsin in his abdomen. When one of the passers-by Nasir Ahmed went to see what was happening, the assailants fled the spot. Ahmed along with other neighbours of the locality rushed a profusely bleeding Tehsin to Mayo Hospital in an autorickshaw. The doctors declared him brought dead on admission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/23-year-old-murdered-by-three/articleshow/79289453.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolhapur||Covid-19: Satara district reports 94 cases||KOLHAPUR: Satara district reported 94 new cases along with seven deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of Covid patients to 49,051. Of the total number of patients, 44,974 have recovered from the contagion, 1,653 have succumbed to Covid and 2,424 are undergoing treatment. The deaths were reported in Satara, Koregaon, Khandala, Maan, Wai and Jawli. Solapur district, on the other hand, registered 115 new cases while it also witnessed 170 patients getting discharged from various facilities. The district also recorded six deaths on Wednesday. Of the 115 cases, 30 were reported from the city limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/satara-district-reports-94-cases/articleshow/79288407.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bareilly||As Covid-19 cases shoot, those coming from Delhi & NCR told to get themselves tested||BAREILLY: The health department in Bareilly has issued an advisory asking all those returning from Delhi and NCR districts to get themselves tested for Covid-19. It comes after the district reported 32 Covid-19 cases in a day, including two MLAs on Tuesday. “Since the festivals are over, everyone needs to be extra cautious. People who have recently travelled to Delhi and NCR should go for Covid-19 test. The tests are conducted at district hospital, at the 300-bed Covid hospital and at all the community health centres in Bareilly. Since there is no vaccine for Covid-19, it is important to stay alert and safe,” said Vineet Shukla, chief medical officer of Bareilly. Over 12,000 positive cases have been reported from Bareilly and 156 deaths. On the other hand, the district administration is struggling to ensure compliance of pandemic guidelines and people can be seen without masks in markets. Most of the people who are recently tested positive for Covid-19 had travel history and belong to urban areas. Health department is trying to identify people with travel history through surveillance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/as-covid-19-cases-shoot-those-coming-from-delhi-ncr-told-to-get-themselves-tested/articleshow/79288410.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||Fewer challans issued as motorists stick to traffic norms anticipating steep fines||Visakhapatnam: Though officials are yet to implement government orders that enhance fines for traffic violations under the Motor Vehicles (Amendment) Act, 2019, traffic violations have decreased by around 15% in Vizag, they said, as motorists anticipate hefty fines. The orders were issued in October 2020. Under the new orders, riding a bike without a helmet, which previously carried a penalty of only Rs 100, will now attract a fine of Rs 1,000. Similarly, under-age driving, which had a penalty of Rs 50, will now be fined at Rs 5,000. Dangerous driving, including use of a mobile phone while driving, will now carry a penalty of Rs 1,500 for the first offence and Rs 10,000 for subsequent offences. For dangerous driving and zi-zag driving, the compounding fee has been enhanced to Rs 5,000 (first offence), 10 times higher than the previous fine of Rs 500. Speaking to TOI, ADCP, (traffic), Ch Adinarayana said, on average Vizag city traffic police generate over 1,200 to 1,400 traffic e-challans in a day. However, the number of violations have recently come down to 1,000 in a day. “We have been observing that motorists fear to ride bikes without a head guard citing they have to cough up Rs 1,000 and a majority have stopped driving while speaking on a mobile phone. We are expecting that traffic violations will further come down once we implement the new traffic fines,” he added. If a motorist is booked for traffic violations such as jumping a red signal, wrong parking, triple riding, not wearing a head guard and not fastening their seat belt, an e-challan is issued on the spot to the motorist’s mobile number by entering the vehicle number in a smartphone that is linked to the server of the city police. “We are also focusing on curbing speeding by procuring more speed laser guns,” said a senior police officer with the traffic wing. “We can’t expect very few traffic violations owning to hefty fines. But we are expecting that a majority of motorists will follow traffic norms in the coming days,” police added. The city has 50 traffic signal points that include almost all the junctions on the National Highway (NH)-16 stretch. As part of the Smart City project, the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has sanctioned another 50 smart signals. While 23 are operational, 27 will be shortly installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/fewer-challans-issued-as-motorists-stick-to-traffic-norms-anticipating-steep-fines/articleshow/79288432.cms||Nalla.Babu
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Despite stiff opposition, Nagpur University conducts Senate meet online||NAGPUR: Despite stiff opposition from members, Nagpur University (NU) conducted its online Senate meeting on Wednesday. On November 3, the members had forced NU to adjourn the online meeting and conduct it offline with a view to discuss several crucial issues like the final year online examinations fiasco and fees reduction due to the pandemic. Many members, including Manmohan Bajpayee, Dhanshri Borkar and Smita Wanjari, boycotted the meeting after NU failed to remove the technical snags they faced in online mode. Some senior members like Baban Taywade and Rajesh Bhoyar also skipped it, making it easier for the administration to conduct it. According to the members who attended the meeting, it commenced at 11am and concluded by 4pm, as hardly any important issue (the online exams debacle included) was raised, and contentious question asked. In offline mode, such big meetings have a participation of a minimum 50 out of the 76 members, and they usually go on for at least two days, as it takes that long to cover the entire agenda. When the event was adjourned on November 3, the members had asked the NU administration to seek chancellor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s consent for holding the meeting offline. But he failed to reply as per the members, who accused NU administration of deliberately not making efforts to convene the offline meeting. Denying their charges, vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari told TOI they received the chancellor’s letter on Wednesday morning, and he advised NU to seek the local administration’s permission. However, Chaudhari said, “The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) commissioner had already denied us permission to hold the offline meeting as the government has permitted only 50 persons to congregate due to pandemic-induced restrictions.” He added that the meeting went off very smoothly with all proposals being cleared with a majority, and about 50 members attended it. An upset Bajpayee accused NU of suppressing the voice of the members, who had planned to raise important issues like final year exams disaster and fee reduction. “Though I was able to hear their voices clearly, they couldn’t hear me,” he said. Bajpayee added, “I dropped many messages online and also called registrar Neeraj Khaty many times. But no one responded and even the registrar didn't take my calls, despite his phone continuously ringing on his desk.” Agreeing with him, another member Vishnu Changde said the NU sent a letter to NMC seeking permission to allow 100 persons, including the members and its officials to attend the meeting. “Obviously, it was going to be rejected as permission is only for 50 persons. Even a child can make out that the administration was reluctant to hold an offline meeting,” he told TOI. Change added, “In majority of the Senate meetings, hardly 50 out of 76 members remain present. They should have sought permission of 50 members only, while those from other districts could have participated online.”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/despite-stiff-opposition-nu-conducts-senate-meet-online/articleshow/79289463.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Teachers’ association demands Covid-19 health insurance||NAGPUR: As school reopening date inches near, many teachers from private unaided schools are demanding cashless Covid-19 health insurance. With overwhelming majority of private schools offering either minimal or no health insurance, teachers are fearing the financial hit they might have to take if hospitalization is required. Teacher from a private CBSE school said that so far school management has not made any statement. “Initially in our school there were some talks of teachers being offered insurance cover as an incentive to rejoin. But that’s all gone now as even management knows that teachers have no choice but to come back to campus, else we could face job cuts,” the teacher said. CBSE School’s Staff Welfare Association (CSSWA), a city based organization, says it must be made mandatory for every school to provide health insurance to teachers. Deepali Dably, president of CSSWA said, “Even some of the big schools don’t provide health insurance to their staffers. And in times like these when teachers are risking their lives to come to campus, it is the management’s moral responsibility to provide some type of health cover.” Another teacher, who did not wish to be identified said, “We heard that in some schools the management is eager to reopen, because that will make it easier to recover pending fee. However it’s a risky way as far as we are concerned.” Nago Ganar, MLC (teachers constituency) said it is the responsibility of the private school management to provide all the necessary covers to teachers. “Even if salary level of private unaided schoolteachers is at par with that of their aided counterparts, it can be of some help,” said Ganar. In government and private aided schools, primary schoolteachers’ salary is around Rs40,000 per month while for high schoolteachers it is upward of Rs50,000. Depending on seniority, the pay scale varies. Senior principals’ gross salary is around Rs1.30 lakh per month. Another private unaided schoolteacher said, “Aided schoolteachers also get free medical cover. So we hope the government treats us at par and mandates our management to provide cashless Covid-19 insurance.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/teachers-association-demands-covid-19-health-insurance/articleshow/79289458.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
November 19, 2020||Visakhapatnam||AP: Campaign for new voter registrations||VISAKHAPATNAM: Electoral authorities of Andhra Pradesh have initiated the exercise of registering new voters in the state. Officials have been directed to register youngsters turning 18 by January 1, 2021 as voters. According to official sources, Visakhapatnam district has 10,000 people who have turned 18 recently. The Central Election Commission (CEC) has asked state authorities to announce a draft voters list by December 15. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand, at a review meeting held recently, said all complaints regarding voter registration should be resolved by January 5. The final voter list is expected to be announced on January 15. Officials are looking to focus on 20 polling stations where the greatest number of changes has been recorded so far. Election officials are slated to take up special campaigns on November 28, 29 and December 12 and 13. The district collector has said that new voter registrations and changes must be made with booth-level authorities in the prescribed proforma 6,7,8 and 8A. “There will be a meeting with political parties and representatives soon,” the collector said. New voter registrations will be carried out through the ‘Know Your BLO’ campaign. Youngsters would be made aware of the online registration process. They will have to apply in accordance with form 6 regulations. Applications will also be made available in colleges. Further, applications will be received as per form 7 to remove from the voter list names of people who died. The district collector said that people should apply under form 8 to amend names. Voters in one constituency are required to apply under form 8A to transfer their vote to another constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/campaign-for-new-voter-registrations/articleshow/79288452.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
November 19, 2020||Nagpur||Cops penalize 150 motorists for driving wrong side on RUB, ROB||NAGPUR: Chaos and confusion continue to reign on the Wardha Road double decker flyover, Manish Nagar railway over bridge (ROB) and railway under bridge (RUB) as motorists use the uni-directional flyover as a bi-directional one in a bid to take a shortcut. The three-way flyover, inaugurated recently, connects people from Manish Nagar to Wardha Road. On the day TOI highlighted the traffic mess on the flyover, officials of MahaMetro, the agency which constructed it, were seen erecting traffic signages at many places at both Manish Nagar RUB and ROB. Acting on the TOI report, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Sarang Awad asked city traffic police to initiate strict action against the violators. Traffic police had on Tuesday evening caught at least 150 citizens using the flyover wrong side. However, as traffic cops were not deployed there during morning hours on Wednesday, TOI found rampant wrong side driving. According to plan, motorists coming from Manish Nagar side only are allowed to use the ROB that connects with the double decker flyover on Wardha Road. People coming from Ajni are not allowed to take the ROB. Similarly, those going toward Ajni or Somalwada from Manish Nagar are required to reach Pride Hotel using the ROB and then use the double decker flyover to reach their destination. However, most motorists, especially two-wheeler riders, were seen violating the rules and using both the ROB and RUB. Commuters were seen accessing the ROB at the intersection of the double decker flyover in the wrong direction to take a shortcut to Manish Nagar. Similarly, people were found taking the wrong side at the RUB to reach Somalwada. The wrong side driving can prove dangerous due to one of the blind turns at the RUB stretch, pointed out experts. MahaMetro in statement on Wednesday said signage have been provided at vantage points on the flyover. Adequate LED lights as per Indian Road Congress standards have been installed. Some signage – fixed at different locations — highlight the need to follow the rules as written there. Someone coming from airport and wanting to go to Manish Nagar has to take the road below and turn right at the desired location to travel through RUB. Also one travelling towards city airport is free to travel either using flyover or the road beneath. Moreover, this arrangement is temporary and subject to change from the concerned authorities, reads the statement by the MahaMetro. MahaMetro has also approached the traffic department of Nagpur police for a detailed traffic plan for the ROB and RUB. MahaMetro would make necessary changes, if any, sought by the local police for smooth running of the traffic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cops-penalize-150-motorists-for-driving-wrong-side-on-rub-rob/articleshow/79289493.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik & Aurangabad to test teachers ahead of schools reopening on Nov 23||Nashik/ Aurangabad: With schools in the state reopening from November 23 for students of Classes IX to XII, Nashik and Aurangabad civic bodies have started making arrangements to conduct Covid-19 testing for teachers.The state government has made it mandatory for teachers to submit Covid test reports to the school management committees before rejoining duties. The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has started conducting Covid-19 tests for 68 teachers, who are associated with 15 civic body-run schools. “We have started RT-PCR tests for the teachers since Tuesday. These teachers will be teaching around 2,300 students of these 15 NMC schools. We will be able to complete the tests and get the lab reports before classes begin,” said NMC officials.The health department of the civic body will ensure all these 15 schools adhere to the Covid safety protocols.“The state government has laid down guidelines for all the school authorities to ensure social distancing, wearing masks and others. The school authorities have to follow them,” the officials said.According to Ratna Raokhande, the civil surgeon, similar tests for teachers of zilla parishad schools in the district have been planned.“We are in the process of garnering details like the exact number of teachers who have to take the tests. We will ask the teachers to visit the nearest Covid-19 swab sample collection centres in the different talukas and they have to give their samples. The testing of the samples will start soon,” she added.The private schools in the districts are awaiting instructions from the district authorities about the modalities to conduct the tests for their teachers.Meanwhile, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) on Wednesday announced setting up of 16 Covid-19 testing centres in different parts of the city for testing of teachers ahead of November 23. AMC education officer Shrikant Kulkarni informed that five of the 16 testing centres would operate round-the-clock whereas the remaining would remain functional from 10 am to 6 pm. “Besides the teaching staff, non-teaching staffers must also undergo the Covid-19 testing before resuming work. Those who test positive for the infection must undergo the necessary treatment as per protocol and join their duties after completing isolation period,” he said. The centres, which are scheduled to remain open 24 hours, include social welfare department-run girls’ hostel at Kil-e-ark, CIPET Chikalthana, MGM Sports complex and MIT girls’ hostel at Satara, EOC Padampura. While ratifying the government orders for reopening of educational institutions, the district administration has clarified that the members of teaching and non-teaching section must undergo RT-PCR test for Covid-19 and Rapid Antigen Test would not be accepted. Educational activist Prashant Sathe said the mandatory testing drive for school staffers must be carried out in a smooth manner. (inputs from Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-aurangabad-to-test-teachers-ahead-of-schools-reopening-on-nov-23/articleshow/79288461.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 19, 2020||Meerut||UP rape survivor 'set afire' by kin of accused dies in Delhi||MEERUT: A 15-year-old Dalit girl who had been allegedly raped three months ago died at a Delhi hospital with 80% burn injuries on Tuesday night. Police had on Tuesday said the girl, from a village in Bulandshahr, had set herself on fire. But the girl’s family has said relatives of the rape accused, who is in jail, had set her ablaze. “The main accused had raped my daughter on August 14. He was arrested and sent to jail. But his family kept pressuring us to withdraw the complaint and then started threatening us,” said the police complaint filed by her father on Wednesday. The rape was reported to the police on August 15, when the accused was arrested. On Tuesday, Bulandshahr Police had said that the rape accused lived 7km from the crime spot. He worked as a caretaker for a mango orchard in the girl’s village. His uncle, Sanjay, and a friend of his live in the same village. They are believed to have gone over to her house and threatened her to withdraw her rape complaint, police said. Her father has named seven persons in his complaint, on the basis of which an FIR has been lodged at Jahangirabad police station, alleging that they barged into his house and set his daughter on fire. A video, which is circulating on social media, purportedly shows the girl narrating this account in her dying statement. She was taken to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Tuesday, where she died hours later. The seven men were booked for attempt to murder (which will now become murder charges), criminal intimidation, trespass, rioting and under sections of the SC/ST Act. Five of them — Banwari, Badan Singh, Veer Singh, Jaswant Singh and Gautam — were arrested on Wednesday. “Initially, it seemed she had killed herself. But her family has alleged that she was set ablaze by relatives of the accused,” said SSP Santosh Singh. “Four cops — the circle officer, Jehangirabad station officer, investigating officer and a constable — have been suspended.” On Wednesday morning, Singh accompanied district magistrate Ravinder Kumar on a visit to her village, promising the family a compensation of Rs 3.75 lakh under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. “We have assured all possible help to them. We will also ensure no one harasses them again,” Kumar said. Later in the evening, the girl’s father arrived at the village from Delhi with the body. She was cremated amid heavy police deployment. The village has been sealed off to visitors for now. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/dalit-rape-survivor-from-up-dies-in-delhi-with-80-burns-after-family-of-accused-sets-her-on-fire/articleshow/79288477.cms||Sandeep Rai
November 19, 2020||India||India’s tests/million lower than that of US, Russia, UK & France||NEW DELHI: Over a period of two months - from September 16 to November 15 - India has been doing more tests for Covid-19 on an average per day than countries like Russia, France, UK and US, the government has said, pointing to the increased efforts at testing. On November 12, India tested 1.19 million samples, whereas Russia performed 6,36,888 tests, France conducted 3,62,764 and UK tested 3,62,291. The United States - which has recorded average daily tests closer to India during last few weeks- conducted 1.13 million tests on November 12, health ministry data show. In better news, India's cumulative positivity rate stands at 7%, whereas daily positivity rate in the last week was 4.1%. While the tests per million count shows some of these countries to have much higher scores, the government said a two-month period was a reasonable interval to make a comparison in terms of average tests per day. In cumulative terms, while the US has carried out more than 17 crore tests - highest total samples so far- India has the second highest at around 12.65 crore. Total tests conducted by Russia stand at over 6.95 crore -almost half that of India, while UK and France tested even less at 3.89 crore and 1.91 crore respectively. However, India - with its huge population - has conducted 91,359 tests per million population-the lowest among these countries. US has performed more than 5.12 lakh tests per million population, whereas UK has done 5.72 lakh and Russia has conducted 4.76 lakh per million people. France has tested 2.93 lakh tests per million. The population size seems to be a factor too as while China has conducted more than 16 crore tests, its tests per million population being 1,11,163. The government maintained that increased testing has helped control the pandemic and bring down new cases even as many countries are experiencing a surge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-tests/million-lower-than-that-of-us-russia-uk-france/articleshow/79293669.cms||Sushmi Dey
November 19, 2020||Agra||3 deaths due to illicit liquor: excise officer shunted, SHO & 3 cops suspended||Agra: The administration in Firozabad on Wednesday transferred the district excise officer and suspended SHO and three other policemen a day after the death of three men due to alleged consumption of spurious liquor. Three men died in Sekhpura village of Khergarh area after allegedly consuming spurious liquor. Their family claimed that the victims complained of breathing trouble and chest pain after consuming the liquor on Monday night, adding that their condition deteriorated by Tuesday morning. They died later. Superintendent of police (rural) Rajesh Kumar said, “Raids are being conducted at different places around the district to ensure complete halt on manufacturing and sale of illicit liquor.” “Local residents are being encouraged to share details regarding the business of illicit liquor. The post-mortem reports of the three men who died on Tuesday have not confirmed any specific cause of the deaths. Doctors have reserved viscera of the dead bodies for further examination,” Kumar said. Meanwhile, SSP Firozabad suspended SHO Khergarh, a sub-inspector and two constables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/3-deaths-due-to-illicit-liquor-excise-officer-shunted-sho-3-cops-suspended/articleshow/79287456.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Man & wife arrested for Rs 5 crore loan fraud||HYDERABAD: Shadnagar police on Wednesday arrested real estate businessman P Prabhakar (47) and his wife P Saritha (42) for allegedly duping Indian Bank to the tune of Rs 5 crore. On November 2, 2020, Mahender Kalvakol, manager of Indian Bank’s Shadnagar branch lodged a complaint with the police claiming that Prabhakar and his wife along with other accused have duped the bank for Rs 5 crore by obtaining loans to build houses and purchase plots. The accused defaulted on payment of monthly installments. Police statement mentioned that the accused have furnished forged salary statements, form- 16s and other documents of some customers to obtain loans. After the preliminary investigation, Shadnagar police arrested Prabhakar and his wife Saritha from their villa in Shaikpet in the early hours of Wednesday. In the official release, it was also mentioned that Prabhakar is also accused in six other cases registered at Abdullapurmet, Rajendranagar, Narsingi, Madhapur and KPHB police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-wife-arrested-for-rs-5cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/79291899.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||‘Abode of Lord Shiva’ may now get UNESCO heritage site tag||DEHRADUN: The picturesque Adi Kailash landscape situated at an altitude of around 6000 metres in the Kumaon Himalayas is set to be proposed as a site of ‘outstanding universal value’ in the UNESCO World Heritage List. The site, nestled in the Darma and Byas valleys of Pithoragarh district was last month surveyed by a team comprising of scientists of the Doon-based Wildlife Institute of India which is in the process of finalising its report recommending that Adi Kailash, because of its natural and cultural significance, should be included in the 'mixed site' category in the UNESCO list. Only one other site in India -- the Kangchenjunga range – is classified as a mixed site (natural as well as cultural) in the UNESCO World Heritage List. Adi Kailash, regarded as one of the abodes of Lord Shiva, has for centuries attracted devout pilgrims. It has also been an area of attraction for scientists due to its diverse flora and fauna. Dhananjai Mohan, director of WII, who was part of the team that conducted the survey of the area last month, told TOI that one of the reasons that the area retains its distinctive identity is because of the indigenous communities that inhabit the region. “The Rung community in particular has nurtured the area beautifully. The community which stays in high-altitude places like Gunji and Nabhi is co-existing with nature and has retained its old traditions. Their houses still have exquisite traditional carvings and from their language to attire — everything is as it was in the olden days. It hasn’t been impacted by the outer world,” Mohan said. In terms of flora and fauna, the landscape houses the elusive snow leopard as well as vast expanses of birch forest which makes it unlike any other spot, said another WII scientist who was part of the survey. “This unique diversity makes the landscape an apt site to be recommended for the World Heritage Site List,” the scientist added. India is currently home to eight Natural World Heritage sites of which one — Valley of Flowers in the Nanda Devi Biosphere — is in Uttarakhand. According to Mohan, the proposal regarding Adi Kailash is being sent to the central government. “The proposal would thereafter be forwarded to UNESCO and their representatives would then visit Adi Kailash for a ground check.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/adi-kailash-set-to-be-pitched-for-unesco-world-heritage-list-as-unique-site-having-cultural-natural-value/articleshow/79288501.cms||Shivani Azad
November 19, 2020||Delhi||4-Fold Hike In Fine For Not Wearing Mask In Public||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday the increase in the fine for not wearing masks in public from Rs 500 to Rs 2,000 to deter careless behaviour when Covid-19 infection has spiked in the city. At the all-party meeting on the pandemic, Kejriwal appealed to all political parties and social and religious organisations to promote the wearing of masks and to distribute them to the public. The CM also requested people to celebrate Chhath Puja at home instead of in water bodies in public areas. The decision to increase the fine for not wearing masks was taken in a meeting between Kejriwal and lieutenant governor Anil Baijal where the two agreed the enhanced penalty would work as a deterrent and sensitise people to the usefulness of masks in prevention infection. "The LG and I both agreed that even though many people are following the Covid protocols, there are others who are not wearing masks and thus exposing themselves and others to the risk of infection,” Kejriwal said. “Sometimes, when words do not help do the task, imposing restrictions becomes necessary.” After his meeting with the CM, Baijal directed city officials to implement the decisions taken at the meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah to boost testing, augment hospital infrastructure and human resources, carry out house-to-house surveys and review the home isolation arrangements. At the meeting held in Delhi Secretariat on Thursday, Kejriwal explained to the representatives of the city’s political parties that wearing a mask lowered the chances of infection. The meeting also discussed the ban on Chhath Puja in public places. The CM said, “Of 200 people going into a pond, even if one is Covid-positive, everyone else will get infected. Experts have said the coronavirus can be transmitted through water. We have only disallowed the puja in a public area or a waterbody. We have not disallowed celebrating the festival.” He claimed that the AAP government had always allocated a separate budget for Chhath arrangements, but pointed out the Gujarat government had also restricted the festival this year in Surat and Ahmedabad, Haryana government in Panchkula and Maharashtra government in Mumbai. “Chhath is the purest of festivals, but Covid is a big threat. Let us not indulge in politics on the matter,” appealed Kejriwal. Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and Delhi Congress chief Chaudhry Anil Kumar strongly opposed the steep hike in the fine for not wearing masks. Gupta, accompanied by Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, leader of Opposition in Delhi Assembly, however, assured the state unit of BJP would deploy its workers to distribute free masks and create awareness among people. Gupta accused Delhi government of not making adequate arrangements for managing the pandemic, forcing the Union home minister to intervene. Kumar was critical of the government's plans to temporarily shut down certain markets, saying such a solution would devastate the prospects of businessmen. He also said the all-party meeting, had it been held eight months ago, might have led to early interventions in curbing the spread of Covid in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-fold-hike-in-fine-for-not-wearing-mask-in-public/articleshow/79311452.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Nashik: Youth killed by 6, trio detained||NASHIK: A 22-year-old man, identified as Yogesh Pannalal Chayal, was killed by a group of six men who attacked him with sharp weapons in the Deolali Gaon area of Nashik Road on Sunday night. According to the complaint lodged by Chayal’s relative Rameshwar Risode, six men attacked the youth at Khodade Chowk at 10 pm on Sunday because he had objected to their criminal activities. Upnagar police station PI Anil Shinde said that a few weeks ago, the suspects had stolen fuel from some vehicles and Chayal had objected to the same. This had infuriated the suspects. On Sunday night, when Chayal and his friend Suraj Kahane were standing at Khodade Chowk area, the six men attacked Chayal with a sharp knife and an axe-like weapon. After seriously injuring Chayal, the suspects threatened Kahane. They also took his (Kahane’s) scooter. Chayal was taken to a local hospital where he died. Shinde said they have detained three persons. He said Chayal, also a resident of Deolali Gaon, worked in Ambad MIDC. Senior police officers held a meeting with Upnagar police and issued directives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/youth-killed-by-6-trio-detained/articleshow/79288531.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 19, 2020||Meerut||UP’s former Shia Waqf Board chief booked for forgery & extortion in Bijnor||Bijnor: Former chairman of UP Shia Waqf Board, Waseem Rizvi, and two others have been booked in Bijnor district on charges of extortion and threatening the caretaker of a shrine. The FIR was registered on Tuesday evening after the direction of the local additional chief judicial magistrate (ACJM). The complainant, Syed Qaisar Ali Baakri, has said that Rizvi had appointed him as the administrator of the Bijnor’s famous Jogirampura shire during his tenure as the chief of Shia Waqf board in 2018.But days after the appointment, Rizvi and his aides started demanding money from him, Baakri alleged. The shrine, where lakhs of people from across the country come to offer prayers every year, receives huge amounts of donations, sources said.Baakri claimed that he deposited lakhs of rupees received in donation into the bank accounts of Rizvi and his aides.Their demands grew and in June 2019, Rizvi and two others, including a member of the board, demanded Rs 10 lakh. “They threatened to sack me if I didn’t pay the money,” Baakri said.“A few days later, the board member, who is also a relative of Rizvi and two other men assaulted me after I refused to pay the money,” he alleged.After police “didn’t register” an FIR, Baakri moved court last year. The court on Tuesday directed local police to register the case against Rizvi and others.Bijnor’s superintendent of police (SP) Lakshmi Nivas Mishra on Wednesday said, “An FIR has been filed against Waseem Rizvi and two others. They have been booked under IPC sections 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine forged documents) and 384 (extortion) at Bijnor’s Nagina police station. A probe has been launched.”Rizvi is not new to controversies.In February this year, the BJP government gave state police the permission to prosecute him in a 2016 case, in which he has been accused of demolishing a 200 years old imambara in Prayagraj’s posh Civil Lines area to pave way for a shopping complex. City police had sought the prosecution sanction as Rizvi was the chief of the waqf board then.Several prominent Muslim leaders, including Shia cleric Kalbe Jawad, recently held a press conference to “expose” Rizvi, who they said is trying hard to please the government to save himself from a litany of corruption cases filed against him during his 10-year tenure as chief of the board.Shaukat Bharti, a Shia leader and president of Asar Foundation said, “Earlier, Rizvi was loyal to Azam Khan. And now, after the change of the government, there is a change of heart. He is trying to please the BJP dispensation now. The government should understand all his tricks.” Sahukat added, “There are several corruption FIRs registered against him. Shia sentiments were hurt when the imambara at Prayagraj was razed at the behest of Rizvi."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/ups-former-shia-waqf-board-chief-booked-for-forgery-extortion-in-bijnor/articleshow/79285628.cms||Harveer Dabas
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Filipino baby gets liver transplant||Hyderabad: A two-year-old child from the Philippines underwent a liver transplant successfully at a city based private hospital. The child weighed about 9.5kg and was suffering from biliary atresia, a condition in which bile ducts are obliterated at birth and lead to jaundice. If diagnosed early, portoenterostomy or Kasai procedure is useful in such cases. “In some cases, even after early Kasai procedure, it fails and liver transplantation becomes inevitable. In this case too, the baby had undergone Kasai procedure when she was 3 months old in the Philippines. She was doing well till the age of 18 months following which she started developing jaundice. Investigations revealed decompensated liver cirrhosis due to failed Kasai and were therefore referred for liver transplantation,” said Dr Ravichand Siddachari, consultant chief of liver transplant and HPB Surgery, KIMS Hospitals. In this case, the liver was donated by her father after tackling with his medical conditions for transplant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/filipino-baby-gets-liver-transplant/articleshow/79291915.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||U’khand to expand copter service to 8 destinations despite initial hiccups||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government is mulling helicopter service on eight routes, including Dehradun-Haridwar-Mussoorie, even though the existing helicopter service under the RCS (Regional Connectivity Scheme) of the Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aaam Nagrik) programme between Dehradun and Gauchar has not picked up as well as the government had hoped. The RCS helicopter service between Dehradun and Gauchar, initiated in July this year, is being operated by Pawan Hans. Till the last week of October, it had got barely 250 takers (Pawan Hans didn’t release data of November). “We have told the Centre that the cost of flight tickets from Dehradun to Gauchar —almost Rs 9,000 — is too high. Instead of a circuitous route, passengers would prefer a direct service from Jolly Grant to New Tehri, Srinagar and Gauchar separately,” said an official of the Uttarakhand Civil Aviation Development Authority (UCADA). Despite the lukewarm response, UCADA is planning to expand the RCS scheme, with proposed chopper services on a few more routes from Dehradun — to Mussoorie, Haridwar, Dharchula and Almora. While proposals for some of the routes have already been accepted, for other destinations, permissions from the Army and power department are pending, as the land for helipads belong to these departments. “In a recently held meeting between the secretaries of the Union ministry of civil aviation and state civil aviation department, it was proposed that the Centre should consider a greenfield airport in Pantnagar, and allow extension of Jolly Grant airport in Dehradun. In the same meeting, the launch of RCS service in Kumaon was also proposed. There already exist helipads in Almora and Haldwani, hence Pawan Hans officials who are running the scheme thrice a week to Garhwal, have been asked to run the same service in the remaining days to Kumaon,” said an official who is privy to the developments. The official also said construction of 13 new helipads is being considered in the Himalayan state. UCADA officials said that in order to cut costs, they have proposed fire hydrants, water tanks and pumps, costing Rs 15-20 lakh, as fire fighting systems for the helipads, instead of airfield crash fire tenders, which cost Rs 2.50 crore. “We’ve also suggested that instead of automatic weather observing systems, which cost around Rs 35 lakh, we’ll manage flights with a simple weather system, costing Rs 10-12 lakh,” said an official. He added that “in Mussoorie, Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, which has the requisite land, is unwilling to part with it.” “The Centre has assured us they will try to resolve the matter. In Haridwar, the helipad will be built near BHEL,” the official said. The UCADA official further said that in the absence of land for constructing a helipad in Dharchula, the state and Centre have been alerted that Army land has to be acquired. Similarly in Joshimath, a proposal for building a helipad on land belonging to the power corporation has been initiated. Ashish Chauhan, CEO, UCADA confirmed that expansion of intra-state chopper services is being considered. “We’ve recently met central authorities to discuss the matter,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-expand-copter-service-to-8-destinations-despite-initial-hiccups/articleshow/79288551.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Four key steps to a clean Yamuna by March 2023||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday chaired a review meeting with water minister Satyendar Jain and officials of Delhi Jal Board (DJB) on implementation of an action plan to clean up the Yamuna and reduce pollution levels by 90% by March 2023. Four major interventions have been proposed and review of the progress will be undertaken at various milestones. During the meeting, DJB presented a detailed action plan on reusing around 400MGD treated wastewater. Currently, only 90MGD wastewater is being reutilised in the city. The CM announced that a host of steps would be taken in the coming months to improve the quality of the water coming from the existing sewage treatment plants (STPs) and upgrade all the equipment at these treatment units. DJB has proposed four major interventions targeted to clean the Yamuna. A senior DJB official said the board would use modern technology to treat around 150MGD wastewater coming from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh by setting up natural wetlands and aeration method. “Wastewater in our drains will be tapped and taken to STPs. Third, steps will be taken to improve the quality of the existing STPs, including upgrading all the equipment and using innovative processes,” the official said. As the fourth component, DJB plans to collect all the sludge and septage from the septic tanks across Delhi and reuse them in biogas plants to generate electricity and gas. The board officials said there were five major drains carrying wastewater into the Yamuna, including Najafgarh, Shahdara, Barapulla, Delhi Gate and Mori Gate. “The Najafgarh and Shahdara drains, apart from carrying wastewater, also receive polluted water from Haryana and UP. The STPs and the drains will be treated as per the Yamuna Cleaning Plan of Delhi government to prevent polluted water to flow into the river,” said a government official. He added that the STPs treat around 525MGD of water before it flows into the drains, of which, only 90MGD was being reused for different purposes. “An action plan to reuse 436MGD water has been presented by DJB before the CM. This water will be reused in waterbodies, lakes, irrigation, gardening, forests, groundwater recharge,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/4-key-steps-to-a-clean-yamuna-by-march-2023/articleshow/79290782.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Man jumps before train, dies; wife found dead at home||Nashik: A 32-year-old man, working as a security guard with a private firm, committed suicide by jumping in front of a running train in Jalgaon on Tuesday. His wife’s body was found at their home some time later. Pramod Shete, a resident of Kanchan Nagar, Jalgaon, posted a message on social media saying that he was ending his life because his wife was no more, Jalgaon police said. According to police, Shete apparently left his residence early on Tuesday morning while his two children, aged three years and one-and-a-half years, were still asleep. “Kanchan died sometime between Monday night and Tuesday morning. Although her parents have alleged that Shete must have murdered her, the post-mortem report does not indicate death due to poisoning or strangulation. No external injuries have been found on her body. She may have been strangulated,” said inspector Vitthal Sase of the Shani Peth police station . The officer said the viscera has been preserved for further investigation. The officer said Shete posted a video on Facebook bidding “goodbye to everyone” and remembering his parents who “gave him birth” and his grandparents who “brought him” up. When police were carrying out legal formalities after Shete’s death, they received a call Kanchan was killed by someone. Subsequently, when a police team went to her residence, they found the body. Police said Shete was brought up by his grandparents, who are now over 75 years old, and that information about his parents is being gathered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-jumps-before-train-dies-wife-found-dead-at-home/articleshow/79288545.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Gali withdrawsdischarge plea||Hyderabad: Former Karnataka minister Gali Janardhan Reddy on Wednesday withdrew his petition filed before the Hyderabad CBI court seeking discharge from the illegal mining case. The discharge pleas were filed by his personal assistant Mehfuz Ali Khan and former industries secretary Kripanandam, both of whom were accused in the same case. They will come up for hearing on November 25. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gali-withdrawsdischarge-plea/articleshow/79291924.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||95 water bodies ready to serve lakhs of devotees in Kolkata||KOLKATA: Less than 48 hours before Chhath, Kolkata Municipal Corporation officials on Wednesday supervised last-minute preparations at makeshift ghats dedicated for religious rituals. According to an official, out of the 44 water bodies that will accommodate lakhs of Chhath devotees, 16 have been artificially created. In addition, the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) will look after 51 water bodies for the devotees. Chairman of the KMC board of administrators (BoA) Firhad Hakim said creating artificial ponds was part of an alternative arrangement for the Chhath devotees as Rabindra Sarobar is likely to remain out of bounds for performing rituals. Hakim on Wednesday inaugurated one of the artificial ponds off Anwar Shah Road. Another artificial pond was prepared at Panditiya, which will be used by a sizeable Bihari population, who otherwise would have used the Lake. “Last year, we had only two makeshift reservoirs. This year we shall offer 16 such reservoirs to the devotees, especially in areas where the devotees would heavily depend on Rabindra Sarobar,” another KMC official said. “Besides creating artificial ponds or sprucing up the ghats of the natural water bodies, we shall also set up bio-toilets and changing rooms for women devotees,” Hakim said. Vinita Shaw, a resident of Anwar Shah Road, said the makeshift pond near her house was very convenient for her and others in the locality. Debasis Kumar, a member of the KMC BoA, who took the initiative to create a massive water reservoir at Tentultala ground, said it can store 3.3 lakh litres of water and serve around 5,000 devotees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/95-water-bodies-ready-to-serve-lakhs-of-devotees-in-kolkata/articleshow/79289643.cms||Saikat Ray
November 19, 2020||Bareilly||History-sheeter held, seven stolen bikes seized from his possession||BAREILLY: Kheri police claimed to have arrested an interstate auto lifter and seized seven stolen bikes from his possession in Mohammadi area of the district late Tuesday night. Police identified the accused as Satendra Singh, alias, Chotu, alias, Munish Kumar, who has seven cases of auto theft registered against him in Kheri. A police team was on a routine patrolling when they signalled a suspected biker to stop, but he attempted to flee the scene leaving his bike behind. The police team, however, nabbed him and seized a country-made pistol and four bullets from his possession, said police. During the questioning, the accused confessed to have stolen seven bikes from Kheri and its neighbouring districts, said police. SSP Vijay Dhull said, “We have arrested a history-sheeter and seized seven stolen bikes from him. A cash reward of Rs 5,000 was announced for the police team for their good work.” ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/history-sheeter-held-seven-stolen-bikes-seized-from-his-possession/articleshow/79413452.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
November 19, 2020||Meerut||Spike in Covid cases: Meerut div commissioner orders strict isolation of suspected cases until report arrives||Meerut: With 225 people testing positive for Covid-19 in Meerut late Tuesday night, the district authorities issued strict instructions for timely testing of suspected cases. At a meeting with the health department, Meerut divisional commissioner Anita C Meshram instructed that all suspected cases should be isolated until their reports arrived. Meanwhile, on day one of the door-to-door survey in the district, as many as 3.53 lakh people living in 71,666 houses were covered.“With the Coivid-19 cases increasing in Meerut, people coming from and going to Delhi, elderlies and those with influenza-like symptoms should be our main focus. It is important to identify patients timely, begin their treatment and cure them,” said the commissioner. The commissioner said testing of patients with symptoms should be prioritised and they should be isolated until their reports arrived to minimise the risk of them spreading the virus. Besides, contact tracing of the positive patients should be done with priority, said Meshram.Meerut chief medical officer Dr Raj Kumar said, “As many as 1,400 teams are carrying out the door-to-door drive from November 17 to 27 in the district. Besides, the bed capacity at Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial (LLRM) Medical College has been increased from 200 to 250.”Meerut divisional surveillance officer Dr Ashok Taliyan said, “On day one, the door-to-door drive covered 3.53 lakh people living in 71,666 houses in Meerut district.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/spike-in-covid-cases-meerut-div-commissioner-orders-strict-isolation-of-suspected-cases-until-report-arrives/articleshow/79288584.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||Lucknow: Pocso court to decide on CBI remand of junior engineer||LUCKNOW: The junior engineer (JE) of the irrigation department accused of sexually exploiting children was produced before a local Pocso court in Banda, which adjourned the hearing on CBI’s request for his five-day remand as the defence counsel sought time. The court will hear the matter on Thursday. The 40-year-old JE, Ram Bhawan was arrested on Tuesday by the CBI for sexually exploiting 50 children and peddling videos and photographs on the dark web to paedophiles worldwide. Meanwhile, sources said that all the children abused by the JE would be physically verified. “A team is scanning the videos filmed by the accused and taking details for verification,” he added. Another team is also tracing his channel of purchase and sale of child sexual abuse material. Another official said that the JE used to lure underprivileged children with good food, chocolates and dresses and those aged 14-16 were given expensive gadgets. A senior officer said that charges of sexual abuse might also be pressed against the accused. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pocso-court-to-decide-on-cbi-remand-of-je/articleshow/79291952.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Notices issued to banks for overlending to farmer||Nashik: The district administration has issued notices to two banks for overlending to a farmer who committed suicide because of economical reasons. According to the sources in the district administration, the panel looking into farm suicide cases sought to understand why the two banks had allegedly lent money disproportionate to the farmer’s credit limit. The district panel, comprising various senior officers of the Zilla Parishad, police, department of agriculture, cooperations and revenue is headed by Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare. The panel discussed 11 cases to understand the reasons behind the alleged farmer suicides and if they met the criteria laid down by the state government after which government help to the kin of the deceased could be announced. Accordingly, the panel okayed government help in three cases and rejected the same in four other cases. The enquiry has been reordered in the remaining four cases, the authorities said. An official said in one of the rejected cases, banks had allegedly given a very big loan. “The problem is that the farmer was given more than Rs 1 crore as a loan, which is much more than his credit-limit. Therefore, the district panel decided to find out the reason behind lending of such a large amount,” the officer said. The officer said when such a big amount is given to a farmer, it natural for the farmer to be overwhelmed. And if a farmer is unable to repay, he is likely to take an extreme step. It may be noted that in this case, government help to the kin of the farmer concerned was rejected. The outstanding loan is now to be repaid by the family members of the farmer. Also, even if government aid was given to the family members, it would have been about Rs 1 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/notices-issued-to-banks-for-overlending-to-farmer/articleshow/79288567.cms||Abhilash Botekar
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana stops flood relief after SEC order, protests erupt||HYDERABAD: The issue of payment of flood relief snowballed into a major controversy with the Telangana State Election Commission (TSEC) on Wednesday asking the government to put on hold distribution of relief to the flood-affected families in the city till the declaration of results of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation elections. It said the distribution programme is likely to influence the voters ahead of the December 1 poll. While the government was swift to announce that it would stop the programme and resume it only after the completion of the election process in the GHMC area, Congress claimed it had written a letter to the SEC urging it to stop the distribution of relief immediately to avoid “undue advantage” to the ruling TRS. A letter, purportedly written by state BJP chief Bandi Sanjay earlier in the day which he denied, opposing the distribution of Rs 10,000, created a flutter in political circles. Protests erupted at various places as flood-affected families gave vent to their ire. In a letter to municipal administration principal secretary Arvind Kumar, TSEC secretary M Ashok Kumar said: “The registration and distribution of flood relief attracts the model code of conduct and is likely to influence the voters. The model code came into force on November 17 and will remain in force till December 4.” Counting of votes will be taken up on December 4. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathi, who said on Tuesday that flood relief distribution could continue, however, changed his tack and said: “We asked the government to stop it until GHMC poll results are declared to ensure a free and fair poll.” He told TOI on Wednesday that there were a lot of complaints that people were gathering in large numbers without following Covid-19 guidelines at MeeSeva centres. “Also, the beneficiary list of Rythu Bandhu scheme was finalised much before the poll notification. In the case of flood relief, the affected families were told to register their names, which would amount to election code violation.” While the election commission’s directive triggered an uproar among the flood-affected families, TRS and opposition BJP and Congress traded charges and counter-charges. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao blamed the BJP for snatching away the food offered by the government to the poor in the form of depositing Rs 10,000 into their bank accounts towards flood relief. In a retort, Sanjay said they did not submit any letter to the TSEC seeking stoppage of flood relief distribution and challenged KCR to prove that the letter was signed by him. TPCC working president A Revanth Reddy termed it as a game plan of TRS to project opposition parties in poor light. G Niranjan, convenor, TPCC election coordination committee, said the SEC took the decision before they wrote the letter. Meanwhile, Arvind Kumar said the government had so far distributed Rs 664 crore to 6.64 lakh families in Greater Hyderabad based on house-to-house enumeration in flood-affected areas and applications through MeeSeva. “Scrutiny of other applications is under process and will be taken up after the model code of conduct is lifted. We will resume distribution of the flood relief after the completion of GHMC election process to all eligible flood-affected families,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-stops-flood-relief-after-sec-order-protests-erupt/articleshow/79291980.cms||Roushan Ali
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: K Chandrasekhar Rao to launch agitation against Modi govt policies in December||HYDERABAD: Reviving his ambition to play a role in national politics, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday said he will join hands with other like-minded chief ministers for a nation-wide agitation against the NDA government’s policies. They will launch the initiative in the second week of December. “Sharad Pawar, H D Kumaraswamy and Mamata Banerjee are in touch with me. A meeting with major opposition parties will be convened in Hyderabad against the anti-people, anti-farmer and anti-labour policies of the Narendra Modi government,” he told the party’s MPs, MLAs and MLCs at a preparatory meeting for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections. ‘TRS leaders will have to expose BJP’“As Congress failed to fight against the NDA government, the responsibility has fallen on other major opposition parties and regional parties.” KCR had attacked the NDA government in the recent past on several issues. A couple of weeks ago, he alleged the Centre had cleared farm bills with ‘goonda gardi’ and thwarted the state government from giving away benefits and better minimum support price to farmers. The TRS supremo had earlier announced that he would form a federal front at national level with non-BJP and non-Congress parties and even met several national leaders and chiefs of regional parties, including Mamata Banerjee, DMK president Stalin and Odisha CM Naveen Patnaik before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. KCR also dwelt on disinvestment in public sector undertakings (PSUs) as a large number of PSUs are located in Greater Hyderabad. He also vowed to fight against the divestment of PSUs by the Centre and support lakhs of employees working in them. He mentioned privatisation of railways, divestment of LIC, NTPC and BHEL. “In the past six and half years, Prime Minister Modi has done nothing and the country registered negative growth. By divesting in PSUs, the Centre was trying to handover them to corporates. The party will stand by the employees of PSUs and fight against divestment,” the TRS president said. The divestment started during the Vajpayee era and a special ministry was also created. He said seven companies were divested by the then Vajyapee government, while the UPA government withdrew its shares in three PSUs. “Now the Narendra Modi government has divested in 23 PSUs, including those making profits, in the past six years,” the chief minister said. He said the Modi government has done nothing for farmers, weaker sections or workers except giving fancy slogans and names like ‘Beti Padao and Beti Bachao’. Moreover, BJP leaders resort to false propaganda against the opposition parties through social media, he alleged. “During elections, NDA government comes up with Pakistan or Pulwama issue for electoral gains and divides people communally for votes. The Centre failed to give a befitting answer to China except giving statements. TRS leaders have to expose the BJP during the election campaign,” the TRS president explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-launch-agitation-against-modi-govt-policies-in-december/articleshow/79292010.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Cantonment residents voice concern over parking||PUNE: Citizens and activists have voiced concern over parking of vehicles in Pune cantonment areas, particularly on MG road, East Street and Moledina road. They feel that the Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) should complete the much delayed and semi-constructed multi-level parking facility project on Lloyd Road on a priority basis. The project has made no progress in the last one year as the PCB has not paid dues to the contractor. At its recent general body meeting, the PCB decided to form a committee to study whether a section of the structure raised for the parking facility can be used for commercial purposes. “We are exploring this possibility so that we can also generate some income from the project. A final decision will be taken once we receive a report from our engineering department before the next general body meeting,” said Amit Kumar, the PCB’s chief executive officer. Lawyer activist Dara Irani, said, “Why didn’t the board think about its financial status before sanctioning the project? It shows poor planning and lack of development vision. The board has not completed any project within the deadline. Because of this the cantonment had to spend extra money in the past. The same practice is being followed for decades together,” Irani added. Another lawyer activist Netraprakash Bhog, said, “The cantonment authorities do not have a proper system to act against street vendors. These vendors have occupied entire pavements. People are forced to walk on main road. On top of that, the cantonment has reserved either side of the MG and East Street for parking. How much space is actually left for vehicles on these roads? Why can’t the cantonment find solution to this issue?” An officer from the cantonment police station said, “We deploy a team of constables on MG road and East Street to manage traffic. Because of roadside parking, commuters do not get adequate carriageway and it results in traffic congestion. The board should make available parking areas.” Sanjay Kawade, activist from Ghorpadi, said, “The board needs to understand that the number of vehicles, including cars, is going to increase in the coming years. Making available enough space for parking is necessary.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cantt-residents-voice-concern-over-parking/articleshow/79290834.cms||Sandip Dighe
November 19, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Jyotiraditya Scindia to attend BJP workshop tomorrow||BHOPAL: The Madhya Pradesh BJP will organise a two-day workshop for trainers ahead of its 20-day training camp for the newcomers, including supporters of Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scindia, who joined the saffron party in March. A day before the workshop, BJP state president V D Sharma reached New Delhi to meet the central leadership. The visit has also sparked speculations over a possible rejig in the state organisation. “The two-day workshop on November 19 and 20 is aimed at imparting training to master trainers who will visit districts and mandals to train new entrants in the party. The workshop will be attended by senior leaders to discuss the party ideology and current issues which are crucial for the workers to understand,” said a senior BJP state functionary. Sources disclosed that the workshop is likely to be attended by over 300 senior members, including chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, V D Sharma and Scindia, to impart training to the master trainers from various districts and to discuss ideological matters. Scindia is likely to attend the session on Friday. He will also hold discussions with the chief ministers and state presidents on the party’s future plans. BJP said that sessions on party ideology, political stand, collective work and strength of team will be held. The workers will also know the history of BJP, its formation from the Jana Sangh to Janata Party and later, to the Bharatiya Janata Party apart from the role of founder members and ideologues, said sources. “Sessions on how Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya gave the idea of ‘integral humanism’ while establishing the Jana Sangh, which was adopted by BJP (the largest political party in the world), will also be held. Besides, discussions on how to spread the idea among the grassroot level, how to raise society with the help of power, will be discussed at the training camp,” said Sharma. BJP said after the workshop for trainers, training camps will be organised in 1,059 mandals of the state from November 25 to December 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/scindia-to-attend-bjp-workshop-tomorrow/articleshow/79289672.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||BSF officer with links to illegal cattle trade held||Kolkata: Satish Kumar, the BSF officer who was earlier booked by the CBI in a cattle-smuggling case, was arrested by the central investigating agency on Tuesday after he allegedly failed to justify “favours” shown to a section of illegal cattle traders during his tenure as commandant of BSF battalions in Malda from December 2015 to December 2017. Roles of a few more officers are also being probed. Kumar was summoned to the investigating agency’s Nizam Palace office on Tuesday morning and placed under arrest after several hours of questioning, CBI officials said. “More than 20,000 cows being smuggled to Bangladesh had been seized during Kumar’s posting as a BSF commandant between December 2015 and April 2017,” a CBI official said. The agency had earlier conducted raids at 13 locations across the country, including Kolkata, Murshidabad, Ghaziabad, Amritsar and Raipur, in connection with the case. During investigation, the central agency found that not only were the smugglers not arrested after herds of illegal cattle were seized, the seizure lists were modified to reduce the price of cattle during auctions. The CBI FIR mentions three cattle traders—Enamul Haque, Anarul Sheikh and Golam Mostafa — who allegedly had a “nexus” with Kumar and a few other BSF officers. It was discovered during probe that the seized cattle were auctioned off within 24 hours with the help of Jangipur Customs office. The size and breed of the animals were changed on the seizure list so that they fetched a much lower price at the auction and the three traders arranged payouts for the BSF officers to facilitate the process. Besides, only a select batch of bidders were allowed to participate in the auction. In the FIR, the CBI alleges that Haque paid Rs 2,000 per cow to the BSF officers and Rs 500 per animal to a few Customs officials. Another 10% of the bid amount was paid on the spot to the officials during the auction. Haque, who was earlier arrested, was granted conditional bail by a special CBI court. Kumar allegedly got his son Bhuvan Bhaskar employed in Haque’s company, Haque Industries Pvt Ltd, between May and December, 2017. He received a salary of Rs 30,000 each month. Kumar will be produced at a special CBI court on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bsf-officer-with-links-to-illegal-cattle-trade-held/articleshow/79284757.cms||Rohit Khanna
November 19, 2020||Meerut||3 dead, many injured as roofs of four housesin rural Meerut collapse due to 'cylinder blast'||Meerut: Three persons, including two children aged eight and nine, died while 10 others were left injured after a powerful explosion supposedly caused by a cooking gas cylinder tore apart roofs of four dwellings in Falawada area of rural Meerut in UP.Rescue operations continued for two days on Tuesday and Wednesday. Prima facie, a cylinder along with a few firecrackers is said to have caused the blast.The deceased were identified as Nisaar, 40, Faizal, 8, and Shadaan, 9. Two persons continue to be critical and were referred to a higher medical facility in Delhi.On Wednesday, police teams, intelligence bureau and forensic teams reached the spot for further investigation. Forensic teams took samples and sent them for testing.Meerut SP rural Avinash Pandey said, “It is difficult to confirm what caused the blast. We are waiting for the forensic report to arrive. The debris is being removed from the spot.”Sources said that there was a stock of crackers at Nisaar’s house for Diwali and it probably caused the loud explosion. They were mainly involved in making firecrackers, the sources added. However, his relatives said that it was due to a gas cylinder explosion.“A probe has been ordered. The guilty will be punished as per the law,” Pandey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/3-dead-many-injured-as-roofs-of-four-housesin-rural-meerut-collapse-due-to-cylinder-blast/articleshow/79288662.cms||Ishita Bhatia
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Which side are you on, citizens ask KMDA, the Lake custodian||KOLKATA: Green activists, former environment department officials and senior lawyers have questioned the mandate of Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) in the wake of its decision to move Supreme Court against a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order on banning Chhath Puja at Rabindra Sarobar to preserve its biodiversity. Terming the KMDA’s move as the rarest of rare instance in which a government agency had taken to court an environment order that was based on recommendations of senior government officials, including the chairman of statutory bodies like the environment department and Kolkata Improvement Trust (KIT) that was in charge of the Lake’s upkeep and preservation till it was merged with KMDA a couple of years ago, state pollution control board’s former law officer Biswajit Mukherjee said it could have a serious snowballing effect on society. “Senior officials of government agencies like the West Bengal Pollution Control Board, West Bengal Biodiversity Board, Botanical Survey of India and Zoological Survey of India were part of the expert committee that submitted an Environment Impact Report of Rabindra Sarobar, following which the order to insulate Sarobar from any religious or social function was taken to preserve its biodiversity. The WBPCB chairman was entrusted with the task of editing the EIA and publishing it in the form of a book,” said Naba Datta, secretary of Sabuj Mancha, a platform of environmental groups and individuals with green concerns. Subhas Datta, whose petition before the Calcutta High Court green bench over Sarobar’s conservation was subsequently transferred to NGT and led to the ban order, said KMDA’s mandate was to maintain the Lake for which funds were provided under the Naitonal Lake Conservation Scheme by the ministry of environment and forest. “It’s extremely perplexing that affected parties — representatives of Chhath devotees like Bihari Samaj and Bihar Nagrik Sangh — have not moved the court. Instead, KMDA, which is a government body and is entrusted with the upkeep of Sarobar, has taken such extraordinary steps to push for Chhath that will pollute the Lake. There may be differences in opinion on how much pollution will happen but there is absolutely no doubt that if thousands of people assemble there to perform rituals, there will be pollution,” he said. Senior high court advocate Siddhartha Mitra, who has taken up many environmental cases pro bono, said KMDA’s action had set a dangerous precedent. “We are a secular state and KMDA is a government agency. It should in no way get involved in the promotion of a religious festival. The court has not said that Chhath Puja should stop. It has only called for the conservation of an ecologically sensitive waterbody that draws hundreds of species of birds and other fauna to be left undisturbed from such religious functions. When the cracker ban was imposed during Kali Puja and Diwali, it was for the environment and not against any religion. Very correctly, the government did not go to a superior court against it,” he pointed out. A KMDA official said the decision to move Supreme Court had been taken to not just protect the interest of Chhath devotees but also prevent environment cost being slapped on the agency and KMDA officials being docked for contempt of court. “Of course this is not KMDA’s mandate. But we have failed to implement the order. This was the only option left before us: either get the NGT order vacated or ensure compliance with active role of law enforcement agencies following the Supreme Court order,” he added. KMDA chairman Firhad Hakim said the agency had prepared venues — both natural and artificial waterbodies — to serve as alternatives to Rabindra Sarobar following the high court order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/which-side-are-you-on-citizens-ask-kmda-the-lake-custodian/articleshow/79289722.cms||Subhro Niyogi
November 19, 2020||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Bypolls over, reshuffle of top bureaucrats on cards||BHOPAL: With the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government getting back to business after bypolls to 28 assembly seats, next on cards is a major administrative ‘surgery’ involving officials of the rank of secretary and district collectors. Sources in the mantralaya said formalities have been completed and most names of officials for the rejig are finalised. Apart from district collectors, charge of few secretaries and deputy secretary rank officials in the secretariat would also be changed. There will also be changes in the boards and corporations. Few additional chief secretary and principal secretary rank officials are presently holding charge of two or more departments and in such cases, additional responsibility of such department heads may be given to other officials. The government, after taking over in March, has effected some bureaucratic changes in phases due to the pandemic and bypolls. The feedback from the public representatives of different districts would be a major factor for posting new collectors. There are also complaints against few collectors of not responding to public representatives, while others have completed two years in a district. Such collectors may be brought to the secretariat or their districts may be changed, said sources in the secretariat. Some of the ministers have demanded district collectors of their choice. Meanwhile, soon after bypoll results and end of model code of conduct, government has reinstated the district collectors changed by the election commission. It is learnt that collectors of twelve districts, where byelections were not held would be considered for change. Based on their performances few would get bigger districts while others would be adjusted at the secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bypolls-over-reshuffle-of-top-bureaucrats-on-cards/articleshow/79289709.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Speak up about mental health issues, experts tell men||BENGALURU: The pandemic has brought mental issues in focus this year and experts say that though the stress has affected everyone, men comparatively spoke less about it because of societal expectations and stigma against showing their vulnerabilities. On International Men’s Day, celebrated every year on November 19, TOI spoke to experts and Bengalureans to find out how conversations are changing around mental health among men. Chandan H, a city-based entrepreneur, says men’s mental health is “way different” and the rat race creates unnecessary pressure on them. “Even when they are to be married, the bride’s family is fixated on how much a boy earns and not whether he can be a good husband,” he said. “Boys are brought up to be tough, caregivers, strong and silent. They are taught never to show weaknesses, which is unhealthy.” Shalini B, a student, says 2020 was indeed a landmark year as her cousin finally acknowledged mental health issues after years of keeping mum about it. “He was one of those people who actually believed boys don’t cry, and tears are a sign of weakness,” Shalini said. “Thankfully, during the lockdown, we had a lot of discussion and he educated himself on the subject through social platforms. Now, he is open to the idea that mental health issues are real. These are baby steps, and I am happy men are breaking unrealistic pressures and expectations.” Experts say suppression of emotions and lack of communication can lead to a negative effect on individuals, their relationships, work, lifestyle and productivity. Puneet Manuja, co-founder, YourDOST, an emotional wellness platform for individuals and corporates, said 70% of their clients are men, which shows males are more inclined to an anonymous platform to discuss their mental issues. He said it is more important for men to speak openly about mental problems. “Be it financial issues or anxiety, they must share their emotions with family or peers. Otherwise, it hits aspects of their lives,” he said, adding anxiety and irritation build up and is often released as anger. “Society looks at anger as a more acceptable emotion rather than crying. But it harms the person even more if anger leads to guilt.” Dr Manoj Kumar Sharma, professor, department of clinical psychology & coordinator, SHUT Clinic, Nimhans, says persistent change in mood is a sign that individuals must seek help. “Society needs to accept that men, like all of us, have emotions and undergo stress and are vulnerable,” he said. “We should communicate and let our family know what we are going through and seek help,” Dr Sharma said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/speak-up-about-mental-health-issues-experts-tell-men/articleshow/79289730.cms||Farheen Hussain
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Last year’s intent missing, Rabindra Sarobar left unguarded||KOLKATA: Barely any activity was visible at Rabindra Sarobar on Wednesday evening other than a handful of labourers digging holes along a section of the perimeter wall to plant logs for barricading the area. The gates were unmanned. There were no posters along the guardrails outlining the salient points of the NGT order or listing the alternative waterbodies available in the vicinity for Chhath Puja. Evening walkers appeared sceptical about what lay in store with KMDA set to appeal for allowing Chhath here on Thursday, a day before the festival. With 48 hours to go for Pehla Ardhya, the third day of Chhath when worshippers travel to a waterbody to pray to the setting sun, the scene at Sarobar was in sharp contrast to what had prevailed two days prior to Chhath last year. Then, police pickets had been set up at all the gates, posters had been strung up announcing the Lake's closure and the NGT ban order. Over the past month, KMDA had organized two stakeholder meetings to convince KMC councillors in adjoining wards as well as members of the community to cooperate with the order and perform Chhath elsewhere. KMDA did initiate a campaign in select localities on Wednesday, urging devotees to comply with the NGT directive. But it was rather muted, probably owing to the uncertainty over whether the ban will be in place or the Supreme Court will allow Chhath to be performed at the Lake. Last year, a much more high-decibel campaign had been initiated nearly a fortnight before Chhath. Posters and festoons detailing the NGT orders had been displayed all over the Lake's periphery railing. None had been put up till dusk on Wednesday. Police deployment, or the lack of it, was also conspicuous on Wednesday. This day last year, there were a good number of police personnel at the gates. Inside, there were security guards. All of them appeared resolute to stop Chhath devotees from entering the Lake complex. This year, private security guards have not received any order yet on stopping devotees. A large part of the wall on the southern side adjacent to Tollygunge station was found completely open. Last year, this wall had been vertically extended with corrugated tin sheets at least two days before Chhath. Morning and evening walkers as well as environment activists were also a lot more expectant of a positive outcome of the long-drawn campaign last year. This year, there is a large dose of skepticism about KMDA's intent and a tense wait for Thursday Supreme Court verdict. Sumita Banerjee, a Lake enthusiast, said, “We have urged KMDA to carry out their duty to comply with the NGT order. The order is still prevailing till the apex court uphold or upturn it. But this year, KMDA’s body language lacks confidence. What they will do on the day of Chhat is a million-dollar question.” Mrityunjoy Chhatterjee, another Lake lover, added: “We are not against Chhat devotees. Our only concern is the environment of the Lake that has decayed over the years, thanks to felling of trees and concretization. Chhath Puja is definitely an assault on the biodiversity of the Lake.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/last-yrs-intent-missing-sarobar-left-unguarded/articleshow/79289733.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: No set population pattern, Covid-19 spread uneven across 11 districts||NEW DELHI: Data of active Covid-19 cases in the city suggests that the spread of the virus doesn’t follow any set population pattern and the distribution is uneven across all 11 districts. While South West district has the highest number of 6,391 cases, it is followed by South with 5,815 cases, North West 5,255, South East 5,013 and West 4,895. The densely populated North East district has only 918 active cases, which are much fewer compared with the far less populated New Delhi district that has 1,980 active cases. East district, which has a population of over 17 lakh, has just a third of cases compared with Central district, which has a population of 5.8 lakh according to the 2011 census. While Central district has 3,985 active cases, East has 3,768. In some districts, the number of active cases doubled in the past one month, probably due to the onset of winter, pollution, festive gatherings in markets and people violating Covid guidelines by not wearing masks or following social distancing. The number of containment zones was 4,430 on November 15, which increased to 4,449 two days later. Almost two-thirds of the active cases are located outside containment zones. Currently, 1.6 lakh people are living in containment zones. Their numbers fell drastically in the past two months after the authorities started creating micro-containment zones to ensure that only affected people and those at risk were confined to the sealed places and economic activities in the remaining area were not hampered. Among the active cases, 28,532 are located outside containment zones, while 15,242 live within them. All districts have fewer cases within containment zones compared with outside. In South district, nearly thrice the number of infected individuals live outside containment zones. The comparison of active cases and the prevalence of Covid antibodies has presented an interesting scenario. While Central district has the highest presence of antibodies at 49.7%, it doesn’t have fewer cases. The 918 active cases in North East district, where 23.4% people have antibodies, are among the lowest across the city. The positivity rate among the districts is also different. “The positivity rate also varies widely among special surveillance groups, including those living in unauthorised colonies and slums,” said an official, adding all districts were making efforts to carry out more tests. A report of tests done on special surveillance groups, which include domestic workers, delivery persons, service providers like electricians, plumbers and mechanics, showed that the positivity rate among them was 1%-5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-set-population-pattern-virus-spread-uneven-across-11-districts/articleshow/79290904.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Shrines welcome devotees with Covid-19 safeguards in place||Nashik/Kolhapur: Devotees have started visiting places of worship across the state as temples, mosques, churches, gurdwaras and other shrines reopened eight months after being shut down in March to contain the spread of the Covid-19. All places of worship put in place the prescribed standard operating procedure (SOP) to safeguard visitors’ health.In the temples, devotees were not allowed to sit together. They were instead asked to have a ‘darshan’ and move on. In the churches, the Mass was conducted with people seated 6 feet apart. In mosques, people were asked to occupy the spaces marked by maintaining the prescribed physical distance.Many devotees visited the Saptashrungi temple where the Shree Saptashrung Nivasini Devi Trust had made arrangements for people to enter and exit the temple without touching anything. “There are 550 stairs to the shrine and two people were allowed to stand on alternate staircases in circles marked in yellow. The shrine had 5,500 visitors on the first day and 7,000 on the second day,” said the sources said.The first Mass was held at St Anne’s Cathedral, Nashik Road, at 6.30 pm on Monday after it as officially opened by Bishop Lourdes Daniel. “Special prayers were offered for peace and harmony in the country, for the soul of the deceased and eradication of Covid-19. The SOP issued by the government was also displayed on the premises and conveyed through social media,” said the sources in the cathedral.Similar arrangements were made and followed inside and outside the mosques. “Thermal scanning, soap dispenses and sanitizers were used. Only people wearing masks were allowed in. They were asked to occupy marked spaces only and offer prayers without touching anyone,” said Shahar-e-Khatib Hafiz Hisamuddin.In Kolhapur, market areas around the temples regained some of their vibrancy. More than 150 vendors along the approach road, connecting Bindu chowk to Bhavani mandap, restarted sale of items like Kolhapuri chappals, imitation jewellery, hosiery items etc.Samir Nadaf, an activist and owner of a shop, said: “Most business places in the city, such as Rajarampuri, Shahupuri, Gujari, were unlocked earlier. Our area is the last one to be unlocked. I had to sell my hosiery stock to rural traders as there were no tourists here. Instead, I had started selling masks.”Mahesh Jadhav, chairman of Paschim Maharashtra Devasthan Samiti, said, “The Diwali period usually see a large turnout of tourists. Children and adults have holidays and they visit the temple. Also, many weddings take place after Diwali. Now, some people are still wary of the Covid crisis. We will ensure their safety by carrying out regular sanitisation and enforcing social distancing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shrines-welcome-devotees-with-covid-19-safeguards-in-place/articleshow/79288680.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Mumbai||Maharashtra yields, tells Bombay high court will treat PV Varavara Rao at Nanavati for two weeks||MUMBAI: The state government on Wednesday told Bombay high court that it will immediately shift ailing Telugu poet P V Varavara Rao from Taloja prison hospital to Nanavati Superspeciality Hospital for further medical investigations and treatment. “Dr P V Varavara Rao is not to be discharged by Nanavati hospital without informing this court,” a bench of Justices S S Shinde and Madhav Jamdar directed after “accepting” public prosecutor Deepak Thakare’s statement that the home minister has consented to this as a “special case.” “State government is ready to treat him in Nanavati Hospital for two weeks,” Thakare said. Earlier, the judges had asked the state to consider shifting Rao (80) to Nanavati, else they would pass an order on merits. State backed shifting Rao to JJ, kin objected“Ultimately the man who is almost on his deathbed wants to receive treatment. Can the State say “no, no, we’ll treat him in Taloja (hospital)?” asked Justice Shinde. The court heard a petition by Rao’s wife P Hemalatha, through advocate R Sathyanarayanan Iyer, to release him on bail and also an interim plea to shift him to Nanavati hospital. Rao is an accused in the Elgar Parishad case and has been in prison since August 28, 2018. Senior advocates Indira Jaising and Anand Grover, for Hemalatha, said that since May 2020, Rao’s health has steadily deteriorated and Taloja prison hospital does not have trained medical personnel and infrastructure. “If they can’t look after him, release him. His family will look after him,” Jaising said. She read a pathology report, outsourced by Taloja prison hospital, which referred to Rao “as 45 years male.” Jaising said Rao, who was diagnosed with Covid-19 in July, risks multiple organ failure. She said he “is bedridden, in diapers, with a urine bag” and suffers from ailments, including of kidney, brain, liver, heart, dementia, low sodium level, and has urinary tract infection as the catheter has not been changed for three months. “It’s a shame I have to argue for limited relief,” she added. She said following HC’s November 12 order, he was evaluated by Nanavati hospital only for 15 minutes on videoconference, but not examined physically. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, for National Investigation Agency, opposed shifting of Rao to Nanavati hospital saying JJ hospital has all facilities to treat him. Thakare backed shifting Rao to JJ hospital. He said while the state has no objection to shifting him to a private hospital, it will not bear the costs. “Even though he is shifted to Nanavati Hospital, he will be in your custody. Where is the question of them (Rao’s family) bearing the expenses?” asked Justice Shinde. Jaising said Rao was found covered in urine in JJ Hospital for want of staff. The judges said that in the present Covid-19 situation, there is a lot of workload for the staff. The judges, in their order, noted that in view of Thakare’s statement, “we do not feel it necessary to record the reasons.” When Jaising insisted on two caveats, the judges accordingly directed that the medical report from Nanavati shall be submitted to court in a sealed envelope and Rao will not be discharged without informing the court. They also directed that his family will be allowed to meet him subject to hospital protocol. The matter is posted on December 3 “for further consideration of other reliefs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-yields-tells-hcwill-treat-varavara-atnanavati-for-2-wks/articleshow/79292026.cms||Rosy Sequeira
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Drop in Covid-19 cases during Diwali||Nashik: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases reported per day on average has reduced significantly in the city during Diwali as 116 cases were recorded per day between November 13 and 17. Between November 1 and 12, as many as 148 cases were reported on average every day. The officials of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials said they are expecting new cases to drop further below 100 cases per day over the next few days. There has been a drop in the number of new cases and a rise in the number of patients recovering during the last one and a half months. In September, the city had recorded a spike in the number of cases as over 850 cases were being recorded per day on an average. But in October, it dropped to 350 cases per day on an average and in November, it further reduced. The NMC officials said, “Apart from regular surveys to find suspected patients of Covid in containment zones, we had also started a health survey of the residents under the state government programme- My Family My Responsibility.” “We detected over 600 patients in the survey. We could reach every home during the survey, which yielded good results. With the drop in the number of new cases, the number of high and low-risk contacts of Covid- patients has also reduced,” added the officials. Meanwhile, the recovery rate of the city has now crossed the 96% mark. Beds in both civic and private hospitals have also become vacant by 85%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/drop-in-covid-19-cases-during-diwali/articleshow/79288700.cms||Tushar Pawar
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: TRS sticks to lucky charm, releases list with 105 names||HYDERABAD: Hoping the number six will prove lucky and again help the party emerge victorious in the civic elections, TRS has released the first list with 105 (1+5) candidates for GHMC elections on Wednesday. The pink party in 2018 before the assembly elections had released names of 105 nominees (of 119 seats). In that elections, TRS had won 88 seats. In the first list of candidates, there were not many surprises as majority of the incumbent corporators were given tickets except in four divisions. In some divisions, names of current corporators were put on hold where they got involved in controversies and facing allegations. And, also places where the party wants to replace the corporators with new faces. Cherlpally ward, being represented by mayor Bonthu Rammohan, candidate was not announced as the mayor was seeking a ticket for his wife Bonthu Sridevi Yadav. Similarly, Habsiguda corporator and wife of Uppal MLA Bethi Swapna Reddy’s name did not figure in the list. Amberpet MLA Kaleru Venkatesh’s wife and Golnaka corporator Kaleru Padma’s name too was not incorporated in the first list. In the Uppal constituency, nominees for nine divisions of 10 were not announced, while in Malkajgiri constituency, aspirants for five seats candidates were put on hold. Among those given tickets again include Musheerabad MLA Muta Gopal’s relative Muta Padma from Gandhinagar, TRS secretary general K Keshava Rao’s daughter Vijaya Lakshmi Gadwal, former MLA Teegala Krishna Reddy’s relative and Moosarambagh corporator Sunaritha Reddy and former Khairatabad MLA P Janardhan Reddy’s daughter P Vijaya Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-sticks-to-lucky-charm-releases-list-with-105-names/articleshow/79290909.cms||Koride Mahesh
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Revanth Reddy aide in Congress first list of 45 nominees||HYDERABAD: Congress on Wednesday announced the names of 45 candidates for wards going to polls in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation on December 1. Most of these wards are located in Malkajgiri, Chevella and Hyderabad parliamentary constituencies in Greater Hyderabad. Over 400 applications poured in at Gandhi Bhavan from aspirants seeking party tickets for 150 wards in GHMC. Malkajgiri MP A Revanth Reddy, former MP from Chevella Konda Vishweshwar Reddy and former minister Md Ali Shabbir played a key role in finalisation of a majority of the 45 candidates on Wednesday. Prominent among the candidates whose names were finalized include Kuna Srinivas Goud from Gajularamaram. Another significant name is Gopishetti Raghavender from Moosapet ward, son of TPCC election committee convener G Niranjan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/revanth-aide-in-cong-first-list-of-45-nominees/articleshow/79290962.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Oct saw most road fatalities, toll touches 119 in 10 months||Nashik: The month of October saw the highest number of road fatalities this year; with 19 deaths in 36 road accidents across the city. Police said the big reasons for the fatalities were rash driving and speeding. Officials of the city traffic police department said this year, though the number of accidents was high between January and March, the number of deaths was smaller. Then, there was a sudden rise in road accidents in the month of May. This, the police attributed to the empty streets during the lockdown. As many as 16 people lost their lives in the road accidents in May. However, in the subsequent months, the number of accidents came down. The number of accidents and deaths again went up in the month of October. The traffic police said that they were still ascertaining the cause for the rise in deaths in accidents. Police noted that though there was fewer accidents in October compared to the months of January-March, the number of fatalities was higher. This year, overall, there have been 322 road accidents, which have claimed 119 lives and left 235 people grievously injured. In October, apart from the fatalities, road accidents have also caused grievous injuries to 26 people. The police said that they have been taking up various measures to bring down the number of road accidents in the city. Spreading awareness about the use of helmet is a major focus area of the city police. This year, after the Covid-19 pandemic, the police have not taken any major drive about the use of helmet, though traffic police claim that they are regularly taking action against those motorists found without helmets and seat belts. Officials said that while their action is continuous, it is also upon motorists to adhere to traffic rules. Spots that witness maximum accidents and fatalities are earmarked as black-spots and measures are taken to reduce the number of mishaps at these spots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/oct-saw-most-road-fatalities-toll-touches-119-in-10-months/articleshow/79288720.cms||Santosh Sonawane
November 19, 2020||Bhopal||Covid-19 toll in city touches 500 mark, 27,891 infected||Bhopal: Amid talks about a ‘second wave’ of Covid-19 infection in the state capital and the district administration and health care staff gearing to meet the challenge, death toll due to the viral disease in the city touched 500 mark. The health bulletin issued by the state on Tuesday said 27,891 people have so far been infected by the virus. According to the bulletin, Covid-19 cases are again on the rise following the Diwali festival and cases in excess of 200 are being reported daily from the city. However, the figures of casualties are stable. In the past six days, one death has been reported due to Coronavirus infection daily. “We are apprehensive of a second wave in the next fortnight. By that time, people who have got infected in the hustle-bustle of Diwali would be known. Efforts are being made to identify them and treat them in time. We shall also undertake a publicity campaign to warn people not to let masks go off their faces and remain in Covid discipline,” said district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore. A group of activists disputed the figure and said names of several gas victims and those, who received treatment in private hospitals have not found place in the list of deceased who died of Covid-19. “The gas relief department is already inquiring into the number of deaths that have taken place at the BMHRC. All deaths were not reported to the administration by various hospitals and therefore, the figure does not reflect the right picture,” said Bhopal Group of Information & Action co-convener, Rachna Dhingra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-toll-in-city-touches-500-mark-27891-infected/articleshow/79289746.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mysuru||Residents oppose liquor shop near Agriculture Research Centre||MYSURU: Kannada activists on Wednesday staged a protest in front of the deputy commissioner’s office against the excise officials for granting permission for a wine shop near Agriculture Research Centre in Naganahalli near Mysuru in Naganahalli panchayat limits. Protesting the opening of wine shop in a rented building belonging to local politician despite stiff opposition from the localites, the activists said it vitiates the peaceful atmosphere in the region as hundreds of farmers from across the state and other parts of the country visit the research centre off Mysuru- Bengaluru constructed by Mysuru maharaja Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar in 1917. They visit the centre to attend seminars, workshops, demonstration classes, for soil testing, to interact with agriculture scientists and for other purposes. Though the government had given clear-cut orders not to give permission to open the bars within 100 meters of radius of educational institutions, prayer halls and temples, the excise department officials permitted to open a wine shop near agriculture centre flouting this order, they alleged. They also threatened to intensify the stir if government fails to withdraw its permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/residents-oppose-liquor-shop-near-agriculture-research-centre/articleshow/79290097.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||BBMP to refer only exceptionally critical cases to private hospitals||Bengaluru: With bed occupancy in private hospitals being an issue with cases falling, BBMP has said it will now refer only exceptionally critical Covid-19 cases or those that require specialised care to private hospitals. When cases began to mount, the government had ordered private hospitals to set aside 50% of their beds to treat Covid-19 patients referred by public authorities. The government bore costs of treating these patients. However, private hospitals are demanding that the caveat be removed so that they can use the beds to treat non-Covid patients. BBMP data shows 80% of beds in private hospitals and 70% in government facilities are vacant. A BBMP circular released released on Tuesday said, “All bed-blocking for Covid positive cases taken up the Zonal Command and Control Centres (ZCCC's) for General and HDU beds shall be restricted to government hospitals and government medical colleges only (sic).” It said patients will be referred to private hospitals only if bed occupancy reaches 90% in government facilities. The circular only angered managements of private hospitals. “It lacks clarity on what private hospitals should do with 50% of beds reserved for government-referred patients. It’s totally unfair on the part of the government to continue keeping our hospital beds under its control and not refer patients,” said Dr HM Prasanna, president-elect, Private Hospitals’ Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA). He said many patients preferred private hospitals under government quota. PHANA office-bearers say health minister K Sudhakar had orally told them to use the beds for non-Covid patients, but say it’s hard to implement. “We need it in writing. Converting Covid beds to non-Covid also involve logistics issues and infection control measures,” said a member. However, in the wake of a second wave of infection in Delhi, the government appears to be hedging its bets on the issue. “We want the government to reduce bed its share to 10-20% from 50%,” said Dr Prasanna. “If there is a second wave, we can augment the number of beds to 50%. But for now, the focus has to be shifted to non-Covid treatment for which a majority of hospitals do not have enough beds.” While 63,180 cases and 18,364 admissions were reported between October 1 and 15, the numbers fell to 37,778 and 10,972, respectively, in the second half of the month. Between November 1 and 15, Bengaluru reported 19,355 cases and 5,894 admissions. Data from Centralised Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS), which provides real-time bed availability, showed only 30% of 1,001 beds in government hospitals were occupied as at 11pm on November 16, while it was 20% for 4,525 beds in private hospitals. At Covid Care Centres, only 67% of the 200 beds have been occupied, Citizens too are unhappy with BBMP’s decision. “Facilities in government hospitals are poor which is why we prefer private hospitals. This isn’t right,” said Abhishek KV, a Covid-19 patient who was treated at a government hospital. Sachin Ranganath, who recovered from the infection, said the government should allow patients to decide where they want to be treated instead of making it compulsory. “In government hospitals, patients are not permitted a single room and common toilets are disgusting. People prefer private facilities because of hygiene and during a pandemic that is very important,” Ranganath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bbmp-to-refer-only-exceptionally-critical-cases-to-private-hospitals/articleshow/79289398.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||College students continue to skip regular classes on Day 2||Bengaluru: Attendance in degree colleges across Bengaluru continued to be thin on Wednesday, the second day of reopening, although some institutions reported a slight increase with students receiving their Covid negative certificates. Colleges are trying various means to instill confidence in students to get them on campus. “Students do not want to get tested outside,” said Karisidappa, vice-chancellor, Visvesvaraya Technological University. “We have asked colleges to get the facility on campus and students are happy with that arrangement. We hope attendance will improve next week. Principals are counselling students on safety measures in place on campus to instil confidence.” HN Meera, principal, Seshadripuram College said she spoke to students and parents during online classes to find out why they staying away from regular classes. The college saw only 5 students on Day 2, half the number on Day 1. “Many cited transport issues. The frequency of BMTC and KSRTC buses is low and many have to change buses. Parents fear this will increase their chances of contracting the virus,” she said. Students also say many hostels are yet to reopen. “Some community hostels will open on November 25 and some others in January. Until then, these students cannot join in,” said a faculty member of Maharani University Cluster. The Science stream had 19 girls on Day 2. “We have been instructed to release a timetable for practical classes and this might push up attendance. Our online classes are going well,” said HN Ramesh, principal, University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE) that again had no students on Wednesday. KR Venugopal, VC, Bangalore University said, “Attendance was lower than on Day 1. Many came just out of curiosity on Tuesday. The numbers will rise next week when RT-PCR results come. We are waiting for more numbers to start mess facility in our hostels. Lab work has to be held first. It will get other students to turn up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/college-students-continue-to-skip-regular-classes-on-day-2/articleshow/79289756.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hubballi||Decline in air quality pushes lung cancer cases up in Hubballi||HUBBALLI: Hubballi’s polluted air could be exposing residents to the increased risk of lung cancer. According to Dr Rudresh Tabali, surgical oncology consultant at HCG NMR Curie Center of Oncology, lung cancer cases have gone up by 10% in a year. Compared to last year, definitely the number of patients diagnosed with lung cancer have gone up — and increasing dust is one the major reasons, he said. “In Hubballi, people are breathing highly polluted air — AQI being 68 — when compared with Belagavi which has AQI of 35.33. The difference is self explanatory. Even stepping outside the comfort of our homes mean battling the dust particles present in the thick blanket of smog,” he added. The air quality is hitting a new low with every passing day and has remained in the severe category during this season for the past couple of years. A rise in lung cancer cases have been reported not just in Hubballi, but also in Belagavi which has witnessed a surge of 2-3%. Due to the difference in climate and air quality, the numbers in Belagavi are much less compared to Hubballi, he said. Radiation oncology consultant Dr Vinay Kumar Muttagi said Hubballi residents are subjected to constant exposure to dust during their daily activities with works under way at several roads. “Lung cancer is usually neglected in the universe of cancer management in India. It is not one of the first diagnoses in the mind of the doctors, neither is it a top priority in cancer treatment centres. Even when we talk about awareness, we restrict ourselves to breast and gynaecological cancers in women and to head and neck cancers in men, but conveniently forget lung cancers,” he added. “Earlier, I would have only a patient diagnosed with lung cancer a month, but now I have around 3-4 patients a month,” he said. Lung cancer awareness drive The HCG NMR Cancer Centre will hold an awareness campaign on lung cancer along with a screening programme from November 23 to 30. People with signs and symptoms such as cough, difficulty in breathing, spitting or coughing blood, chest pain or problems of swallowing can undergo a free screening at the centre. The hospital has capacity to conduct screening for 60 to 70 persons a day, said Dr Tabali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/decline-in-air-quality-pushes-lung-cancer-cases-up-in-hubballi/articleshow/79289424.cms||J Abbas Mulla
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Rabindra Sarobar's AQI turns poor two days ahead of festival||KOLKATA: A couple of days ahead of Chhath, the air quality index (AQI) of Rabindra Sarobar swung to poor from moderate for the first time this season. Track the pollution level in your city“Rabindra Sarobar’s air quality is the best in the city, thanks to the large waterbody and the dense green cover. When the AQI of Sarobar turns poor, it is very bad for the rest of the city. Rarely does the AQI of Sarobar swing so much. If Chhath devotees light firecrackers, the air quality will worsen further,” said Somendra Mohan Ghosh, a Lake morning walker and an environment activist. TimesViewThere should be a round-the-year sensitisation drive to make communities aware of the harmful impact their celebrations may have on the city and its environment. Convincing citizens and making them important stakeholders in the effort to improve our environment would make our job easier.The AQI of Sarobar hovered around 220 throughout Wednesday. “If the air quality is poor two days before Chhath, it is going to be severe after Chhath. The revellers indulge in a lot of fireworks. The assault on the environment is terrible,” said Sudipto Bhattacharya of Saviours and Friends of Environment. The overall air quality of the city is gradually moving towards a very poor category after a long spell of good air days. The air quality in the north remained very poor (301-400) for almost the entire day. In this kind of air quality, even a healthy person can have breathing distress, said a WBPCB scientist. The fire at Promod Nagar dumping site might be the reason behind such a spike in AQI. AQI is driven by PM2.5, the finest of the particulate matter with its diameter being one thirtieth of a human hair. The dominance of PM2.5 leads to intrusion of fine particulate matter into the bloodstream, causing havoc with human lives, said pulmonologist Arup Haldar. With thermal inversion, the AQI of the city has been fast turning for the worse. “In winter, pollutants hang low in the atmosphere because of the lower earth surface temperature. We breathe in more poison this time. Don't forget air pollution is the single biggest cause of deaths,” warned pulmonologistSushmita Roy Chowdhury. “Crackers generate aerosols that are harmful. It may trigger eye problems like irritation and allergies,” said Ayan Mohanta, senior consultant at Disha Eye Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lake-aqi-turns-poor-two-days-ahead-of-festival/articleshow/79289744.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
November 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||MLAs, former ministers too faced criminal cases||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: On Wednesday, VK Ebrahim Kunju became the third MLA to be arrested from the UDF in the present Assembly. Kovalam MLA M Vincent was the first one to get arrested in July 2017 on charges of rape, based on the statement given by a woman from Balaramapuram. MLA MC Kamaruddin was arrested on November 7, 2020 in connection with Fashion Gold cheating case. Though MLAs were arrested in many political cases in the past and during the time of Emergency, not many legislators were arrested in criminal cases. In August 2012 CPM MLA TV Rajesh was arrested as one of the accused in Abdul Shukoor murder case. To evade arrest, he had sought anticipatory bail in high court, but it was rejected. He surrendered before a court in Kannur and was remanded in prison for two weeks. Along with him, CPM district secretary (Kannur) P Jayarajan was also arrested. In February, 2011 R Balakrishna Pillai was given a two-year prison term in Idamalayar case; but he was not an MLA then. In 2002, Chengannur MLA Sobhana George was arrested during the regime of AK Antony government for forging a document against the then minister KV Thomas. Janata Dal (S) leader Jose Thettayil, who represented Angamaly in the previous assembly, faced rape charges in 2013. He evaded arrest after procuring anticipatory bail from the high court. Thettayil was not given a ticket to contest in last election. CPM’s Thalassery MLA MV Rajagopalan Nair was jailed in 1980 after being awarded a life sentence by the trial court in the murder of RSS activist Kunnothuparambu Ravindran. There are several MLAs who were involved in sex scandals, but none of them quit. Ministers PT Chacko to AK Saseendran had to quit their posts when sexual allegations were levelled against them. A Neelalohithadasan Nadar, PK Kunhalikutty, PJ Joseph and KB Ganesh Kumar were other ministers who had to quit following their involvement in crimes against women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/mlas-former-ministers-too-faced-criminal-cases/articleshow/79289759.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Nashik||Shirdi’s Saibaba temple allows 1,000-2,000 additional visitors over the earlier cap of 6,000 devotees a day||Nashik: Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust (SSST) is allowing 1,000-2,000 more devotees daily although it had announced a cap of 6,000 devotees per day due to Covid situation. The SSST authorities said that ever since the Saibaba temple reopened for devotees on October 16, it has been allowing around 7,000-8,000 pilgrims. “We are allowing more devotees for Saibaba darshan since there would be no problem in adhering to Covid-19 safety protocols even with the increased number of devotees. The devotees are keen to have darshan of Saibaba and, hence, we want to accommodate them without violating the Covid safety guidelines,” said SSST authorities. SSST has framed Covid safety rules based on the standard operating procedure framed by Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). The Saibaba temple trust has announced that of the total number of devotees allowed daily, 50% would be allowed paid entry while the remaining would be allowed free darshan. For paid darshan, devotees will have to register online. They can register 60 days prior to their visit. For free darshan, the trust has installed a biometric system. “The bulk of pilgrims who have so far visited the temple after reopening are from outside Maharashtra. Many of them are even booking rooms at our Bhakt Niwas,” said trust authorities. Hotels in the temple town have reopened after devotees started thronging the temple. However, Shirdi Hotel Association president Abhay Shelke Patil said that although most of the hotels have reopened, footfall of customers is still low.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/shirdis-saibaba-temple-allows-1000-2000-additional-visitors-over-the-earlier-cap-of-6000-devotees-a-day/articleshow/79288707.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Bittu cries win after JP Nadda defers visit||LUDHIANA: BJP’s national president JP Nadda’s three-day Punjab tour has been postponed and MP Ravneet Singh Bittu is terming it as his big win as a few days back Bittu had warned Nadda against visiting Punjab. Bittu had claimed that he, along with farmer organisations, would gherao Nadda and protest against him wherever he goes. Nadda was coming to Punjab on a three-day visit to take stock of the preparations of the party cadre in the wake of the recent snapping of ties with SAD and the resentment being faced by the party from farmer organisations. Nadda had also plans to inaugurate 10 offices of the BJP in different districts of Punjab on Thursday during his visit. Meanwhile, BJP has termed Bittu’s call for protest a drama and publicity stunt. Bittu said, “It is good for the BJP and for Nadda that his visit has been deferred. He is aware that there is resentment against him and his party among people of Punjab, especially farmers. Two days ago I had openly said that I, along with farmers, arhtiyas and workers, would protest against Nadda. He or any other BJP national level leader does not have any right to visit our state when their party has back-stabbed Punjabis, especially poor farmers by passing the black laws.” Meanwhile, lashing out against Bittu, district president of BJP Pushpendra Singal said, “BJP president has postponed his visit due to demise of our vice-president Mridual Sinha. Whether its the Congress or Bittu, they do not leave any chance to play politics. Congress leaders have already been exposed in front of the farmers. Their acts like bandhs , dharnas and instigating farmers to stop the movement of trains too have backfired as entire industry of Punjab has been pushed into crisis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bittu-cries-win-after-nadda-defers-visit/articleshow/79289752.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC: BJP names 21 in 1st list amid protests||HYDERABAD: After a day-long protests by the party cadre, the BJP on Wednesday night released the first list with 21 candidates for the GHMC polls. The ruling TRS released a list of 105 candidates. The party leadership, which was finetuning the list, was expected to announce the names of 50 candidates but only 21 candidates were announced. The party warned the cadres that if they keep protesting serious action would be taken action against them. Trouble began in the morning when some party activists from Goshamahal staged a protest in front of Musheerabad party office. They opposed ticket being given to a relative of a top leader. Tension prevailed when an activist tried immolate himself even as police tried to stop him. Several workers protested at local party offices as well as the city office. The state office saw many aspirants protesting and raising a hue and cry on being denied the ticket. Some of the party activists were upset that those who had joined the BJP from other parties were preferred and given tickets. The party leadership, which was finetuning the list, was expected to announce the names of 50 candidates but only 21 candidates were announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-names-21-in-1st-list-amid-protests/articleshow/79290995.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: As Covid refuses to give in, wedding guests bow out||NEW DELHI: The number of guests allowed in wedding-related gatherings in the capital was capped at 50 on Wednesday after lieutenant governor Anil Baijal approved the AAP government’s proposal made in the wake of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases. The ceiling was increased to 200 on October 31. “The Covid-19 situation in Delhi has been reviewed and, in view of the sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases, which has been aggravated due to rising pollution levels owing to various factors, it has been decided that the ceiling of maximum persons in marriage-related gatherings outside the containment zones may be reduced to 50 persons only,” stated an order signed by chief secretary Vijay Dev as the chairman of the state executive committee of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). In closed spaces, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed, with a ceiling of 50 people, while in open spaces, too, the cap will be at 50. In all functions, wearing of face masks, maintaining social distancing, thermal screening, and use of hand wash or sanitisers will be mandatory, the order stated. On October 31, DDMA had issued an order increasing the number of guests in such functions to 200 people or to a maximum of 50% capacity in a closed space. However, since the beginning of November, the capital has been witnessing a surge in Covid cases, with a daily count of even 8,500. The number of fatalities has also increased. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced that his government had sent a proposal to the LG, the chairperson of DDMA, for a cap on wedding guests. Watch Covid-19: Now only 50 guests allowed at weddings in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/as-covid-refuses-to-give-in-wedding-guests-bow-out/articleshow/79291029.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||MIM finalises first list, yet to declare it||Hyderabad: AIMIM has decided the first list of 44 candidates on Wednesday but did not release it officially. A party source said that slight changes were being made based on declared candidates of other parties. Another list will be released on Thursday. In 2016, the party won 44 seats. Outside Old City, the party bagged two wards in Rajendranagar constituency, two in Jubliee Hills constituency and one in Musheerabad. Though the list was declared late evening, since the afternoon around 25 candidates most of them sitting corportaors were given a green signal to file nominations on Thursday. “The candidates were instructed to start campaigning too,” said a AIMIM leader. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-finalises-first-list-yet-to-declare-it/articleshow/79290986.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Police seek community support for safe Chhath||Kolkata: Police on Wednesday stepped up its efforts to implement the ban on entry of revellers into Rabindra Sarobar and held a high-level meeting at Lalbazar to discuss ways to control crowd at waterbodies across the city. The cops have appealed to all to celebrate at home, stay away from crowded waterbodies and avoid crackers. “We have been told to reach out to the community and answer their queries. We are already seeing some positive outcomes. The community has come up with posters, asking devotees to celebrate at home,” said an officer. DC (SED) Sudip Sarkar visited the spot and took stock of the situation. Sources said an audit has shown that the Gobindapur side and the Tollygunge station side are the big challenges. However, there has been no talk of clamping Section 144 as yet. “As of now, we have not heard from KMDA about the possible shutdown date. We have been working largely on our own based on the court order. All officers have been asked to be clear about the dos and dont’s so that they can follow instructions,” said an officer. “Not everything can be done through traditional policing. We have assured them that the number of local waterbodies have been increased to take the load off Lake,” said a police source. Cps have promised extra deployment from the battalions and female cops. “Given the strategy of devotees, who kept women and children in front last year, we have asked for adequate female officers,” said an officer. The eastern suburban division held multiple meetings to keep revellers away from Subhas Sarobar as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-seek-community-support-for-safe-chhath/articleshow/79289750.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
November 19, 2020||Pune||Cops search for infant kidnapped in Hadapsar||Pune: The city police are investigating a complaint by a woman from Loni Pravara in Ahmednagar district stating that a woman co-passenger, who befriended her during their travel in a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus, kidnapped her four-month-old baby girl from Hadapsar on Tuesday evening. Senior inspector Balkrushna Kadam of the Hadapsar police said, “The woman, Manju Devidas More (22), had left home on Tuesday morning after a quarrel with her husband. She boarded an MSRTC bus around 12.30pm along with her daughter, Pranjali, to visit her maternal home at Wai in Satara.” “The other woman struck a friendly conversation with More and they started discussing the need to pierce the ears of children. The other woman told her that she knew an expert goldsmith in Hadapsar who does ear piercing for children and she forced her to alight at Swargate ST stand at around 5.30pm,” Kadam said. “When they reached Hadapsar, the other woman offered the complainant some food at a roadside eatery and took the child on the pretext of fetching her drinking water. However, she did not return. The complainant then approached the police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cops-search-for-infant-kidnapped-in-hadapsar/articleshow/79290993.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Devotees ‘reserve’ spots at Subhas Sarobar as KMDA fences premises to keep them out||KOLKATA: Contrasting scenes played out on the grounds at Subhas Sarobar on Wednesday as KMDA built fences where the boundary walls were low to prevent people from scaling them and, on the other hand, some locals prepared to perform the Chhath rituals at the lake. The Bengal government is likely to move the Calcutta High Court on Thursday seeking a modification of the November 10 order that banned Chhath celebrations at Subhas Sarobar and Rabindra Sarobar. The state is likely to indicate that the NGT order is only for Rabindra Sarobar and not Subhas Sarobar. The HC had stressed that the NGT order must be implemented without exception. It is likely to hear the case on Thursday. TOI on Wednesday found that some locals had started occupying spots on the Subhas Sarobar premises by placing puja items on the walkway around the water body. KMDA officials, however, said that they were not much worried over preventing Chhath Puja at Subhas Sarobar as they would be able to put in place all necessary preventive measures by Friday morning before the rituals start. “The stress is more on Rabindra Sarobar as it has around 25 gates. Subhas Sarobar, on the other hand, has only four-five gates. Locals often place bricks and other items by the water body to reserve their spots where they intend to perform the rituals, a few days before Chhath. But this will not be an issue for us,” said a KMDA official.  “There is a 200-metre stretch along Subhas Sarobar where the height of the boundary wall is low. Hence, we are putting up temporary barricades with bamboo at these places and will finish fencing up the stretch by Thursday evening. Besides we will also deploy an adequate number of security guards and all the gates will be shut,” the official added. Environment activists are hoping that the authorities take necessary measures to ensure that the biodiversity of Subhas Sarobar remains intact. “Music on loudspeakers and the waste left behind by the devotees have a huge impact on the biodiversity of the area,” said Naba Dutta, secretary of Sabuj Mancha, an umbrella body of environmental organizations and green activists. “Subhas Sarobar has remained much neglected over the years. There are several varieties and species of fish and trees in and around the lake. The authorities should ensure that there is no environmental degradation in the area,” said green activist S M Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/devotees-reserve-spots-at-subhas-sarobar-as-kmda-fences-premises-to-keep-them-out/articleshow/79289751.cms||Suman Chakraborti
November 19, 2020||Allahabad||HC notice to Centre, Uttar Pradesh on plea of jailed ‘PFI activists’||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Wednesday issued notices to the Central as well as the Uttar Pradesh government on a habeas corpus writ petition seeking quashing of proceedings against three alleged Popular Front of India (PFI) activists, apprehended by the Mathura police while they were on their way to meet the family of the Hathras gang rape victim. Subsequently, they were remanded to judicial custody by the chief judicial magistrate (CJM), Mathura and sent to jail. Hearing the petition filed by Atiq-Ur-Rehman and two others, a division bench comprising Justice Pritinker Diwaker and Justice Subhash Chandra Sharma issued notices to the Central government, state government, superintendent of Mathura district jail and sub-inspector of Maant police station of Mathura, Prabal Pratap Singh. The court directed to list this petition on December 14, 2020, for the next hearing. The petition was filed on behalf of a student activist Atiq-Ur-Rehman, activist Masud and cab driver Alam, all seeking their release from jail. Besides, they also sought quashing of the remand order of the CJM, Mathura by which they were sent to judicial remand, stating that the same is unlawful and the magistrate has no jurisdiction to issue remand order in this case in the light of a latest judgment of the Supreme Court. They further prayed for a direction to be released on bail and quashing of the FIR. It was contended that the two petitioners, being concerned social activists, were going to meet the bereaved family of Hathras gang rape victim and offer them consolation. The third one, Alam, being a taxi/cab driver, was ferrying them to the said destination. However, they all were detained on October 5, 2020, in Mathura, while they were on their way. Appearing for the petitioners, senior advocate SFA Naqvi contended that the petitioners are unfortunate victims and scapegoats of the high-handedness of the police authorities. “None of them are members of Popular Front of India (PFI), They have committed no offence, which is clear from a bare perusal of the sections, slapped on them and the allegations in the FIR, which are completely false and bogus, and no case as against them is made out,” he contended. According to the case file, the petitioners were apprehended on October 5, 2020, and later an FIR was registered against them on October 7, 2020, by the Mathura Police invoking preventive powers under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), 1967. Thereafter, they were produced in the court of CJM, Mathura on October 7 and were remanded to judicial custody for 14 days. Subsequently, the CJM, Mathura vide his order dated November 4, 2020, handed them over to the police custody. An interim relief was sought for enlarging the petitioners on bail during the pendency of the instant proceedings. The petitioners have also sought permission to interact with their lawyers and family members through regular interviews via video conferencing. They also urged that the district judge, Mathura, be directed to visit the Mathura district jail to inquire into the human rights violations in the jail premises, if any, and submit a report before the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-notice-to-centre-up-on-plea-of-jailed-pfi-activists/articleshow/79289754.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
November 19, 2020||Madurai||HC: Set up panel to ensure safe storage of free laptops at schools||Madurai:Observing that there are a lot of loopholes in the recovery of stolen laptops and in the process of mechanical closure of FIRs registered in this regard, Madras high court has directed the state government to constitute a special committee to come out with a mechanism to ensure safe storage of free laptops at schools. It also directed the government to recover the stolen laptops that are meant to be distributed among students.The court was hearing the petitions filed by C Jayakumar and P Vasanthi Stella Bai, headmasters of government schools in Trichy and Dindigul districts, challenging the order of recovery since the free laptops that were meant for distribution to students were stolen from the schools.Justice R M T Teekaa Raman observed that non-speaking orders for recovery of the laptops were passed by the authorities despite the explanation given by the petitioners. The judge set aside the orders and remitted the matter back to the authorities to pass a speaking order by awarding sufficient opportunity of personal hearing to the petitioners.Regarding the theft of laptops, FIR’s are closed in a mechanical manner and an improper order of recovery is passed with loopholes, making a clear way to get rid of the financial liability in the judicial forum. The judge observed that the GO issued by the department appears to be another legal hole to escape from the liability of payment of cost in view of the absence of a prescribed procedure. Observing that all is not well with the distribution of the laptops, the judge directed the secretary of the school education department to constitute a special committee comprising zonal inspector general of police, director of school education and special government pleader of high court, within eight weeks. The committee should come out with suggestions for the proper storage of laptops and the security arrangements to be adopted by the school HMs where the laptops are kept. The committee has to collect details of the total number of laptop theft cases reported since 2012. It should also collect details of the cases, which are detected so far along with the recovery and the cases that are not detected so far. The committee should take steps to investigate the pending cases or the cases, which were closed without proper investigation with the help of the cybercrime wing, the judge said.The judge also directed the special government pleader appointed for education to advise the authorities on the proper procedure that has to be adopted for recovery proceedings from the head of the institutions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-set-up-panel-to-ensure-safe-storage-of-free-laptops-at-schools/articleshow/79291031.cms||Kaushik Kannan
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Severe shortage of pulmonologists||Hyderabad: With the rising count of post-Covid complications building pressure on Hyderabad’s limited pool of 200-odd pulmonologists, many patients are now being re-directed to general physicians and other specialists. In fact doctors say, about 85% of the cases are being handled by the latter, with only those that necessarily need a pulmonologist are being referred to the team. They admit that the shortage is being felt more strongly now with Covid-19-related cases and Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) complaints coming their way all at once. “Of the 200 pulmonologists in the city, around 100 alone are active practising pulmonologists. The remaining are either attached to medical colleges or not practising. So now, we need to differentiate between the cases that are related to previous infection and others that might be psychological and anxiety-related,” said Dr B Nagaraju, core committee member, Hyderabad Pulmonologists Association. While in the initial days of the pandemic, more cases were handled by pulmonologists — sometimes a single doctor at Gandhi Hospital handled as many as 100 patients — over time, multi-disciplinary teams were formed to manage the shortage. Teams at government hospitals now include critical care specialists, emergency care, internal medicine and anaesthesiologists, general physicians and of late psychologists as well. Even corporate hospitals are following this approach. “While pulmonologists are essential, we don’t have to limit treatment to pulmonologists alone. Now many have a team based approach where internal medicine, critical care specialists and pulmonologists work as a team,” said Nikhil Mathur, chief of medical services, Care Hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/severe-shortage-of-pulmonologists/articleshow/79291032.cms||Amrita Didyala
November 19, 2020||Pune||Startup rolls out e-cycle at Rs 50,000||Pune: The founders of Pune-based electric vehicles startup, EMotorad, on Wednesday said the company was rolling out a “dual-suspension” electric cycle, titled EMX, aiming at local mobility across demographics. The firm said their e-cycles, equipped with batteries as well as manual paddle assistance for motion, can travel up to 45km on its batteries alone. The design of the cycles, with light frames and wide wheel-bases, indicate towards meeting short local commuting needs for buyers, as well as for adventure biking. EMotorad said the pricing for the models, starting at Rs 50,000, had been kept within reach of people. The firm has also readied the launch of three more models by February 2021. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/startup-rolls-out-e-cycle-at-rs-50000/articleshow/79291049.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bhopal||A month on, Covid-19 cases back at 1200 in Madhya Pradesh, positivity at 5.2%||BHOPAL: Exactly after a month, more than 1200 new Covid-19 cases were reported in a single day in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. It was on October 17 that 1222 new cases were reported in the state. On Wednesday, it was 1209. On October 17, more than 26000 samples were tested and positivity rate was 4.6% which was below 5%. In other words, out of every 100 people whose samples were tested on October 17, 4.6 were found positive. On Wednesday, only 22815 samples were tested and 1209 people tested positive, thus a positivity rate of 5.2% was reported. With these new cases, tally of positive cases in the state reached 186655 on Wednesday. Apart from the fresh cases, 13 deaths were also reported as per the state health bulletin, released by directorate of health services. The districts were these deaths were reported includes Indore where three deaths were reported, and one death each was reported from Bhopal, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Khargone, Ratlam, Vidisha, Raisen, Katni and Chhatarpur districts. On Tuesday fresh cases were reported from all the 52 districts of the state. New cases were reported in double figures from 30 districts of the state. The districts where maximum cases were reported includes Bhopal where 238 fresh cases were reported, Indore where 194 fresh cases were reported, Gwalior where 123 fresh cases were reported and Ratlam where 53 new cases were reported. On the brighter side, 918 people who were admitted at hospitals recovered and were discharged from the hospitals. With these new patients recovering from the disease, count of people who have recovered so far from the disease reached 174202. Cumulative recovery rate of Covid-19 in the state as on November 18, was 93.32%. As on November 18, there were 9338 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/a-month-on-covid-cases-back-at-1200-in-mp-positivity-at-5-2/articleshow/79289766.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Son’s ‘murder’: Elderly woman complains via email||LUDHIANA: An elderly woman from Amethi, Uttar Pradesh, has accused her daughter-in-law and her accomplices for allegedly murdering her son in Ludhiana. The woman on Wednesday has sent a complaint via email to the Ludhiana police in this matter. The mother, Qitabul Nisha, of Jais area in Amethi has alleged in her complaint that her son Khursheed Alam, 26, along with his wife Mahshri Begham, both children, father-in-law Hayat, brother-in-law Ajmad and another friend Qaleem had gone to Punjab for earning a living in October. Except for Khursheed, everyone returned on November 11. The same day her daughter-in-law Mahshri Begham left the house while taking all her clothes and jewellery with her and started living with her parents without telling anything about the whereabouts of Khursheed. The elderly woman kept trying to contact her son on his mobile number but it was switched off. Further she alleged, she went to Mahshri Begham’s house to know about Khursheed. There, Mahshri said that they all had killed Khursheed as she had illicit relations with Qaleem. The accused threatened her not to lodge any complaint, but the woman approached the police. She further alleged that, “In police custody the accused confessed that they had gone to Ludhiana, where they murdered Khursheed. However now, the Amethi police are not lodging an FIR and asking me to approach the Ludhiana police.” Bharat Upadhyay, SHO at police station, Jais Kotwal, while speaking to TOI over phone said, “As per the initial probe it was identified that Khursheed Alam had gone to Ludhiana, Punjab. He had gone missing there, therefore the family has to lodge a complaint with the Ludhiana police.” The family on Wednesday lodged a complaint with the city police on which commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said that he was unaware about the complaint but will get it checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sons-murder-elderly-woman-complains-via-email/articleshow/79289765.cms||Payal Dhawan
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Planners fear fresh blow may prove fatal for business||NEW DELHI: After a failed wedding season in the earlier part of the year, event planners, hotels and banquet hall owners were looking forward to the incoming auspicious period for marriages. But their hopes evaporated on Wednesday when Delhi government’s proposal to lower the cap from 200 guests to 50 was approved by the lieutenant governor. Since then, phones have been buzzing at wedding venues cancelling the bookings. Wedding venues and event organisers are aghast at this anti-Covid measure, claiming massive losses because they will either have to scrap the arrangements already made or scale them down. Caterers and tent houses are also badly impacted by the reduction in number of guests at weddings. Rahul Mathur of Heritage Garden Banquet near Daryaganj said the most auspicious day for matrimonial ceremonies was Devutthana Ekadashi on November 25, after which there was a short, though highly booked, period till December 11. “What are people to do, disinvite their guests?” he asked. Mathur argued that the number of people permitted should be based on a wedding venue’s capacity. “If the government enforced preventive norms, things would be manageable,” he declared. Ashish Sharma, manager of Silver Grand Banquets in Subhash Nagar, said, “There are many events lined up, and we are worried about how things will pan out. The last wedding season proved a damp squib because of the lockdown.” Anuj Jain of Jainco Caters similarly grumbled, “The government is killing the industry. How can advance payments made to us be adjusted?” At Clouds Banquet Hall near Prem Nagar, Shubham Agarwal said that even if you disregarded the financial losses, the mental torture that people were being subjected too was unpardonable. “People are asking us for refunds. We are being pushed to a situation where many will be forced to exit the business. The input costs and venue rent are so high that catering to just 50 people won’t pay for it,” he said. Golden Plate Banquet Hall on Rohtak Road can seat 700 people, but even those who do not cancel their bookings will have to pare their guest list to 50, too few for the capacious venue. An executive of La Fortuna Banquet in Mayapuri similarly moaned, “How will large banquet halls like us manage costs with bookings for just 50 person per event? Very many jobs look likely to be affected. Most banquet halls run in rented premises, and the owners surely won’t even be able to pay the rent.” The La Fortuna manager said it was ridiculous to think that costs recovered from catering to 50 people would cover the wages of 20-30 staffers, including cooks, servers and cleaning staff. “The events business was slowly recovering, but it has once again been pushed back” For Kapoor Tents, the decision has come as a hard blow. Kunal Kapoor, owner of the tent house, said that ever since the order limiting the guests was announced, his phone has not stopped ringing. “Three of my events were cancelled in a single day,” he said glumly. “One of the events called off was scheduled for Friday, the other two for later in the month. This is the wedding season, our main income period, and now we are sure to incur losses due to the hasty decision of the authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/planners-fear-fresh-blow-may-prove-fatal-for-biz/articleshow/79291121.cms||Paras Singh
November 19, 2020||Allahabad||Buxi Bund ROB to benefit 1 lakh people daily: Keshav Prasad Maurya||PRAYAGRAJ: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya laid the foundation stone for a railway overbridge (ROB) in Buxi Bund area of Prayagraj on Wednesday and said that the facility would benefit over a lakh people daily. “A demand for this ROB was being raised for the past many decades and its construction will benefit at least one lakh people daily. It would come as a boon especially for visitors to the Kumbh Mela and Magh Mela. Prayagraj has emerged as a leader in terms of development which is indicated by a network of better roads, overbridges and ROBs,” said the deputy CM.  The ROB is being built with a corpus of around Rs 53 crore and its construction is likely to be completed within a year. Speaking about the Bihar assembly polls, Maurya said, “Once again ‘jungleraj’ and ‘gundaraj’ were defeated in Bihar. Promises of providing 10 lakh jobs failed to lure the voters and the the Opposition wasn’t able to play any tricks in the polls.” On senior leader Sushil Modi not getting a place in the Bihar cabinet, the deputy CM said that it was wrong to associate it with politics or differences between the coalition partners. Talking about Bharatiya Janata Party’s recent electoral success in several states, he said, “Be it Bihar assembly elections or the bypolls in UP or Madhya Pradesh, people who were making tall claims about their wins and were terming these elections as a semi-final to the next Lok Sabha election have now gone underground.” Taking on Congress, Maurya said, “By making unrestrained statements against PM Modi, Rahul Gandhi is damaging his personality and leading his party to continuous defeat. Now, the public also does not take Rahul’s words seriously.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/buxi-bund-rob-to-benefit-1l-people-daily-deputy-cm/articleshow/79289764.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC polls: Star campaigners number to go up from 5 to 10||HYDERABAD: The SEC has increased the limit for the number of star campaigners to campaign in the GHMC polls. “We have decided to increase the number of star campaigners to 10 for each of the recognised political parties and to five for registered political parties without election symbols,” SEC chief C Partha Sarathi said.  The election commission had earlier given permission for only five star campaigners for each of the recognised political parties registered with the TSEC and two star campaigners for each of the registered political parties without a reserved poll symbol to campaign for their party candidates contesting in the polls to the biggest civic body in the state. However, several political parties requested the TSEC to increase the number of star campaigners to campaign for polls to GHMC. GHMC commissioner-cum-election authority Lokesh Kumar will issue vehicle passes to star campaigners of different parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/star-campaigners-number-to-go-up-from-5-to-10/articleshow/79291022.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Active Covid-19 numbers decline in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 948 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths, raising the total count to 2,59,776. While the death toll stands at 1,415, the number of active cases is on a decline for a while now. There are 13,068 patients under medical care in the state and so far, a total of 2,45,293 patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. The recovery rate in the state has improved to 94 percent and the current recovery rate in the state is slightly better than the country average of little over 93 percent. Telangana’s case fatality rate is at 0.54 percent and indicates that one in every 200 patients is succumbing. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits recorded 154 of the 948 new positive cases on Wednesday. After GHMC, Medchal Malkajgiri reported the highest number of cases with 83 positives, Ranga Reddy recorded 76 positives, Bhadadri Kothagudem had 61 and Karimnagar reported 55. All the districts recorded new cases Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/active-covid-19-numbers-decline/articleshow/79291061.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Pune||Thieves carry off Rs 6.7L from builder’s bungalow||Pune: Two thieves decamped with Rs 6.70 lakh from a bungalow in Bibvewadi on Tuesday afternoon after misleading a worker and pushing another employee at the site. The bungalow owner lodged a complaint with the Bibvewadi police station later in the evening. According to the police, an unidentified thief entered the bungalow owned by a city-based builder Tejas Dugad (29) when it was locked, while the accomplice stood in front of the bungalow. The police said that Dugad and his brother, who is also a builder, stay in adjacent bungalows in the area. Dugad’s family members weren’t in at the time of the incident as some renovation work is going on in the bungalow. At around 1 pm, a thief entered the bungalow and climbed onto the second floor. The person took the cash, worth Rs 6.70 lakh, from a cupboard in the room and packed it in a backpack. “However, the thief found it difficult to climb down from the balcony with the backpack. He threw the backpack in the verandah of the neighbouring bungalow, which is owned by the builder’s brother,” a police officer said. The officer added, “A worker’s wife picked up the backpack on seeing it lying in the verandah. The thief saw her, climbed down and then went to the neighbouring bungalow. He asked for the backpack and told the woman that his nephew left the backpack there unknowingly.” “The woman took the backpack but sought to see his ID card. Then the thief snatched the backpack and ran towards the gate. The builder’s driver was standing nearby and he attempted to stop the thief but he pushed him hard and ran away with the backpack,” the officer said. “The two thieves then fled away from the spot on a motorcycle,” the officer said. The police have registered a case against the two thieves under sections 392 (robbery) and 380 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code. When contacted, Dugad said “I am not in a state of mind to speak right now. It was a disturbing incident.” On Tuesday, house break-in thefts were reported across Warje, Sinhagad road, Market Yard and Vishrantwadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/thieves-carry-off-rs-6-7l-from-builders-bungalow/articleshow/79291016.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Madurai||Rlys to operate weekly train from Nagercoil to Shalimar||Madurai: The railway board has approved the operation of Nagercoil Junction – Shalimar – Nagercoil Junction weekly special train from November 22. Train no 02659 Nagercoil – Shalimar weekly special will leave at 2.45pm on Sundays from November 22 and reach Shalimar at 11.55am on Tuesdays. In the return direction, train no. 02660 Shalimar – Nagercoil weekly special will leave at 11.50pm on Wednesdays from November 25 and reach Nagercoil at 9.35pm on Fridays.They will have stoppages at Thiruvananthapuram Central, Varkala, Kollam Junction, Kayamkulam Junction, Chengannur, Thiruvalla, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Thrissur, Palakkad Junction, Coimbatore Junction, Erode Junction, Salem Junction, Jolarpettai Junction, Katpadi Junction, Chittoor, Tirupati, Renigunta Junction, Nellore, Ongole, Chirala, Tenali Junction, Vijayawada Junction, Eluru, Rajahmundry, Samalkot Junction, Viasakhapatnam Junction, Vizianagaram Junction, Srikakulam Road, Palasa, Brahmapur, Balugaon, Khurda Road Junction, Bhubaneswar, Cuttack Junction, Jajpur Keonjhar Road, Bhadrak, Balasore, Kharagpur Junction and Santragachi Junction.The services will be operated as fully reserved special trains and will continue to run until further directions. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rlys-to-operate-weekly-train-from-nagercoil-to-shalimar/articleshow/79291059.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||GHMC elections: BJP plans to storm AIMIM bastion, to contest 50 wards in Old City||HYDERABAD: Buoyed by the Dubbak result, the BJP, which did not contest all the wards in the Old City in the last GHMC polls, is fielding candidates from all the 50-odd wards in the Old City as it wants to be a viable alternative to the AIMIM. While the AIMIM stood out a clear winner by winning 44 seats, the TRS came runners-up pushing Congress and BJP-TDP to third and fourth spots in the Old City in the 2016 polls. BJP chief spokesperson Krishna Saagar Rao told TOI that there is a massive resentment against the AIMIM as it didn’t do anything when thousands of families were rendered homeless as rainwater gushed into their houses. “The TRS, which is banking on the AIMIM in the Old City, is rattled because many people are coming on to the roads and criticising the party for leaving out a large number of flood affected families from list of flood relief,” he said. “Our slogan is good governance and inclusive development,” Saagar Rao said. Former Congress minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir said the AIMIM-TRS combine had fooled the voters in the 2016 elections by distributing lakhs of applications for 2-bhk units with a promise that the houses would be delivered soon. “People have realised that the AIMIM is no more an ally of Congress. Majlis party has been cutting into vote-bank of secular parties such as Congress by fielding its candidates in assembly elections in Bihar and Maharashtra. This time, the secular vote-bank will come back to Congress, which was divided among TRS, AIMIM, TDP and Congress in the previous election,” he said. Fomer mayor Banda Karithika Reddy who joined the BJP on Thursday said she will not contest the GHMC polls. BJP leader Kishan Reddy said that they will look for the option after winning the wards. Former Congress MLA Bhikspati Yadav 's son Ravi Kumar Yadav along with many leaders also joined BJP in presence of BJP national general secretary Bhupender Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-plans-to-storm-mim-bastion-to-contest-50-wards-in-old-city/articleshow/79291044.cms||Roushan Ali
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Girl's nose chopped off by two men for resisting rape bid||NAINITAL: A 17-year-old girl was allegedly assaulted and her nose was cut by two men after she resisted rape attempts by them on Monday night. The accused also assaulted and injured the minor’s parents when they tried to save the girl. The incident took place in a village under Kalfligair Tehsil of Bageshwar district. The area falls under the jurisdiction of revenue police. The accused are the residents of the same village. The accused men — both of whom are adults — entered the girl’s house at around 8 pm and made an attempt to molest the girl. The girl’s parents, in their complaint, said that when their daughter resisted, the men cut her nose and left her bleeding. Speaking to TOI, SDM Bageshwar, Rakesh Tiwari said, “The family has alleged that the men used a sharp object to cut the girl’s nose and the photos that we have of her also show her bleeding.” The complaint further adds that the men stole gold jewellery and around Rs 20,000 cash from the girl’s house after injuring her parents. The girl and her parents are currently undergoing treatment at the district hospital. Tiwari added that the administration received the complaint on Tuesday evening and an FIR has been registered. “We also visited the houses of the accused on Wednesday but both of them are absconding. We are investigating the case and both the accused will be nabbed very soon,” Tiwari said. The official further said that the case is likely to be handed over to regular police as the local administration does not have any female official who can be deputed for the matter. Meanwhile, Bageshwar district magistrate (DM), Vineet Kumar told TOI that the accused have been booked under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and under the relevant sections of the POCSO Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/17-year-old-girls-nose-chopped-off-by-2-men-as-she-resisted-rape-attempt-minors-parents-also-assaulted/articleshow/79286661.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||CMO seeks report on potholes on Model Town road||LUDHIANA: After receiving a complaint against potholes in Model Town road by an activist, Arvind Sharma, the chief minister office has sought a report from the local bodies department. The activist had complained against the potholes on Model Town road to the CM office and Punjab State Human Rights Commission on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the CM office asked for an action taken report from the local bodies department. For the past few days residents have been raising the issue of a big pothole on a Model Town road, where a girl had received injuries after she lost her balance while driving a two-wheeler. She was taken to a nearby hospital as she had received injuries on the head. Also, the residents said that this was not the only incident that happened at that location. So, on Monday, a few residents filled the pothole with interlocking tiles without caring for the authorities to act. However, a few days back it was filled with sand but due to heavy rainfall on Sunday, the sand was washed away. Earlier, TOI too had highlighted the issue in these columns and mentioned how the authorities had been virtually turning a blind eye to the plight of local residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cmo-seeks-report-on-potholes-on-model-town-road/articleshow/79289813.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: See your doctor before oxygen runs too low||NEW DELHI: Nearly 50% of infected patients being rushed to Lok Nayak Hospital, the biggest Covid-dedicated healthcare facility in Delhi, have 70% or lower levels of oxygen saturation at the time of admission. The normal level of oxygen carried in red blood cells in a healthy adult is 96-98%. In elderly people or those with pre-existing respiratory health problems, it can be 94% and above. While a fall of 3-4% from the normal level is considered serious and necessitates medical intervention, critical care experts said many people wait longer at home leading to complications and a higher risk of death due to Covid-19. Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, said nearly half of patients come to the hospital when oxygen saturation has already dipped to dangerous levels, which is 70% or less. “We put them on oxygen supplementation immediately. But, by then, the heart and the brain are already affected,” he added. Read AlsoNagpur: Down with fever for 10 days, Covid positive youth doesn’t go to hospital, diesStaying back at home for more than 10 days after testing positive and having a fever proved fatal for a 36-year-old man from Saoner. The man passed away at GMCH a couple of days back.Dr BL Sherwal, medical director of Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, also said that delayed admission was a major factor for increased mortality. “We have seen patients who came with 50% oxygen saturation level,” he added. The heads of critical care at Holy Family and Apollo hospitals, Dr Sumit Ray and Dr Priyadarshini Pal Singh, respectively, also highlighted the same issue. “Low oxygen levels first affect the lung. If the problem persists, other organs, such as the heart and the brain, also get affected and can have devastating consequences,” Singh said. Ray said home isolation was advisable for asymptomatic patients and those suffering from mild symptoms due to Covid-19. However, he added, it was important to remain in touch with a physician so that any potential complication was picked up early. “If oxygen saturation drops 3-4% or more and the person has breathing difficulty on minor exertion, say a six-minute walk, he or she should immediately see a doctor to assess whether the condition warrants hospitalisation or not,” he added. The critical care specialist added that many patients regained normal oxygen saturation on their own with the lung healing from the infection. “However, if oxygen saturation drops persistently and goes below 3-4%, supplementary oxygenation may be required. Patients who don’t regain near normal levels despite high levels of supplementation have to be put on a non-invasive or invasive ventilator,” said Ray. The second week of the infection is crucial. “Many families tell us that the patient was talking and walking without any difficulty till two days ago and suddenly became unconscious. This could be due to a cytokine storm,” said a senior doctor. A severe immune reaction in which the body releases too many cytokines into the blood quickly is referred to as cytokine storm. Dr Vijay Hadda, a specialist in pulmonary medicine at AIIMS, said, “Home isolation is good for asymptomatic patients or those with mild symptoms. But one should be under continuous medical supervision through tele-consultation or video consultation. Also, breathing difficulty, slurred speech and persistent pain in the chest are warning signs that may signal the need for hospitalisation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/see-your-doc-before-oxygen-runs-too-low/articleshow/79291120.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
November 19, 2020||Madurai||Alert loco pilot on Vaigai Exp averts derailment||Madurai: A major accident was averted when the alert loco pilot of the Chennai-bound Vaigai Express noticed a landslide at Ambatturai near Kodaikanal on Wednesday and applied emergency brakes. J Suresh, a loco pilot with 26 years of experience, was piloting the train which left the Madurai Junction railway station at 7am and was nearing Kodai Road station, when he noticed boulders on the tracks. After bringing the train to a halt by applying the emergency brakes, Suresh and the passengers, with help from the locals, worked for nearly half an hour to clear the tracks, and the train resumed the journey. Railway sources said the timely action was commendable as it could have led to a major derailment if he had delayed his judgement by even a few minutes.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/alert-loco-pilot-on-vaigai-exp-averts-derailment/articleshow/79291082.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||In a first, pipping ceremony of foreign cadets at IMA carried out before POP||Dehradun: For the first time in its history, the Indian Military Academy (IMA) on Wednesday performed a pipping ceremony before the final passing out parade (POP). Usually, the pipping ceremony is held soon after the POP when family members formally put the stars on a cadet’s uniform marking his transition from cadet to officer. The deviation from tradition was done on the special request of the Vietnamese embassy for three cadets from Vietnam so that they could be brought back to their country under the Vande Bharat Mission. “The ceremony was presided over by Lt Gen Harinder Singh, who has recently taken over as the 50th commandant of the IMA. The pipping ceremony was conducted for the three Vietnamese cadets of the autumn term 2020 at Chetwode Building on Wednesday,” said IMA’s public relations officer Lt Col Himani Pant. The cadets are among the 208 foreign trainees from 11 friendly countries currently undergoing training at the IMA, a communique from the IMA said, adding that the gesture of having the pipping done earlier was agreed to by the academy as “Vietnam has traditionally maintained strong ties with India and these efforts are part of our military diplomacy towards further strengthening the partnership.” The communique further added that “Lt Gen Singh met the cadets personally and congratulated them for successfully completing their training.” The IMA is expected to hold its POP for autumn term on December 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-pipping-ceremony-of-foreign-cadets-at-ima-carried-out-before-pop/articleshow/79286671.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Tiger attack: Tribals on tenterhooks||Hyderabad: Still reeling under the shock of a tiger killing a local youth, Koya tribals of Digida village in Dahegaon mandal in Kumarambheem Asifabad district have vowed not to allow forest officials to leave until the man-eater was caught. On November 11, 22-year-old youth Siddam Vignesh was mauled to death by the tiger. The scared villagers are not venturing out into their fields after the incident. Spotting a tiger was common for the villagers as they did so a couple of months ago and also on another occasion last year. However, there was no incident of a big cat attacking humans. The tribals also engage in podu cultivation in the forest area and the fact that the tiger has not been caught has put them on tenterhooks. Forest officials have reassured the villages that they could go to their fields, but they should do so in groups. Vignesh’s father has been given an ex-gratia of Rs 5 lakh. He will also get a job in the forest department. The forest staff themselves who are on the job of tracking the animal are also taking precautions. “The forest staff have been given whistles to blow if they sense any danger close by. We will also be using drums to make sounds,” district forest officer S Shantharam told TOI. This is because, tigers are said to be sensitive to sound and retreat if they sense danger. As no recent pug marks of the tiger have been found, the forest officials believe that the animal would have gone back into the forest area from Maharashtra from where it could have come. Locals, however, do not want any chances to be taken. The villagers of Digida said whenever there is a movement of tigers in the area, they inform forest officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tiger-attack-tribals-on-tenterhooks/articleshow/79291101.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Saliva swab from village youth mauled by tiger not collected||HYDERABAD: Forest department officials have failed to collect saliva samples of a suspected man-eater tiger from the body of Siddam Vignesh, who was mauled to death in Didiga of Asifabad district on November 11. Doctor Chenna Keshava Rao told TOI that he did not get any request for saliva swab collection from the body parts of Vignesh.  “I did the post-mortem examination on the body of Vignesh as per the procedure. I have submitted the report confirming it as killed by the tiger and how it ate a part of the muscle. There was no request from the forest officials for swab collection,” he said. Experts said had the saliva swab been collected, the DNA fingerprinting could have been done by the CCMB and compare the DNA fingerprint with existing tiger database and as well as to compare with samples collected from future kills or scat. In the Avni tigress case, DNA fingerprinting was done from saliva. CCMB’s LaCONES’ help was taken to identify the killer tiger. Salival samples from the mutilated body parts of humans in Yavatmal in Maharashtra were sent to Hyderabad. This was done to avoid confusion while identifying the man-eater tiger that killed more than 10 persons. Kawal Tiger Reserve field director CP Vinod Kumar said, “We didn’t send a request to the autopsy doctor as the incident occurred in an interior area. Vignesh was mauled to death at 11 am and by the time the doctors reached the spot it was late in the night. There was a lapse of time. We also didn’t collect the salival swab as we didn’t go near the body as police have to reach the spot. We were busy collecting pug marks.” He said the big cat was not a resident tiger. “Last when we found the pug mark, it had crossed Penchakalpet into Maharashtra. There are several tigers in Maharashtra. So, it is difficult to identify it. It may never come back as well,” he added. The forest officials set up cages and put 60 watchers on duty to identify the tiger.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/saliva-swab-from-village-youth-mauled-by-tiger-not-collected/articleshow/79291081.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 19, 2020||Madurai||Corpn worker seeks Rs 10L relief for injuries from disinfectant||Madurai: A 30-year-old contract health worker of the Madurai Corporation suffered injuries on his face after coming in contact with a disinfectant on Tuesday.Claiming that her husband S Marimuthu had lost his eyesight due to the incident, his wife petitioned the Madurai district collector T Anbalagan on Wednesday seeking Rs 10 lakh compensation and a government job. However, corporation officials refuted the charges and said that his eyesight was not affected and blamed the employee for negligence. In her petition, the woman said that the chemical spilled on his face when he opened the container for disinfection activities in Singarayar Colony. She alleged that corporation officials did not provide her husband with any safety equipment and forced him to do the job. They did not even arrange for proper treatment, she said and demanded departmental action against the zonal health official and sanitary inspector. A corporation official said that since Marimuthu is a contract employee, his contractor had assured to foot his medical bill. But, he refused to get admitted in the hospital. The contractor also came forward to provide one-month rest with full wages. A health official said, “I spoke to the ophthalmologist who treated Marimuthu. He said that his eyesight was not affected. He has suffered burn injuries. We have issued all required safety equipment, but employees are refusing to wear them. The incident was due to negligence on part of the employee, who did not take adequate caution while handling the chemical.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corpn-worker-seeks-rs-10l-relief-for-injuries-from-disinfectant/articleshow/79291098.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||6 IAS officers to be observers for GHMC polls||Hyderabad: The State Election Commission released the names of six IAS officers who have been appointed as general observers for the GHMC polls. The IAS officers for six zones in GHMC area include A Srideva Sena for LB Nagar, E Sridhar for Charminar, K Manicka Raj for Khairatabad, Preeti Meena for Serilingampally, M Prashanti for Kukatpally and Aisha Khanam for Secunderabad zone. State election commissioner C Partha Sarathi said general election observers will act as eyes and ears of the election commission. “It is based on their report that the TSEC takes a decision to conduct a re-poll, if any, and announce the winner. These observers will also have powers to stop counting of votes if they find any irregularities,” he said. He appealed to them to ensure that the elections are conducted in a free and fair manner and that voter slips are given to all the electorate well before polling date on December 1. GHMC commissioner-cum-election authority Lokesh Kumar said general election observers would be given sufficient staff to ensure election-related duties are discharged. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-ias-officers-to-be-observers-for-ghmc-polls/articleshow/79291073.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||With colleges reopening, BMTC hoping ridership will improve||BENGALURU: With several colleges in the city reopening and the number of Covid-19 cases dipping, cash-strapped Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is hoping ridership will gradually improve. The daily ridership is now 17 lakh compared to 36 lakh before the lockdown. Nevertheless, it’s slowly picking up: 10,000 in May, 10 lakh in July and 11 lakh in August. BMTC has 6,610 buses, but only 4,800 buses are operational now. The daily passenger revenue has reduced from Rs 5 crore to Rs 2 crore now. Of the 865 AC buses, only 55 are operational and majority are on airport routes. BMTC is also struggling to pay salaries and seeking financial assistance from the state government. While regular passengers say more buses and frequency is required to ensure social distancing, the government had directed BMTC not to purchase any buses during this financial year due to the financial crunch. BMTC was supposed to scrap 1,268 buses which have served for more than 10 years and to procure 1,500 new BS-VI diesel buses. BMTC managing director C Shikha said: “Ridership will reach pre-Covid levels only when schools and colleges reopen and IT establishments start functioning. We plan to scrap only 600-700 old buses this year and sought government’s permission to procure already sanctioned 1,500 buses. Als, 300 electric buses under FAME-II and 90 midi-buses under smart city funds will be inducted.”  A BMTC bus conductor at Banashankari bus station said: “The demand is mainly during the morning and evening peak hours and buses run empty between 11am and 4pm. Many passengers have shifted to two-wheelers since they don’t want to travel with strangers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-colleges-reopening-bmtc-hoping-ridership-will-improve/articleshow/79289832.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
November 19, 2020||Madurai||ODF? Many still defecate on banks of Vaigai, say Madurai residents||Madurai: As part of declaring the city open defecation free (ODF), Madurai Corporation had recently sought opinion from the public, but many residents said that open defecation is rampant at many places in the city. People still defecate in the open on the banks of the Vaigai and in the newly-added areas. Residents has urged the corporation to commence its drive towards ending open defection on Thursday, since the day is being observed as World Toilet Day by the United Nations to increase awareness on sanitation. ODF declaration is mandatory for a city every year to get enlisted in the yearly Swachh Bharat rankings. After achieving ODF status, a civic body has to aim for ODF-plus and ODF-plus-plus status. Madurai Corporation declared that it has achieved ODF status in all its 100 wards for the first time on May 23, 2018. Since then the declaration comes after receiving opinions, complaints and suggestions from residents. A Rajendran, a resident of Vandiyur, said, “Both men and women defecate in the open on the banks of the Vaigai. While women are forced to go outside as they do not have a toilet at their house, men opt for open defecation even if they have a facility. Public toilets are inadequate in the area,” he said. The number of public toilets should be increased, they should be maintained clean and awareness has to be created among the public on using the facility, he urged. P Velmurgan, a resident of Thathaneri said public toilet facility is available in the locality, but not many people are using it as they are not in good condition. Erratic water supply is another issue. Officials should ensure running water round-the-clock and proper maintenance, he urged. A corporation official, when contacted, said that they check places where open defecation is rampant and take appropriate measures to stop it. He also urged residents to raise complaints and suggestions by writing letters to the corporation or dialing the complaint number: 8428425000.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/odf-many-still-defecate-on-banks-of-vaigai-say-madurai-residents/articleshow/79291124.cms||V Devanathan
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||40 monkeys poisoned to death||Hyderabad: As many as 40 monkeys have been poisoned to death and dumped by the roadside in two gunny bags near Shanigapuram village in Mahabubabad district. The carcasses were found when a group of youth checked the gunny bags as there was stench emanating from them on Tuesday evening. Mahabubabad rural SI Ch Ramesh Babu said the matter had been brought to their notice and they had begun an investigation. “We will register an FIR once the forest officials lodge a formal complaint,” Ramesh Babu told TOI on Wednesday. Cops are probing if the monkeys were killed either by mixing poison in food or water. The killing of the monkeys has led to a furore among the locals. “We are shocked beyond words,” former sarpanch of Shanigapuram village Guguloth Raju said. There are a large number of monkeys which stray into the villages and also fields for food. Councillor Banoth Hari Singh said a park was developed in 22 guntas of land so that monkeys could feed on the fruits from the trees that had been planted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/40-monkeys-poisoned-to-death/articleshow/79291123.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: High-tech business park at Rani Khera soon||NEW DELHI: Delhi government will set up a high-tech business park spread over 150 acres at Rani Khera that will be located at just a 15-minute drive away from the IGI airport. It will have various IT services and high-tech industry services. The government is going to install modern technology to treat the industrial waste coming out of treatment plants so that businesses do not end up creating pollution. In a meeting of the Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Ltd (DSIIDC) on Tuesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal directed officials concerned to conclude all the works in a time-bound manner. This first-of-its-kind business park will be well-connected by the road and the highway. It will have large workspaces on every floor and multipurpose business facilities will be available besides a very generous landscape and also pedestrian plazas. It will have retail and food and beverage amenities of all kinds. The government will also set up an adequate parking facility in the area. The business park will be developed in seven different phases. The first phase will be completed by August 31, 2022.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/high-tech-business-park-at-rani-khera-soon/articleshow/79291196.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mumbai||Mumbai: Student takes cyanide, saved after 24-hour race for antidote from Hyderabad||MUMBAI: Doctors at the Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General (LTMG) Hospital, popularly known as Sion hospital, achieved a rare success recently when they saved the life of a 23-year-old student who had consumed potassium cyanide mixed in water. Cyanide is known to kill within minutes if a person is exposed to a large dose. The LTMG doctors managed to keep the young man alive with crucial supportive treatment for 24 hours, till the time the antidote arrived by air from Hyderabad 700km away and pulled him out of the abyss. For the municipality-run hospital, which treats up to 300 cases of poisoning annually, it was only the third case of cyanide poisoning in 20 years. In the two past cases, only one person had survived. The 23-year-old student had consumed the lethal substance on the evening of November 1, purportedly because he was frustrated that a job offer and an opportunity to pursue an MBA abroad had slipped away in the Covid-19 pandemic. He said he had sourced the potassium cyanide from a jewellery shop in Zaveri Bazar for Rs 200. Within seconds of the first sip of water that had cyanide pills added to it, he felt a burning sensation in the throat and recalled spitting out the second sip. When he collapsed, a passer-by picked up his phone and dialled a friend’s number. The friend took him to a private nursing home, where the doctor induced vomiting and said he would require critical care. His family moved him to Sion hospital, where doctors from the medicine department put him on a ventilator. “We had to stop the respiratory paralysis and, subsequently, his heart from shutting down,” Dr Niteen Karnik, head of medicine at LTMG, said. After a night-long search, the doctors and the family realised that the city did not have a single unit of the cyanide antidote kit that comprises amyl nitrite, sodium nitrite, and sodium thiosulfate. An online search revealed that a Hyderabad chemist had it. The kit cost around Rs 28,000. “Cyanide starts to deprive tissues of oxygen. The key here was to keep him oxygenated, ventilated and hydrated till the antidote came. We gave medicines to support his blood pressure and heart functions. We could give him hydroxocobalamin, a form of vitamin B12, and that helped too. Fortunately, he had told his friend about taking cyanide” Dr Trupti Tridevi, in-charge of the medicine ICU at LTMG, said. Dr Karnik recalled treating the last case of cyanide poisoning a decade ago, an engineering student from a premier institute. After the death, the institute head had donated an antidote kit to Sion hospital. These kits have a shelf life of only a year. Dr Karnik said as the 23-year-old student was unconscious, they had to give him the amyl nitrite through the ventilator tubes. His health started turning around after 48 hours. He came off the ventilator on November 4 and was moved out of the ICU by November 7. “My son was born in Sion hospital, so they have given him a second lease of life,” the student’s mother said. The student has developed tremors in his hands and slurred speech. Dr Karnik said an MRI revealed that a part of the brain had developed lesions. Dr Trivedi said he had been started on physiotherapy. “I couldn’t believe I was alive when I first opened my eyes. My message to others is, don’t lose hope,” the survivor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/student-takes-cyanide-saved-after-24-hr-race-for-antidote-from-hyd/articleshow/79292104.cms||Sumitra Debroy
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||3 years on, Government College East still not ready in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Wait for Government College East to become operational seems to be getting longer. It was expected that classes would start in the new building from this session, but it seems to be a distant dream given the pace of construction going on at the site. Officials are claiming that this is due to coronavirus. Earlier, the deadline was given as the beginning of new session 2019, but it was postponed to Diwali 2019, MLA Sanjay Talwar said it would be completed by then. This was again postponed to January. Now Diwali 2020 has also come and gone, and the first batch students are now in their final year, but they have not even entered college once. As of now, about 75% of the construction work on the new building is over. Sanjay Talwar, MLA (east), who inspected the work on Tuesday, said, “It will be completed in the next three months — only a multipurpose hall, canteen and landscaping are left. Classrooms were constructed already.” Talking about the paucity of funds, Talwar said, “The project is costing Rs 12.5 crore, we had already given Rs 6 crore to the builder. Another Rs 2 crore was given to the builder before Diwali.” Talwar added “Govt College East was my dream project. I would leave no stone unturned to step up and push forward the completion of this project so that it can be handed over to the department for use by March 2021. It is to be noted that the construction of the college suffered owing to the unprecedented outbreak of Covid-19. The remaining 25% work will be completed soon and the classes can be shifted to its new building.” Dharam Singh Sandhu, principal of Satish Chander Dhawan (SCD) Government College who is also heading Government College East, said, “The executive engineer of the public works department will complete the pending work at the earliest. The contractor has been asked to complete the flooring, landscaping and proper levelling off the ground of the college.” Kajla, professor at SCD Government college, said “The classes are being conducted for the students at Girls Common room. Separate staff have been sanctioned to teach the students. There are 35, 57 and 86 students registered in the first, second and third year respectively.” BA III year student Aman Sharma, said, “I was the first one to register for the college. However, I have not entered the college once. This delay is due to both government apathy as well as Covid-19. The campus should get ready at the earliest. We have seen the same delay for Jagraon Bridge. I was so excited to study in this college but classes are still continuing at SCD campus.” The backgroundThe foundation stone of the building was laid at the site on January 28, 2018. On April 11, 2018, a team comprising the director, public instructions (colleges), former deputy commissioner Pradeep Kumar Agrawal and other officers inspected a community centre at Jamalpur to start BA part-I and part II classes temporarily from there. Students of these classes were supposed to be later shifted to the new college. It is pertinent to mention that this is a third government college, to be constructed after the 90 years. Once constructed, other streams to be addedMore streams would be offered once the new building becomes functional. Under graduation courses, including B Com, BSc, BBA and BCA will be offered, once the college would be constructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-years-on-government-college-east-still-not-ready/articleshow/79291126.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana college students not happy with PU’s decision to continue online||LUDHIANA: Panjab University’s decision to continue online classes for the current semester has evoked mixed reactions from the students pursuing courses in various Ludhiana colleges. This has come as a disappointment to some students, especially those in first year, who have been eagerly waiting to go back to the college. Ishika Jain, a BA first-year student from Krishna Nagar, who is studying at Mehar Chand Mahajan DAV College, said “Online classes are no doubt comfortable, but are not very effective. We have network issues and the college connections are not good either. Practical subjects are stagnated. In fact, I have home science and psychology and both are practical subjects. The situation is not favourable for the schools to re-open, but still students are going . There’s a big question mark on what’s going to happen and how will we cope with everything,” she added. For Jai Singh Khurmi, who is pursuing LLB first semester, online classes are a bit of both good and bad. “Online classes are fine considering the importance of social distancing. But there is no way of having practical knowledge of some subjects, which could only be done in labs under expert supervision. And many students just show themselves present on screen but are not really there mentally. Many make excuses for not attending lectures or being late by saying network issue while some who wants to study actually cannot because of lack of resources. If schools can remain open, why not colleges?” Gurpreet Sandhu, principal of Government College for Girls, said, “We have to follow directions of government, but switching to online is PU's decision. However, on the third day of reopening, we saw more students coming to the college, compared with previous days. We have not completely ruled out offline classes and students should come to the college only after the consent of parents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludh-college-students-not-happy-with-pus-decision-to-continue-online/articleshow/79291105.cms||Mehak Jain
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Defunct women’s commission to be a poll issue, yet again||Hyderabad: A poll cry since 2018; concern over a dysfunctional women’s commission in Telangana was highlighted yet again by social activist Sunitha Krishnan on Wednesday — weeks ahead of the civic elections.  While Krishnan maintained that her tweet, stressing how “a state without a functional women’s commission for more than two years is not a good sign”, was simply part of her ongoing crusade against issue, the matter gains relevance with women across the city planning a major campaign around it later this month. The objective: to impress upon contesting parties to include the issue in their manifesto. Incidentally, ahead of the Assembly polls in 2018 too, hundreds of women had come together to run an online campaign on the same issue. Even then they had reached out to all major parties with the appeal of activating the commission. Though their efforts bore some fruit — albeit after two years — with the government, on Tuesday, finally launching a state women’s commission portal, it still does not have a chief to run the operations. Meanwhile, Krishnan’s latest tweet immediately attracted the attention of MAUD minister, K T Rama Rao, who assured to bring the matter to the chief minister’s notice soon, giving some hope to activists. “Given that the high court too has taken up the issue (it has sought a response from the state about appointing a chairperson), we sincerely hope that the government acts on it soon. We have planned an online campaign around it on November 28 and intend to make it an election issue this time as well,” said Spurthi Kolipaka at the helm of the #WomensCommissionMatters initiative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/defunct-womens-commission-to-be-a-poll-issue-yet-again/articleshow/79291115.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Focus on winning GHMC polls: Yadav||Hyderabad: BJP election in-charge for GHMC polls Bhupender Yadav advised the party leaders and cadres to focus on the mission ahead and not get overawed by phone-tapping and other issues. “Ignore phone-tapping,” he said while interacting with the leaders on election management. Holding back-to-back meetings, he said: “There is no need to pay a great deal of attention to phone-trapping by TRS leaders.” When several BJP leaders told him that during the Dubbak elections their phones were being tapped, he said: “Focus on your work and the mission ahead. We will do well in GHMC elections,” he said. BJP has internally divided party in city as four districts for smooth running of party affairs. Bhupender Yadav said that their ultimate goal will be to win 2023 assembly elections in Telangana. Addressing the party leaders, he said the NDA government is committed to the welfare of common people. “We are not a government of false promises.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/focus-on-winning-ghmc-polls-yadav/articleshow/79291128.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Genome sequencing of wasp unfolded||HYDERABAD: Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) unfolded the genome sequencing of the wasp to understand the intricacies of biological war between the wasp and the drosophila fly. The wasp lays an egg in the larvae of drosophila. If the wasp wins it emerges from the pupa otherwise the fly comes out. CCMB director Rakesh Mishra told TOI, “The wasp, scientifically called as Leptopilina, is a specialist parasite on drosophila. The wasp lays eggs in the larva of the fly and there is a war between the host and the parasite. Drosophila is important in genetic studies. Now with the genome sequencing of the wasp we know what happens during the host-parasite war. Genome technology may help in editing genes that make wasp stronger or weaker." CCMB has come out with a high-quality reference genome of the specialist parasitoid wasp ‘Leptopilina Boulardi’. Scientists in the reaserch paper 'Long-Read Genome Sequencing and Assembly of Leptopilina boulardi : A Specialist Drosophila Parasitoid" published in G3 journal said: "A total of 25,259 protein-coding genes were predicted, out of which 22729 could be annotated using known protein signatures. The wasp genome reported in this study provides a valuable resource to researchers studying parasitoids and help shed light on the mechanisms of host-parasitoid interactions and understanding the immune response mechanisms in insects. The genome sequence of wasp will also be a key element in understanding the evolution of parasitism in figitids. It will further enable genome editing and advance the genetics of wasp for comparative studies of fly parasitoids. The genome resource fulfils the prerequisite for initiating research on mechanisms underlying parasitism, and sex determination and other developmental aspects in the wasp."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/genome-sequencing-of-wasp-unfolded/articleshow/79291137.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ladowal bypass project likely to be completed by November 25||LUDHIANA: The Ladhowal bypass that is expected to reduce traffic congestion in Ludhiana as it will divert major part of the traffic coming from Ferozepur road is expected to be completed by November 25. The project will help ease out the traffic problem in the city as vehicles coming from Jagraon, Moga, Ferozepur and other cities on way to Jalandhar and Amritsar, etc., which normally enter the city on way to Ladowal, will take this route. A functionary of the private construction agency that is executing the 17km-long project said that the project was to be completed by August end but it had been delayed due to Covid-19 lockdown. He added that because of the pandemic situation, work on the project remained disrupted for around two months and later they had to grapple with labour shortage as most of them went to their native places. A senior officer of the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) while requesting not to be named said that they were expecting to link the bypass with Jalandhar Delhi national highway by November 22. He added that they expect to open the road to vehicular traffic by November 25. “Apart from linking the Ladowal bypass with the GT road near Ladowal toll plaza, we will also have to give final touches to the road before opening it to traffic. Because of the farmers’ agitation we did face problem as we were planning to open the road for vehicular traffic, but things got slightly delayed,” said the officer, who is not authorized to talk to the media on record. He added that presently they were getting the concrete work done and were also removing any scrap iron, etc. used in the construction of the remaining stretch. The NHAI officials said that they were planning to start the toll plaza on the Ladowal bypass road, which is near Chahal village, from December 25. They added that the rates would be decided on the basis of km of the project. Meanwhile, residents, especially those living in South City area, Ayali, Issewal area, etc. are waiting anxiously for the completion of the project. “if we have to go to Jalandhar, Amritsar, Jammu or other cities on that side, it takes us around 45 minutes to exit the city. But after this road opens it will take us around 15-20 minutes to reach Ladowal. It is also expected to help ease the traffic in the city as vehicles coming from Jagraon, Ferozepur, Faridkot, Barnala, Moga, Bathinda, etc. towards Jalandhar side, which otherwise have to enter the city and then take Ludhiana-Jalandhar highway, will now take this road,” said Naresh Sharma, a real estate adviser of South City. The road construction agency has said the road will pass through South City, Ayali, Malakpur and Jainpur and join with the highway at Ladowal. Besides, as the South City road has witnessed many fatal accidents before the project work started, many resident demanded that the road construction agency should make necessary road safety measures so that accidents don’t happen on this road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ladowal-bypass-project-likely-to-be-completed-by-nov-25/articleshow/79289833.cms||Shariq Majeed
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Ludhiana civic body officials break kiosks for illegal hoardings, shopkeepers protest||LUDHIANA: To catch the shopkeepers who ignored the warning and installed illegal hoardings outside their shops, the civic officials conducted a drive in mobile market on Wednesday. The officials of zone A Tehbazaari branch instead of removing the boards, broke the kiosks where boards were installed. Despite shopkeepers’ resistance against the action, the municipal corporation (MC) officials continued with their drive. According to the officials, the shopkeepers are allowed to install board up to three feet in height, but the shopkeepers ignored the norms. Also, the advertisement policy does not allow the installation of many boards at shops. The civic officials have issued warning to the shopkeepers several times but the shopkeepers have ignored the warning. Already, the issue of illegal hoardings is a hot topic of discussion at local bodies department and officials are directed to remove the illegal hoardings from the city roads. The MC general house has also approved strict penalties against the persons who install illegal hoardings in city. In the last few days, the shopkeepers were issued notices in this regard. Some shopkeepers have covered the kiosks but some have still not removed the kiosks. So on Wednesday the officials conducted the drive and broke those kiosks. They claimed that they were within their right to break the kiosks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/mc-officials-break-kiosks-for-illegal-hoardings-shopkeepers-protest/articleshow/79291151.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Car on road is not a private place, mask rule applies: Delhi govt||NEW DELHI: Any person in a car must wear a mask as a personal vehicle is not a private zone, Delhi government has submitted before the high court. In an affidavit filed in Delhi High Court on Wednesday, the AAP government said wearing masks while driving was made compulsory in April and the order remained in force till date. However, in light of the revised guidelines in this regard by the Centre, Justice Navin Chawla gave the Union health ministry two weeks to clarify its position. Delhi government expressed its view while opposing the plea of a lawyer challenging a Rs 500 challan issued to him in September for not wearing a mask while he was driving alone in his private car. He has also demanded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh. “The main contention of the petitioner is that while travelling alone in his private vehicle, he is not in a ‘public place’; therefore, he cannot be subjected to a fine for not wearing a mask,” the government noted, but pointed out that “regulations/directives/guidelines are clear cut that any person moving around in his personal or official vehicle must be wearing masks compulsorily”. It reiterated that these rules applied to “all ‘public places’ and a personal vehicle falls in the said category, which cannot be said to be a private zone”. The petitioner-lawyer, Saurabh Sharma, said on September 9 while driving to work, he was stopped by Delhi Police and was challaned for not wearing a mask though he was alone in the car. Questioning the logic behind such a challan, Sharma informed the court that subsequent to the April 4 order of Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the Union health ministry had said persons driving alone in a car were not required to wear a mask. The notice to the Centre was first issued on September 17 and the high court has now made it clear that it will not grant more time to the Union ministry to submit its stand. The court will hear two more similar petitions on January 7. In his plea, Sharma said the traffic cops issuing the challan had failed to show any executive order to support their action. The lawyer said he had paid the “illegal” fine under protest and approached the court as, in the absence of any law or notification, the levy of fine on him was “ex facie arbitrary and illegal”. DDMA has contended that its office order of April and a subsequent notification in June have made it mandatory to wear a mask in a public place. It has cited a Supreme Court ruling to maintain that a private vehicle travelling on road is in public space as the public can approach it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/car-on-road-is-not-a-pvt-place-mask-rule-applies-govt/articleshow/79291202.cms||Abhinav Garg
November 19, 2020||Madurai||Ramnad villages marooned, roads flooded in other dists||Madurai: Incessant rainfall for two days has left many villages in Ramanathapuram marooned, roads inundated in many districts and waterfalls flooded. Ten villages in Ramanathapuram including Kondunallanpatti, Kokkarasankottai, D Kariselkulam, and Muthuramalingapuram were marooned. Heavy rains in Kidathirikkai in Mudukulathor resulted in a heavy flow in the channels in the region. Two women who were working near the Kidathirikkai channel had to be rescued by the fire service personnel. In another incident Solaiammal, 71 of Karunkulam in Ramanathapuram was killed when the wall of her house collapsed. The average rainfall in the district in the last 24 hours stood at 46.43 mm. Wednesday was a sunny day in many parts of the districts. But the roads were unmotorable and water levels in the major dams and local tanks went up. Kayalpattinam in Tuticorin district recorded 215 mm of rainfall in the last 24 hours ending 8am on Wednesday. Tuticorin recorded an average rainfall of 54.23 mm. Theni district recorded an average rainfall of 49.4 mm with Uthamapalayam recording 71.4 mm, highest in the district. There was a heavy flow in the Suruli falls. Tenkasi district also received heavy rainfall with Gundaru recording 99 mm. People were prevented from taking bath in the Courtallum falls as it witnessed flooding. The Kodaikanal lake started overflowing inundating the paths surrounding it, as heavy rains continued in the region till late in the morning on Wednesday. Madurai district recorded an average rainfall of 30.75 mm. Meanwhile, the water level in the Mullaiperiyar dam stood at 125.20 feet. The water level in the Vaigai dam stood at 49.70 feet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ramnad-villages-marooned-roads-flooded-in-other-dists/articleshow/79291172.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||Covid-19 cases cross 69k mark in U’khand||Dehradun: With the state recording 420 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the number of novel coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand breached the 69,000-mark. The case tally on Wednesday stood at 69,307. Also, nine more coronavirus-related deaths were reported from the state on the day, pushing the Covid-19 toll to 1,128. Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room, said that the maximum of 153 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 51 in Nainital, 42 in Haridwar, 38 in Udham Singh Nagar, 28 cases each in Rudraprayag and Chamoli, 23 in Pauri, 18 in Tehri, 17 in Almora, 12 in Bageshwar, seven in Pithoragarh, two in Champawat, and one in Uttarkashi. “Among the nine deaths reported on the day, six took place in Dehradun, and one death each in Rudrapur, Pithoragarh, and Haldwani districts,” added Tripathi. Apart from the fresh cases and deaths, 425 people recovered from the Covid-19 infection, taking the number of cured cases to 63,420 in the state. Meanwhile, 11,959 new samples were collected on Wednesday. So far, the state has tested 12,02,152 samples and test results of as many as 16,597 samples were awaited till the time of filing this report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-cases-cross-69k-mark-in-ukhand/articleshow/79288789.cms||Ishita Mishra
November 19, 2020||Bhopal||Green corridor for Chennai-bound Covid-19 patient||BHOPAL: A green corridor was created from Hoshangabad Road to Raja Bhoj airport on Wednesday for a Covid-19 patient who was airlifted to Chennai. The 25-km travel was completed in 24-minutes, said Bhopal traffic police. The patient was undergoing treatment at a private hospital on Hoshangabad road and the corridor was created at 4 pm. It is learnt that the 28-year-old patient was diagnosed with Covid-19 three weeks ago and he was diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). After the infection, he went into a lung failure. On medical advice, the patient was airlifted to Chennai. Reports reaching here said a similar corridor was created at Chennai and the patient is expected to get a transplant in the coming days. Considering the age of the patient, medical experts are optimistic of the outcome of transplantation. However, it is not clear when the patient would get a donor, said sources. Lung transplantation for Covid-19 offered as a life-saving therapy for some patients with Covid-19 who have shown persistent lung failure despite several weeks or months of support in the intensive care unit (ICU).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/green-corridor-set-in-city-to-airlift-covid-patient-to-chennai/articleshow/79289831.cms||Jamal Ayub
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||20 nominations filed on first day||Hyderabad: On the first day of filing nominations for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections 20 nominations were received from 17 candidates. The nominations include two from BJP, six from TRS, three from Congress, five from Telugu Desham , three independents and one from a recognised political party. From Kapra , Sarrornagar , Santosh Nagar circle , Qutbullapur, Malkajgiri and Ramchandrapuram circles. Nominations are being accepted at municipal offices from 10 am to 3pm. The last date for nominations would be November 20, scrutiny on November 21 and the last date for withdrawal of candidature would be November 22. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-nominations-filed-on-first-day/articleshow/79291164.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
November 19, 2020||Madurai||Man murders dad for forcing him to quit drinking||Madurai: A 25-year-old man murdered his father in Madurai district on Tuesday night as the latter wanted him to stop consuming liquor. The accused has been identified as M Manikandan of Rajakambiram near Othakadai. He was a load vehicle driver. Police said that Manikandan was an alcoholic. He often returned home under the influence of alcohol and picked up a quarrel with family members. His father, Mathu, 50, wanted him to give up liquor and get admitted to a rehabilitation centre. On Tuesday night, Manikandan went home in an inebriated condition and picked up a quarrel with Mathu. In a fit of rage, he picked up a log and clubbed his father. Family members rushed Mathu to the Government Rajaji Hospital, where he died in the early hours of Wednesday. The Othakadai police registered a murder case and began a search for Manikandan who was absconding. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-murders-dad-for-forcing-him-to-quit-drinking/articleshow/79291149.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||6 decades on, GHMC budget up from Rs 1cr to Rs 6k cr||Hyderabad: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s financial strength has grown tremendously over a period of time, despite the financial crunch. Six decades ago the budget was just Rs 1 crore and now it has reached Rs 6,000 crore. Before it was expanded to GHMC in 2007, the corporation was known as Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad.  In the 50s, the corporation had a budget of around Rs 15 crore which grew to Rs 400 crore in a decade. The growth continued and touched Rs 2,000 mark when it was made into GHMC from MCH in 2007. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/6-decades-on-ghmc-budget-up-from-rs-1cr-to-rs-6k-cr/articleshow/79291167.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||Teerth purohits, priests of Haridwar to be tested for Covid||Haridwar: After the threat of fresh wave of Covid-19 in Delhi-NCR, Haridwar district administration has given orders to the health department to conduct testing of teerth purohits and priests. The officials said that this is being done since these priests come in close contact with the people visiting Haridwar from various states to conduct last rites of their family members on the banks of Ganga. Similarly, Covid testing will also be done for hoteliers and local traders. The Hardiwar administration is taking precautions amid the fresh wave of Covid-19 in the national capital as most of the people come from Delhi-NCR for taking bath in the Ganga as well as performing various rituals. Consequently, the district administration has asked the health officials to conduct Covid-19 tests on all teerth purohits and priests who are directly involved in performing the rituals. Haridwar DM C Ravishankar told TOI, “Most of the people that come to Haridwar belong to Delhi-NCR. As the national capital is witnessing a fresh wave of coronavirus cases, we are taking precautions and have asked the health department to conduct Covid-19 tests on teerth purohits and priests. Similarly, hoteliers, their staff members and local traders will also be tested.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/teerth-purohits-priests-of-haridwar-to-be-tested-for-covid/articleshow/79288808.cms||MS Nawaz
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||Doon dist admin issues advisory for Chhath, urges devotees to celebrate at home||Dehradun: The Dehradun district administration on Wednesday issued an advisory regarding Chhath (falling on November 20) celebrations. According to the order, the devotees have been asked to celebrate the festival at their homes as offering prayers and performing other rituals will not be permitted at rivers, ghats, and other places. The celebrations in containment zones have been banned completely. Bir Singh Budiyal, additional district magistrate, said, “People have been advised to celebrate the festival in their homes and refrain from large gatherings. Children below the age of 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years must not participate in the festivities this year in view of their safety.” The officials also said that measures like wearing masks and using hand wash and sanitizers are mandatory and teams from district administration and local police will keep an eye on the celebrations. The officials added that action will be taken against those flouting norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-dist-admin-issues-advisory-for-chhath-urges-devotees-to-celebrate-at-home/articleshow/79288817.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Will highlight TRS govt failures: Vivek Venkatswamy||With very little time for the GHMC elections, BJP election manifesto committee chairman, former MP G Vivek Venkatswamy has his hands full. Apart from releasing the party manifesto, he is also busy preparing a chargesheet against the TRS government. He tells Sribala Vadlapatla that a call centre has been set up to take feedback from voters to prepare the manifesto. Excerpts from the interview:What role will BJP election in-charge Bhupender Yadav play in GHMC polls?Bhupender Yadav has begun his work with inputs provided by us on the party manifesto, which has been postponed for two days. The senior leader has asked the election manifesto committee to release a chargesheet against the state government first. What are the issues you will highlight in the chargesheet?Definitely, failed promises of the TRS government like the 2bhk houses, corruption in flood management and many welfare schemes. We will not be afraid to ask questions. This will be reflected strongly in our ground-level campaign as well.  At a broader level, what is the focus of the manifesto for the GHMC polls We will focus on corruption of the government. We will discuss how we will fight this menace in the manifesto. On Thursday, we will release the chargesheet first. Then, we will release the manifesto based on the feedback we receive from the people. What are the promises the BJP is going to make for the people?We do not have any grand plans. We will talk about simple issues like housing, roads, traffic, drainage, etc., which are in a bad shape in the city. We will tell people how the NDA government is committed to giving housing to people. Largely, there are 12 main themes upon which we will focus. Based on the feedback, we may include some more points in the manifesto. What are the other specifics? What about manifestos for each ward?We are coming out with local-level ward manifestos. Ward-level leaders’ inputs are being taken for this exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-highlight-trs-govt-failures-vivek/articleshow/79291206.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||SAD leaders seek FIR against Bains in rape complaint||LUDHIANA: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has demanded immediate registration of a case and arrest of Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) leader and Atam Nagar legislator Simarjit Singh Bains for allegedly raping and sexually exploiting a widow, who had approached him for help. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, senior SAD leaders Maheshinder Singh Grewal and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon said the Ludhiana police should follow Supreme Court guidelines and register a case and start investigation into the matter instead of just marking an inquiry into it. “An inquiry can only be conducted prior to registration of the case, not after it.” Both Grewal and Dhillon said Bains was close to Congress leaders. “The Congress has also been trying to woo the Bains brothers and co-opt them into the party. It was because of this reason that a rape case was not being registered against Bains. It seems the Congress government is giving time to Bains to cow down the victim family and affect a compromise.” They also lambasted the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) for keeping quiet on the issue. The SAD leaders, including Harish Rai Dhandha, Manpreet Singh Ayali and Darshan Singh Shiwalik, also demanded action against Simarjit’s elder brother Karamjit Bains, claiming that he was intimidating the victim and had even visited her house. They also asked the authorities concerned to ensure safety and security to the complainant and her family. “We will launch an agitation if justice is not given to the victim family and the law is not allowed to take its due course in this case,” the leaders added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sad-leaders-seek-fir-against-bains-in-rape-complaint/articleshow/79289844.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Madurai||Four from Madurai bag med seats via 7.5% quota, elated||Madurai: Three NEET toppers from government schools and one student from a corporation school in Madurai have got seats through the 7.5% quota in government medical colleges on the first day of counselling on Wednesday. All three had studied in Tamil medium schools and had bettered their NEET scores from scoring around 100 marks last time. District education officials said as many as 21 students from government-run schools in Madurai featured in the state rank list for the 7.5% quota. Among them, S Kanishkumar, N Karthick Raja and S Seethalakshmi, all repeaters who studied in government schools in Madurai, and B Pavithra, a corporation school student who passed out this year, got seats. Six students from Tirunelveli and four from Sivaganga also secured seats under the quota from the southern region. B Pavithra, 17, a student of Navalar Somasundara Bharathiyar corporation higher secondary school, got a seat in Tuticorin government medical college. “Although I studied hard, I was doubtful of getting a medical seat in government college due to NEET. But the 7.5% quota gave me hope,” she said. Her father Baluchamy, a grocery store owner, said, “My daughter has made me and her school proud. It was possible only because of the state government’s quota.” Headmaster P Meenakshi said, “I feel happy as if my own daughter has obtained a medical seat. The teachers should receive the credit for providing the best of coaching.” Pavithra scored 214 marks, standing 209th in the overall rankings, and 69th under the backward class category in the provisional rank list released by the health department a few days ago. S Kanishkumar from M Puliankulam government higher secondary school with 329 marks in NEET, the highest among government school students in Madurai, secured state rank of 78 and 36th within the DNC community ranking for 7.5% quota. Through counselling, he got a seat in Theni medical college. Kanishkumar, whose father is a mason, is set to become the first doctor in the family. N Karthick Raja from M Subbalapuram government higher secondary school scored 301 marks and was ranked 102nd in the state and 20th in SC community ranking for 7.5% quota. He got a seat in Tirunelveli medical college. Hailing from a family of farmers, he hopes to specialise in orthopaedics. Despite being discouraged to pursue medicine at one point, S Seethalakshmi from Mahaboopalayam government HSS was able to get a seat in Theni medical college after securing 249 marks and ranking 49th in the BC community and 151st overall for the 7.5% quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/four-from-madurai-bag-med-seats-via-7-5-quota-elated/articleshow/79291208.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: BBMP swabs 9,300 teachers, students on Day 1||BENGALURU: Four BBMP colleges reopened on Tuesday with 172 of a total 403 students, besides 66 lecturers and principals, turning up. Swab samples were collected from all students and teachers at nearby PHCs and mobile collection centres. “Most students appeared to be taking the Covid-19 test for the first time. You could see it in their anxiety levels,” said a swab collector. Lecturers admitted they were a bundle of nerves as they feared students and colleagues could be potential carriers. “Just because someone is negative today doesn’t mean they might not be positive tomorrow,” said a history professor. BBMP meanwhile had extensively prepared to reopen colleges. Over 60,000 students are expected to attend 432 colleges and the Palike mapped these institutions with 141 urban primary health centres (UPHCs) where students and lecturers can be tested between 9 am and 5pm. On Day 1, over 9,300 students and teachers were swabbed by 189 BBMP teams. Students were given consent forms which must be signed by parents before they can attend class. “Classes have not started yet. It will begin only when students turn up with signed consent forms. Testing will continue tomorrow too,” said Manjunath Naik, special commissioner administration. “All our colleges have been sanitized and cleaned. Education officers have inspected the institutions. We expected around 30% attendance, but numbers will slowly increase.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/colleges-reopen-bbmp-swabs-9300-students-teachers-on-day-1/articleshow/79269623.cms||Nithya Mandyam
November 19, 2020||Goa||Mapusa residents demand underpass at Peddem junction||Saligao: A group of Mapusa residents, as well as people from various social and political organisations, have demanded that an underpass be constructed at the Pedem junction on the Pedem-Mapusa national highway. They have also submitted a letter in this regard to chief minister Pramod Sawant. In a memorandum signed by around 1,200 residents, they said the flyover or underpass at the spot will benefit those seeking emergency medical treatment at the district hospital in Mapusa and five major private hospitals in the city. “Ambulances currently have to come to the hospital via the Peddem junction. However, this route may become permanently inaccessible in the future due to highway works. Without an underpass or flyover, people will have to use the underpass at Karaswada Char Rasta or the underpass at Tarikade-Bastora, causing them inconvenience. In cases of emergencies, they could get stuck in the increasing traffic in Mapusa city,” the memorandum stated. Citing the number of educational institutions in Mapusa, and that over half the students have to cross the national highway daily, a resident Satyawan Bhonsle said, “This long-distance route will be a waste of their time daily.” Mapusa currently has three colleges, at least 10 high schools and industrial training institutes. Over half the students in these educational institutions have to cross the national highways daily. If the bypass is not constructed the people will have to take the route through at Tar Bastora, the memorandum further stated. The delegation also met Union minister for Ayush Shripad Naik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mapusa-residents-demand-underpass-at-peddem-junction/articleshow/79292171.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Ring Road transport corridor opens||JAIPUR: Nearly one-and-a-half years after inauguration, the transport corridor of the 47-km southern Ring Road, which connects Ajmer Road, Tonk Road and Agra Road, has been made operational after making temporarily arrangements. As land possession for construction of cloverleaf structures on Agra Road is still pending, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) have provided access to the corridor after constructing the slip lanes. To avoid traffic conflicts at entry and exit points, the NHAI will also make alterations till the time structures are not constructed. On Ajmer Road, which is busiest highway comparatively to Agra Road and Tonk Road, the NHAI has decided to close a road cut on divider at Mahapura junction to avoid merging of urban traffic with highway traffic (Ring Road traffic). A senior engineer of JDA said, “To avoid traffic conflict coming from Mahapura-end and Ring Road (Tonk Road end), the NHAI will close the existing road cut infront Kanchan Kesari. Once it is closed, traffic coming from Mahapura will have to take a left turn (towards Ajmer). After 500 metres, a new road cut will be opened.” He added, “If a vehicle coming towards Jaipur from Ajmer-end wants to travel on Ring Road, a road cut on divider ahead of DPS school will be opened. The driver will have to take a U-turn and take the slip lane, which is connected with the Ring Road.” On Agra Road, a road cut will be provided for traffic coming from Jaipur to reach Ring Road. NHAI project director Ajay Kumar Arya said, “We have devised a traffic management plan. Diversions and merger will be done accordingly. The corrective steps on the road will be completed within 10 days.” As the road has been made operational, the expected pressure of more than 20,000 cars, jeeps and other heavy vehicles in Jaipur city will be reduced. Since Diwali, around 10, 000 heavy vehicles are approximately are using the corridor. An official informed, “Vehicles travelling on Ring Road will be charged with tolls ranging from Rs 50 to Rs 350. Passengers will have to pass through two toll plazas to cross the entire 47-km Ring Road. The first toll is at Hingonia near Agra Road while the second toll is at Sitarampura near Jaipur-Phagi Road. An amount of Rs 50 will be charged from light motor vehicles such as jeeps, cars, vans and Rs 80 for light commercial vehicles and Rs 185 for heavy vehicles. For bigger carriers, Rs 350 will be charged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/ring-road-transport-corridor-opens/articleshow/79294256.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Ring Road transport corridor opens||JAIPUR: Nearly one-and-a-half years after inauguration, the transport corridor of the 47-km southern Ring Road, which connects Ajmer Road, Tonk Road and Agra Road, has been made operational after making temporarily arrangements. As land possession for construction of cloverleaf structures on Agra Road is still pending, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) have provided access to the corridor after constructing the slip lanes. To avoid traffic conflicts at entry and exit points, the NHAI will also make alterations till the time structures are not constructed. On Ajmer Road, which is busiest highway comparatively to Agra Road and Tonk Road, the NHAI has decided to close a road cut on divider at Mahapura junction to avoid merging of urban traffic with highway traffic (Ring Road traffic). A senior engineer of JDA said, “To avoid traffic conflict coming from Mahapura-end and Ring Road (Tonk Road end), the NHAI will close the existing road cut infront Kanchan Kesari. Once it is closed, traffic coming from Mahapura will have to take a left turn (towards Ajmer). After 500 metres, a new road cut will be opened.” He added, “If a vehicle coming towards Jaipur from Ajmer-end wants to travel on Ring Road, a road cut on divider ahead of DPS school will be opened. The driver will have to take a U-turn and take the slip lane, which is connected with the Ring Road.” On Agra Road, a road cut will be provided for traffic coming from Jaipur to reach Ring Road. NHAI project director Ajay Kumar Arya said, “We have devised a traffic management plan. Diversions and merger will be done accordingly. The corrective steps on the road will be completed within 10 days.” As the road has been made operational, the expected pressure of more than 20,000 cars, jeeps and other heavy vehicles in Jaipur city will be reduced. Since Diwali, around 10, 000 heavy vehicles are approximately are using the corridor. An official informed, “Vehicles travelling on Ring Road will be charged with tolls ranging from Rs 50 to Rs 350. Passengers will have to pass through two toll plazas to cross the entire 47-km Ring Road. The first toll is at Hingonia near Agra Road while the second toll is at Sitarampura near Jaipur-Phagi Road. An amount of Rs 50 will be charged from light motor vehicles such as jeeps, cars, vans and Rs 80 for light commercial vehicles and Rs 185 for heavy vehicles. For bigger carriers, Rs 350 will be charged.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ring-road-transport-corridor-opens/articleshow/79291258.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Madurai||South TN reports 123 Covid-19 cases, central dists 139||Madurai/Trichy: The ten southern districts of the state reported 123 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 1,27,548 cases, which include 1,388 active cases, 1,24,113 recoveries. The region also recorded one death pushing the toll to 2,047. Meanwhile, the central region reported 139 fresh cases with two cases cropping up in Perambalur after two days of no cases. With this, the tally in the eight districts has climbed to 69,091, which include 1,422 active cases. Madurai reported 30 new cases, the highest in the southern region. Madurai (307) and Tirunelveli (248) have the most number of active cases in the southern region, followed by Tuticorin (190) and Kanyakumari (172). All other districts have less than 150 active cases. Ramanathapuram has 39 active cases, the lowest. Only Dindigul (125) and Sivaganga (104) have more than 100 active cases. On Wednesday, except Madurai, all the other nine districts reported less than 20 Covid-19 cases while Dindigul (8), Theni (7), Ramanathapuram (6) and Tenkasi (6) reported cases in single digits. The lone Covid-19 death was in Dindigul, a 45-year-old man from Dindigul having diabetes. The Covid-19 death rate in the southern region remains at 1.6%. Since Monday, the number of fresh cases continues to be below 150 in the central region. The public health department officials in Perambalur said that the two new cases were residents of Perambalur, but they tested positive in other districts. Hence, the cases were added to the district count. The total number of cases in the district is 2,230, which include 21 active cases. In Ariyalur, fresh case was reduced to one on Wednesday. The district has 43 active cases, while the tally is 4,513. Pudukottai (9) also has new cases in single digit. NAgapattinam reported 38 cases, the highestin the region. The number of active cases (296) in the district also is the highest. The region reported no deaths on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-123-covid-19-cases-central-dists-139/articleshow/79291241.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Businessmen urge farmer unions to allow running of trains||LUDHIANA: Rattled over the non-resumption of goods and passenger trains service and mounting losses, city businessmen have now pleaded before the farmer unions to allow all trains to run so that business activity can return to normal. Issuing a desperate appeal, the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) and other business associations have now approached 31 farmer unions, requesting all of them to give unconditional assurance to the state and central governments that they would allow the running of trains of all kinds. According to businessmen, they are feeling helpless over the situation as every single day of train disruption is costing them dearly. According to Upkar Singh Ahuja, president of CICU, “New farm laws have created a sense of panic among farmers, but unfortunately due to this, the industry of Punjab has gone into a crisis and facing a never before-situation, including problems solution to which seems impossible. After the call by farmer unions to stop rail movement in the state, the incoming consignments of raw material and finished goods are stuck in other states and at borders as the trains are not running. Similarly, the outgoing finished goods have not been able to move out of Punjab and have not reached other states or for export.” He added, “Thousands of containers of raw material are either stuck at the inland container depots or at gateway ports, resulting in a huge shortage of raw material as a result cost of the latter has sky-rocketed. We want to tell the farmer unions that because of the non-movement of trains we are facing such heavy losses that thousands of factories are inching towards bankruptcy. Therefore, we request our farmer brothers to cooperate with us and give a serious thought to the situation we are facing and assure the state and central governments about not stopping movement of any kind of trains in Punjab, so that our industry can return back to normalcy.” According to Pankaj Sharma, general secretary of CICU, “Danger of permanent closure of the factories is looming large on us as it is almost two months now that the train movement has remained at standstill. It is very painful that on one side the industry has not yet even recovered from the consequences of Covid pandemic and now we have been forced to face this unprecedented situation, which can be solved within minutes. Farmers of the state should remember that even during the black days faced by Punjab both farmers and the industrialists stood together with hand in hand and fought together to give food and employment to the people of the state. We are contacting all 31 farmer associations to request them to carry on with their agitation but allow movement of all sorts of trains, be it passenger or goods trains.” JS Bhogal, another businessman, said, “If the situation does not change in the coming week, hundreds of factories, which are now facing the problem of shortage of raw material, will be forced to shut down their operations. There are nearly two lakh micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) units currently operating in state of Punjab, which provide employment and livelihood to more than one crore people. If the trains do not resume, then factories will shut down and if they close down a huge majority of those employed in the MSME sector will lose their jobs and as a result entire Punjab will be in crisis. Therefore, we request our farmer brothers to cooperate with us and allow the movement of the trains unconditionally.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-urge-farmer-unions-to-allow-running-of-trains/articleshow/79289851.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Opposition sees political vendetta in Ebrahim Kunju’s arrest||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Both Congress and IUML termed the arrest of V K Ebrahim Kunju as ‘politically motivated’ and an attempt to divert the attention from the controversies faced by the LDF government. Accusing chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan of pursuing a political vendetta, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said on Wednesday that Vijayan has been targeting UDF MLAs one by one. After M C Kamaruddin and Ebrahim Kunju, they are hounding K M Shaji, Chennithala said, adding that the people will very well understand the motive behind the chief minister’s actions. In Kamaruddin’s case, it was a business failure. Kunju has been arrested for allegedly giving his consent to pay mobilization advance for the Palarivattom Flyover project. There is nothing unusual about providing mobilization advances. Though the high court had ordered to conduct a load test on the flyover, the state government approached the Supreme Court challenging the order, Chennithala pointed out. Talking to reporters after an urgent meeting in Malappuram, IUML leader P K Kunhalikutty said he has credible information that parallel meetings were held at a political level even as police officers were preparing to arrest Kunju. “They conspired for two days to arrest him,” he said. The LDF convener had announced that UDF MLAs will be put behind bars. The government and the investigation agency are implementing the political decision, Kunhalikutty said. Chennithala too echoed his words, pointing out that in Kunju’s case, even legal opinion was not sought before he was arrested. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said it was the road fund board which recommended to provide the mobilization advance for the project. As it was a routine practice, the minister and the concerned official gave their nod for it, he said. Kunju has neither indulged in corruption nor made money, Chandy said, adding that though it has been alleged that he released the money for the project mobilization, the amount, along with interest, has been remitted to the government. If he is guilty of releasing the advance fund, then several cabinet members too will have to be held guilty, he said. About 70% of the flyover work was completed during his tenure as the chief minister while the remaining 30% was completed during LDF regime, Chandy said. Who is responsible for the defect in the remaining work that was done, he asked. The previous UDF government had constructed 1,500 buildings and 245 bridges spending Rs 2,000 crore and no complaints have been raised against them, Chandy said. Kunhalikutty said that it is strange that the LDF government, which has been accusing the central government of misusing the investigating agencies, is repeating such actions in Kerala. “We will expose the CPM’s double standards and it will boomerang on the government,” Kunhalikutty said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oppn-sees-political-vendetta-in-ebrahim-kunjus-arrest/articleshow/79289853.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Dehradun||Access to healthcare: HC gives 6 more weeks to state to file details of PHCs, CHCs & dist hosps||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court on Wednesday gave the state government six more weeks to file the details of each and every primary health centre (PHC), community health centre (CHC) and district hospitals in the state after the Uttarakhand government filed a time extension application in the court. The case pertains to a plea highlighting lack of health infrastructure in the state, particularly in hills. In the extension application, the director general of health and family welfare had stated that a letter was issued to all the chief medical officers in the state directing them to provide the details but as many of the health institutions are in very remote areas of the state, receiving and tabulating details from each and every health institution becomes a massive task. Therefore, the state said, they need more time. “The state had sought six more weeks to complete the entire process. The court has now given the state government the time,” said Abhijay Negi, the counsel appearing for the petitioners in the case. The bench of acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Ravindra Maithani will now hear the case next month. As reported by TOI earlier, the high court had declared access to proper medical facilities as one of the fundamental rights while adding that “appropriate medical facilities should be provided by the state”. The HC had also directed the state to furnish details of each and every health institution in the state by answering questionnaires prepared by the petitioner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/access-to-healthcare-hc-gives-6-more-weeks-to-state-to-file-details-of-phcs-chcs-dist-hosps/articleshow/79288825.cms||Prashant Jha
November 19, 2020||Ludhiana||Tax professionals, bizmen resent notices by Punjab GST dept for old cases||LUDHIANA: Tax professionals and businessmen are up in arms against the notices issued by the state GST department for assessment of old cases pertaining to 2013-14 when value added tax (VAT) was in place in the state. The stakeholders are finding it impossible to comply with the deadline for completion of the assessments, which is November 20. According to businessmen and tax professionals, firstly sending notices for such old period was not justified on part of the department. Secondly, in the wake of coronavirus and lockdown, it has not been possible for them to collect the records from their customers, which needs to be furnished to the department for assessment. Meanwhile, demanding deferment of the deadline, tax professionals have shot off letters to chief minister Amarinder Singh, financial commissioner (taxation) and excise and taxation commissioner, Punjab. Bhagat Ram Kaushal, secretary general of Punjab Tax Bar Association (PTBA), said, “The PTBA being the parent body of all tax bar associations of Punjab, it is getting calls from all over the state, stating that the tax officials are pressing hard for finalisation of assessments under the Acts up to November 20, on the pretext that the head office has instructed them to complete the assessments without fail. We want to inform the department that as per department rules, only an assessment under sub section (2) or sub section (3) may be made within six years after the date when the annual statement was filed or due to be filed, which ever is later.” He said, “Due date for filing VAT 20 for 2013-14 was first extended up to December 10, 2014, which was further extended up to December 15, meaning that the due date for filing of annual statement in form VAT 20 was December 15, 2014, and as such the last date for framing assessment automatically gains time up to December 15 and not November 20. Therefore, the state GST department should immediately defer the assessment of the assessees and fix the last date to be December 15.” According to Bal Krishan Gupta, president of PTBA, “This issue is highly sensitive for the reason that if any assessing authority proceeds to frame assessment considering the last date as November 20 the assessees shall have to deposit 25% of the additional demand for filing appeal against the said pre-assessed assessment order. Keeping in view these facts and legal position, it is requested that the state GST department chief should inform all assessing authorities of Punjab to take the last date of assessment as December 15 instead of November 20.” Narinder Bhamra, president of Fastener Manufacturers Association of India,said, “The move of assessment of old cases which are of pre-GST era is illogical and considering the facts that industry has been passing through a very bad phase due to coronavirus and lockdowns. Because of these factors it is not feasible to collect all data required from our customers or our end for completing the assessments. The state GST department should therefore either cancel the orders for assessment or defer the deadline till March 31, 2021.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tax-professionals-bizmen-resent-notices-by-gst-dept-for-old-cases/articleshow/79289866.cms||Mohit Behl
November 19, 2020||Madurai||173 Covid patients who died in last 5 months had COPD||Madurai: As many as 173 Covid-19 patients who died between June and October in Tamil Nadu had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as one of their comorbid conditions. On ‘World COPD Day’ observed on Wednesday, doctors highlighted the importance of preventing and managing COPD amid the fight against Covid-19.“COPD patients are at high risk for Covid-19 compared to normal patients. More aggressive treatment may be necessary as COPD is no longer just a respiratory disease but a systemic one. Viral or bacterial infection can cause acute exacerbation of COPD and hence treatment would be difficult in Covid-19 patients with COPD,” said Dr P Prem Ananth, interventional pulmonologist. He added that COPD patients are also prone to developing severe forms of Covid-19. “COPD by itself can cause respiratory failure and a patient may even need ventilation in severe cases. So, in a case where Covid-19 also needs to be treated, there is a much higher risk,” he said.“COPD is treatable and preventable. But, we see that cases are increasing every year, mainly due to exposure to smoke and air pollution. Anyone above 40 years who is facing difficulty in breathing and anyone with persistent cough, increased sputum production and breathlessness must consult a physician for COPD check-up,” said Dr Suganya Chandrasekaran, pulmonologist. Dr Ananth also said that smoking is a leading cause for COPD and even second-hand smoking can be deadly. Spirometry tests are recommended to be done once a year to check lung condition.Doctors also warned against stopping treatment for COPD. “Inhalers are used to most effectively treat COPD now. They can provide immediate relief with just 1/6th of the dose given in oral tablets,” said Dr Suganya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/173-covid-patients-who-died-in-last-5-months-had-copd/articleshow/79291275.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
November 19, 2020||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Armed with ED docus, NCB questions Bineesh Kodiyeri||BENGALURU: The sleuths of narcotics control bureau (NCB) are questioning Bineesh Kodiyeri, son of senior CPM leader Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, based on the findings of enforcement directorate (ED) apart from confessions of his aide and drug dealer Mohammed Anoop, sources said. Earlier, ED had quizzed him for 14 days until he was remanded in judicial custody on Nov 11 His custodial interrogation will continue till Friday and if his role in financing drug trade in Bengaluru through his aides is established, NCB will book him under NDPS Act and arrest him. He was taken into custody from Parappana Agrahara prison complex on Tuesday evening to question his involvement in drug dealing case in which his friends Mohammed Anoop and Rijesh Ravindran were arrested on Aug 24. Bineesh was detained at NCB’s Yelahanka office. “ED investigators had ascertained that Bineesh had transferred large sum of money to Anoop over a period of time and he was aware of drug dealings. Bineesh is being questioned about his knowledge of his friends’ drug dealings in Bengaluru, mainly Anoop, and if he had financed him and obtained profits from narcotics dealings,” said an NCB officer, who didn’t mention if Bineesh was cooperating during his questioning. Mohammed had reportedly told NCB that Bineesh had transferred Rs 50 lakh over a period of time to support his eatery business in Kammanahalli. Sleuths suspect Bineesh knew Mohammed and Ravindran’s narcotics dealings and may have financed it extensively. With his custody ending on Friday afternoon, investigators will be aiming to get a confession from Bineesh which will result in him being added as accused number five in the drug case where his friends are booked., sources added. Meanwhile, Bineesh’s bail petition in ED’s money laundering case, in which he was arrested, came up for hearing before a city special court on Wednesday afternoon. With ED’s attorney citing pending investigation and questioning of his aides who have been summoned, the judge postponed the bail hearing to Nov 24. Bineesh’s lawyers had approached Karnataka High Court with an anticipatory bail petition in NCB case. The petition will come up for hearing on Thursday. Bineesh was yet to be booked formally in the drug case till Wednesday night, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/armed-with-ed-docus-ncb-questions-bineesh/articleshow/79289877.cms||Petlee Peter
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Raj not using central plans for political reasons: BJP||Jaipur: The BJP on Wednesday accused the Ashok Gehlot government of failing to execute the central government’s rural development schemes due to political reasons and depriving people of benefits. The opposition party exuded confidence of winning the panchayat samiti and zila parishad elections scheduled to be held later this month. Union minister of state for parliamentary affairs Arjun Ram Meghwal while releasing a black paper on the Congress government alleged that the state government did not implement schemes like the Deendayal Upadhyaya Gram Jyoti Yojna, Shyama Prasad Mukherji Urban Mission and PM housing scheme deliberately as they were named after Jan Sangh stalwarts. Meghwal said the Congress government ignored public interest and had been indulging in the pursuit of its mutual interests, depriving the needy by disrupting the public interest schemes run by the central government. “Thinking that the popularity of the BJP government (at the Centre) and Prime Minister Narendra Modi is increasing in rural areas, the state government did not implement them (central schemes),” Meghwal alleged in a press conference at the party office here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-not-using-central-plans-for-political-reasons-bjp/articleshow/79291278.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi govt has no plans to impose lockdown: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said there were no plans to impose a lockdown in the capital and Delhi government was not shutting down any market right now. “I had sent a proposal to the LG yesterday for decreasing the number of wedding guests in Delhi from 200 to 50, which has been approved. Second, due to Diwali, we saw that social distancing norms were not followed in many markets in Delhi. So, we sent a proposal to the LG for the central government to allow Delhi government to impose local lockdowns in the market places, which are potential Covid hotspots,” Kejriwal told reporters after visiting Delhi government’s GTB Hospital to review the preparedness in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. “I was listening to some news channels yesterday, which mentioned that there would be a mini-lockdown in Delhi, which is not the case,” Kejriwal reiterated. “We will observe the situation in the coming days and will assess according to that. Saving the economy and the livelihood of the people is our topmost priority right now. Unless very necessary, we will not take any step, but we have only written to the central government for now,” he said. November has seen a spike in Covid-19 cases, which have crossed the one lakh mark. It recorded the highest number of cases in a month by surpassing the number of total cases recorded in the month of October. The total number of deaths this month is second highest after the toll of 2,269 recorded in June. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also said Delhi government had no plan to impose a lockdown as lockdown was not a solution to the pandemic. He said that the government might press some restrictions in market areas for some days to prevent the spread of Covid-19 if the need arose. Sisodia told reporters that the Covid-19 pandemic could be tackled through proper medical arrangements, which the government was doing effectively, instead of imposing a lockdown. Earlier in the day, health minister Satyendar Jain also said that there would be no lockdown as learning from the previous lockdown, it has been realised that there is no logic of repeating the exercise. He said there are just plans of local restrictions if required. Delhi is carrying out the highest number of tests compared with any other state and the numbers will only go up in the coming days, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-has-no-plans-to-impose-lockdown-cm/articleshow/79291337.cms||Sidharatha Roy
November 19, 2020||Udaipur||Rajasthan cabinet expansion to wait till AICC committee report||JAIPUR: The strength of council of ministers in the state has come down to 21 against the permissible limit of 30 after the death of Cabinet minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal, but a cabinet expansion and reshuffle is unlikely anytime soon. Party sources said any change in the council of ministers would be possible once the three-member AICC committee formed to settle differences between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot makes its recommendations. Senior Congressman Kapil Sibal, questioning the party’s working in the aftermath of Bihar elections, might expedite the AICC committee’s functioning. The committee has been unable to work properly owing to the ill health of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, the panel member other than KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken. Congress general secretary Venugopal was lately occupied at home following the demise of his mother while party’s Rajasthan in-charge Maken too had health issues earlier. The three-member committee is believed to have met thrice in the past as many months since its constitution in August when the Congress top leadership engineered a truce between Gehlot and Pilot, who revolted over state leadership matters. Maken was here to meet the party MLAs, but was called back to Delhi soon after Sibal’s comments, on Tuesday. Maken, though, did have long discussions with Gehlot at the latter’s residence late Monday night. Sources said the cabinet expansion may have to wait at least until after December 17 when the Gehlot-government will complete its two years in office. “If the three-member committee can work out a power sharing formula with the two state leaders by then, a cabinet expansion as well as a reshuffle might happen. Otherwise, the aspirants may have to wait until January,” said a senior Congress leader. Congressmen in the state, though, are hopeful that chief minister Gehlot might make some political appointments, like heads of certain boards, commissions or corporations, before going for any changes in the cabinet. The ruling party performed well in the recently concluded municipal elections for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. It must now perform better in the panchayat elections, which are already under way. The ruling party has been without the state organisation since July when Pilot was sacked as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief following the rebellion by him and 18 other MLAs against the leadership and functioning of chief minister Gehlot. Fearing further revolts in the state unit, the central leadership dissolved the entire PCC, all DCCs, BCCs and party cells during the political crisis in July. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, who replaced Pilot as the PCC chief, has been running the show solo since then. Many have pinned their hopes on getting party posts once the three-member AICC committee brokers a deal between Gehlot and Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cabinet-expansion-to-wait-till-aicc-committee-report/articleshow/79294280.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ajmer||Rajasthan cabinet expansion to wait till AICC committee report||JAIPUR: The strength of council of ministers in the state has come down to 21 against the permissible limit of 30 after the death of Cabinet minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal, but a cabinet expansion and reshuffle is unlikely anytime soon. Party sources said any change in the council of ministers would be possible once the three-member AICC committee formed to settle differences between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot makes its recommendations. Senior Congressman Kapil Sibal, questioning the party’s working in the aftermath of Bihar elections, might expedite the AICC committee’s functioning. The committee has been unable to work properly owing to the ill health of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, the panel member other than KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken. Congress general secretary Venugopal was lately occupied at home following the demise of his mother while party’s Rajasthan in-charge Maken too had health issues earlier. The three-member committee is believed to have met thrice in the past as many months since its constitution in August when the Congress top leadership engineered a truce between Gehlot and Pilot, who revolted over state leadership matters. Maken was here to meet the party MLAs, but was called back to Delhi soon after Sibal’s comments, on Tuesday. Maken, though, did have long discussions with Gehlot at the latter’s residence late Monday night. Sources said the cabinet expansion may have to wait at least until after December 17 when the Gehlot-government will complete its two years in office. “If the three-member committee can work out a power sharing formula with the two state leaders by then, a cabinet expansion as well as a reshuffle might happen. Otherwise, the aspirants may have to wait until January,” said a senior Congress leader. Congressmen in the state, though, are hopeful that chief minister Gehlot might make some political appointments, like heads of certain boards, commissions or corporations, before going for any changes in the cabinet. The ruling party performed well in the recently concluded municipal elections for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. It must now perform better in the panchayat elections, which are already under way. The ruling party has been without the state organisation since July when Pilot was sacked as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief following the rebellion by him and 18 other MLAs against the leadership and functioning of chief minister Gehlot. Fearing further revolts in the state unit, the central leadership dissolved the entire PCC, all DCCs, BCCs and party cells during the political crisis in July. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, who replaced Pilot as the PCC chief, has been running the show solo since then. Many have pinned their hopes on getting party posts once the three-member AICC committee brokers a deal between Gehlot and Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cabinet-expansion-to-wait-till-aicc-committee-report/articleshow/79294281.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jodhpur||Rajasthan cabinet expansion to wait till AICC committee report||JAIPUR: The strength of council of ministers in the state has come down to 21 against the permissible limit of 30 after the death of Cabinet minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal, but a cabinet expansion and reshuffle is unlikely anytime soon. Party sources said any change in the council of ministers would be possible once the three-member AICC committee formed to settle differences between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot makes its recommendations. Senior Congressman Kapil Sibal, questioning the party’s working in the aftermath of Bihar elections, might expedite the AICC committee’s functioning. The committee has been unable to work properly owing to the ill health of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, the panel member other than KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken. Congress general secretary Venugopal was lately occupied at home following the demise of his mother while party’s Rajasthan in-charge Maken too had health issues earlier. The three-member committee is believed to have met thrice in the past as many months since its constitution in August when the Congress top leadership engineered a truce between Gehlot and Pilot, who revolted over state leadership matters. Maken was here to meet the party MLAs, but was called back to Delhi soon after Sibal’s comments, on Tuesday. Maken, though, did have long discussions with Gehlot at the latter’s residence late Monday night. Sources said the cabinet expansion may have to wait at least until after December 17 when the Gehlot-government will complete its two years in office. “If the three-member committee can work out a power sharing formula with the two state leaders by then, a cabinet expansion as well as a reshuffle might happen. Otherwise, the aspirants may have to wait until January,” said a senior Congress leader. Congressmen in the state, though, are hopeful that chief minister Gehlot might make some political appointments, like heads of certain boards, commissions or corporations, before going for any changes in the cabinet. The ruling party performed well in the recently concluded municipal elections for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. It must now perform better in the panchayat elections, which are already under way. The ruling party has been without the state organisation since July when Pilot was sacked as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief following the rebellion by him and 18 other MLAs against the leadership and functioning of chief minister Gehlot. Fearing further revolts in the state unit, the central leadership dissolved the entire PCC, all DCCs, BCCs and party cells during the political crisis in July. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, who replaced Pilot as the PCC chief, has been running the show solo since then. Many have pinned their hopes on getting party posts once the three-member AICC committee brokers a deal between Gehlot and Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cabinet-expansion-to-wait-till-aicc-committee-report/articleshow/79294279.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Cong to face uphill task for regaining vacant House seats||Jaipur: With the demise of cabinet minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal this week and MLA Kailash Trivedi last month, the ruling party’s strength in the state assembly has come down to 105. Of these, six MLAs who shifted loyalties from BSP to Congress still face a challenge to their assembly membership because of the writ petitions filed by the BSP and a BJP MLA in July. Meghwal, who represented Sujangarh (SC seat) in Churu district, died of prolonged illness on November 16, while Trivedi who represented Sahara seat in Bhilwara district, died of post-Covid complications on October 6. In a house with currently reduced strength of 198, the Congress is still above the required majority mark of 100 on its own. It enjoys support from two smaller parties and most of the 13 independent MLAs. Yet, considering the crisis over the government’s existence faced in July-August because of the rebellion from former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot and his loyal 18 MLAs, chief minister Ashok Gehlot would need to win back the two assembly seats with Congressmen from his camp. Pilot would want his men on the two seats, especially because minister Meghwal was closer to him. The Congress, which is divided between the camps of Gehlot and Pilot, faces an uphill task to win back the two seats in the by-elections bound to be held in next six months. Leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria has publicly announced that the Congress government in Rajasthan will not last more than six months. A video clip of Kataria’s remark made at a BJP function near Ghatol in Banswara district on Tuesday has gone viral on social media. “Kataria is himself facing the danger of losing his post due to resentment against him within BJP. He is making statements against Congress in desperation. People of Rajasthan have elected Congress for 5 years and our government will complete its full term working for everyone’s development,” PCC chief and school education minister Govind Singh Kataria told TOI on Wednesday. Even as the ruling party has so far survived attacks from within and outside its organisation, it has been functioning without any state cadre since July when Pilot was sacked as the PCC chief. Dotasra has been running the state organisation single handed in consultation with chief minister Gehlot. “The party has performed well in the municipal elections and may win ongoing the panchayat elections too, but assembly bypolls will be an altogether different game, especially with the top two leaders so opposed to each other,” said a former PCC office-bearer. “The AICC committee mediating peace between Gehlot and Pilot must soon find a power sharing formula for the state, or Rajasthan will continue to pose the danger of slipping out of Congress hands as happened in Madhya Pradesh,” the senior leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-to-face-uphill-task-for-regaining-vacant-house-seats/articleshow/79291315.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Guard set ablaze for objecting to man urinating near boss’s car||PUNE: The Pimpri Chinchwad police arrested a 31-year-old milk supplier on the charge of setting ablaze a 41-year-old security guard on the premises of an engineering company at Bhosari MIDC around 4.30pm on Tuesday after the latter had objected to the former urinating near his employer’s luxury car. The victim, Shankar Wayphalkar of Chinchwad, however, showed presence of mind and jumped into the water tank on the premises. “Wayphalkar sustained only 20 percent burns,” Tirumal, proprietor of S V Enterprises, where the incident occurred, told TOI on Wednesday. The Bhosari MIDC police later arrested suspect Mahendra Kadam of Balajinagar in Bhosari, for an offence under section 307 (murder attempt) of the Indian Penal Code. “Kadam was produced before the court on Wednesday and remanded in police custody for five days,” senior inspector Shivaji Gaware of Bhosari MIDC police told TOI. Police said Kadam uses an autorickshaw to supply milk to eateries in Bhosari MIDC area. “Around 1.30pm on Tuesday, he stopped near S V Enterprises, where Wayphalkar works as a security guard, and started urinating near the proprietor’s luxury car, which was parked near the main gate. “Wayphalkar told Kadam not to urinate there following which Kadam started abusing him,” Gaware said, adding, “The duo had some heated argument. Kadam then left the spot.” Tirumal said, “Kadam returned to the company’s gate around 2.30pm and began abusing Wayphalkar. Kadam even threatened to kill Wayphalkar.” He said, “Around 4.30pm, Kadam appeared in front of the company gate again. He was brandishing a rod and carrying a bottle of petrol in his hand. Kadam poured the petrol on Wayphalkar and set him on fire with a lighter. He then fled from the spot.” J S Girnar, sub-inspector, Bhosari MIDC police, who is investigating the case, said that Kadam was arrested from Balajinagar late on Tuesday night. “We have spoken to people who were on the company premises. They told us that Kadam had come to company premises thrice on Tuesday. The third time he came with a rod and a bottle of petrol in his hands,” Girnar said. “We suspect that he was under influence of alcohol when he attempted to kill Wayphalkar,” Girnar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/guard-set-ablaze-for-objecting-to-man-urinating-near-bosss-car/articleshow/79291277.cms||Mihir Tanksale
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Rajasthan cabinet expansion to wait till AICC committee report||JAIPUR: The strength of council of ministers in the state has come down to 21 against the permissible limit of 30 after the death of Cabinet minister Bhanwarlal Meghwal, but a cabinet expansion and reshuffle is unlikely anytime soon. Party sources said any change in the council of ministers would be possible once the three-member AICC committee formed to settle differences between chief minister Ashok Gehlot and former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot makes its recommendations. Senior Congressman Kapil Sibal, questioning the party’s working in the aftermath of Bihar elections, might expedite the AICC committee’s functioning. The committee has been unable to work properly owing to the ill health of senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, the panel member other than KC Venugopal and Ajay Maken. Congress general secretary Venugopal was lately occupied at home following the demise of his mother while party’s Rajasthan in-charge Maken too had health issues earlier. The three-member committee is believed to have met thrice in the past as many months since its constitution in August when the Congress top leadership engineered a truce between Gehlot and Pilot, who revolted over state leadership matters. Maken was here to meet the party MLAs, but was called back to Delhi soon after Sibal’s comments, on Tuesday. Maken, though, did have long discussions with Gehlot at the latter’s residence late Monday night. Sources said the cabinet expansion may have to wait at least until after December 17 when the Gehlot-government will complete its two years in office. “If the three-member committee can work out a power sharing formula with the two state leaders by then, a cabinet expansion as well as a reshuffle might happen. Otherwise, the aspirants may have to wait until January,” said a senior Congress leader. Congressmen in the state, though, are hopeful that chief minister Gehlot might make some political appointments, like heads of certain boards, commissions or corporations, before going for any changes in the cabinet. The ruling party performed well in the recently concluded municipal elections for Jaipur, Jodhpur and Kota. It must now perform better in the panchayat elections, which are already under way. The ruling party has been without the state organisation since July when Pilot was sacked as the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) chief following the rebellion by him and 18 other MLAs against the leadership and functioning of chief minister Gehlot. Fearing further revolts in the state unit, the central leadership dissolved the entire PCC, all DCCs, BCCs and party cells during the political crisis in July. School education minister Govind Singh Dotasra, who replaced Pilot as the PCC chief, has been running the show solo since then. Many have pinned their hopes on getting party posts once the three-member AICC committee brokers a deal between Gehlot and Pilot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cabinet-expansion-to-wait-till-aicc-committee-report/articleshow/79291296.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Pune||Schools in Pune tell senior, unwell teachers to stay at home||PUNE: A host of safety measures are in place in schools that are preparing to welcome students and teachers from Monday for classes after a long break brought on by the Covid-19 situation. But most school principals said they would allow their senior teachers to work-from-home online if they face any problems or feel unwell or if any student falls ill when the schools reopen classes from IX to XII. However, the reopening in most of the old schools in Pune is still being opposed by parent-teacher associations with many parents stating that they will send the children to school only when the vaccine is in the market. Medha Sinnarkar, principal of Laxmanrao Apte Prashala in Deccan, said, “We have told our teachers who are above 50 years of age that they can take leave if they feel unwell or if a student in their class falls ill when the school reopens. However, the PTA has vehemently opposed the reopening. Some parents have even said that they don’t mind an entire year being wasted but they don’t want to risk the life of their children.” Jyoti Masand, principal of Jai Hind High School and Junior College in Pimpri said told teachers above the age of 55 not to come to school. “Those with diabetes or blood pressure or other such diseases, or those unwell can also apply for leave. We have about 10% of such teachers in our school. But we will be able to manage without them because only 10% parents have agreed to send their children to school while 90% have voted against it. But we still would need to open the school for the 10% students while the remaining will continue with online education,” she said. Anwar Shaikh, principal of Poona College of Arts Science and Commerce, Camp said the reopening of the college is fraught with risks. “While we have been getting calls from parents inquiring about the safety precautions we will take when the junior college reopens, a majority are against sending their kids to school. Even if all the parents agree to it, we have 1,300 students in standard XII. If 50% strength per day comes to school, the number is still 650 which is a crowd. We have over 150 teachers. While we have told teachers above 50 years of age not come to school and continue teaching via the online platforms, it is going to be a big risk for the remaining teachers too. How much can one sanitise, or how much can you tell students to stay away from each other?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/schools-tell-senior-unwell-teachers-to-stay-at-home/articleshow/79291307.cms||Ardhra Nair
November 19, 2020||Agra||Remove 5k cap on visitors at Taj Mahal: Agra mayor||AGRA: Two months after the Taj Mahal was reopened to the public, Agra Mayor Naveen Jain, also the president of the All India Council of Mayors (AICM), has sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and ministry of culture to remove the restriction of entry of 5,000 visitors per day. Claiming the black-marketing of tickets at the Taj Mahal to be a disappointment among visitors and revenue loss to the tourism industry and local economy, the Mayor demanded that the offline ticketing process should be restarted without any further delay. Mayor said, “All types of businesses, industries, trains, buses have started operating after the Covid-19 lockdown but restriction on entry of visitors to the Taj Mahal continues. This is adversely affecting the tourism industry and local economy of Agra. Over 3.5 lakh people in Agra depend on revenue generated from tourism.” He said, “Agra falls in the eco-sensitive Taj Trapezium Zone (TTZ). Following environmental restrictions, there are very limited avenues for industries and businesses to operate. People are forced to leave the city to earn money. The cap of 5,000 visitors in a day at Taj Mahal should be removed. The online ticketing process is causing rampant black marketing of the tickets at the monument. The offline facility should start soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/remove-5k-cap-on-visitors-at-taj-mayor/articleshow/79288883.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Pune||Pune: Review of online education in 3,700 zilla parishad schools||PUNE: Pune zilla parishad has roped in local panchayat and school management committees to review the online-offline process of education imparted in its primary schools. An assessment will be conducted in all the 3,700 Zilla Parishad schools in the district by November-end to check the impact of online education, ZP officials said. “Zilla parishad members, panchayat samiti members and local school management committee members will help understand the reach of online/offline education in Pune district,” Ranjit Shivtare, the vice president of Pune Zilla Parishad, said. “We will also be conducting an assessment survey to understand whether what has been taught in each class is being learnt by the children,” .Shivtare added. Shivtare said many parents have migrated to their home states while many who used to work in cities have moved back home to the villages. “Hence, there are many students who have gone away from the Pune ZP schools while there are many who have been newly added. We need to check if these new students are attending and if they are getting online/offline education,” he said. The state has allowed opening of schools from standards IX to XII. But the Zilla Parishad has primary schools in its jurisdiction and hence the the rule is not applicable to them. The members will also check the visits made by teachers to the students’ house to review the understanding, and their response to whether they would send their children if schools reopen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/review-of-online-edu-in-3700-zp-schools/articleshow/79291314.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hubballi||Channakeshav Tingarikar's bail plea adjourned to November 23||DHARWAD: The high court bench here has adjourned the bail plea hearing of police inspector Channakeshav Tingarikar to November 23. Tingarikar had applied for anticipatory bail fearing CBI investigating the Yogeshgouda murder case may arrest him. Tingarikar was initially the investigation officer of the case when he was inspector of suburban police station. CBI had summoned Tingarikar for questioning thrice. Tingarikar had applied for bail at a lower court last month, but his plea was rejected. Tingarikar on Wednesday approached the high court seeking anticipatory bail, but as the CBI counsel could not attend the court, Justice Mohammad Nawaz adjourned the bail plea hearing to November 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/tingarikars-bail-plea-adjourned-to-nov-23/articleshow/79289848.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Jobless youths will visit Delhi to meet Rahul Gandhi||JAIPUR: In protest against the state government for not fulfilling their demands, Rajasthan Berozgar Ekikrit Mahasangh, a group of unemployed youths, has decided to travel to New Delhi on November 24 to meet former Congress president Rahul Gandhi at his residence. They accused the government of not taking any steps on the issue of ensuring job quota for bona fide residents of the state and other demands. Mahasangh convenor Upen Yadav said around 10,000 youths will travel to New Delhi to meet Rahul Gandhi. “We will wait till November 23 and on 24th we will head towards Delhi. We will ask him when the youths of the state will get jobs?” said Yadav. Meanwhile, during their meeting in Bhilwara on November 10, the Mahasangh had chosen Ravinder Chaudhry as their candidate for the assembly bypoll from Sahada constituency, the seat that fell vacant after the death of Congress MLA Kailash Trivedi. They would boycott the zila parishad and panchayat samiti elections in 21 districts, scheduled to begin on November 23, and also appeal to people to vote against Congress in the elections. A team of 50 members has been set up in all the 21 districts and an in-charge has been appointed for each team. In all, 1,050 unemployed youths are part of these teams. The other demands include conducting REET examination, 2020; computer teacher’s recruitment; ANM GNM nursing admission 2013; panchayati raj LDC admission, 2013; admissions of 1534 laboratory assistants; junior accountant recruitment 2013; Rajasthan police recruitment 2018; senior teacher’s recruitment 2016-2018 and 2013; to regularise recruitment of 7,000 students in Ayurved nursing admission; panchayati raj JEN recruitment and other recruitments. “We will also oppose AICC plenary session, if it happens in the state,” Yadav had earlier said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jobless-youths-will-visit-delhi-to-meet-rahul/articleshow/79291334.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hubballi||Vinay Kulkarni’s bail hearing adjourned||DHARWAD: The second additional court, which is also the special CBI court, adjourned the hearing of former minister Vinay Kulkarni’s bail application to November 19. The court, which had issued notice to the CBI was to hear the bail plea on Wednesday. As the CBI counsel sought one more day to file objection, the court adjourned the matter for Thursday. Kulkarni was arrested in connection with ZP member Yogeeshgouda Goudar’s murder case by the CBI on November 6 and is lodged at Hindalga jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/kulkarnis-bail-hearing-adjourned/articleshow/79289855.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||CT Ravi new BJP Goa desk in-charge||Panaji: BJP national general secretary and MLA from Chikmagalur in Karnataka, CT Ravi, has been appointed as Goa desk in-charge by the party, replacing Avinash Rai Khanna. The former Karnataka minister will handle Goa along with the affairs in Maharashtra and poll-bound Tamil Nadu.His appointment was part of a national re-jig of state in-charges. State BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade tweeted, “Sir, it’s a great opportunity for us to get your able guidance and association.” Ravi had resigned from B S Yediyurappa government after he was appointed general secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ct-ravi-new-bjp-goa-desk-in-charge/articleshow/79292185.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Pune||Final bids for Lavasa Corporation scheduled tomorrow||PUNE: The lenders to Lavasa Corporation have set the final date for bidding as November 20 for those interested in taking over the operations. Sources said that there are six to seven new companies that have submitted their Expression of Interest, while some bidders are in talks about opting for a joint bid on the project. “We are expecting the process to take off after bid submissions as it has been constantly postponed for one reason or the other,” said sources operating Lavasa Corporation. With the current economic slowdown, the response has not been as expected even currently, sources said. The threat is that if the project fails to attract bidders then lenders will have no option but to liquidate the company. “Once the bids are finalized it will take at least a year to execute the entire process,” stated the source. Oberoi Realty, Haldiram Snacks, Pune-based builder Aniruddha Deshpande and US fund Inter Ups were among bidders that had shown an interest in the project. Deshpande said, “We had earlier approached National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to take on all the subsidiary companies of Lavasa Corporation, which has been done. Now, we are in advanced talks with another company that has bid. As it is a big project and considering the present economic slowdown, it is better to go for a joint bid to reduce financial risk.”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/final-bids-for-lavasa-corp-scheduled-tomorrow/articleshow/79291331.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Woman’s murder: Husband, friend, contract killers held||Kota: Solving a six-day old murder mystery of a 30-year-old woman, Kota rural police on Wednesday arrested the deceased woman’s husband, his friend and two other criminals hired for Rs 2 lakh for the murder. The husband is allegedly the mastermind who was fed up with the regular scuffle with his wife. He hatched a plan to get rid of his wife with the help of his friend. The deceased was identified as Neelema Goutam (32), wife of Gopal Goutam (34), of Bamborikalan village under Mangrole police station of Baran district. She was brutally murdered by unidentified miscreants near Surta Puliya on near Rajasthan–Madhya Pradesh boarder under Ayana police station of Kota district while she was returning with her husband on motorbike late on Thursday night last week. The husband also sustained minor injuries in the attack. Cracking the murder mystery, a special team under supervision of ASP, Paras Jain on Wednesday arrested the woman’s husband Goutam, his friend Munna Ali (25) of the same village and two hired criminals identified as Ashif Ali (23) and Sohel (21) of Anantpura police station of Kota city (rural), S P Sharad Choudhary said. Choudhary said the investigation in the matter revealed the couple was married around two years ago and since the marriage they were not in good tune and scuffle with each other part of their routine life. In order to get rid of his wife, Goutam with the help of his friend Munna hired the two criminals for Rs 2 lakh and transferred Rs 15,000 as advance to the criminals’ account, he added. Choudhary said, they were looking for a chance for around a month.The husband, on the day of crime on Thursday last week, in pretext of offering Puja, took the wife on his motorbike to a holy site in MP near Rajasthan boarder and executed the plot at night near Parvati Puliya under Ayana police station while they were returning home, he further said. SHO of Ayana police station Rajendar Prasad Meena said the husband appeared suspicious when he responded contradictory on amount of loot and attack on them while ‘the miscreants’ did not rob any ornament from the woman, whom they stabbed with knife so brutally that almost every part of her body bore deep injuries. The technical and scientific investigation also zeroed in on Goutam following which he was strictly interrogated and he admitted to have conspired the murder through the hired criminals, he added. The police would produce the four accused before court on Thursday and seek remand for interrogation into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/womans-murder-husband-friend-contract-killers-held/articleshow/79291343.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Man arrested for killing wife||Jaisalmer: A man has been arrested for killing his wife by drowning her in a tank on October 3 in Jaisalmer district. SP Ajay Singh said on October 12 a complaint was received from ACJM court Pokhran filed by Leela Devi from Barmer district that her daughter after marriage was harassed by her husband Gopaldan, father-in-law Shrenidan, mother-in-law Mohani Devi, brother-in-law Premdan and others for dowry. On October 3, Meena Kanwar was found drowned in a water tank and no efforts were made to take her out. Phalsoond SHO Bhanwar Lal was directed to form a special team and take immediate action. Culprit Gopdan aka Gopaldan (22) was detained and arrested. Investigation is on about the other culprits involved in this case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-arrested-for-killing-wife/articleshow/79291340.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi to get 1,400 additional ICU beds in next few days||NEW DELHI: To augment the health infrastructure, 1,400 ICU beds are going to be added to the city’s hospitals over the next few days, 663 by Delhi government and 750 by the central government. The increase in beds will make the government ready to deal with the rise in critical Covid-19 patients and help save their lives. On Wednesday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited GTB Hospital and reviewed the preparedness and healthcare facilities. In a meeting with doctors and the hospital administration, it was decided to increase the strength of ICU beds by 232 in the next two days, which would take the total number to 400. “Covid-19 cases have been rising over the past few days, but a sufficient number of beds are available in Delhi’s government and private hospitals, except for some big private healthcare facilities. However, there is a dearth of ICU beds. We are making efforts to increase such beds,” said Kejriwal. The CM added that health minister Satyendar Jain had also convened a meeting with other hospitals and a decision was taken to increase 663 ICU beds in Delhi government hospitals over the next few days. “The Centre has assured us that Defence Research and Development Organisation will increase another 750 ICU beds in central government hospitals. This means Delhi will have 1,400 additional ICU beds in the next few days,” said Kejriwal. Underlining that checking the rise in Covid-19 cases and taking steps to treat infected patients were key elements in the government’s fight against the virus, Kejriwal said, “I agree that Delhi has the maximum number of Covid cases right now. However, videos that had surfaced from big countries and cities across the world, like Italy, France, New York and Sweden, showed people lying on the roads as they were unable to get beds in hospitals. At that time, New York had reported 6,300 cases in a single day and around 550 deaths. In comparison, our doctors have done a commendable job.” Lauding doctors and healthcare personnel, the CM said, “We do not see people lying in the corridors of hospitals or on the roads in Delhi as they are getting adequate and timely treatment. I was touched by the response of the doctors at GTB Hospital when they immediately agreed to increase the number of ICU beds.” “Increasing ICU beds to 400 from the existing 168 within two days is not an easy task. The way our doctors have responded to this pandemic is commendable. They have played a better role in Covid management than their counterparts in Sweden, New York and many other countries and cities across the world,” added Kejriwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-to-get-1-4k-additional-icu-beds-in-next-few-days/articleshow/79291383.cms||AlokKNMishra
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Married woman commits suicide||Jaipur: A married woman committed suicide in Dholpur allegedly over dowry. The woman who got married last year hung herself from the fan, though she left behind no suicide note. Cops have registered a case against her husband and in-laws who are on the run. The 24-year-old victim was identified as Neha Sharma and a case was registered at Mahila police station in Dholpur. “The victim, who was married for a year and hailed from Baseri, was staying in Dholpur city with her husband and in-laws. She was found hanging from the fan in her room. Her family alleged that her in-laws were harassing her for dowry. We have started an investigation,” said an official of Mahila police station. The victim’s family claimed that since the beginning of her marriage, her husband and in-laws had started demanding dowry and despite compromising multiple times, the demand continued. Cops registered an abetment of suicide against the husband and his family though they are yet to be arrested as they fled soon after Neha’s death. Her body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. This is the second case of dowry death in two days. On Tuesday, police arrested two persons for the murder of a 23-year-old woman whose body was found wrapped in a bedsheet in Jaipur Rural’s Paniyala on Sunday. Initially, cops could not identify the woman, but later she was identified as Puja Yadav who hailed from Haryana’s Rewari. Cops arrested her husband Ashish Yadav (26) and father-in-law Laxman Yadav (60). On Sunday, Ashish had registered a missing report at the local police station in Rewari claiming that Puja had gone out the previous night and did not return. He told the same thing to her family as well after killing her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/married-woman-commits-suicide/articleshow/79291354.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||New species of fish found in Asifabad dist||Hyderabad: A new fish species distinguished by its unique mouth parts and stripe patterns on the body and pectoral fins which are as long as the head has been discovered in the hill stream, which is part of the Godavari river basin in Talai village in Bejjur range of Asifabad district. The new species is also among the first vertebrates to bear the name of Telangana. Called Telangana Loach (Indoreonectes Telanganaensis), the species is part of the Godavari river basin but does not flow into the main river directly. The research team from Osmania University who backed up their claim for the new species with DNA analysis information also say that the newly discovered species comes from the same area where the first loach species called Rita Bakala was discovered in the State in the year 2014. “We chanced upon this fish couple of years back and it took us long time to identify it as a new species. When we were doing this, one of the biggest challenges of this fish is, it is a cryptic species. It means that morphologically, it looks like the from the same genus endemic to the western ghats,” said Dr Chelmala Srinivasulu, Senior Assistant Professor of Zoology in Osmania University and Member, Telangana State Biodiversity Board. The research team was led by Krishna Prasad Kante, a scholar from Osmania University collaborated with researchers from western ghats in Pune and Kerala to make sure that the species that they are describing is not the same species coming from those locations. “We proved that is a new species at the genetic level and also morphologically, we put forward fine scale differentiation to say that it is a distinct species.” “Telangana is usually considered as biodiversity poor area and for that reason many people have not been exploring and focusing in this area. Very rarely we come across new species discoveries here whereas in western ghats, every six months there is a new species discovery. We need more encouragement and permissions from the forest department to explore the unexplored areas and collect specimens to scientifically describe it as a new species,” said Dr Srinivasulu adding that the naming of the new species after Telangana will make researchers and naturalists take notice of the new State.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-species-of-fish-found-in-asifabad-dist/articleshow/79291347.cms||Moulika.KV
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Woman dies waiting in line for flood aid||HYDERABAD: A 50-year-old woman collapsed and died, reportedly of asphyxiation, while waiting outside a MeeSeva Centre at Golconda on Wednesday to avail the Rs 10,000 flood aid even as police lathicharged some applicants in some areas as serpentine queues caused traffic snarls in the city. Police said the woman, Munawarunnissa, a resident of Hakeempet area in Golconda, was standing in a queue to submit an application for the relief at MeeSeva Centre near Galaxy theatre at Tolichowki when she complained of breathlessness. She stood for almost three hours in the queue and then suddenly collapsed, witnesses said. Her husband, Mastan, rushed her to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. “I rue why I sent her. She was insisting on doing it for the family. We lost so much during the floods,” Mastan reportedly told police. According to doctors, the woman suffocated and collapsed, resulting in her instantaneous death. “We have not issued any FIR since the kin of the woman did not file a complaint. Her body was shifted to her residence for the funeral,” Golconda inspector K Chandra Shekar Reddy. Heavy rush outside MeeSeva centres caused traffic snarls in many areas, but the situation went out of hand at Nacharam when hundreds of protesters blocked roads to protest delays in scrutinizing documents and clearing applications. MeeSeva centres at Begumpet and Khairatabad too witnessed long queues, hampering movement of vehicles. In front of MeeSeva centre at Tappachabutra , policemen resorted to mild baton charge to ensure people stood in a proper queue as hundreds of people gathered from early morning and were later dispersed after State Election Commission order stopped the process. In October, floods inundated many areas of Hyderabad, and the government decided to provide Rs 10,000 for every flood-hit family. Three days ago, the government decided to use MeeSeva centres for receiving applications. Later in the evening, the TRS government said the flood aid disbursal work would be completed after GHMC polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-dies-waiting-in-line-for-flood-aid/articleshow/79291358.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Covid rising: Rajasthan adds over 10k new infections in 5 days||Jaipur: The state is adding up over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases every five days. For the second time this month, the state has added more than 10,000 cases in five days. Earlier, this mark was crossed every six days, showing that the virus is spreading rapidly in the state. According to health department figures, the state added 10,877 in last five days, before that it added 10,161 cases for the same period. In the five days before that, 9,090 persons were found to be infected in the state. The positivity rate has also gone up after Diwali. On November 16, it was as high as 30%, showing that out of every 100 persons being tested, 30 of them have been found to be infected. On November 17, it came down to 17%. Besides, the number of tests done post Diwali has also taken a dip. On the next day of Diwali, only 8,206 persons were tested while on the second day, 7,286 samples were tested for Covid. Similarly, active cases are on the rise since November 5. The state reported 19,478 active cases on Wednesday, and it has been constantly increasing for the 12th day in a row. Meanwhile, 12 persons died of Covid on Wednesday, while 2,178 others tested positive in the state, bringing the overall tally to 2,32,358. With 12 more deaths, the state’s toll rose to to 2,101. Jaipur reported two deaths, taking its toll to 402. With two more deaths, Jodhpur's toll rose to 209, while Ajmer saw its 160th casualty, Bikaner 153rd, Kota 119th, Pali 81st, Sikar 70th, Nagaur 69th, Jalore 42nd and Barmer its 38th Covid death. The districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (468), Jodhpur (302), Ajmer (150), Alwar (125), Kota (114), Bikaner (77), Pali (76), Udaipur (75), Sriganganagar (72), Sikar (71), Nagaur (68), Hanumangarh (64), Tonk (63), Bharatpur (56), Jhunjhunu (52), Bhilwara (52), Churu (51), Barmer (44), Dungarpur (33), Sawai Madhopur (28), Sirohi (26), Jaisalmer (19), Rajsamand (18), Dausa (14), Banswara (11), Chittorgarh (10), Dholpur (10), Jhalawar (10), Jalore (6), Baran (6), Bundi (5) and Karauli (2).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-rising-state-adds-over10k-new-infections-in-5-days/articleshow/79291369.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Drug racket busted, 3 held with MDMA||Hyderabad: Task force sleuths on Wednesday busted an interstate drug trafficking gang with the arrest of three persons and seized over 200 grams of MDMA also known as Ecstasy worth over Rs 10 lakh. After working on the leads for over a month on the sale of the narcotic substance, the task force team identified a three-member gang operating in the city. The main accused, Salman, is a cook at a hotel in Madhapur while two of his associates are employed in private jobs. Police said that the gang members have been procuring MDMA from Mumbai and selling it in the city to select clients. “Due to the crackdown against foreign peddlers, locals have been roped in to run the trade. The peddlers have been procuring MDMA for Rs 2,500 to Rs 3,000 per gram from suppliers in Mumbai and Goa. The same is being sold in Hyderabad for Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 a gram,” said a police officer. The gang members have been bringing the MDMA powder in private vehicles from other states and packing it in one gram pouches for local distribution. One of the accused has also been reportedly working as a pimp as his phone number was found on escort services websites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drug-racket-busted-3-held-with-mdma/articleshow/79291363.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Senior classes may resume in December||HYDERABAD: Schools and junior colleges for class 9-12 students in Telangana are likely to commence physical classes from December as the department has sent a detailed proposal on reopening of schools to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for approval. A consultation meeting was held between all the stakeholders such as teachers, school managements and parents on the reopening of schools for senior students and junior colleges. Following this, plans are afoot to reopen schools and junior colleges for a period of 120 days for the academic year 2020-21. “We are yet to finalise the reopening date. Now that the GHMC election dates have been declared, the schools and colleges will most likely open only in the second week of December. However, it is subject to approval from the CM,” said an official, adding that the minutes of the meeting have been sent to the CM. Plans are also afoot to reopen the residential schools run by the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society. The government is also planning to hold the board exams for class 10 and 12 in April-May as against its regular schedule of February-March. “If the classes commence by December, we will require minimum of four months to cover important topics and prepare students for the practicals as well. We may call students in shifts in order to maintain social distancing,” said the official. Telangana’s plans are in line with other states such as Maharashtra and Gujarat where the board exams have been postponed to May. Not just that, discussions are also rife on conducting the competitive exams little later during the year as the board exams will be delayed. The government is likely to make the announcement by this month-end on reopening of schools and junior colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/senior-classes-may-resume-in-dec/articleshow/79291373.cms||Preeti Biswas
November 19, 2020||Jaipur||Woman mowed down in Sawai Madhopur over Rs 500 dispute||JAIPUR: A 47-year-old woman was mowed down by a man driving an SUV in Sawai Madhopur on Wednesday morning over a dispute over Rs 500. Following the incident, police arrested the main accused, Akram Khan who had driven the vehicle, and detained two others in the case. The deceased has been identified as Sabila Bano. After the incident, the villagers had taken her body to the local police station demanding the arrest of the accused. “Around 7am on Wednesday, an altercation broke out between youngsters of the families of the victim and the accused over a borrowing of Rs 500. Following this, the accused and his family reached the victim's house and demanded the money," said a police officer with the Malarna Dungar police station where the case is registered. The two families got into a heated argument which turned violent when they pelted stones at each other. When the accused decided to go to the police station, the woman came in front of the vehicle and the accused mowed her down. Around 50 locals then took her body to the local police station and dispersed only after the cops assured that they would take prompt action against the accused. The deceased’s body was handed over to the family after post-mortem. More arrests are likely in the case. This is the second such incident in three days when two groups of people had gotten into an altercation resulting in a casualty. On Monday, a teenager was shot dead over family rivalry. Following this, the villagers had started an agitation demanding the arrest of the accused on Tuesday. Local residents even blocked the railway tracks alleging that the police had failed to act in a timely fashion to arrest the accused. After day-long talks, the protest was finally called off in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-mowed-down-in-sawaimadhopur-over-rs-500-dispute/articleshow/79291384.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Centre trying to divide Punjab farm bodies: BKU faction||BATHINDA: Accusing the Centre of trying to divide farm organisations, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) held protests outside district administrative complexes across the state on a day when 30 farm organisations held talks to discuss the future course of action. Several activists, including women, participated in the protests. BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) state secretary Shingara Singh Mann said, “BJP leaders are making statements that an agreement with farm organisations will be reached in the next meeting expected on November 21. Centre functionaries are learnt to be contacting a section of farm bodies with the ulterior motive of causing differences among organisations, but we are united.” Meanwhile, in Amritsar, a delegation of farmer leaders met Akal Takht jathedar Harpreet Singh on Wednesday, urging him to appeal to politicians to not share the stage of farmers’ protests and use them for political means (Inputs from Amritsar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-trying-to-divide-farm-bodies-bku-faction/articleshow/79291368.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Engg exam schedule revised||Hyderabad: Osmania University (OU) has revised the examination time-table for engineering stream following a hue and cry by students on the tests being held on consecutive days. According to the exam schedule, Bachelor of Engineering (BE) first year supplementary exams are scheduled between December 2 and 8, second semester from November 23 to December 1 and fourth semester exams December 3 to December 11. While students of University College of Engineering have adequate number of days between their exams, it is not the case for affiliated colleges. Following several representations from students, OU in-charge vice-chancellor Arvind Kumar took to Twitter on Wednesday to declare the revised time-table: “#OU exams schedule is revised for forthcoming exams starting 23/11/2020 by giving atleast one day gap between 2 exams based on large # of representations received. Further #OU will ensure atleast a minimum of 45days gap for next semester exams to ensure sufficient preparation time.” As per the revised time-table, there would be at least two to three-day gap between every examination. The examination will be held from 10 am to 12 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/engg-exam-schedule-revised/articleshow/79291370.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Amritsar||200 old saroops also missing: Ex-jathedar||AMRITSAR: At a time when Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) is trying to pacify the sangat on the issue of 328 missing saroops of Guru Granth Sahib, the former jathedar of Akal Takht Bhai Ranjit Singh has claimed that 200 old holy books, including more than 60 written during the times of the 10th Sikh master Guru Gobind Singh, hukamnamas (edicts) and other valuable material, have also gone missing from the stocks and records of SGPC, which needs to be investigated. “There is no whereabout of 200 old saroops, including 63 or 64 saroops written during the times of Guru Gobind Singh, 28 handwritten edicts by Gurus or their wives, one Baba Hardas Singh’s Sunhari Pothi, two janaksakhis and two handwritten Dasham Granth,” claimed Ranjit Singh. He alleged that SGPC had not only been concocting stories about the 328 missing saroops, but also about the other rich valuable material of Sikh Reference Library (SRL) which was taken by the Army during Operation Bluestar, but later returned to the committee before 1990. Quoting one of the former directors of SRL, he said the director had resigned from the post after he didn’t get a satisfactory answer from SGPC officials about the articles of SRL which had been received from the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/200-old-saroops-also-missing-ex-jathedar/articleshow/79291374.cms||Yudhvir Rana
November 19, 2020||Chandigarh||Jathedar is unfit for his post: Punjab BJP functionary on ‘EVM govt’ remark||CHANDIGARH: A day after Akal Takht jathedar Harpreet Singh described the Centre as an ‘EVM government ruling the country’ and claimed that the 2019 Lok Sabha polls were rigged, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Punjab vice-president Harjit Singh Grewal on Wednesday said the high priest was “mentally not stable and unfit to hold such an important post”. However, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) defended the jathedar’s statement and described Grewal’s attack as “unfortunate”. The jathedar had made the statement in his address to the community during the centenary celebrations of Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC). Grewal also termed the jathedar as an “employee of a political party”. The BJP leader said the jathedar did not have any business in making such statements and calling a democratically elected government an “EVM government”. The SAD asked the BJP to take notice of what it described as “irresponsible utterances” by Grewal made against the Akal Takht jathedar. The SAD also asked its former political ally to ensure that the honour of the head of the Sikh community’s highest temporal seat was not undermined in any manner. SAD senior vice-president Daljit Singh Cheema said Grewal had not only insulted the jathedar, who had spoken about challenges being faced by the Sikh community, but also hurt the sentiments of Sikh community. “The BJP central leadership should rebuff Grewal immediately and the latter should take back his utterances and express regret for the same,” said Cheema. He added the jathedar had only made the Sikh community aware of anti-Sikh forces who were striking against its principles, religious places and institutions. Cheema welcomed the jathedar’s address. He said the jathedar had spoken up for minorities and highlighted how successive central governments had tried to break the SGPC. “He has made the Sikh panth aware that such efforts are afoot again and that it should face them unitedly,” he said. “The jathedar had rightly mentioned that the concept of Miri – Piri, which symbolised worldly and spiritual authority, was part of the Sikh tradition and would remain so,” said Dr Cheema.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jathedar-is-unfit-for-his-post-bjp-functionary-on-evm-govt-remark/articleshow/79291366.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mangaluru||Tourism picks up again on Malpe Beach||UDUPI: Cabbies Venkatesh and Dharmesh from Bengaluru engaged in parasailing at Malpe Beach on Tuesday. Fair winds gave wings to their dreams, as a speedboat hoisted Dharmesh and an instructor strapped to a parachute from the shore, into the clear blue skies, and gave him a splash into the sea on request, before being set gently down on the shore. While this was Dharmesh’s maiden ride, Venkatesh seemed a pro, having done it four times before. Giving them this experience was Mantra Tourism Development Company, that owns the rights to a host of activities, including much sought-after water sports at Malpe Beach, some 4 km from here. Asserting that he would come with his family next time, Venkatesh said he will definitely ensure his friends know of this exhilarating adventure sport that is available for tourists at Malpe. “One cannot put a price on this unique experience,” Dharmesh said. Parasailing was not the only thing that attracted tourists, who had a rollicking time in the sea, despite it being a working day. There was a steady demand for winch-boat parasailing that the company introduced last week. “This is a novelty that is available now only in Goa,” said Sudesh Shetty, proprietor of MTDC. “As parasailing was popular with tourists, we decided to add this adventure sport to our repertoire to enthral tourists,” he told TOI. Incidentally, the company has been offering parasailing for the last seven years. “Novelty in adventure sports is what tourists seek, and we as a company strive to offer it,” he said. People have queued up for both winch boat and beach parasailing activities. Incidentally, both these activities start at 9am and go on till 6pm. Strong winds ensure that the parachutes get proper lift, and add to the thrill that the tourists taking them experience, he says. Quote Hanger We are looking at reviving heli-tourism rides from December. If the current footfall of tourists persists, we are keen to bring back Chipsan Aviation to give tourists a ride from the Aadi Udupi helipad and back, passing over St Mary’s Island and other string of islands straddling Malpe Beach. These heli-tourism rides were most sought after in the past. – Sudesh Shetty, proprietor, MTDC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/tourism-picks-up-again-on-malpe-beach/articleshow/79288919.cms||Jaideep Shenoy
November 19, 2020||Chandigarh||669 more farm fires in Punjab||BATHINDA: A total of 669 stubble burning events were recorded in 15 districts of Punjab on Wednesday, taking the count to 74,905. Fazilka and Muktsar recorded most cases on November 18 with Fazilka recording 217 and Muktsar reporting 178 stubble burning incidents. Apart from these, eight of the districts recorded burning counts in double digits while five districts had single-digit incidents. When it comes to the district-wise breakdown of cases so far this year, there have been 9,658 cases in Sangrur, 7,591 in Bathinda, 6,824 in Ferozepur, 5,725 in Moga, 5,269 in Patiala, 5,110 in Muktsar, 4,847 in Mansa, and 4,517 in Tarn Taran. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/669-more-farm-fires/articleshow/79291381.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Hyderabad||Telangana: Youth steals former roommate’s Rs 29 lakh, held||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old youngster, who lost his job because of the pandemic, allegedly stole Rs 29.50 lakh from his former roommate in Keesara. A Naresh, a natice of Warangal and an engineering course dropout, was arrested by Rachakonda police on Wednesday. Police said Naresh was working in a private company and shared a room in a hostel with Yogeshwar Rao, Manikantham and Laxman in Keesara. Yogeshwar, apart from doing a job in a private firm, used to earn money by working as a private consultant to various firms and saved Rs 29.50 lakh and kept it in a briefcase. A few months ago, Naresh lost his job due to the coronavirus-induced lockdown, vacated the room and moved to his native place. He hatched a plan to steal Yogeshwar’s savings. After Yogeshwar and other roommate left the room on Tuesday, Naresh broke open the briefcase and stole the cash. A case was registered in Keesara police station. Based on the information given by Yogeshwar, police nabbed Naresh in Uppal and recovered the cash from his possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-steals-former-roommates-rs-29l-held/articleshow/79291376.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||Chhath biz down despite norms U-turn||RANCHI: Even though the four-day Chhath Puja festival kicked off with a lot of fervour on Wednesday with ‘Nahay- Khai’, the fruit markets have failed to record any substantial amount of sales till now. Fruits are an integral part of the Chhath rituals and usually in the days leading up to the festival, such things sell like hot cakes and the traders sometimes finish off their stock even before Nahay-Khai. But this year -- even after the government allowed devotees to perform the puja rituals at rivers and lakes -- the traders are predicting a 50% dip in revenue. Purushotam Gupta, who sells dry fruits and puja items near Ranchi Zilla School, said sales usually peak on Nahai-Khai and the day before when the traders end up selling 50% of their stock. But on Wednesday, only 15 customers turned up at his shop, he added. Md Ikram, who sells seasonal fruits at Chhath Puja market here, said, “We had to cancel orders as there was less turnout on Tuesday. Last year during this time, the entire market was teeming with customers.” Asked if he expects sales to pick up pace on Thursday in view of the government’s nod for celebrating at the ghats, Ikram said, “I don’t see it happening because people plan for Chhath months before the festival even begins.” The lack of sufficient customers has resulted in retailers demanding less number of items from the wholesalers this time. Tariq Ayub, proprietor of one of the largest wholesalers of fruits at Harmu Fruit Mandi, said, “The demand has gone down to almost 50% and the retailers aren’t taking away enough stock as per our expectations. We had supplied 52 trucks of apples last year but this time the figure has hardly crossed 25. Bananas came down to 25 truckloads which was around 55 last year. Oranges as well as pineapples have taken a hit and their demand has come down to four pick-up trucks from nine last year.” He added, “Last year, we did business worth Rs 1 crore in just two days but given the demand this time, I doubt if our sales will even reach the Rs 50 lakh-mark.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chhath-biz-down-despite-norms-u-turn/articleshow/79289535.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||‘BJP will be responsible for any post-Chhath Covid spurt’||RANCHI: After the state government eased the “stringent” norms for Chhath Puja and allowed bathing in public waterbodies, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), the senior partner in the ruling mahagathbandhan alliance, on Wednesday said BJP instigated residents of the state and devotees against the government and the saffron party would be responsible for any spurt in Covid cases and deaths in the coming days. JMM general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya on Wednesday said: “If Covid cases increase in Jharkhand after the Chhath festivities, cases of mass murder should be lodged against BJP leaders and lawmakers.” The Jharkhand government had modified its November 15 Chhath guidelines on Tuesday midnight, allowing devotees to carry out rituals and offer their prayers on the banks of river, lakes, dams, ponds and reservoirs wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. The modifications came after political parties, including JMM and Congress, mounted pressure on the government and BJP lawmakers hit the streets condemning the ban on organizing Chhath Puja near waterbodies. The four-day festivity began on Wednesday. Bhattacharya added: “We are aware of the danger that lies ahead of us and this was the reason the guidelines were issued. Jharkhand is among the few states that have managed the pandemic efficiently and kept the deadly infection in check. If things worsen from here, BJP and its politics of religious fanaticism will be responsible for it.” He said the party was saddened by the celebrations that erupted at BJP state president Deepak Prakash’s house late on Tuesday night and Ranchi MLA CP Singh’s comment, where he allegedly accused Soren of appeasing minorities by participating in Urs. “Did not the Hindu community abstain from Ramnavami, Durga Puja and Kali Puja celebrations? Just because Durga Puja is primarily a festival of Bengalis, BJP did not make noise then. Did not the Muslim, Christian, Sikh and Adivasi communities give their celebrations a miss this year? BJP stoked religious fanaticism only because of their vote bank, which is unfortunate,” he claimed. BJP’s leader of opposition-elect Babulal Marandi however took to Twitter to attack JMM. “If we question the Tughlaqi Farmaan on Chhath Puja, then it is politics. If question about the five lakh jobs promised, then it is politics. If we ask about failing law and order and the fragile health infrastructure, then it is politics. It will be good if we do not ask questions at all, isn’t it?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-will-be-responsible-for-any-post-chhath-cov-spurt/articleshow/79289437.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||Suspected PLFI operatives demand Rs 20 lakh from IMA GS||RANCHI: The general secretary of the Indian Medical Association’s Ranchi unit, Dr Sambhu Prasad Singh, said on Wednesday that he has received extortion threat from suspected PLFI operatives. Dr Singh runs a private health centre in Kanke area of Ranchi. Dr Singh said that he first received a WhatsApp message demanding an extortion amount of Rs 20 lakh at around 6:40pm on Tuesday. The sender warned him of dire consequences if the demand was not fulfilled within 24 hours. The message was attributed to one person called Bhagat ji. Dr Singh said that the miscreants again tried to call him on Wednesday, but he ignored the calls as they were from an unknown number. The latter then rang up Dr Singh’s wife and reiterated the demand, while identifying themselves as the representatives of PLFI supremo Dinesh Gope. Rural SP Naushad Alam said, “Police have got a complaint from the doctor. A probe is being conducted to trace the criminals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/suspected-plfi-operatives-demand-rs-20-lakh-from-ima-gs/articleshow/79289904.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||Overcast skies and light showers likely during Chhath Puja||RANCHI: In all likelihood, Chhath revellers in Ranchi and across Jharkhand will have to offer their prayers to the Sun god under cloudy skies and light drizzles on Friday and Saturday. On Wednesday afternoon, the Ranchi weather office of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) predicted overcast conditions and light showers in the southern districts of the state on November 20. “A cyclonic circulation has developed over the Arabian Sea and its trough of low pressure stretches all the way down to Comorin in Kerala. Its cloud band is extending over many states, including Jharkhand and West Bengal. Under its effect, there will be overcast conditions in Jharkhand and some places may receive very light rains on Friday. The overcast conditions will persist for at least 72 hours,” Abhishek Kumar Anand, a scientist at IMD Ranchi, said. He further said that overcast conditions will cause a marginal drop in day-time temperature and a rise in night-time temperature. “Day-time temperature in Ranchi will hover between 26-28 degrees Centigrade, while night-time temperature will remain between 16-18 degrees Centigrade,” he said. The IMD predicted a drop in minimum temperatures from November 21 onwards. “It is also expected that the north-westerly winds will begin their onset into Jharkhand around that time,” Anand added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/overcast-skies-and-light-showers-likely-during-chhath-puja/articleshow/79289734.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||3 Covid deaths take November toll to 50, 251 new cases in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand recorded three Covid deaths, 251 fresh infections and 280 recoveries on Wednesday, taking the state’s toll to 934 and cumulative caseload to 1,06,742. A total of 1,03,171 have recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate up at 96.65%. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state 0.87%. The casualty figure for November alone stood at 50. While Deoghar, Dhanbad and Jamtara reported one each, Ranchi accounted for the highest number of new cases with 70 patients, followed by Bokaro and Dhanbad with 53 and 29 respectively. With 63 recoveries in East Singhbhum and 56 in Ranchi on Wednesday, the number of active cases in these districts came down to 420 and 926 respectively. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.17% against the national average of 0.37%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state crossed the 400-day mark with 412.23 days against the national figure of 186.68 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/3-cov-deaths-take-nov-toll-to-50-251-new-cases-in-state/articleshow/79289875.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 19, 2020||Jamshedpur||Banna directs E S’bhum admin to prepare ghats by tomorrow||JAMSHEDPUR: A day after the Jharkhand government revised guidelines for the Chhath festival, state health minister and Jamshedpur West MLA Banna Gupta chaired a meeting of the district administration here on Wednesday to take stock of the preparations at the ghats. The minister said that the district authorities have been asked to complete the arrangements before the devotees visit the Chhath ghats to offer the first arghya to the Sun god on Friday. Banna also urged the Chhath devotees to comply with the Covid-19 guidelines while offering prayers at the ghats. DC Suraj Kumar issued orders to all the three civic bodies here — Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC), Mango Notified Area Committee (MNAC) and Jugsalai municipality — to clean up the ghats. Meanwhile, the district administration also sought the cooperation of corporate houses to clean the ghats. “The cleaning work is underway and the ghats will be ready in the next two days,” said the special officer of MNAC, Deepak Sahay. There are 15 Chhath ghats on the banks of Subernarekha and Kharkhai rivers in the city, where devotees go in large numbers to offer prayers. Notably, several Puja samitis had started cleaning up the ghats even before the state government revoked its ban on performing Chhath rituals at public water bodies. “We had resolved to offer prayers at the ghats regardless of the government order,” a volunteer of Bhojpuri Navyuvak Manch said on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/banna-directs-e-sbhum-admin-to-prepare-ghats-by-tomorrow/articleshow/79289505.cms||B Sridhar
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||Cabinet rejig unlikely before next year||RANCHI: Chief minister Hemant Soren’s cabinet is unlikely to be expanded before January next as Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) wants to monitor the recuperation of its ailing minister Jagarnath Mahto and gauge the mood of its veterans. The size of the 12-member cabinet is currently down to ten with the death of Haji Hussain Ansari and one berth kept vacant. “A decision on cabinet expansion will be taken by chief minister Hemant Soren, who is also the working president of our party. To comment on it will be premature as it will take some time,” JMM general secretary Vinod Kumar Pandey told TOI. Mahto, who underwent a lung transplant earlier this month in Chennai after getting infected by Covid-19, is on the road to recovery. JMM camp, however, is of the view that Mahto, who held the education and excise portfolios, will not be medically fit to dispense his ministerial duties for several months, thereby necessitating a cabinet reshuffle. At present, Mahto’s portfolios have been taken over by the CM. While Mahto remains out of action, JMM leadership will have to pick Soren’s cabinet colleague from party veterans such as Stephen Marandi, Dipak Birua & Nalin Soren. Barring social welfare minister Joba Manjhi and transport minister Champai Soren, none of JMM’s tribal stalwarts from Kolhan feature in the cabinet. With Ansari’s demise, JMM does not have any representation from its stronghold of Santhal Pargana, where it won the bulk of its 29 seats. When Soren’s cabinet took shape in March, three months after his swearing in, one berth was left vacant to bury the hatchet of disagreements between JMM and Congress over power sharing. JMM kept six ministerial berths for itself while Congress and RJD settled for four and one each. The size of the cabinet shrunk to 10 in October after Haji Hussain Ansari died of a cardiac arrest at a Ranchi hospital after recovering from Covid 19. A bye-election is expected in Ansari’s constituency Madhupur (Deoghar) by April 2021. It is expected that JMM’s Gandey MLA Sarfaraz Ahmed will take over Ansari’s chair. While JMM looks to bide time, Congress camp wants cabinet expansion by December. “Haji Sahab’s replacement has to be appointed by the JMM. But Congress party is in favor of not wasting any more time. We have already lost 10 months of our first year in office due to Covid 19 and other constraints. It is time to hit the ground running and putting in the work,” state rural affairs minister Alamgir Alam said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cabinet-rejig-unlikely-before-next-year/articleshow/79289563.cms||Dhritiman Ray
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||Congress builds artificial ponds, to distribute safety gear at ghats||RANCHI: A day after the state government allowed devotees to take part in the Chhath Puja rituals in rivers and lakes by maintaining social distancing and wearing masks, some Congress leaders on Wednesday started building artificial ponds in select locations with the help of local Chhath samities to prevent residents from venturing too far in search of lakes to offer arghya (prayers to the sun god) later this week. The party has also decided to distribute safety gear among the devotees at the ghats. Congress spokesperson Alok Dubey, who is also the convenor of Ranchi Mahanagar Bhuvan Bhaskar Chhath Puja Samiti (RMBBCPS), said they are constructing two makeshift ponds in Doranda and Harmu. “Following demands from locals, we have started constructing the ponds from today in association with local Chhath samities. The ponds are of 70ft in length and 15ft in width. Once ready, the locals can offer arghya here instead of going to a far-off waterbody,” he added. He further said that they are taking all the necessary steps to maintain social distancing and other safety norms at the ponds. The Jharkhand Pradesh Professional Congress Committee (JPCC) is working in tandem with the district officials for a smooth celebration. On Wednesday, JPCC members were seen fogging the ponds located in Chutia locality. JPCC president Aditya Vikram Jaiswal said, “We are doing it as part of our social responsibility and we will make sure that all the necessary arrangements, right from cleaning the ghats and setting up help desk, are in place so that the devotees do not face any problem.” Although the festival has already begun from Wednesday with nahay-khay ritual, devotees will flock to the water bodies on Friday evening and on Saturday to offer arghya and that is precisely when the grand old party is planning to distribute masks and sanitisers. Senior Congress leader Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo said they have also decided to roll-out several teams on Friday and Saturday which will distribute masks and sanitisers across different ghats in the city. “We have asked the district administration to ensure uninterrupted supply of electricity at all ghats and deploy divers there,” he added. Meanwhile, opposition BJP’s women’s wing distributed Chhath puja kits to the needy in Dhurwa. Mayor Asha Lakra, who is part of the women’s wing, said, “We distributed kits to over three dozen women in the area. Each kit comprised all the items required for the puja.” BJP’s Ranchi MP Sanjay Seth handed out Chhath kits to underprivileged in Chutia on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-builds-artificial-ponds-to-distribute-safety-gear-at-ghats/articleshow/79289456.cms||ASRP Mukesh
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||RMC sanitises ghats on war footing, admin to release dos and don’ts soon||RANCHI: With the state government making it clear that adherence to safety norms is a prerequisite in order to take part in Chhath Puja rituals in rivers and lakes, the Ranch Municipal Corporation and the district administration are pulling out all stops to make all the necessary arrangements before devotees throng the water bodies for arghya later this week. Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra, along with deputy mayor Sanjeev Vijayavargiya and other officials, visited more than a dozen ghats on Wednesday and inspected the cleanliness and sanitization work there. “Besides sanitising the ghats with hypochlorite solution, we are installing makeshift changing rooms for the devotees and installing lights around the ghats. In order to avoid accidents, I have asked the officials concerned to earmark deep areas in the water bodies and put up warning boards and barricade those areas so that the devotees cannot venture near them,” Lakra said. The mayor, who had been pretty vocal about her displeasure at the government for not allowing devotees at the ghats during Chhath, lauded the government for revoking that order. “I am happy that the government took into account the devotees’ sentiments and has now allowed rituals to take place at the ghats. Although the decision came at the eleventh hour for we have very little time left now for sanitising and cleaning the ghats before the first arghya on Friday, we are putting all our manpower to work so that no one faces any problem during the festival,” she said. On the other hand, the district administration is planning to deploy a large number of police personnel and civil magistrates at the ghats to enforce social distancing. Ranchi SDM Sameera S said, “This year, the number of cops and magistrates present at the ghats will be more than what it was last time. They will be monitor the event 24/7.” She added, “We will soon release an order specifying the dos and don’ts for taking part in the rituals in ghats after consulting the Ranchi police in this regard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rmc-sanitises-ghats-on-war-footing-admin-to-release-dos-and-donts-soon/articleshow/79289768.cms||Gaurav Pandey
November 19, 2020||Ranchi||5 PLFI rebels arrested for extortion bid in Ranchi||RANCHI: Police on Wednesday arrested five members of People’s Liberation Front of India (PLFI), a splinter group of CPI (Maoist), allegedly involved in extorting money from traders from different places in the city. The extremists have been identified as Tulsi Pahan, Babloo Karmali, Rakesh Kumar Das, Pradip Gari and Rajan Munda. Arms and ammunitions, including a carbine, a country-made pistol and a pistol along with cartridges, have been seized from them. Police said cases related to murder, Arms Act and Criminal Law (Amendment) Act have registered against them at several police stations. Ranchi SSP Surindra Jha said, “Following a tip of that PLFI area commander Tulsi Pahan and his accomplices have gathered in Sugnu Kaditola village under Khelgoan police station area, a police team was sent for action. Tulsi was arrested with a loaded pistol from the village.” He said that acting on information provided by Tulsi, another PLFI member Rajan Munda was arrested from the same police station area with a loaded carbine. The remaining accused persons were arrested from the Angada police station and the Tupdana police outpost areas. Notably, Ranchi police was receiving information that PLFI supremo Dinesh Gope and his associate Awadhesh Jaiswal were demanding money from traders. A tent house owner had also received a similar call on November 13. Tulsi informed the police that he had met Dinesh Gope and Awadhesh twice in Rania forest in Khunti district and the weapons were provided to him by the PLFI chief. He said his main task was to enroll cadre for the organization and also extort money by creating fear among the traders. Police have registered cases against the accused persons at the Angada and Khelgoan police station areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/5-plfi-rebels-arrested-for-extortion-bid-in-ranchi/articleshow/79289749.cms||---
November 19, 2020||India||Ahmed Patel stable, 'significantly better' than at time of hospitalisation, says daughter||NEW DELHI: Senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel, who was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Gurgaon's Medanta Hospital weeks after contracting Covid-19, is stable and "significantly better" than at the time of hospitalisation, his daughter said on Wednesday. In a tweet on Sunday, Ahmed Patel's son Faisal had said, "On behalf of his family, we would like to share that Shri Ahmed Patel had tested positive for Covid-19 a few weeks ago. He has now been admitted to the Intensive Care Unit of Medanta Hospital, Gurgaon for further treatment." Patel, 71, had announced on Twitter on October 1 that he contracted coronavirus. In an audio statement posted on Faisal Patel's Twitter account, Ahmed Patel's daughter Mumtaz on Wednesday said, "I spoke to the doctors today, he is significantly better than when he was admitted a few days ago to the ICU in Medanta. He is stable, but of course the treatment is going to take more time." She urged well wishers to keep praying for him and thanked everyone for their wishes for her father. Several Congress leaders, including former party president Rahul Gandhi, have wished a speedy recovery to the All India Congress Committee (AICC) treasurer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ahmed-patel-stable-significantly-better-than-at-time-of-hospitalisation-says-daughter/articleshow/79293735.cms||---
November 19, 2020||India||Punjab trains stalled, FCI moves more grains from other states||NEW DELHI: The Food Corporation of India (FCI) has doubled the movement of foodgrains from Haryana and Madhya Pradesh by rail as the stalemate continues over train movement in Punjab, impacting evacuation of procured wheat and paddy in the state. Though FCI has enough stock of rice in the central pool to meet the requirement, it has increased movement of rice from these two major rice-producing states and Andhra Pradesh as well. For example, on an average 22-23 rakes of rice are being moved daily from Haryana compared to only 8-9 rakes earlier and 12-13 rakes carrying rice are being moved from Madhya Pradesh compared to the earlier trend of only 6-7 per day. Officials said 2-3 such rakes are being operated from Andhra Pradesh on a daily basis. According to railways, foodgrains could not be loaded in 1,150 rakes from Punjab till November 15 since the farmers' protest started. FCI sources added there is a dire need to evacuate the stored rice from Punjab to free up enough space for more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-trains-stalled-fci-moves-more-grains-from-other-states/articleshow/79293750.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 19, 2020||Thane||Over 5,000 Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra after 9 days; toll 100 again after dip||MUMBAI: The state on Wednesday added 5,011 fresh Covid-19 cases and 100 deaths. For nine straight days earlier, the state had recorded fewer than 5,000 cases and for the past three days, it had reported fewer than 100 deaths. Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray held a meeting with BMC officials on Wednesday to review the preparedness for a possible second wave. Officials who attended the meeting said that of the 70,000 beds that are available in Mumbai across categories, only 40% are occupied currently. There are many Covid care centres that have not been shut down completely and have been kept in a standby position in case there is a rise in cases post-Diwali. Experts have been warning that if people do not follow Covid protocols such as social distancing and mask-wearing, the state and city could see a spike in cases after the Diwali festival. "We will also be undertaking targeted testing of service providers starting this week. Also, a review of the manpower including doctors, para-medical staff has been taken," said a senior official. Dean of BYL Nair Hospital Dr Ramesh Bharmal said a more robust testing approach for healthcare workers was being planned. The active cases in the state continued to decline on Wednesday, with the state recording 6,608 daily recoveries. With this, the total recoveries in the state have jumped to 16.3 lakh and active cases have fallen to 80,221, of which 11,494 are in Mumbai. State officials said that of the total 100 deaths reported on Wednesday, 51 occurred within the past 48 hours, while 26 deaths occurred last week. The other 23 deaths were from the period before last week. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region recorded 1,655 new cases and 26 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total cases to over 6 lakh and fatalities to 18,395. The caseload in Thane city continued to rise on Wednesday as 179 new cases took the tally of those infected to 49,200, while six deaths took the virus toll there to 1,139. The recovery rate in Thane improved to 95% on Wednesday, with 46,718 patients having recovered from coronavirus till date and only 1,343 active cases left. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt, which is the worst hit in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region after Mumbai city, on Wednesday reported 133 new Covid-19 patients and one death, taking the tally of patients to 52,056, with 1,031 deaths. The recovery rate there reached 96%. Only 1,081 active patients are undergoing treatment. The state is nearing one crore Covid-19 tests and has recorded an overall positivity rate of 17.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/over-5000-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-after-9-days-toll-100-again-after-dip/articleshow/79293771.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 19, 2020||Mumbai||Over 5,000 Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra after 9 days; toll 100 again after dip||MUMBAI: The state on Wednesday added 5,011 fresh Covid-19 cases and 100 deaths. For nine straight days earlier, the state had recorded fewer than 5,000 cases and for the past three days, it had reported fewer than 100 deaths. Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray held a meeting with BMC officials on Wednesday to review the preparedness for a possible second wave. Officials who attended the meeting said that of the 70,000 beds that are available in Mumbai across categories, only 40% are occupied currently. There are many Covid care centres that have not been shut down completely and have been kept in a standby position in case there is a rise in cases post-Diwali. Experts have been warning that if people do not follow Covid protocols such as social distancing and mask-wearing, the state and city could see a spike in cases after the Diwali festival. "We will also be undertaking targeted testing of service providers starting this week. Also, a review of the manpower including doctors, para-medical staff has been taken," said a senior official. Dean of BYL Nair Hospital Dr Ramesh Bharmal said a more robust testing approach for healthcare workers was being planned. The active cases in the state continued to decline on Wednesday, with the state recording 6,608 daily recoveries. With this, the total recoveries in the state have jumped to 16.3 lakh and active cases have fallen to 80,221, of which 11,494 are in Mumbai. State officials said that of the total 100 deaths reported on Wednesday, 51 occurred within the past 48 hours, while 26 deaths occurred last week. The other 23 deaths were from the period before last week. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region recorded 1,655 new cases and 26 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total cases to over 6 lakh and fatalities to 18,395. The caseload in Thane city continued to rise on Wednesday as 179 new cases took the tally of those infected to 49,200, while six deaths took the virus toll there to 1,139. The recovery rate in Thane improved to 95% on Wednesday, with 46,718 patients having recovered from coronavirus till date and only 1,343 active cases left. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt, which is the worst hit in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region after Mumbai city, on Wednesday reported 133 new Covid-19 patients and one death, taking the tally of patients to 52,056, with 1,031 deaths. The recovery rate there reached 96%. Only 1,081 active patients are undergoing treatment. The state is nearing one crore Covid-19 tests and has recorded an overall positivity rate of 17.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/over-5000-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-after-9-days-toll-100-again-after-dip/articleshow/79293759.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 19, 2020||Navi-mumbai||Over 5,000 Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra after 9 days; toll 100 again after dip||MUMBAI: The state on Wednesday added 5,011 fresh Covid-19 cases and 100 deaths. For nine straight days earlier, the state had recorded fewer than 5,000 cases and for the past three days, it had reported fewer than 100 deaths. Mumbai suburban guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray held a meeting with BMC officials on Wednesday to review the preparedness for a possible second wave. Officials who attended the meeting said that of the 70,000 beds that are available in Mumbai across categories, only 40% are occupied currently. There are many Covid care centres that have not been shut down completely and have been kept in a standby position in case there is a rise in cases post-Diwali. Experts have been warning that if people do not follow Covid protocols such as social distancing and mask-wearing, the state and city could see a spike in cases after the Diwali festival. "We will also be undertaking targeted testing of service providers starting this week. Also, a review of the manpower including doctors, para-medical staff has been taken," said a senior official. Dean of BYL Nair Hospital Dr Ramesh Bharmal said a more robust testing approach for healthcare workers was being planned. The active cases in the state continued to decline on Wednesday, with the state recording 6,608 daily recoveries. With this, the total recoveries in the state have jumped to 16.3 lakh and active cases have fallen to 80,221, of which 11,494 are in Mumbai. State officials said that of the total 100 deaths reported on Wednesday, 51 occurred within the past 48 hours, while 26 deaths occurred last week. The other 23 deaths were from the period before last week. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region recorded 1,655 new cases and 26 deaths on Wednesday, taking the total cases to over 6 lakh and fatalities to 18,395. The caseload in Thane city continued to rise on Wednesday as 179 new cases took the tally of those infected to 49,200, while six deaths took the virus toll there to 1,139. The recovery rate in Thane improved to 95% on Wednesday, with 46,718 patients having recovered from coronavirus till date and only 1,343 active cases left. The Kalyan-Dombivli belt, which is the worst hit in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region after Mumbai city, on Wednesday reported 133 new Covid-19 patients and one death, taking the tally of patients to 52,056, with 1,031 deaths. The recovery rate there reached 96%. Only 1,081 active patients are undergoing treatment. The state is nearing one crore Covid-19 tests and has recorded an overall positivity rate of 17.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/over-5000-covid-19-cases-in-maharashtra-after-9-days-toll-100-again-after-dip/articleshow/79293772.cms||Bhavika Jain
November 19, 2020||India||MP sets up country’s first ‘cow cabinet’||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday announced a first-of-its-kind 'gau cabinet', yoking together six departments functioning under five ministers to work for the "conservation and welfare of cows". Ministers Narottam Mishra (home), Prem Singh Patel (animal husbandry), Mahendra Singh Sisodiya (panchayat), Kunwar Vijay Shah (forest) and Kamal Patel (revenue and agriculture) will be part of this administrative set-up. The group's first meeting is scheduled for Gopashtami on November 22 at a cow sanctuary in Agar Malwa, 210km from Bhopal, CM Chouhan tweeted. "BJP is the guardian of Indian culture. It believes there are three means of contentment - Gita, Ganga and Gaumata. That inspired the decision to form a 'gau cabinet'. The BJP government under Shivraj Singh Chouhan has set an example before the country," home minister Mishra said. Times ViewThe cow is an important and venerated animal for many. But one wonders at the administrative and economic wisdom of making it such a prioritised point of governance in a state which remains a persistently poor performer on several social and economic indicators.Agriculture and revenue minister Kamal Patel said BJP was doing what Congress promised but never executed. “The (erstwhile) Congress government promised to set up a thousand cow shelters, but not a single one was built. The government led by CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan has started to not only work for the protection of cows but also their conservation.” PCC chief Kamal Nath dismissed it as “just another announcement”. “Before the 2018 assembly polls, Chouhan had announced formation of a cow ministry. He had also promised cow sanctuaries and cow shelters all over the state. He is now talking about a cow cabinet,” Nath tweeted. The former CM alleged that the government had done nothing for the protection of cows. “In contrast, he reduced funds for fodder, which the Congress government had raised to Rs 20 per cow,” Nath said. The 472-hectare cow sanctuary in Agar Malwa came up in 2017 during Chouhan’s third term as CM at a cost of Rs 32 crore and can accommodate over 4,000 cows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mp-sets-up-countrys-first-cow-cabinet/articleshow/79293785.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mumbai||Driver, two aides arrested in Ahmednagar for Rs 4.3 crore cash van robbery||MUMBAI: The cash van driver who allegedly fled with Rs 4.3 crore from Virar last week was arrested from Ahmednagar with one of his accomplices on Tuesday. Rohit Aaru (26) and Chandrakant Gaikwad (41) travelled over 225km on a newly purchased motorcycle, with nearly 1.9 crore of the loot, said the police. Aaru had to leave behind Rs 2.4 crore in the van as his third accomplice, Akshay Mohite (24), could not arrive with the getaway vehicle on time as he was stuck in traffic, said the police. Mohite was arrested on November 14 and he led the police to Aaru and Gaikwad. Gaikwad and Mohite are also cash van drivers. The accused claim to have spent around Rs 1.7 lakh of the stolen cash, including Rs 1.4 lakh on the second-hand motorcycle. They had hatched the plan four days before the robbery, said police. On November 12, Aaru, a Navi Mumbai resident employed with cash logistics company Writer Safeguard Pvt Ltd, allegedly fled with the van when the cash custodians and armed guard were loading money in an ATM at Bolinj,Virar (W). According to the plan, Mohite was to reach Bhiwandi with the getaway car, they would transfer the cash in the car and flee the city. But Mohite got stuck in traffic, DCP Sanjay Patil told TOI. Fearing that he would be tracked by the GPS in the van, Aaru stuffed Rs 1.9 crore in a bag, locked the vehicle and reached Chembur in an autorickshaw. "The remaining cash was left behind in the van as Aaru knew that it could be opened only with a special set of keys," said Patil. The next day, the police found the abandoned van at Kalyan naka in Bhiwandi, but they had no idea that some of the money was still inside it. Even as police deployed nakabandis across Vasai-Virar region looking for the suspect in a four-wheeler, Aaru reached Kalyan in an autorickshaw on November 13 morning and bought a second-hand motorcycle. He then contacted Gaikwad and they both left for Ahmednagar. On November 14, when the firm officials opened the cash van, they found Rs 2.4 crore in denominations of Rs 2,000, Rs 500, Rs 200 and Rs 100 in some of the trunks. Aaru had taken with him Rs 500, Rs 200 and Rs 100 notes, said sources. By then the police zeroed in on Mohite through Aaru's phone call records and questioned him. He confessed to the crime and spilled the beans on the whereabouts of Aaru and Gaikwad. A police team left for Ahmednagar and arrested them on Tuesday. The accused, who were booked under IPC Section 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master or employer), have been sent to police custody. None of them have a criminal background.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driver-two-aides-arrested-in-ahmednagar-for-rs-4-3-crore-cash-van-robbery/articleshow/79293793.cms||Sandhya Nair
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Arrears can’t be cancelled: UGC to Madras HC||CHENNAI: The University Grants Commission has reiterated that arrear examinations cannot be cancelled citing pandemic and Tamil Nadu government’s decision in this regard was against UGC guidelines. The commission made the submission on Wednesday, while responding to a public interest writ petition filed by a lawyer to restrain 22 universities in Tamil Nadu from publishing results of students first to pre-final semesters without conducting arrear exams. The court was requested to tag the PIL with an already pending batch of PILs moved against the GO of the Tamil Nadu government cancelling the exam. Recording the submission, a division bench of Justice M Sathyanarayanan and Justice R Hemalatha tagged the PIL with the other pleas and adjourned the hearing to November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/arrears-cant-be-cancelled-ugc-to-madras-hc/articleshow/79293789.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka cabinet panel to look into SC/ST quota hike demand||BENGALURU: The state cabinet on Wednesday decided to constitute a cabinet subcommittee to study the demand for increasing reservation of scheduled castes (SC) and scheduled tribes (ST) in Karnataka. Law minister JC Madhuswamy said chief minister BS Yediyurappa will decide on members of the sub-committee. The decision has been taken considering the Justice Nagamohan Das Commission report recently submitted to the government. The commission was set up to look into the demand for increasing SC/ ST reservation. The commission is understood to have recommended a hike in quota by about 2% for two categories — education and employment. The final report, prepared after an eight-month study, was submitted to Yediyurappa in July this year. At present, Karnataka has 15% reservation for 101 scheduled castes, 3% for 50 scheduled tribes and 32% for Other Backward Classes, including Muslims, Christians, and Jains. Commission got 851 applications, held 38 meetingsThe commission received 851 applications and suggestions and conducted 38 meetings across the state between November 2019 and June 2020. During the previous coalition government headed by HD Kumaraswamy, there was a demand to increase reservation. In October 2019, the government constituted the Justice Nagamohan Das Commission to explore ways to meet the demand. At that time, there was a proposal to increase SC reservation from 15 per cent to 17 per cent and for STs, from 3 per cent to 7 per cent. The Valmiki community, which belongs to the ST, demanded an increase in ST quota to 7.5 per cent. The decision comes close on the heels of the Kuruba and Kodava communities demanding ST tags. Valmiki strongman and social welfare department minister B Sriramulu, who has spearheaded the movement for his community, welcomed the decision. The decision also appears to be a quid quo pro between Sriramulu and forest minister Anand Singh over the former not opposing the creation of the Vijayanagara district and the latter supporting the formation of the sub-committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-cabinet-panel-to-look-into-sc/st-quota-hike-demand/articleshow/79293760.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mumbai||Three Mirchi buildings at Mumbai's Worli worth Rs 500 crore seized, to be auctioned||MUMBAI: The competent authority for Smugglers and Foreign Exchange Manipulators (Forfeiture of Property) Act, 1976, (Safema) last week seized three Worli buildings, worth Rs 500 crore, allegedly belonging to druglord, the late Iqbal Memon alias Mirchi. The properties will be auctioned. The buildings are with a company controlled by DHFL promoters Kapil Wadhawan and his brother Dheeraj aka Baba Dewan. Enforcement Directorate (ED), investigating a money-laundering case against Mirchi's family and Wadhawans, requested the competent authority to seize the properties which Mirchi freed fraudulently from government attachment in 2005. Mirchi's relatives can appeal against the seizure in court of Rabia Mansion, Mariam Lodge and Sea View, on the seashore behind Samudra Mahal in Worli. The authority had on November 10 auctioned several properties, including a flat belonging to Mirchi. No buyer came forward for Mirchi's 1,245 sq ft flat at Milton Apartments on Juhu Tara Road, Santacruz (W), which had a reserve price of around Rs 3.5 crore. ED shared details with the competent authority under SAFEMA/NDPS Act, showing Mirchi purchased them through money earned through illegal activities and they were in his possession since 1990. He had purchased them from Sir Mohammad Yusuf Trust, but the trust agreed to remain proxy owner to avoid attachment of the buildings as Mirchi faced criminal cases in India. Over two decades back, the government seized the properties while investigating a drug case against Mirchi but the trust "misrepresented facts" before court and the competent authority stated that the properties belonged to them and Mirchi had no right to them. This helped Mirchi free the properties. Mirchi later sold the properties to Sunblink, controlled by Wadhawan brothers. ED on Wednesday said the buildings were seized on November 9 through an order under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act, 1985. "The order said transfers/transactions of the properties have been declared null and void. The value of these properties is around Rs 500 crore, as ascertained by ED during investigations under PMLA," ED stated. It said its probe revealed that in 2005 Mirchi, in connivance with the trust, misrepresented ownership before the authority, additional chief metropolitan magistrate and CMM. "The properties were falsely claimed by a trust before the authorities on the pretext that Iqbal Mirchi had not made complete payment and consequently it did not hand over possession of these properties to him. Thus, the properties were earlier released from attachment under NDPS Act in 2005," ED stated. ED said on November 6, 2019, it had informed the authority about the facts and shared evidence of ownership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/three-mirchi-buildings-at-mumbais-worli-worth-rs-500-crore-seized-to-be-auctioned/articleshow/79293839.cms||Mateen Hafeez
November 19, 2020||Goa||With no foreign footfalls, wellness tourism industry takes a beating||PANAJI: Centres providing ayurvedic and holistic treatment, which usually mushroom along the state’s coastal belt during the tourism season, are unlikely to set up shop this year for want of foreign tourists who constitute their main client base. And with the charter season virtually a write-off due to pandemic-induced restrictions, the few centres that remained functional through the year may also cease operations. It is amply evident that the absence of foreign tourists has affected this sector considerably, prompting some outlets to target domestic holidaymakers instead. After being shut for the past six months, Devaaya at Divar, a pioneer in exclusive ayurvedic and naturopathy services, for instance, has been converted into a retreat for Indian tourists. “The decision was taken purely from a survival point of view as ayurvedic services alone will not find favour with domestic tourists,” said Victor Albuquerque, chairman and MD of Alcon Victor Group, shortly after the facility on the island village was renamed Mercure Goa Devaaya Retreat. A majority of its guests were European and mostly comprised women who, as repeat visitors, would reside at the centre for around seven days to even a month. But with no likelihood of foreign arrivals during this season, Albuquerque said the facility was modified to attract Indian tourists. “However, a number of guests cancelled bookings after they learnt that no liquor and non-vegetarian food would be served,” he said, adding that more changes are being made to the property to accommodate these demands. Dr Vijayan from Kerala, who conducted a thriving business in Canacona for over a decade by providing seasonal ayurvedic services, mostly to Russian and European clients, said he has decided not to open his facility this tourism season. “I will not be able to afford to operate the facility with only a few Indian guests. I will have to wait till the next season,” he rued. A tourism trader in North Goa who did not want to be named, said that though genuine players have been badly hit, a positive aspect of the fallout is that a number of quacks who routinely set up similar centres during the season will have to exit the business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-no-foreign-footfalls-wellness-tourism-industry-takes-a-beating/articleshow/79290751.cms||Bindiya Chari
November 19, 2020||Goa||As visitors choose fun over masks, virus worries locals||Calangute: With tourism in the popular Calangute-Candolim beach belt gradually picking up, stakeholders fear this could lead to a new wave of Covid-19 infections as most visitors move around without face masks and don’t follow social distancing norms. “Tourists are roaming around without any masks as there are no police personnel on the beach to monitor them,” Calangute panch Saluzinho Fernandes, who is the Baga ward member, told TOI. With tourists not being tested at the state’s borders, it has become a dangerous situation for the locals, he said. “All the locals are wearing masks and taking precautions, but there is nobody to tell the tourists to keep the masks on,” Fernandes said. Although the Covid case count has dropped, there could be a rise in infections again, Shack Owners’ Welfare Society general secretary John Lobo said. “Tourist police should be posted on the beach and they should fine tourists moving around without masks,” Lobo said. “The police come and tell shack owners and water sports operators and their staff to wear masks, but nothing is being done about tourists not wearing masks. This will surely lead to a major spread of the virus, as it happened in Delhi and elsewhere,” Lobo said. Minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo had recently stated that he would be asking the chief minister to redeploy Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB) police on the beach, as was done earlier, but that has still not happened, stakeholders said. Dr Roshan Nazareth, health officer at the Candolim primary health centre, which has been reporting a significant number of cases, said a majority of the positive cases are of non-Goans. Of the 11 positive cases on Tuesday, nine are non-Goans. “There have been some tourists staying in hotels who tested positive after they developed symptoms. Most of the positive cases have non-Goan names, but we don’t keep a separate list of tourists. They also include staff of guesthouses and other tourism-related places,” he said. Nazareth said the tourists who tested positive were allowed to stay in their hotel rooms for the quarantine period, with the hotels taking adequate precautions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-visitors-choose-fun-over-masks-virus-worries-locals/articleshow/79290771.cms||Joseph Zuzarte
November 19, 2020||Goa||‘Goa only state to give free Remdesivir, plasma therapy’||Panaji: Three people died due to Covid-19 in Goa on Wednesday taking the mortality count to 671. As many as 162 new cases were detected and 178 recoveries reported that pushed the tally of active cases to 1,363. The three deaths — two men and a woman — were reported from Goa Medical College (GMC). The men — a 66-year-old from Fatorda and a 72-year-old from Aldona — and the woman a 67-year-old from Mardol all had comorbid conditions. Two of the patients had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome and sepsis shortly after shifting to the GMC. Since the last few days the case positivity rate has dropped below 10% while recovery rate has been 96%. On Wednesday, as many as 1,716 samples were tested. Earlier in the day health minister Vishwajit Rane said that they are attempting to go up 2,000 tests a day. All family members of persons who test positive and other close contacts are tested. He said Goa is the only state in the country where costly medicines such as Remdesivir and others as well as plasma therapy is given free of cost. The mortality rate as well the rate of infection has declined. Rane said that due to the system in place, they have been able to shift about 50 patients in home isolation to hospital no sooner their oxygen saturation levels started dropping.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-only-state-to-give-free-remdesivir-plasma-therapy/articleshow/79290796.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||Phase-3 Covaxin trials begin in Goa||PANAJI: Phase-3 clinical trials for India’s first indigenously-manufactured Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, commenced at Redkar hospital in North Goa on Wednesday. A total 1,500 candidates will receive vaccine shots, with 1,000 getting the jab within a month, said Dr Dhananjay Lad, director Crom Clinical Research, the agency selected to conduct the trials in Goa. A prominent Goan oncologist was among those who received the vaccine on Wednesday, the first day of the phase-3 trials. Across the country, 25,500 candidates will participate in the trials. Lad said that over 500 people in Goa have registered to participate in the phase-3 trials, and they are confident of more coming forward in the days to come. For phase-1 and phase-2 of the trials, only healthy candidates were vaccinated, but in phase-3, even persons having comorbidities are eligible to participate, provided their underlying conditions are under control. Lad said that even a person above 50 with hypertension or diabetes or liver disease would be able to participate in the trials provided his health condition is under control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/phase-3-covaxin-trials-begin-in-goa/articleshow/79290812.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||Registrations open for 51st edition of Iffi||Panaji: The Union ministry of information and broadcasting has opened delegate registrations for the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) under the paid categories. This edition of the festival is scheduled to be held in January 2021, after it was pushed from November 2020 owing to the pandemic. The registration fee for cine enthusiasts and delegate professional will be Rs 1,000 each plus taxes. Registration can be done on the Iffi website https://iffigoa.org/. The ministry stated that registration will be on first come first basis for a limited number of delegates. TOI had earlier reported that the festival has been planned to be held from January 16 to January 24, 2021. The festival will be a hybrid event with a mix of virtual and real events. Cultural activities and events that are open to public and take place outside the festival premises, stand cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/registrations-open-for-51st-edition-of-iffi/articleshow/79290847.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||Navy’s latest P-8I aircraft makes quiet touch down at INS Hansa||PANAJI: The Indian Navy quietly took delivery of its ninth Boeing P-8I long-range maritime patrol aircraft at INS Hansa on Wednesday. The aircraft, which took off from Seattle on November 14, stopped at Hawaii and Guam before landing at Goa. “The aircraft landed around 11am and was handed over by Boeing officials to the Navy,” said a naval official. The Navy remains tight lipped about the P-8I’s near-term deployment. At a time when China makes greater forays into neighbouring waters, the aircraft, the first of four additional aircrafts purchased by the ministry of defence under the options clause, will give the Navy longer reach over the Indian Ocean region. The Indian Navy procured eight Boeing-manufactured P-8I aircrafts in a $2.1 billion deal inked in January 2009. Then, in July 2016 it placed an order for four more aircrafts for $1.1 billion. While the four new P-8Is are to be based at INS Hansa, some aircraft are likely to be deployed along the eastern seaboard. The Indian Navy has deployed the earlier eight at INS Rajali in Arakkonam (Tamil Nadu) but some of the P-8Is have been forward deployed in view of the confrontation with China. The P-8I, which has been described as a “flying frigate” by senior naval officers, including former chief of naval staff Admiral Arun Prakash, is equipped with sonars to track ships and submarines, but can also fire torpedoes and Harpoon anti-ship missiles. Naval sources said that four P-8Is will be based at INS Hansa in the long run and will be operated by naval squadron INAS 315 Winged Stallion from Dabolim. The existing turbo-prop powered Il-38SD will be replaced by the P-8Is, said sources. The P-8I, with its exceptional surveillance and reconnaissance capabilities, has been used by India to keep track of China’s activities. It was used in Ladkah as well as the 2017 Dokhlam stand-off. Officials from Boeing Defence India were present at INS Hansa to hand over the aircraft to the Indian Navy. Minister of state for defence Shripad Naik was also present and was briefed about the role played by the aircraft in recent operations. Boeing is currently completing construction of the Training Support and Data Handling Centre at INS Rajali and a secondary center at the Naval Institute of Aeronautical Technology, Kochi, as part of a training and support package contract signed in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/navys-latest-p-8i-aircraft-makes-quiet-touch-down-at-ins-hansa/articleshow/79290914.cms||Newton Sequeira
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Television classes for standard 5 to 7 from November 23||BENGALURU: The department of public instruction will launch TV classes on DD Chandana for Classes 5-7 from November 23. Four lessons of 30 minutes each will be aired from Monday to Friday from 8am-9.30am and 5.30pm-6pm. The classes will go on for five weeks. So far, the Samveda classes were available only for high school students but the programme has been extended to lower classes as schools continue to be shut due to Covid-19. The Department of State Education Research and Training (DSERT) has released a schedule for first-language Kannada, second-language English, third-language Hindi, maths, science and social sciences in Kannada medium for Classes 5-7. Minister for primary and secondary education S Suresh Kumar appealed to students and parents to utilise the programme for better continuity of studies. “Officials have been asked to reach out to students and ensure that they are well aware about the programme,” the minister said. Primary school teachers will be in charge of the lessons. No immediate plan to start TV lessons for classes 1-5: DeptThe TV lessons come nearly a month after Vidyagama, the outreach learning programme, was suspended in the state over fears of Covid infection, leaving government schoolchildren with fewer learning options. “After Vidyagama stopped, there was not much interaction with children. We had created WhatsApp groups. We send some homework once in a while. However, the response has been poor,” said the principal of a government higher primary school in east Bengaluru, adding, “Parents do not recharge their phones; even if they do, they do not give the phones to children. The TV classes will be a boon to children from class 5. However, I am worried about primary classes where not much activity is happening.” The education department has no immediate plan to start TV lessons for classes 1-5 and it will be depend on the Covid situation. DD Chandana has a viewership of around 7 lakh, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-television-classes-for-standard-5-to-7-from-november-23/articleshow/79293763.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Mumbai||Overuse of earphones for work & play pushes up infection cases||MUMBAI: Earphones and airpods have become mandatory accessories for those working from home or taking online classes in these Covid-19 times, but they are also triggering ear infections. A 52-year-old IT professional recently suffered from such a bad bout of ear infection that it took him over 40 days to recover. ENT specialists are seeing an increasing number of patients walking in with external ear infections caused by bacteria or fungus. "During rainy season, it is common to get ear infections caused by bacteria or fungus, but there is a possibility the incidence has increased this year due to constant use of earphones and airpods,'' Vikas Agarwal, an ENT surgeon from Kandivli, said. Dadar's Dr Divya Prabhat said there was a four-fold rise in patients coming to him with otitis externa-infection in the ear canal-since March. Earphones block air entry into ears, cause fungal growth: DocsI get four to five patients every day who have earache, which prevents them from sleeping,’’ said Dr Divya Prabhat, who has a clinic in Dadar. Mohan Purohit (name changed), head of the IT department in a leading corporate , began using air pods in March to ensure his work did not disturb his family members. “From 9.30am to 6pm, with an hour’s break in between, I would use the device,’’ he said. “The problem began in early September and an ENT doctor wrote out a 10-day antibiotic course that helped me a great deal.” But the infection resurfaced the day he stopped medication, with severe discharge and constant pain. An analysis of the discharge found a drug-resistant bacterial strain. “I was advised hospitalisation as I needed high-end antibiotics that had to be administered intravenously, but my family was apprehensive as Covid-19 cases were on the rise,’’ said Purohit. For 10 days thereafter, a nurse would come to his house three times a day to give the antibiotic Piptaz through IV. The course left him so debilitated that he had to take a break from work. “Doctors even warned me that I could lose 30% hearing,” he said. It took him 40 days to improve. While ear canal infections are mild in nine of 10 patients, Purohit said his doctors felt the constant use of airpods could have worsened his case. “It is best to not use these devices for more than two hours at a stretch,” said Dr Prabhat. Dr Srinivas Chavan, head of ENT at JJ Hospital, said people living in coastal cities such as Mumbai have a higher risk of suffering from external ear infections due to humidity. When earphones or pods are used, they “block” air from entering the ears and prepare a fertile ground for bacterial or fungal growth. He said using buds to “clean” the ears too worsens infections. “Ears need a bit of wax to protect the eardrum. When people clean up the wax, they end up pushing it deeper or drying it,’’ he said. The leftover dry wax leads to an accumulation that aids infection. The easiest way to avoid otitis externa is use a hair dryer to dry the ears after a bath. “While using earphones, sterilize them with spirit or sanitizer,’’ Dr Agarwal suggested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/overuse-of-earphones-for-work-play-pushes-up-infection-cases/articleshow/79293860.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||Amphitheatre for KA theatre college at new premises||Panaji: The scenic lawns of the old PWD building near the Rua de Ourem creek will have a mini amphitheatre as part of the new campus of Kala Academy’s College of Theatre Arts, said minister of art and culture Govind Gaude. “There is an open ground at the premises, which will be converted into a mini amphitheatre. It will beautifully suit the theatre arts college because there is a big courtyard overlooking the Rua de Ourem creek. We will therefore get good acoustics with a good view,” he told TOI. Stating that the amphitheatre will also serve as a platform for actors, Gaude said, “We are going to have stage performances for the tourists as this will boost the confidence of the artistes.” The state government recently ordered Imagine Panaji Smart City development limited (IPSCDL) to hand over the vacant premises of the old PWD building to the general administration department, secretariat, Porvorim in seven days. “We are collecting the keys to the premises, immediately after which, we will shift the college there,” Gaude said. Besides the college of theatre arts, the music classes located at the Kala Academy will also be shifted from the existing building. “Currently classes for western classical music and Indian classical music are going on at the Kala Academy. We will probably shift them to the Adil Shah Place on the first floor,” Gaude said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/amphitheatre-for-ka-theatre-college-at-new-premises/articleshow/79291094.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Karnataka: 3,772 government MBBS seats up for grabs||BENGALURU: In the MBBS and BDS seat matrix for academic year 2020-2021 announced on Wednesday, there are 3,772 government seats and 2,135 private ones up for grabs through Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) counselling in 52 medical colleges in Karnataka. For BDS, 2,834 seats are available — of these, 1,009 are government seats, 1,326 private, 395 NRI and 104 other seats. Another 641 NRI seats and 196 other seats are also on offer in medical colleges, taking the total to 6,744. For MBBS, Dayanand Sagar Medical College is the new entrant with 150 seats. Officials said seats from a medical college in Chamarajanagar are yet to be added. The detailed seat matrix and fee structure is available on http://kea.kar.nic.in. The fee for government seats in private colleges have been hiked by 15% and private seats by 25%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-3772-government-mbbs-seats-up-for-grabs/articleshow/79293818.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Goa||Chorao VP challenges hike in sp ferry trip rates||PANAJI: The village panchayat of Chodan-Madel and two villagers have approached the high court of Bombay at Goa challenging the hike in ferry toll from Rs 55 to Rs 250 per trip for special trips. Special trips are conducted between 2am and 6am when the regular service stops. For the rest of the day, five ferries are deployed to transport passengers and vehicles to and from Chorao island between 6am and 2am. The notification increasing the fare was issued in February. The village panchayat had submitted a memorandum to the river navigation department in March requesting it not to implement the increased ferry fare, but petitioners said they have not received any response so far. The petition stated that the fare was raised without considering any factors whatsoever and done in a most “arbitrary manner” without any rational basis and hence has to be struck down. The petition came up for hearing on Wednesday and has been posted for hearing on December 7 with respondents — the state government, the Captain of Ports and river navigation department — given time to file replies. The petitioners were represented by advocate Parag Rao. The village panchayat of Chorao being one of the biggest island in the state, there is a pressing need to connect the island to Panaji by way of a bridge, for which foundation stone was laid in 2011. However, no work has been done so far, leaving out the main link of communication between the village and Panaji, the petitioners said. Chorao has a population of about 6,000 and many of its residents work outside the village as there are hardly any avenues of employment on the island.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chorao-vp-challenges-hike-in-sp-ferry-trip-rates/articleshow/79291160.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Maharashtra, Karnataka lock horns over Marathi-speaking border areas||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday hit out at Maharashtra deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar for his remarks on merging Belagavi and other Marathi-speaking areas in the state with Maharashtra. “I totally condemn Pawar’s statement as he is looking to create conflict among people living in border areas. The whole world knows that the Mahajan Commission decision is final,” Yediyurappa told reporters.  !function(){"use strict";window.addEventListener("message",(function(a){if(void 0!==a.data["datawrapper-height"])for(var e in a.data["datawrapper-height"]){var t=document.getElementById("datawrapper-chart-"+e)||document.querySelector("iframe[src*='"+e+"']");t&&(t.style.height=a.data["datawrapper-height"][e]+"px")}}))}(); He also defended his move to set up the Maratha development corporation to oversee progress of the community. “Marathi-speaking people in Karnataka are like Kannadigas in the state and they had taken part in the 2011 Vishwa Kannada Sammelana in a big way,” he said, adding that a corporation has been set up for social, economic, academic and religious development of the substantial Marathi population in the state. On Tuesday, after paying tributes to Shiv Sena founder Bal Thackeray on his eighth death anniversary, Pawar said Maharashtra’s all-round growth and incorporating Belagavi, Karwar and Nipani areas of Karnataka, which have substantial Marathi-speaking population, into the state were among Thackeray’s dreams. “Let’s resolve to fulfil his dream,” he said. Accusing Pawar of fanning the flames of unrest in border areas, Yediyurappa said he should stop making such comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bs-yediyurappa-lashes-out-at-maharashtra-deputy-chief-minister-over-border-issue/articleshow/79293791.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: Triple murder accused sent to ten-day police custody||CHENNAI: A magistrate court on Wednesday granted police permission to question the three people arrested in the November 11 triple murder case in their custody for 10 days. The suspects -- Kailash, 32, his friends Ravindranath Gar, 25, and Vijay Uttam Kamal, 28, -- who were in Puzhal jail for murdering financier Dali Chand H Jain, 74, his wife Pushpa Bai, 70, and their son Shital Kumar, 42, were handed over to police soon after the magistrate of the George Town court issued the order. Shital Kumar’s wife Jayamala, her another brother Vilas and one more person are yet to be arrested in the murder over matrimonial dispute. Police said they are planning to take the trio to Pune and inquire with them to retrieve the missing country-made gun used in the crime. Meanwhile, two teams are camping in Pune and Mumbai to track the absconded trio including Jayamala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-triple-murder-accused-sent-to-ten-day-police-custody/articleshow/79293865.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Noida||Noida's border Covid tests: How to do the right thing the wrong way||Noida administration’s decision to stop commuters randomly on busy border with Delhi for Covid test is a case of good intentions meeting bad execution. Here’s a ground reportNOIDA: Commuters seated on pavements, on chairs placed on the road or in the boot space of their cars, surrounded by cops and health workers in PPE suits – such were the scenes on Wednesday at the Delhi-Noida border, which has had a knack of throwing up unusual sights through the course of the pandemic. The Noida administration had posted health and police teams at the two border points with the national capital – at DND and Mayur Vihar (Chilla) – to conduct random rapid antigen tests on incoming commuters, citing the high incidence of Covid cases in Delhi. TimesViewRandom tests are important to gauge the extent of the outbreak. But they should not be coercive in nature while pretending to be voluntary. Voluntary tests must be truly voluntary.Though the exercise was meant to be a voluntary one, policemen fanned out across lanes to wave down motorists and ‘escort’ them to the health teams for swab tests. Most motorists objected, voicing concerns that ranged from getting late for their destinations to compromising social distancing by getting out of the insulated space of their cars. Police had a hard time as well. If trying to intercept high-speed traffic wasn’t tough enough, there were insults thrown their way as well. Border tests: Riders fret over ‘time waste’A man in a white Fortuner rolled down his window and shouted he “won’t stop my car for junior-level cops”. Barricades were not placed because of instructions not to disrupt the flow of traffic, which had become a daily affair earlier this year when Noida sealed its border with Delhi. While the events of the day – which ended with 165 antigen tests (the target was 200) being conducted and three testing positive, including a cop – led to questions about the efficacy of the exercise, Noida district magistrate Suhas LY said it would be discussed at a meeting. Asked if the results of the random tests justified the resources deployed, Suhas told TOI, “There is no misuse of resources as only two personnel – a lab technician and a paramedic – are deployed in the random sampling drive at the two points. Besides, in the review meeting with the additional chief secretary (on Wednesday), the government has instructed that we continue such random sampling from November 19 to 30, especially at the border with Delhi where lakhs of people cross over. We will, however, take a call on it as per the results of the drive in the next couple of days.” On Wednesday, the testing exercise began after the peak hours. Health teams set up camp at the borders around 10am and police were deployed around half an hour later. With the men in khaki waving them down, motorists slowed down, assuming this some kind of checking was on. But they refused to stop the moment they were told they would have to get tested. Some got into arguments, others requested the cops to let them pass with folded hands. Some said any move to test more people “is good”, but “busy roads should be avoided for such exercises”. Indu Shukla, who was headed for Greater Noida, said she did not want to get tested as she was “alright” and objected to her time was being wasted. Danish, a shoe business owner travelling with four family members – among them a two-year-old kid – and a driver from Delhi to Agra, pleaded to be allowed to go, saying he needed to reach his hometown Agra quickly. But the cops refused to budge. Later, after wrangling on the issue, the cops asked him to get his driver tested. “It is better to simply have thermal screening and allow people to leave,” Danish told TOI. Guddu, his driver, did undergo a test. “I am fit. This is just causing people trouble,” he said. Faced with resistance from people driving solo in cars, attention gradually shifted to two-wheelers riders and those travelling in groups in taxis or bigger vehicles like SUVs. Sandeep Kumar, who was on his bike, told cops he had recently got tested and was fine when he was asked to go to the camp. The cops asked to see the test, to which Kumar retorted he does not carry it around. “Quietly park your bike to a side and get tested,” a cop deployed at the DND border told him. “I got late for work. This is not right,” Kumar grumbled. At the Chilla border too, policemen admitted it was difficult to stop vehicles passing at high speed and later left it to those who wanted to get voluntarily tested. “We avoided peak hours and since this is an accident-prone area that sees high-speed traffic flow, we only signalled to commuters to stop. Most did not want to stop as they said they were getting late for work. We then restricted ourselves only to those commuters who wanted to get themselves tested and did not force anyone,” said a police officer. Mahendra, a resident of Ghaziabad who works with the Rail Neer and was headed towards Noida’s Sector 44 on his bike, told TOI that while testing was a welcome step, it should not be carried out on busy roads. “I got myself tested and it took me about seven minutes. Since the report will take time and I was in a hurry, I said I would collect the report later. They shared a link on which I can view my report. I think such tests are better at a place where 40-50 people can gather, not these busy roads,” he said. At least six cops on duty at the Chilla border got themselves tested, of whom one tested positive. The cop was feeling feverish, a police officer said. Sanjeet Kumar (30), a resident of Ghaziabad who was travelling towards his office in Sector 4 from Delhi, was feeling feverish and drowsy. He stopped his car and got himself tested. “I was feeling unwell, so I stopped. The report was negative,” he said. A commuter who tested positive at the DND camp told TOI he had no symptoms. “I could not believe my test report since I have been working almost 10 hours regularly and have no symptoms. I want to get my family tested now,” he said. A health department official said those who have tested positive would be contacted and had been advised to stay in home isolation. In case their address was in Delhi, they said the Delhi health department would be notified. (Additional reporting by Meenakshi Sinha)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/noidas-border-covid-tests-leave-commuters-huffing-cops-puffing/articleshow/79293872.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 19, 2020||India||Over 27 lakh street vendors apply for loan under PM scheme||NEW DELHI: Nearly 27.34 lakh street vendors have applied to avail Rs 10,000 subsidised loan each from the government under the PM Street Vendor’s Atma-Nirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi), a special micro-credit facility scheme. So far 14.35 lakh applications have been sanctioned and about 7.89 lakh loans of Rs 773.6 crore have been disbursed to the beneficiaries, the housing and urban affairs ministry said. The government has the target to extend this benefit to 50 lakh street vendors under this scheme. According to the government data, more than half of the beneficiaries who have got this loan are from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. While 2.93 lakh beneficiaries have got the loan in UP, another 1.53 lakh beneficiaries are from MP. Nearly 90% of loans have been disbursed by the public sector banks with the State Bank of India taking the lead. Vendors who had left for their native places due to Covid-19 lockdown are eligible for the loan on their return. “The provision of loans has become hassle-free as one can upload the application online on their own at any common service centre or municipal office or by going to a bank,” the ministry said. Banks are reaching the doorsteps of the applicants to provide loans for helping them start their ventures. The scheme incentivises digital transactions such as receipts and payments using digital means like UPI, QR-codes of payment aggregators and RuPay debit cards by the street vendors through monthly cash back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-27-lakh-street-vendors-apply-for-loan-under-pm-scheme/articleshow/79293873.cms||Dipak K Dash
November 19, 2020||Chennai||Chennai: 10 years on, Cumta still fails to bridge the gap among agencies||CHENNAI: Poor coordination among government agencies has adversely impacted planning infrastructure and transport projects, despite the Chennai Unified Metropolitan Transport Authority (Cumta) being in existence since 2010. The high-level body comprises representatives of 18 state and central government agencies including Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA), Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) and railways, but with most of these key departments working in silos, overlapping of projects has become common. A one-year-old CMDA proposal for a grid of roads linking Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR) and East Coast Road (ECR) at six locations including expanding existing roads across the Buckingham Canal has not still taken shape, a state highways wing a fortnight ago issued a tender notice for laying a road and bridge linking the two arterial roads over the Buckingham Canal from Thoraipakkam to Akkarai. Focused on easing traffic between the two toll roads, the two agencies are executing their projects separately. Similarly, metro rail designs for a part of its second phase and extension of the metro corridor from Airport to the upcoming mofussil bus terminus at Kilambakkam on GST Road will have to be realigned. Because, in both corridors, the state highways department has constructed grade separators with Pallavaram and Vandalur the latest to be inaugurated, in mid-September. The state highways department is constructing the second leg of flyover across Retteri Junction on Jawaharlal Nehru Road, where metro rail corridor is also planned. It is in such circumstances that Cumta would have been crucial, ensuring that projects of one department do not come in the way of designing those of another, but, the authority is yet to meet despite the government notifying its rules in January 2019. Highways department sources say things could be better if all projects are executed through Cumta. “We are considering a Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) and CMRL corridors running through our roads. Though CMRL keeps us posted about its projects, much of the hurdles could be resolved had these projects are routed through Cumta,” an official handling metro projects said. A CMRL spokesperson said a detailed project report for metro rail’s phase II was prepared before Cumta was set up. Since, the state government has already issued administrative sanction for implementing the project, getting the consent from Cumta retrospectively would not be required now. If any overlapping of proposals is found at a later stage before execution, a joint meeting would be held with the departments concerned to discuss the proposal and proceed further, he said. “Since, at present Cumta is in place, any further development studies or reports carried out will be shared with Cumta and it may give its consent or it may convene a joint meeting with key stakeholders to discuss about the proposals,” CMRL told TOI in a detailed response. K P Subramanian, former professor of urban engineering at Anna University said Cumta has powers to coordinate, promote and monitor implementation of transport infrastructure apart from being involved in the operations and imposing regulations. “With the chief minister as chairman, Cumta can easily integrate political will and professional skill and resolve inter-department conflicts to build consensus and mutual trust,” he said. It is also to ensure that funding for any transport project within the Chennai Metropolitan Area is routed through it to eliminate overlapping and duplication of projects. A housing and urban development department official said modalities are being worked out with agencies and departments that are a part of Cumta. “Each department has been operating independently so far and we are bringing all of them under a single umbrella for better coordination and implementation of infrastructure projects,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-10-years-on-cumta-still-fails-to-bridge-the-gap-among-agencies/articleshow/79293879.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi: Up to three days’ wait for Covid test at home||NEW DELHI: A few days after Veena Vohra’s daughter tested positive for Covid-19, she herself was dismayed to find she couldn’t smell the eucalyptus oil or other items with strong fragrances. After two days of self-quarantine, Vohra asked her son to book a home collection of sample for a Covid test. Vohra, 60, was shocked to find all the labs unavailable to collect the sample from her house in west Delhi’s Janakpuri. Lal Path Labs said she would have to wait for three days. Prognosis Laboratories said it would take a couple of days at least. Finally, a lab that agreed to collect the test sample, but a day and a half later. “It was the same story when I wanted to get my husband and son tested,” Vohra said. Conducting a reality check at these laboratories on Wednesday, TOI faced a similar situation, being told that the laboratories were unavailable for sample collection on Thursday. Prognosis Laboratories was ready to send someone earliest by Friday, while Lal Path Labs forwarded a Saturday collection date. A Lal Path responder said, “We are overwhelmed by demand for home collection of samples. In the backdrop of the rising Covid cases, people don’t want to go out to get themselves tested. Demand for home collection has almost doubled, and despite our best efforts, there are a few places we still cannot cater to.” For Prognosis Laboratories too, an executive pleaded helplessness but claimed that they considered vulnerable patients on a priority and collected samples regardless of the waiting time. “Of late the demand has increased a lot, and we are making arrangements to accommodate more daily tests,” the executive said. Like Vohra, Shreya Mittal, 28, too faced delays in testing. She had fever, dry cough and body ache and isolated herself right away, afraid that her mother might become infected. Mittal also decided to get tested immediately. “I called up three private labs and was told that I would have to wait for at least three days before someone could come home,” she said. “The fourth lab, however, was quick to accommodate one sample collection. They claimed mine was the last booking for the following day that they were taking.” The situation was just as tough for Devanshi Tyagi, 28, whose parents and brother had tested positive. “I had to be sure that I was Covid-negative so I tried getting an appointment at two labs. Both asked me to wait for at least three days. When I insisted on getting an immediate test done, one of the labs agreed to collect the sample at home two and a half days later,” said Tyagi. Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder director, Genestrings Lab, said all testing facilities were overwhelmed by such demands. “We have our sample collection centres at south Delhi’s Malviya Nagar and at the IGI airport with their respective testing capacities being 2,000 and 6,000 samples daily. If someone reaches out to us early in the day, we can collect the sample the same day,” she claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-up-to-three-days-wait-for-covid-test-at-home/articleshow/79293881.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Vijayanagara set to be 31st district of Karnataka||BENGALURU: Vijayanagara, named after the capital of the historic Vijayanagara Empire, is set to become Karnataka’s 31st district. The state cabinet approved a proposal on Wednesday to carve out six of the 11taluks of Ballari into Vijayanagara. The decision to create a district — after nearly a decade — is being seen as a bid to placate forest minister and Vijayanagara MLA Anand Singh, among others, who played a key role in installing the current BJP government. Singh has been mounting pressure to split Ballari, primarily to free it of the influence of the Reddy brothers and their confidant, B Sriramulu. “It was a longstanding demand and I thank the CM and my cabinet colleagues for approving this plan,” Singh said. ‘Final decision at next meeting’After a delegation led by Singh met him in September last year, chief minister BS Yediyurappa had agreed to the proposal and announced that he would place the matter before the cabinet for approval. The decision was met with protests in Ballari led by BJP MLAs. Farmer associations, lawyer outfits and pro-Kannada groups led by BJP MLAs Somashekara Reddy and G Karunakara Reddy, both brothers ofex-minister and mining baron G Janardhana Reddy, protested the move, forcing Yediyurappa to defer the plan. Sriramulu, a minister in the Yediyurappa government, also opposed it. While Sriramulu, in a U-turn, welcomed the cabinet decision, Somashekar Reddy said, “the move will not be of any help to the people of Ballari. They will teach those involved an appropriate lesson in the next elections.” On Wednesday, law minister JC Madhuswamy said an “informal” approval has been given and a final decision will be taken at the next meeting, delineating which taluks and boundaries will be included in the new district. According to the proposal, Hospete, Kampli, Hagaribommanahalli, Kottur, Hadagali and Harapanahalli will comprise the new district of Vijayanagara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vijayanagara-set-to-be-31st-district-of-karnataka/articleshow/79293761.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool preps plan to secure base in East Midnapore||Tamluk: An audio clip of a conversation purportedly between a Trinamool supporter and a party senior from Kolkata is doing the rounds among party supporters in East Midnapore. The unauthenticated conversation is all about rebel Trinamool leader Suvendu Adhikari, who has been spreading defiance in the districts despite holding two ministerial portfolios. The voice from Tamluk end, introducing himself as a party supporter, presents the dilemma among the ranks following the emergence of Dada loyalists in Trinamool. The Kolkata leader gives him talking points over the telephone, saying how the Adhikari family has a minister, chairman of Haldia Development Authority, chairman of Hooghly River Bridge Commissioners (HRBC), two MPs and a municipality chairman. The Trinamool leader says the party is not going to show Suvendu the door and “make him a martyr”. The voice from Kolkata also assures the “party supporter” that he will visit East Midnapore after “the chapter is over”. Trinamool has not confirmed the audio clip’s authenticity. Suvendu held two meetings at Nimtouri and Belda in the two Midnapores on Wednesday, a day before his “mega show” on Trinamool MLA Akhil Giri’s home turf Ramnagar. The rebel leader has next planned a meeting at Mahishadal in memory of a local freedom fighter. In view of this, Trinamool leaders have readied a Plan B for party workers while party seniors engage in talks with Suvendu to retain him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-preps-plan-to-secure-base-in-east-midnapore/articleshow/79292022.cms||Suman Mandal
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Cattle racket: CBI lens on BSF commandant’s bank accounts||Asansol: The CBI is looking into bank details of BSF commandant and cross-border cattle smuggling accused Satish Kumar because it believes that co-accused Enamul Haque transferred money to accounts held by the officer’s relatives. The agency is trying to unravel exactly how Kumar may have stashed away the ill-gotten money using a web of bank accounts. Sources said the agency on Wednesday sought court nod to look into bank accounts of Kumar’s father-in-law that were allegedly used to park money. The CBI has already named the BSF commandant’s son, Bhuvan Bh-askar, as an accomplice in the FIR. It said Bhaskar worked in Haque’s firm and drew a salary of over Rs 30,000 per month. Kumar was produced in a special CBI court on Wednesday and remanded in the agency’s custody for 14 days. CBI counsel Kali Charan Mishra said: “The agency is looking into all financial aspects, but nothing specific can be said at this point.” Kumar’s lawyer Sekhar Kundu called the allegations against his client unfounded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cattle-racket-cbi-lens-on-bsf-commandants-bank-accounts/articleshow/79291982.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||‘Women comprise 49% of Bengal’s electorate’||Kolkata: More women have enrolled themselves on the voter list compared to men after the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in West Bengal. The draft electoral roll published by the Election Commission on Wednesday showed there are 3,51,45,288 female electors in Bengal, which is around 49% of the state’s 7.1 crore electorate. Since Lok Sabha elections last year, 10.9 lakh women have enrolled themselves as voters. Compared to this, 8.5 lakh men have enrolled as voters. Given the trend, the poll panel hopes that after completion of the electoral roll revision in Bengal, women voters in the state can cross the 50% mark. According to EC officials, if women electors cross 50% mark, Bengal will become the fourth major state after Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Andhra Pradesh to achieve this feat. Kerala with 51.4% women’s participation is best among the bigger states in the country. Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh have 50.5% and 50.4% women electorate respectively. There are five smaller states — Goa, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram and Meghalaya — and Union territory of Puducherry where women voters are more than male voters. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, participation rate of women in Bengal was as high as 81.7%, which is the best among major states in the country. Only smaller states such as Tripura and Nagaland and Union territory of Lakshadweep have better women’s participation than Bengal. There are 1,430 third-gender voters in Bengal. For the 2019 polls, this figure was 1,329. “There are many reasons behind this high participation of women in electoral process but majorly it is because there has been reservation for women at grassroots, like in panchayats and municipalities. This helped women to actively contribute in the democratic process. Secondly, Bengal is perhaps the only state where no one is outside the purview of politics and this helped women become politically conscious,” said political analyst Biswanath Chakraborty. The summary revision of electoral rolls started on Wednesday and will continue till December 15. Before that, the draft voter list will be published. The summary revision will be followed by a series of nominations, dismissals and hearings. The final summary revision work will continue until January 5. The final voter list will be released on January 15. The EC, during its video conference with district magistrates, has asked all booth level officers to be present at the booths at designated hours because the panel does not want any complaint in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/women-comprise-49-of-bengals-electorate/articleshow/79291925.cms||Saibal Gupta
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata: Virtual ‘Covid-interactions’ put kids at real ease||KOLKATA: Is virtual better than real? The answer seems to be a resounding ‘yes’, at least when it comes to putting infants, who are just about to start school, at ease. The decision by several city schools to introduce online interactions between them and infants seeking admission to nursery sections might have been taken in order to avoid face-to-face meetings only because of the pandemic, but this has thrown up an unexpected bright side: it has allowed more children to shed inhibitions and be more expressive, which is often not possible due to the schools’ alien environments. The authorities of Julien Day School, Ganganagar, have been asking one parent to be at the school and the other to join a video chat with the child. “The children have been extremely forthcoming during the online interactions,” said Bobby Baxter, the principal, adding that the process has been smooth so far, often much better than face-to-face interactions. “We ask basic questions to check whether the child has a speech problem or hearing impairment and can follow instructions.... The candidates are asked to identify the colour of the clothes they are wearing, and the names of their parents. This allows us to understand whether they would be able to cope with regular classes.” Loveleen Saigal, principal of Birla High School, felt children were more comfortable in their known surroundings, so they were at ease when they interacted online. “Earlier, we would sometimes encounter candidates who refused to enter rooms, and others who may not have been at their best. But, this year, they met us from home, online. The interactions were smooth,” she said. A similar approach was taken by Vivekananda Mission School, which assessed their Nursery-I candidates’ speech development through an online interaction. “We interacted with each child on a virtual platform, which let them speak more freely, probably because they were in a familiar home environment,” principal Sarmistha Banerjee told TOI. Facing questions from a set of unknown people in an alien environment often makes children shaky and withdrawn, said psychologist Soumya Mukherjee. “It hinders their ability to express themselves to their full potential. Online interviews at home, on the other hand, allow them to shed their inhibitions, fear and uncertainty. A change of scene creates a sense of insecurity in children, which is eliminated in virtual interviews,” she said. Central Modern School in Baranagar, too, has designed an online interaction that’s designed to put the kids at ease. “This year, the entire process is online,” said principal Nabarun De. “We have asked parents to themselves ask the child some questions and record a short video, and we observe the child’s reaction.” The video recording, mostly shot on mobile phones, is then sent to the school for assessment. “Even parents have to meet us on the online platforms at a scheduled time,” the principal explained. The head of another south Kolkata school said the videos were being sought to gauge a child’s ability to communicate. “We need to understand if the student can be taught together with others or whether s/he shall require special attention,” he said. Birla Bharati School sent out online platform links to parents for a 30-minute interaction. “The kids were asked to identify Montessori equipment, pictures and numbers. The interview revolved around generic questions,” said principal Apala Dutta. Another CBSE school said that live online interactions with kids, along with parents, were conducted during admissions to nursery. “Child-friendly questions were asked by a teacher in the presence of a few other school representatives during the 10-minute interactions. This year, we found that several children were comfortable sitting on the laps of their guardians and communicating with us,” the principal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/virtual-cov-interactions-put-kids-at-real-ease/articleshow/79291751.cms||Somdatta Basu
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Thrashed, BJP man dies amid peace bid in N Bengal clash||Cooch Behar: A booth-level worker of BJP was beaten to death at Tufanganj in Cooch Behar on Wednesday. Two other BJP workers, who tried to rescue him, were injured during the clash between two community clubs. BJP alleged that Trinamool Congress supporters were involved in the attack. On Wednesday morning, two community clubs clashed over immersion of a Kali idol at Nakkatigachh in Tufanganj I block.  The 55-year-old deceased, Kalachand Karmakar, tried to intervene and bring about peace. But his negotiation efforts failed and he was allegedly beaten with bamboo poles and then kicked when he fell to the ground. Police arrested a local Trinamool leader Kamal Barman and identified three others involved in the killing. They, however, ruled out bamboo poles were used to beat Kalachand and claimed that he died of the kicks and punches he received. BJP workers alleged Kalachand was punched and kicked by Trinamool supporters who were led by Kamal. BJP workers Parimal Barman and Biplab Karmakar were badly injured when they tried to rescue Kalachand, who succumbed to injuries in hospital. “There was tension and TMC cadres took advantage of the situation and lynched him unprovoked. This is unprecedented,” alleged BJP’s Cooch Behar president Malati Rava. Trinamool leaders denied involvement in the incident. “The clash had nothing to do with politics. There was a quarrel between members of the two community clubs,” said Abdul Jalil Ahmed, Trinamool district general secretary. Party MP Sukhendu Sekhar Ray said: “Police will probe the reasons leading to the death.” “Kalachand was an active worker and enjoyed respect in the community. Why would anyone attack such a person?,” said Nisith Pramanik, BJP’s Cooch Behar MP. Pramanik, who claimed that more than 12 BJP workers had been killed in Cooch Behar, had raised the issue during the September session of Parliament. BJP’s national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya alleged that Kalachand was killed as he was an influential booth-level worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/thrashed-bjp-man-dies-amid-peace-bid-in-n-bengal-clash/articleshow/79292195.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Trinamool MLA issues open unity appeal in Cooch Behar||Cooch Behar: The Trinamool MLA from Cooch Behar’s Sitai made an open appeal to all party leaders in the district to unite and fight the 2021 assembly polls instead of “gifting” the district to BJP. “We all have to decide if we want Trinamool to stand on firm ground,” said Sitai MLA Jagadish Barma Basunia. The public meeting gained significance after Trinamool’s Cooch Behar South MLA severed ties with the party. Basunia told the gathering how he was attacked during Left rule and by BJP. “BJP had set our party’s Sitai office on fire after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. I won’t forget how two leaders, Rabindranath Ghosh and Udayan Guha, came to Sitai and handed over the party flag to our workers,” he said. But fissures in Trinamool came out in the open when Basunia referred to the “anger” against those who got elected from Cooch Behar in 2016. He didn’t name the present district leadership though. Basunia’s detractors in Trinamool said the MLA was unsure of getting a nomination this time and was trying to “cobble up” with minister Ghosh, Guha and Hiten Burman to put pressure on the district leadership.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/trinamool-mla-issues-open-unity-appeal-in-cooch-behar/articleshow/79292187.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||BJP nat’l leaders take stock of organizational zones in Bengal||Kolkata: National BJP leaders got down to business within hours of being assigned five organizational zones in Bengal by the party brass in the run-up to the 2021 assembly elections. Rajya Sabha MP Dushyant Gautam convened a meeting of the party’s Kolkata zone — comprising the city as well as North and South 24 Parganas — at the Port Trust guest house on Wednesday. Bengal BJP leaders Jayprakash Majumdar and Sabyasachi Dutta submitted to Gautam a report that will be sent to Delhi. BJP national secretary Sunil Deodhar, who has hogged the spotlight since he led the party to power in Left-ruled Tripura, held a meeting involving the five key districts of East and West Midnapore, Howrah, Hooghly and Jhargram at a resort in Uluberia. State BJP in-charge Kailash Vijayvargiya and the party’s Purulia MP Jyotirmay Singh Mahato were present at the meeting. This primary round of taking stock will be followed by a zone-wise review in early December when BJP national president J P Nadda will visit Bengal. State leaders are also expecting a visit from Union home minister Amit Shah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bjp-natl-leaders-take-stock-of-organizational-zones-in-bengal/articleshow/79292168.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Mom, brother held for BJP worker’s death||Durgapur: The mother and the elder brother of BJP booth in-charge Swarup So, whose body was found in Laudaha, West Burdwan, on November 8, were arrested on Wednesday in connection with his murder. Sulochana So and Arup So were produced in court and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. The arrests were preceded by a district court granting police 10-day custody of two primary accused arrested for the murder. Sources in police said interrogation of Suday Mahato and Sk Ibrahim revealed they were hired to kill Swarup following a family dispute. Mahato allegedly received the contract for Rs 1 lakh.  BJP, which has been accusing Trinamool supporters of orchestrating the murder and took out a rally led by state party vice-president Raju Banerjee on November 11, however, demanded a CBI inquiry. Trinamool leader Jitendra Tewari said BJP was needlessly politicizing a death. “The murder is the fallout of family dispute; politics has no role here,” he said. BJP district leader Amitava Banerjee refused comment saying the matter was sub judice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mom-brother-held-for-bjp-workers-death/articleshow/79292299.cms||Mohammad Asif
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Declare Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary a national holiday: West Bengal CM to PM||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to declare Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary on January 23 a national holiday. In her letter, Banerjee said “this would be a very appropriate recognition” on the occasion of the ensuing 125th birth anniversary celebrations of the leader that will be initiated in 2021. The CM also requested the Centre “to take further appropriate steps to give conclusive picture” to the mystery surrounding Netaji’s disappearance. “The birthday of Netaji is celebrated every year all over the country with great dignity and reverence. You may kindly recall that over a long time, we have been requesting the central government to declare Netaji’s birthday as a national holiday. However, this has not materialized so far,” Banerjee wrote. She added that this would be an appropriate recognition of the “national leader”, “who is an epitome of determination, courage, leadership, unity and love for the motherland”. People of the country and especially of West Bengal, she said, have the right to know the truth about Netaji’s disappearance. She pointed out that the Bengal government had declassified and placed in public domain many files relating to Netaji on this issue. “In the past, on several occasions, we had requested the central government to take steps to give conclusive picture to this matter,” Banerjee wrote. Thirty-three classified files on Netaji, held by the Prime Minister’s Office, were released in September 2015. While they provided valuable information on his movements and activities, the files didn’t really shed light on his disappearance. Later, the state government, too, released a few Netaji files that were in its possession. Releasing files was not enough to solve the Netaji disappearance mystery, pointed out his grandnephew Chandra Bose. “On behalf of the family, we have long been demanding an inquiry team to conduct a probe. There are 77 unreleased Intelligence Bureau files. Also, the Japan government has three classified files that are yet to be released,” he said. Bose pointed out that the ashes at Japan’s Renkoji temple should be put through a DNA test. He added that members of the Bose family had already written to the PM asking him to declare January 23 ‘Patriots’ Day’. “Netaji was a man of action, so his birth anniversary shouldn’t merely be a holiday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/declare-netaji-birth-anniv-a-national-holiday-didi-to-pm/articleshow/79291890.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Business||Lummus, TCG Digital form strategic JV||Kolkata: Lummus Technology and TCG Digital have entered into a strategic joint venture to form Lummus Digital. The joint venture will work with Lummus’ existing and potential customers to implement digital analysis and operative solutions in their refining, petrochemical, and gas processing assets and across the hydrocarbon processing value chain. Haldia Petrochemicals, the flagship of the Chatterjee Group, along with an international partner Rhone Capital, had acquired the US-based Lummus Technology at an Enterprise Value (EV) of $2.725 billion (approximately Rs 20,590 crore) from McDermott International in July this year. Lummus Technology is a leading master licensor of proprietary technologies in refining, petrochemicals, gas processing and coal gasification sectors. Elaborating on the JV, Purnendu Chatterjee, founder chairman of The Chatterjee Group (TCG), said, “Our focus on innovation continues with this joint venture. We strive to deliver sustainable value to our esteemed clients with modern technology and deep process innovation, giving them the edge with digitalization in these difficult times. This JV will co-create and innovate with other areas of the group like TCG Crest, our research university, LabVantage and Haldia Petrochemicals.” Leon de Bruyn, president and CEO of Lummus Technology said, “Lummus Digital is another new and critical initiative we are launching to ensure our position as a leader of our industry and at the forefront of innovation.” According to TCG officials, Lummus Digital will explore the refining, petrochemical, and gas processing market in India where substantial growth is expected. The company will also start its operations in the US, Middle-East, and Europe immediately. “We are excited that this partnership will allow TCG Digital and Lummus Technology to build on their core competencies and strengths, addressing the fast-evolving needs of the refining and petrochemicals industry. Lummus Digital will leverage the TCG mcube data platform to drive operational excellence, improve plant safety, enhance reliability, and increase margins.” said Debdas Sen, CEO of TCG Digital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/lummus-tcg-digital-form-strategic-jv/articleshow/79292283.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Gurgaon||Two found dead on SPR, probe launched||GURUGRAM: Two men were found dead on the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) near Haldiram restaurant on Wednesday morning. The deceased were identified as Dheerja (23) and Sameer. According to police, they received information about the bodies from the control room and reached the spot to find Dheeraj lying without clothes while the other one was lying near a motorcycle. “Prime facie, their motorcycle had hit a tree which might have caused the accident. The initial investigation revealed that the two men appear to be victims of a road accident. They were both in an inebriated condition,” said a police officer from Kherki Dhaula police station. The cops informed the victims’ families about the accident. However, they have expressed their dissatisfaction with the theory that the duo died in an accident. “They have not yet submitted a complaint,” the officer added. Dheeraj’s family said a body would not be found without clothes in case of a road rage. “The bodies were sent for postmortem and then handed over to the families. We have launched a probe in the matter,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/two-found-dead-on-spr-probe-launched/articleshow/79292345.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Businessman beheaded in Delhi, body thrown off Rajdhani Express in Gujarat||NEW DELHI: A 46-year-old businessman was beaten up, stabbed and decapitated by the fiance of a woman he was in a relationship with. The killer carried the body in a suitcase on Rajdhani Express and dumped it on the way to Goa near Bharuch, police said. The deceased, Neeraj Gupta, a financier, was a resident of Model Town in northwest Delhi. The prime accused, Mohammed Zubair (28), his fiancee Faizal (29) and her mother Shaheen Naaz (45) have been arrested. DCP (northwest) Vijayanta Arya confirmed to TOI that the incident took place on the night of November 13. One of Gupta’s friends had lodged a missing report on November 14 after he didn’t return home. During an inquiry, call detail records and Gupta’s location were obtained, but he could not be traced. Subsequently, Gupta’s wife lodged a police complaint of kidnapping, naming Faizal as the suspect as her husband had been having an affair with her for several years. The woman, she said, was Gupta’s employee. When Faizal was questioned at length, she gave conflicting statements, before she broke down and disclosed that she worked at Gupta’s office at Karol Bagh and had been having an affair with him for around 10 years. How a 10-year affair led to brutal murderThey didn’t get married as Gupta was not ready to leave his wife and family. Meanwhile, Faizal gave in to her family’s pressure and got engaged to Zubair. “When she told Gupta about this, he tried to dissuade her from marrying Zubair. On the night of the incident, he came to her rented accommodation at Adarsh Nagar. Heated arguments ensued between Gupta and the three accused,” said a senior police officer. During the altercation, Zubair got enraged and hit Gupta on the head with a brick. “He then stabbed Gupta with a knife thrice in the stomach and ultimately beheaded him. The trio then made the plan to dispose of the body,” the officer added. “They put the body in a suitcase, hired an appbased cab and took the body to Nizamuddin railway station. From there, Zubair, a worker in the railway pantry, boarded the Rajdhani Express going towards Goa. On the way, he disposed of the body near Bharuch,” said the police officer. DCP Arya added, “The three accused have been arrested. The knife and brick used in the crime have been recovered. Efforts are on to recover the body of Gupta.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/businessman-beheaded-in-delhi-body-thrown-off-rajdhani-express-in-gujarat/articleshow/79293892.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Business||Emami enters home hygiene mkt with new brand||Kolkata: FMCG major Emami is entering into home hygiene market with a new brand Emasol. It will have presence across five categories, floor cleaner, toilet cleaner, bathroom cleaner, dish wash gel and surface sanitiser. This would also mark the entry of Emami in the home care segment, which so far is predominantly a personal care product outfit. The total market size of these five categories is Rs 4,000 crore while toilet cleaner is the market leader with Rs 1,600crore segment. The organised branded market in these categories is worth Rs 3,400 crore. The leading national players in these categories are: Harpic, Pril, Vim, Savlon, Dettol and Lizol. Emami has roped in cricketer Shikhar Dhawan for the brand. Announcing the launch of the EMASOL, home hygiene range, Mohan Goenka, director, Emami, said, “The Covid 19 pandemic has accelerated home hygiene consciousness to newer heights. People are more concerned about maintaining household hygiene with higher frequency of cleaning across all economic strata. Home hygiene, as a category of approximately Rs 3,000 crore, had been growing in double digits in the pre-Covid times and is expected to grow much faster in the coming days. Emami is thrilled to capture range of home hygiene products. Emasol Range offers a strong combination of Emami’s leading brand equity plus a superior R&D innovation.” London-based design firm Evolve Creative developed the packaging for the EMASOL Home Hygiene Range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/emami-enters-home-hygiene-mkt-with-new-brand/articleshow/79292350.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Day 2: Pupils continue to skip regular classes in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Attendance in degree colleges across Bengaluru continued to be thin on Wednesday, the second day of reopening, although some institutions reported a slight increase with students receiving their Covid negative certificates. Colleges are trying various means to instill confidence in students to get them on campus. “Students do not want to get tested outside,” said Karisidappa, vice-chancellor, Visvesvaraya Technological University. “We have asked colleges to get the facility on campus and students are happy with that arrangement. We hope attendance will improve next week. Principals are counselling students on safety measures in place on campus to instil confidence.” HN Meera, principal, Seshadripuram College said she spoke to students and parents during online classes to find out why they were staying away from regular classes. The college saw only 10 students on Day 2, the same number as on Day 1. “Many cited transport issues. The frequency of BMTC and KSRTC buses is low and many have to change buses. Parents fear this will increase their chances of contracting the virus,” she said. Students also say many hostels are yet to reopen. “Some community hostels will open on November 25 and some others in January. Until then, these students cannot join in,” said a faculty member of Maharani University Cluster. The Science stream had 19 girls on Day 2. “We have been instructed to release a timetable for practical classes and this might push up attendance. Our online classes are going well,” said HN Ramesh, principal, University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering (UVCE) that again had no students on Wednesday. KR Venugopal, VC, Bangalore University said, “Attendance was lower than on Day 1. Many came just out of curiosity on Tuesday. The numbers will rise next week when RT-PCR results come. We are waiting for more numbers to start mess facilities in our hostels. Lab work has to be held first. It will get other students to turn up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/day-2-pupils-continue-to-skip-regular-classes-in-bengaluru/articleshow/79293916.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Getting negative test result a challenge in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru may be falling rapidly, but that is no solace for many city dwellers who have submitted swab samples for testing as they remain in quandary since test results are yet to reach them. Those awaiting results include people who have undergone tests fearing they could be exposed to virus as well as employees who have been asked to turn up for work only with a Covid-19 negative certificate. Nishanth Naregal, a software company employee working for a startup in Indiranagar, was told he could resume work from office last month, provided he furnishes a Covid report. Naregal submitted a swab sample at a PHC in Konankunte on October 24, but is yet to receive any information on the result. “Our employers have told us to show a negative certificate in case we need to step inside the office, but unfortunately I have not got that message for more than 20 days now and this is preventing me from going to work,” said Naregal. Sripriya Bharadwaj, a resident of Vidhyapeeta, also finds herself in a similar predicament. She too had visited the nearest PHC to get tested. “I had tested positive on October 5, but was asymptomatic and stayed at home,” Bharadwaj, a 33-year-old software company employee said. “Again on October 22, I went to get a Covid test done and swab samples were collected, but I have not got test results yet.” She added: “Since I contracted the virus, my employers aren’t letting me step inside the office till I show them a negative certificate or a message to that effect. But the government has stopped sending these messages.” Officials suggest the number of people testing negative is huge which may be holding things up. For example of the 47,896 tests conducted on Tuesday (Nov 17) in Bengaluru, only 769 were positive. A senior official from the health and family welfare department said an 8,000-strong data entry wing sends messages to those who get tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/getting-negative-test-result-a-challenge-in-bengaluru/articleshow/79293890.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Seema Dhaka, Delhi Police constable who rescued 56 kids in 3 months||NEW DELHI: When head constable Seema Dhaka headed for Debra in West Bengal to track down a seven-year-old child missing from Aman Vihar, near Rohini, she had to cross two rivers to reach her destination in a flood-hit area. This feat, along with several other cases of rigorous investigation, has made Dhaka the first cop to be given an outof-turn promotion for tracing a record number of missing children in a short span of time. As against a mandated 50 in 12 months, Dhaka traced 56 children below the age of 14 in just three months and united them with their families. In all, she has tracked down 76 minors, 20 of them being in the age-group of 14-16. Incentives for tracing missing kids galvanise forceOn Wednesday, Dhaka, 33, was felicitated by Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava whose new incentive-based scheme has galvanised officials tasked with tracing missing children. It has led to both a spike in the recovery rate and presence of more boots on the ground. The police chief had on August 7 announced additional incentives, including out-of-turn promotion, for any constable or head constable who would rescue 50 or more missing children below the age of 14 within 12 months. Additionally, an Asadharan Karya Puraskar was announced for any constable or head constable who would rescue 15 or more missing children below the age of 14 years — including five less than eight years — within 12 months. Speaking to TOI, Dhaka recalled the West Bengal operation. “It was my husband’s birthday but the thought that my efforts could lead to a child being found kept me going. Not many trains were running that day. The area was vast with Debra having 134 police stations. We managed to reach the village with the help of the state police after crossing two rivers. The child was finally found. I took him to a hotel, fed him and made him watch TV after which he narrated his ordeal,” she said. He had left his home as his stepfather refused to accept him and would often beat him up. Dhaka, who is from Baghpat in UP, is lucky to have a husband and family who support her. Her husband is a head constable, posted in Rohini. “My husband’s family is very supportive. My motherin law sends tiffin for me to the police station if I don’t return home for dinner. My son, who is eight years old, is taken care of by the family members. Neither for visit by relatives, nor festivals do they insist on my presence, always giving priority to my job,” she said. Dhaka joined the force in 2006 and, after appearing for exams five years later, she became a head constable. She has now been promoted as assistant sub-inspector. “I will be at a higher rank than my husband and my relatives are joking about it,” she said, laughing. Dhaka recalled how rescuing a 15-year-old girl will always be etched in her memory. “Though children above 14 are not a part of the out-of-turn promotion scheme, a 15-year-old girl who had been kidnapped was rescued from Tigri Dham in Almora. I can’t tell you in words how happy the girl was when we turned up. She had been married forcefully and had two children. She was kept locked in her house and was not even given proper food,” said Dhaka with a hint of emotion in her voice. “I remember when I was taking her back, her younger child kept wetting his clothes. I bought a diaper and gave it to her. She did not know what a diaper was,” she recalled. Her parents were overjoyed to see the girl and thanked Dhaka profusely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/woman-cop-rescues-56-kids-in-3-months/articleshow/79293957.cms||Sakshi Chand
November 19, 2020||India||TMC MLA bats for Bangladesh cricketer facing death threat for Kali puja event||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress MLA Paresh Pal, the chief patron of Kankurgachhi Kali Puja committee, has come out with a statement clearing the controversy surrounding Bangladeshi cricketer Shakib Al Hasan's attendance at the puja inauguration last Thursday. The player had received a death threat in Bangladesh, shortly after which he issued a public apology on social media. "I share a close bond with Shakib and invited him to the puja, but he hadn't inaugurated it - our minister Firhad Hakim did. Shakib reached the venue 10 minutes after the inauguration and was felicitated for his achievements. My constituency has a 35% Muslim population who also attend the puja. I don't understand what the fuss is all about," Pal, the Beliaghata MLA, told on Wednesday. In videos circulating on social media, Shakib was seen lighting a candle at the inauguration. He returned to Bangladesh on Friday. Two days later, someone made a Facebook live video threatening to kill the all-rounder for "hurting Muslim sentiments" and "cut him into pieces with a chopper for blasphemy". The video was later deleted, but Bangladesh police arrested the accused on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Shakib released a video on social media, clarifying he hadn't inaugurated the puja and was there for a few minutes for photo ops. "Being a practising Muslim, I always try to follow religious customs. Please forgive me if I have done anything wrong," he says in the clip. Pal said, "I am a secular person. Bangladesh is my homeland and I have cordial ties with several Bangladeshis. I had invited Shakib and will continue to invite people from Bangladesh, which can only enhance the feeling of brotherhood."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/tmc-mla-bats-for-bangladesh-cricketer-facing-death-threat-for-kali-puja-event/articleshow/79293958.cms||Saikat Ray
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Private hospitals fume over vacant beds||BENGALURU: With bed occupancy now an issue in private hospitals since cases are falling, BBMP has said it will refer only “exceptionally critical” Covid-19 cases or those that require specialised care to private hospitals. When cases began to mount, the government had ordered private hospitals to set aside 50% of their beds to treat Covid-19 patients referred by public authorities. The government bore costs of treating these patients. However, private hospitals are demanding that the caveat be removed so that they can use the beds to treat non-Covid patients. BBMP data shows 80% of beds in private hospitals and 70% in government facilities are vacant. A BBMP circular released on Tuesday said, “All bed-blocking for Covid positive cases taken up the Zonal Command and Control Centres (ZCCC's) for General and HDU beds shall be restricted to government hospitals and government medical colleges only (sic).” It said patients will be referred to private hospitals only if bed occupancy reaches 90% in government facilities. The circular only angered managements of private hospitals. “It lacks clarity on what private hospitals should do with 50% of beds reserved for government-referred patients. It’s totally unfair on the part of the government to continue keeping our hospital beds under its control and not refer patients,” said Dr HM Prasanna, presidentelect, Private Hospitals’ Nursing Homes’ Association (PHANA). He said many patients preferred private hospitals under government quota. PHANA office-bearers say health minister K Sudhakar had orally told them to use the beds for non-Covid patients, but say it’s hard to implement. “We need it in writing. Converting Covid beds to non-Covid also involves logistics issues and infection control measures,” said a member. However, in the wake of a second wave of infection in Delhi, the government appears to be hedging its bets on the issue. “We want the government to reduce its bed share to 10-20% from 50%,” said Dr Prasanna. “If there is a second wave, we can augment the number of beds to 50%. But for now, the focus has to be shifted to non-Covid treatment for which a majority of hospitals do not have enough beds.” While 63,180 cases and 18,364 admissions were reported between October 1 and 15, the numbers fell to 37,778 and 10,972, respectively, in the second half of the month. Between November 1 and 15, Bengaluru reported 19,355 cases and 5,894 admissions. Data from Centralised Hospital Bed Management System (CHBMS), which provides real-time bed availability, showed only 30% of 1,001 beds in government hospitals were occupied as at 11pm on November 16, while it was 20% for 4,525 beds in private hospitals. At Covid Care Centres, only 67% of the 200 beds have been occupied, Citizens too are unhappy with BBMP’s decision. “Facilities in government hospitals are poor which is why we prefer private hospitals. This isn’t right,” said Abhishek KV, a Covid-19 patient who was treated at a government hospital. Sachin Ranganath, who recovered from the infection, said the government should allow patients to decide where they want to be treated instead of making it compulsory. “In government hospitals, patients are not permitted a single room and common toilets are disgusting. People prefer private facilities because of hygiene and during a pandemic that is very important,” Ranganath said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-private-hospitals-fume-over-vacant-beds/articleshow/79293967.cms||---
November 19, 2020||India||Soldier dead, two injured in J&K avalanche||Srinagar: A soldier died while two others were injured after an avalanche struck an Army post in Tangdhar sector in north Kashmir’s Kupwara district on Wednesday morning. After sustaining injuries in the snow slide, the trio was rushed to Kupwara hospital where soldier Nikhil Sharma of Army’s 7RR succumbed while his colleagues — Ramesh Chand and Gurvinder Singh — continued to undergo treatment, an Army officer said. On Monday, authorities had issued an avalanche warning in four districts of Kashmir Valley — Kupwara, Bandipora, Baramulla and Ganderbal — after the higher reaches of the Union Territory received moderate to heavy snowfall. Army Capt injured in grenade blastSrinagar: An Army Captain was wounded in an accidental grenade blast at a forward post in Hameerpur area, along the Line of Control in Poonch district’s Balakote sector, late Tuesday. He was shifted to the Army Hospital in Rajouri with minor injuries, official sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soldier-dead-two-injured-in-jk-avalanche/articleshow/79293999.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Delhi's temperature may drop below 10°C in next 2 days||DELHI: The capital has been recording a minimum temperature of just 11.4°C on an average this month — the corresponding figure during last year’s November was 14°C — with the mercury dipping to 10.6°C on Tuesday, two notches below normal. With the mountains receiving fresh snowfall over the last 48 hours, the city’s minimum temperature is likely to fall further in the next two days, dropping below 10°C for the first time this season. This October was the coldest in the city since 1962. Lack of rain one of the reasons for cold NovA combination of factors has led to a cold spell this year. “Clear skies result in the day heat quickly dissipating, making nights cooler than normal,” Kuldeep Srivastava, a scientist at India Meteorological Department, said. A lack of rain has also played a key role, according to the IMD scientist. “We recorded a western disturbance after Diwali. However, we have not seen another this month. The same was true for October. Whenever a western disturbance approaches a region, the minimum temperature rises and that makes things warmer for a couple of days. Lack of rain has meant we have not seen cloudy skies at all,” said Srivastava, who is also the head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre. The highest minimum temperature this November was 16 degrees Celsius, on the 16th, after Delhi received a spell of rain the previous day. Delhi meanwhile has already recorded two days this month when the minimum touched 10 degrees Celsius. Normally, the capital falls below 10 degrees Celsiys in the first week of December. Last year, the lowest minimum recorded in all of 2019 November was 11.4°Celsius.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-temperature-may-drop-below-10c-in-next-2-days/articleshow/79294002.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
November 19, 2020||India||DDC polls a fight between tiranga lovers and Pak-China lovers: BJP||Jammu: Attacking Congress for siding with the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) in the upcoming district development council (DDC) polls in Jammu and Kashmir, BJP national general secretary and J&K in-charge Tarun Chugh said on Wednesday that the DDC elections were a fight between “tiranga lovers” and “Pakistan and China lovers”. “For over seven decades they have looted and plundered J&K. Now people are wise enough to see through their plans. Now they will elect their own representatives who will work for development and peace,” Chugh said. Referring to Congress siding with PAGD, he alleged that the meeting of J&K Congress chief G A Mir with the Gupkar alliance leaders was held with the consent of the Congress high command. Union minister and BJP’s J&K election in-charge Anurag Thakur also addressed the meeting. “Our predecessors have stood firm against all anti-nationals since decades and now we have to defeat the evil designs of this Gupkar gang with grit,” Thakur said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ddc-polls-a-fight-between-tiranga-lovers-and-pak-china-lovers-bjp/articleshow/79294014.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
November 19, 2020||India||Amid save-nomads cry, J&K moves to implement forest rights act||Srinagar: A day after PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti railed about nomads in J&K being allegedly "harassed and displaced" in the name of reclaiming encroached forest land, the Union Territory administration on Wednesday fixed January 15 next year as the deadline to complete its first survey of claimants to forest land under the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006. As a state enjoying special status, J&K didn't need to implement the central act that safeguards the land rights of forest dwellers until it became a UT. "Chief secretary B V R Subrahmanyam has reviewed the implementation of the forest rights law in line with the enactment of the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, and work on surveying claims has already begun," a government spokesperson said. Under the act, tribal communities and other traditional forest dwellers are to be vested with rights to forest land for habitation, cultivation or livelihood through collection and disposal of minor forest produce. Ex-CM Mehbooba, CPM's Yousuf Tarigami and former National Conference minister Mian Altaf Ahmad, who represents the nomadic Gujjar community, had recently accused the UT administration of evicting "lawful nomads from their hearths and kothas (temporary sheds)". Taking up cudgels for nomads, Mehbooba tweeted on Tuesday, "They’ve been the rightful inhabitants & are now being evicted on discriminatory grounds. Kindly intervene @manojsinha & ensure that this stops." Anantnag DC Kuldip Krishan Sidha contested allegations that people of the Gujjar Bakerwal community had been illegally evicted from the forested areas of Lidroo Pahalgam and their dwellings demolished. "The people residing on forest land have not been unnecessarily harassed, as is being alleged. Just as it is the right of people to stay there, it is also our duty to conserve and preserve the beautiful forest land," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/amid-save-nomads-cry-jk-moves-to-implement-forest-rights-act/articleshow/79294027.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 19, 2020||India||13 civilians injured in Pulwama grenade attack||SRINAGAR: At least 13 civilians were injured on Wednesday evening when terrorists lobbed a grenade at a bunker of CRPF’s 41 Bn in Kakapora area of south Kashmir’s Pulwama district, but the explosive missed the intended target and blasted on the road instead. The injured, including an Uttar Pradesh native, were taken to Kakapora primary healthcare centre from where four were referred to Pampore sub-district hospital and two to Bone and Joint hospital in Srinagar, Pampore block medical officer Dr Gulzar Ahmad said, adding that most them of had received splinter injuries and were stable. Security forces cordoned off the site of the attack and launched a search operation to trace the perpetrators. Senior police officers rushed to the spot to investigate the explosion. A case was registered under relevant sections of the IPC and a probe was in progress, a cop said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/13-civilians-injured-in-pulwama-grenade-attack/articleshow/79294047.cms||M Saleem Pandit
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||1,791 fresh cases, 21 deaths today in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Karnataka reported 1,791 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, of which 933 were from Bengaluru Urban. Vijayapura (121), followed by Mysuru (97), Tumakuru (86) and Hassan (71) reported the most cases after Bengaluru. The state also reported 21 fatalities, including 10 from Bengaluru. However, no deaths were reported in 23 of the state’s 30 districts. A 27-yearold woman from Bengaluru, who reportedly died at home on November 16, tested positive posthumously. Including her, four patients who succumbed had no comorbidities, as per the daily bulletin released by the state health and family welfare department. The state conducted 97,042 Covid tests in the last 24 hours, of which 68,339 were RT-PCR tests. Karnataka has conducted more than 97 lakh Covid tests so far. The daily Covid positivity rate stood at 1.8% and the day’s fatality rate at 1.1%. With 1,947 patients discharged, the total number of patients who have recovered was 8,29,188. In Bengaluru, 927 persons treated for Covid were discharged on Wednesday. Total infections in the state now stand at 8,65,931 and of them 11,578 patients have died. Bengaluru’s total infection count is 3,59,539, and 4,028 patients have died. Currently there are 25,146 Covid patients being treated across the state. A total 636 patients are in ICU across the state, of which 320 are from Bengaluru. However, in Yadgir and Ramanagar districts, no Covid patient||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/1791-fresh-cases-21-deaths-today-in-karnataka/articleshow/79294029.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Cabinet expansion: Karnataka CM meets JP Nadda but back empty-handed||BENGALURU: The waiting game is not over yet for senior BJP MLAs and Congress-JD (S) rebel legislators, hoping to bag ministerial berths. Reason: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa once again couldn’t secure a nod for cabinet expansion from the party brass. Yediyurappa, who flew down to New Delhi on Wednesday afternoon, was hoping to get the green signal and take up cabinet expansion this weekend. The chief minister, accompanied by deputy CM Govind Karjol, met BJP chief JP Nadda briefly and explained to him the need to accommodate new faces in the cabinet. “I have informed Nadda about the need to undertake cabinet expansion at the earliest and accommodate new faces. He said he would discuss the issue and get back in the next 2-3 days,” Yediyurappa told reporters after the meeting in Delhi. A senior functionary, who accompanied the CM to the national capital, said Yediyurappa was hoping to meet Union minister Amit Shah, but he managed to speak to Nadda, who informed him that he would visit Karnataka next month as part of a country-wide tour. Asked if it would be cabinet expansion or reshuffle, Yediyurappa said, “It will depend on the direction given by Nadda.” According to party insiders, Yediyurappa handed over the list of legislators he intends to induct into the cabinet and requested Nadda to take a call at the earliest as the winter session of the state legislature starts from December 7. Yediyurappa is planning to restructure his cabinet by dropping a few ministers to make place for new faces. But everything now depends on the decision taken by the party brass. Eight-month waitIt's been eight months since the CM has been waiting for the high command’s nod to expand his team, but in vain. Though, there is no clarity on why the BJP national leadership is not giving Yediyurrappa, the senior-most BJP CM in the country, the go-ahead, party insiders believe the delay has something to do with reports of leadership change in the state. Yediyurappa is under tremendous pressure to expand his cabinet, especially from senior party MLAs and turncoat MLCs, including MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar, H Vishwanath and newly elected MLA Munirathna, who together helped him become CM. It’s been more than two and a half months since both Shankar and Nagaraj were made members of the upper house and since then they have been waiting to become ministers in the Yediyurappa government. If Yediyurappa fails to get a nod in the next 2-3 days, party insiders said Karnataka could witness a lot of political drama as strong discontent is brewing in the state party unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cabinet-expansion-cm-meets-jp-nadda-but-back-empty-handed/articleshow/79294080.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Lucknow||RK Tiwari directs random Covid-19 testing of visitors from Delhi||LUCKNOW: In view of the third wave of Covid-19 in Delhi, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari has directed officials to carry out random testing of people visiting the state from Delhi by flights, bus or train. Reviewing law and order situation, preparations for Chhath puja, Covid-19 management and burning of crop residue during a meeting with district magistrates, commissioners and senior police officials on Wednesday, the chief secretary said surveillance, contact tracing and Covid-19 testing should be ramped up. Directing swift action in untoward incidents, Tiwari said: “Delay in police action and postmortem examination in serious incidents give anti-social elements a chance to create mischief and spread fake information on social media. DMs and senior police officials should visit incident sites immediately and ensure there is no delay in post-mortem examination. Depending on the situation, the DM can give permission to conduct post-mortem examination even during night.” He said the administration and police should launch a crackdown on manufacture and sale of illicit liquor. On arrangements for Chhath Puja, the chief secretary said physical distancing and wearing of masks should be enforced strictly. “Arrangement of proper lights, CCTVs and sanitation should be made at traditional spots for Chhath Puja. Organisers and devotees should be encouraged to hold puja at home to prevent coronavirus spread.” Speaking on NGT orders on water bodies, he said illegal occupation of ponds, lakes and wetlands should be prevented. Taking note of stubble burning, the chief secretary said responsibility of officials should be fixed in those districts where high number of complaints were being received. Additional chief secretary (home) Awanish Awasthi said that panchayat elections were round the corner and effective action should be taken to prevent any law and order problem. He said those who possess more than one firearm should be asked to surrender it or else their licence should be cancelled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/rk-tiwari-directs-random-covid-19-testing-of-visitors-from-delhi/articleshow/79294075.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Business||SP urges SC to separate its interests from Tata Group||NEW DELHI: After partnering with the Tata Group for the last 55 years, the Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group on Wednesday requested the Supreme Court to separate its interests from the salt-to-software conglomerate. The SP Group has sought the separation by swapping its more than 18% stake in Tata Sons with shares of listed Tata Group companies like Tata Consultancy Services (TCS). There was also a fresh twist in the fight between the two groups, which began with the removal of Cyrus Mistry from the post of chairman of Tata Sons. The SP Group accused Ratan Tata of breaching his promise to Pallonji Mistry in 1991, immediately after he was appointed chairman of Tata Sons, that he would "never do anything consciously to hurt you and your family". The SP Group alleged that in September, the Tatas impeded the banking of its Tata Sons shares. The SP Group wanted to use this route for raising money from the market. "The Mistry family was raising funds against security of their personal assets to meet the crisis arising from the global pandemic. This move was undertaken to protect the livelihoods of its 60,000 employees and over 1 lakh migrant workers. On September 5, a day after definitive documents were signed to raise funds, Tata Sons served the SP Group with notice of an 'urgent' application, which they had filed before the SC, seeking to block this crucial fund-raise, without any heed to the collateral consequences that such action might have on the livelihood of tens of thousands of employees," it said. Tata Sons had offered to buy out SP Group's stake in the Tata Group. The SP Group, in its application through senior advocate C A Sundaram, said it "proposes separation of the interests of the two shareholder groups as an alternative remedy, which could be granted by the SC under Section 242 of the Companies Act as a means to put an end to the matters complained of". It added, "The relief, invariably granted, are to direct the majority, guilty of oppression, to provide fair value compensation to the minority shareholder." A bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian told Sundaram that the matter could not be heard piecemeal and that contentions of both sides would be heard and adjudicated through a final hearing. It scheduled the final hearing for December 2. The SP Group said, "By proposing this remedy, the SP Group seeks to propose a resolution that would take care of the best interests of both shareholders and all stakeholders of Tata Sons. A separation of interests would equitably give the SP Group, as shareholders in Tata Sons, access to their proportionate share value in Tata Sons and would not let two warring shareholders to have to live with each other only under the fiat of a court." "Such a scheme of separation through a reduction in capital with consideration paid through shares in underlying listed companies could also be used to provide much needed liquidity to other Tata Group companies that have a shareholding in Tata Sons, thereby unlocking value," it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sp-urges-sc-to-separate-its-interests-from-tata-group/articleshow/79294092.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
November 19, 2020||Business||Wipro growth has been modest in the past: CEO||BENGALURU: Wipro CEO Thierry Delaporte said the company's growth has been modest and far less than its competitors in the past. He said the recent organisational changes are a way of "course correction" to have a razor-sharp focus on growth by focusing on specific geographies. "We will strengthen relations with strategic clients, win larger deals, and focus investment in industry specific solutions," Delaporte said in an analyst meeting on Wednesday. Wipro's growth has lagged those of rivals like Infosys and TCS because of a host of factors, including weakness in the healthcare vertical in the US, problems with the Middle East business, and inability to win large deals. While the US and the UK will continue to remain focus markets, the company wants to bring more attention to Europe, Middle East and Asia. "In the US, we will focus on all sectors, but let's say in Switzerland, we will focus on life sciences, BFSI, heavy industries and consumer," Delaporte said. Wipro announced a major organisational overhaul last week, reducing the number of business units, putting the focus on geographies instead of industry verticals, and giving more powers to profit and loss owners. Each customer will now have a global account executive - a senior leader who will represent the account and will be supported by a team. The leader will have greater decision-making powers. The company is also set to appoint a chief growth officer. "We need to have an obsession for growth, which will come though stronger market orientation, proximity to customers, focus on simplicity rather than perfection, and with fewer but relevant growth metrics," said chairman Rishad Premji. Wipro, Delaporte said, is not in a position to focus on all sectors across all geographies as it does not have the size. "The cost is spread everywhere but not the return on investments," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wipro-growth-has-been-modest-in-the-past-ceo/articleshow/79294103.cms||Avik Das
November 19, 2020||Bengaluru||Bengaluru police open fire, nab two rowdies facing murder charges||BENGALURU: City police shot at and arrested two rowdies — Psycho Vishwa and Manjunath alias Bonda Manja — since Tuesday night. Vishwa, 30, prime accused in the murder of a saloon staffer on November 8, was nabbed by west division police on Wednesday morning. Police said Manjunath, a resident of Banashankari I Stage and employee of a saloon, had borrowed money from a rowdy, Lakshman, several months ago. He did not return it, which prompted Lakshman to assault Manjunath twice. Manjunath also told his friends that he would kill Lakshman soon. On hearing this, Lakshman and his friend Vishwa abducted Manjunath from Banashankari. On November 7, they took him to an isolated place near Gottigere off Bannerghatta Road. Vishwa and others assaulted Manjunath and stabbed him to death. His body was dumped at Kamakshipalya. Lakshman was arrested recently. A team headed by Nanjundegowda, assistant commissioner of police (Vijayanagar sub-division) and Kamakshipalya inspector M Prashanth traced Vishwa near Byadarahalli on Wednesday morning. When constable Manjunath tried to nab him, Vishwa attacked the cop with a dagger. Sensing danger, Nanjundegowda and Prashanth opened fire. Vishwa is facing 11 criminal cases, including murder, robbery and dacoity cases. In another incident, CCB personnel on Tuesday night shot at Manja, 35, who is facing 23 criminal cases, after he attacked them with a dagger. Based on a tip-off, a team reached arayana Nagar near Konanakunte. When Manja stabbed constable Nagaraj in his bid to escape from the spot, inspector Puneeth Kumar opened fire at his left thigh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-police-open-fire-nab-two-rowdies-facing-murder-charges/articleshow/79294086.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Pune||Covid testing during Diwali fell 43% in Pune, 50% in Mumbai||PUNE: Daily testing for Covid-19 during the Diwali period from November 13 to 16 dropped 43% in Pune and by nearly 50% in Mumbai. The sharpest drops were recorded on November 14, 15 and 16. The fall in testing in these two major cities impacted the state’s daily testing levels too during this period, which plunged by nearly 70%. Public health experts, who had urged officials to keep up the testing during the festival period, have now said the two weeks after Diwali will be an “acid test” for Maharashtra. The new data was arrived at by comparing the average daily testing between November 1-13 with the average from November 14 to 17. Daily testing has been dropping steadily. In September, Pune city was averaging 13,000 daily tests, which dropped to nearly 8,000 earlier this month. But on November 15, it hit a worrying low of 2,898. In Mumbai, daily testing went from nearly 13,000 in early November to less than 4,000 on November 15. The state's director of health services, Archana Patil, said the overall drop in testing has sparked worry. Patil said, "Average testing in both cities has dropped considerably. It needs to pick up as the next two weeks are most crucial. We were carrying over 90,000 to 1 lakh tests in September. In October, we were at around 60,000-70,000 tests per day. But there has been a 70% reduction in testing during Diwali, which is a major concern." She said she has issued orders asking officials in Pune, Mumbai and Thane - where cases are still high - to immediately increase testing after the festival. On Wednesday, November 18, there were some signs of recovery when state data showed daily testing had increased to 53,000 from 25,000. "But there is still a long way to go," Patil said. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state's Covid-19 task force, said testing over the next two weeks will be vital, considering that temperatures have been dropping in many parts of Maharashtra. “If we see a spike in cases in these two weeks, we know we are seeing what we experienced after the Ganesh festival. We need to ensure our guard is up," he said. Dr Joshi also warned against skipping tests. "It's an alarming trend that has come to our notice - people are starting to treat themselves without getting tests. This is dangerous. If it continues, we'll never have a clear picture if numbers rise." He added that testing should not be limited to those approaching labs or those with clear symptoms. "We cannot stop contact tracing. Clearly, the formula of testing, tracing and tracking cannot be ignored," he said. Mumbai’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that testing has picked up since Diwali. “The testing figures improved to 11,493 on Wednesday. We will be carrying out more tests in the coming days," he said. Past president of MCCIA Pradeep Bharghava said that Pune administration is giving the wrong signal of a premature victory over covid by systematically reducing testing from around 15,000 in mid September to 8,000 in mid October and to 5,700 last week to 2,800 this week while average Positivity rate this week is high at 12%. While the country continues to test around 10 lakhs per day in this period even with latest positivity rate of 3.8% after 8.5% in mid October, it is surprising that the city has reduced testing,'' says Bharghava. While death numbers have come down significantly, containment of future challenges is diluted by reduced testing and this needs to be set right, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-testing-during-diwali-fell-43-in-pune-50-in-mumbai/articleshow/79294123.cms||Nisha Nambiar
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||West Bengal CM’s first rally since lockdown next week||BANKURA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is likely to address a public rally – her first since the nationwide Covid-induced lockdown in March – in Bankura on November 25. She will attend an administrative meeting in the district the day before. According to sources, Banerjee is likely to attend the administrative meeting at the Kharidubri sports complex auditorium. The public rally, sources said, will be held at Shunuk Pahari Hut grounds, around 10km from the district headquarters. Senior district Trinamool Congress leaders and Bankura police superintendent Koteshwar Rao visited the rally site on Wednesday. “All necessary measures will be taken,” Rao said but refused to elaborate. Bankura Trinamool chairperson Subhasish Battabyal said: “This rally is going to be different. The main dais will be some distance away from where people will be seated. The ground will have fenced boxes that can accommodate 25-30 people maintaining social distancing norms. Use of masks is mandatory and will be provided to all attendees. People are eager to hear their leader.” Party leader Arup Chakraborty said: “If Amit Shah can come to Bankura, so can our top leaders. The pandemic has been very trying and more so for people here. They want to hear the CM, who has been a regular visitor here.” The CM’s itinerary could not be confirmed immediately. Some sources indicated Banerjee may leave for Kolkata after the public rally, but some others hinted she may travel to Purulia before returning to Kolkata. “We have received no official communication till now,” a senior Bankura district official said. The CM had been attending administrative review meetings virtually from the Nabanna state secretariat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/didis-first-rally-since-lockdown-next-week/articleshow/79292142.cms||Falguni Banerjee
November 19, 2020||World||Georgia, Wisconsin recounts likely will not change Trump election defeat, officials say||US President Donald Trump's attempts to cling to power appeared more tenuous than ever on Wednesday as election officials in Georgia said a soon-to-be-completed recount was not likely to change President-elect Joe Biden's victory there. Georgia is one of several states where Trump's campaign is contesting election returns, so far without success. Election officials there said recount results due to be announced on Thursday were not likely to overturn Biden's 14,000-vote victory in the state. They also said the recount would not provide evidence for Trump's unsupported claims of widespread fraud. "He's been misinformed on that front," Gabriel Sterling, the state's voting system manager, told reporters. Election officials in Wisconsin likewise said that a partial recount requested by the Trump campaign would not reverse the Republican incumbent's loss in that state, which he won in 2016. Trump himself has stayed out of the public eye while venting his anger on Twitter. His election-related lawsuits in Pennsylvania, Nevada and Michigan have met with little courtroom success. Trump's refusal to concede the Nov. 3 election is blocking the smooth transition to a new administration and complicating Biden's response to the coronavirus pandemic when he takes office on Jan. 20. Trump's unfounded claims about the election having been "rigged" are failing in courts, but opinion polls show they have a political benefit, with as many as half of Trump's fellow Republicans believing them, according to a Reuters/Ipsos poll. The president is holding out hope that a manual recount ordered by Georgia can erase Biden's lead there. The state's top election official said that was unlikely. "I don't believe at the end of the day it'll change the total results," Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, a Republican, told CNN. As of Wednesday morning, Biden's lead over Trump had fallen to 12,781 ballots, down from 14,156 previously, according to Sterling, the state voting system manager. Sterling said he expected the recount to be completed by midnight EST on Wednesday (0500 GMT Thursday) and certified by the state on Friday. In Wisconsin, the state Elections Commission said it would oversee recounts in two heavily Democratic counties - Milwaukee and Dane, which includes Madison - after the Trump campaign paid the $3 million cost, less than the $7.9 million estimated cost of a statewide recount. Dane County Clerk Scott McDonell said a recount would start on Friday and finish within days. Only a few hundred votes changed in the county's recount after the 2016 presidential election, he said. “My guess would be that by focusing on Dane and Milwaukee, the end result will be that Biden will have a slight increase in votes, but nothing terribly significant - certainly nothing anywhere near what would be required for changing the outcomes,” McDonell said. Biden won Wisconsin by more than 20,000 votes to lead Trump 49.5% to 48.8%. In the state-by-state Electoral College that determines the election winner, Biden captured 306 votes to Trump's 232. He won the popular vote by more than 5.8 million. To remain in office, Trump would need to overturn results in at least three large and closely competitive states to reach the threshold of 270 electoral votes. That would be unprecedented. FALSE CLAIM ON DETROIT Trump is also challenging results in Michigan, falsely claiming on Wednesday that the number of votes in Detroit had surpassed the number of residents. The largest city in the state is heavily Democratic. "In Detroit, there are FAR MORE VOTES THAN PEOPLE. Nothing can be done to cure that giant scam. I win Michigan!" he tweeted. City records show that 250,138 votes were cast there in the presidential election. That is a little more than a third of the city's population, which according to the U.S. Census Bureau is 670,031. In a rare win for Trump in his legal assault on the election results, the Pennsylvania Supreme Court said on Wednesday it would take up an appeal challenging thousands of mail-in votes cast in Philadelphia that were missing information on the return envelopes. Biden held a virtual meeting on Wednesday with frontline healthcare workers in Delaware who complained about a lack of personal protective equipment and COVID-19 tests for themselves. He warned that the delay in declaring him the election winner could mean that "soon we're going to be behind by weeks or months being able to put together the whole initiative" to distribute coronavirus vaccines when they become available. The General Services Administration agency, run by a Trump appointee, has yet to formally declare an election winner. Biden's team says that is hindering coordination with the current White House coronavirus task force. States face a Dec. 8 deadline to certify election results in time for the official Electoral College vote on Dec. 14. Congress is scheduled to count the Electoral College votes on Jan. 6, which is normally a formality. But Trump supporters in the Senate and House of Representatives could object to the results in a final, desperate attempt to deprive Biden of 270 electoral votes and turn the final decision over to the House. Election officials from both parties, across the United States, have said there is no evidence of vote tampering, and a federal review drew the same conclusion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/us-presidential-elections/georgia-wisconsin-recounts-likely-will-not-change-trump-election-defeat-officials-say/articleshow/79294152.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad’s post-festive strategy: Increase daily tests to 6k, ramp up Covid beds||GHAZIABAD: The Ghaziabad administration has come up with a “post-festival strategy” in anticipation of rising Covid cases. In a meeting convened by the district magistrate on Wednesday, an instruction was issued to departments to ramp up existing medical infrastructure and increase the daily testing target to 6,000 from 5,000. The number of surveillance teams will also be increased from 876 to 1,100. “As of now, cases in Ghaziabad are not that alarming. But given the fresh wave in neighbouring areas, they may rise here as well after the festive period. So, we are devising a fresh strategy,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. As part of the strategy, the administration will also scale up the number of Covid beds. “In L2 and L3 Covid care facilities, we have 145 ICU beds. The capacity will now be increased to 175. These facilities now have 1,476 beds, of which 1,287 are equipped with oxygen while 98 have ventilator support,” Pandey added. The district magistrate said 189 beds in Santosh Hospital had been equipped with oxygen facilities. “The daily testing target has also been increased from 5,000 to 6,000. Apart from this, the Covid lab in MMG Hospital has been asked to increase the daily testing target from 500 to 750,” Pandey added. The administration has also requested the state government for an additional chest specialist and anaesthetist. The health department has been laying stress on door-to-door surveys and has decided to increase its surveillance teams from 876 to 1,100. “With the help of RWAs, we have started a massive mask movement that will ensure Covid protocol is implemented properly,” Pandey said. Ghaziabad city now has 172 containment zones, which account for a total of 752 active cases. “Indirapuram, Sihani Gate and Kavi Nagar have the maximum number of cases. While Indirapuram has 144 active cases in 45 containment zones, Sihani Gate has 156 active cases in 34 containment zones. In Kavi Nagar, there are 12 containment zones with 150 cases. In keeping with our strategy, we are focusing on areas neighbouring Delhi,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ghaziabads-post-festive-strategy-increase-daily-tests-to-6k-ramp-up-covid-beds/articleshow/79291963.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 19, 2020||Noida||Noida: Industries body taps factory owners on Covid protocols||NOIDA: The Indian Industries Association (IIA) has issued a directive to all small and medium scale enterprises in the district to intensify sanitation and other safety measures in the wake of rising Covid cases. “We are reinforcing all Covid-related guidelines so that workers and employers do not become lax in ensuring basic precautions such as social distancing, wearing masks, temperature checks and sanitisation. Across the world, countries are imposing lockdowns again. If the government here wants to do the same, industries will plunge into another crisis. So, we are urging employees to be as careful as possible,” said Kulmani Gupta, the president of IIA in Noida. Noida and Greater Noida together have around 10,000 small and medium scale enterprises. According to IIA data, around 7,000 of these have been fully functional since the past six months, when restrictions on movement have eased in phases. The factories that are open now are working with a capacity of around 50-70%. “The worker strength in various factories has been downsized. So, the approximate number of workers now employed by SMEs is around 5 lakh. Before the lockdown, the official employment figure in the SMEs was around 10 lakh,” Gupta said. At the Noida Special Economic Zone, which hosts some 240 industries, sanitisation is in progress in full steam, said Ajay Goel, president of the Noida SEZ Welfare Association. “We are reinforcing all the guidelines. Vehicles are being disinfected while entering the compound and wearing masks have been made mandatory. The IT industries in the SEZ are still following the work-from-home model,” Goel added. At the UPSIDC sites, which have been seeing major infrastructure development, notices have been sent to all factories to strictly adhere to the safety guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/industries-body-taps-factory-owners-on-covid-protocols/articleshow/79292007.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
November 19, 2020||Kolkata||Kolkata may receive light rain today||KOLKATA: The city will remain cloudy and may receive a light drizzle on Thursday or Friday under the impact of a high-pressure zone that is now sailing across south Bengal towards Bay of Bengal. Once the system passes away by Saturday, the mercury may drop to 17°C-18°C, said the Met office. "The high-pressure system has been pulling in moisture that has led to clouds. This may eventually lead to light rain in the city," said regional meteorological centre (RMC) director G K Das. He added the system has triggered thunderstorms in Midnapore on Wednesday. "But the high pressure is moving away towards the sea. It should cease to have any impact by Saturday. Once that happens, the wind direction will change, leading to a temperature drop," added Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-may-receive-light-rain-today/articleshow/79294197.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Pune||Skull, bones wrapped in plastic found in Pune||PUNE: Two youths, while searching for fish, found a human skull and bones in a plastic bag inside a public toilet water tank at Balajinagar in Bhosari on Tuesday evening. The youths immediately alerted a social worker in the area, who informed the Bhosari MIDC police. Senior inspector Shivaji Gaware of the Bhosari MIDC police told TOI, “We have sent the remains to a forensic laboratory for examination.” Meanwhile, the police have also started tracing information about registered missing persons’ complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/skull-bones-wrapped-in-plastic-found-in-pune/articleshow/79294202.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Noida||Furniture park to come up on 300 acres||GREATER NOIDA: The Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (YEIDA) will build a furniture park on 300 acres spread over sectors 28 and 29. Officials said 4,000 sqm of the total area will be allotted by draw of lots. So far, 15 firms have shown interest in the scheme that will be floated in January next year. The park will also have antique furniture and together it is likely to push sales, as Jewar airport is coming up in the vicinity, officials said. According to Rakesh Kumar, executive director, Export Promotion Council for Handicrafts (EPCH), the overall exports of handcrafted wooden furniture and wood ware in 2019-20 was Rs 5,494.85 crore, while the manufacturing segment earned Rs 2,747.42 crore in the same period. The figure in 2018-19 was Rs 5,311.59 crore and Rs 2,655.79 crore, respectively. “A furniture park near Jewar airport would definitely boost exports and help the manufacturing segment of Indian wood ware, which not only includes furnitures like beds, sofas, tables and cabinets, but also decorative items like statues, frames and figurines,” said Kumar. He added that European countries like France, Germany and UK are major export hubs for furniture. Arun Vir Singh, the CEO, YEIDA, said: “We will develop 300 acres in sectors 28 and 29 as a furniture park/wood ware hub. This cluster will be close to the handicraft and apparel hub, also being developed by YEIDA. The scheme will be floated in January 2021 and we already have 15 big companies that have shown interest in the project.” YEIDA has already launched schemes for toy, apparel handicrafts and an MSME park that are expected to create job opportunities for the local youths. While plots have been allocated for these parks, the allottees will have to begin manufacturing in five years from the date of their allotment. Under the furniture park scheme, 4,000 sqm would be divided into plots and allotted by draw of lots. “Both sectors 28 and 29 have 150 acres each that would be developed,” said Singh, adding that the rate for up to 4,000 sqm land in the industrial sectors is Rs 6,670 per sqm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/furniture-park-to-come-up-on-300-acres/articleshow/79291352.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
November 19, 2020||Noida||After borders, random tests at 2 metro stations in Noida||NOIDA: After the borders with Delhi, the health department and Noida administration will on Thursday extend the exercise to conduct rapid antigen tests for Covid-19 to two metro stations – New Ashok Nagar and Botanical Garden. Sanjeev Manglik, nodal officer for testing in Gautam Budh Nagar, said the Delhi health department would be notified if anyone from the national capital tests positive during these testing exercises. “We are taking these steps as additional measures as there is no society, tower or sector where routine camps and testing has not been not carried out. It is not as if a huge number of positives are coming from one place. Hence, our focus is to continue testing with increased numbers,” Manglik said, adding 2,800 rapid antigen tests were conducted on Wednesday – 700 short of the target set by the state government – and 61 people tested positive Manglik said at a review meeting with additional chief secretary Amit Mohan Prasad and health secretary Alok Kumar on Wednesday evening, Gautam Budh Nagar was commended for its efforts to keep the pandemic in check. The district has maintained a low fatality rate and there have been no deaths of patients who have been in home isolation. Health officials admitted crowded markets and public places and a slackening of the people’s vigil against Covid-19 were causes for concern. Narendra Bhooshan, nodal officer for Covid response in Gautam Budh Nagar, said the festive season had led to a spike incases. “The important thing is to ensure safety through strict Covid protocols of social distancing, masks and sanitisation. Covid-19 is spreading very fast and with very high numbers – highest since March 22,” he said. “Interactions with different people, including doctors, point to a slightly worrying factor, that of a new strain impacting the lungs very quickly apart from overall negligence on part of residents in maintaining Covid protocols. While pollution and the festive season may have been one of the reasons for this spike, it is high time to take precautions. I urge all citizens to wear masks all the time, and maintain social distancing if they go out because people are catching Covid-19 very fast. People should wash hands regularly with soap and test immediately if they develop any symptoms and get admitted to a hospital for 24-48 hours if they are found to be Covid-19 positive. This will help in saving lives,” Bhooshan added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/after-borders-random-tests-at-2-metro-stations/articleshow/79291908.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
November 19, 2020||Noida||Noida: Patient duped with promise of Coronil||NOIDA: A Covid-19 patient was allegedly duped by a person who promised to deliver Patanjali’s Coronil to him. Neither was the medicine sent nor did the man receive a refund. Arvind Pachauri (62), who is a senior HR officer at a private firm, said when he had asked the Patanjali store in Sector 22 about Coronil’s availability on November 13, he was told it could not be delivered. After three hours, he received a call from a person who identified himself as Neeraj Kumar. “He claimed to be speaking from the head office of Patanjali online services and said he would deliver the medicine next day,” alleged Pachauri, adding that he paid Rs 545 via Paytm but never got the medicine. He said when he called up Neeraj, he claimed the firm had changed its policy and he would now have to buy three packets if he wanted home delivery. Pachauri said he became suspicious and asked for a refund, after which Neeraj switched off his phone. A spokesperson for Patanjali Ayurved said they will forward Pachauri’s complaint to Noida police so that action is initiated against the miscreant. “We’ll help him get Coronil from the nearest store,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/patient-duped-with-promise-of-coronil/articleshow/79291921.cms||Shikha Salaria
November 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Youth held for assault on woman||KOCHI: A 32-year-old man was arrested by Ernakulam Town North police on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting and spitting on a woman. The arrested person has been identified as Shyam Kumar of Eramalloor in Cherthala. According to police, the complainant, a mother of two, used to reside in a rented house near the house of the accused at Eramalloor till a year ago. The woman moved to Ernakulam after the accused started to bother her a lot, inebriated. Police said Kumar approached her when she was on her way to office and proposed to have a relationship with her on Monday. When she refused, he allegedly assaulted her, pushed her on to the ground and spat on her. Following her petition, police tracked him down and picked him up from Ayyappankavu. He was produced before the court and was remanded in judicial custody. Inspector Sibi Tom, subinspectors V B Anas and T N Maitheen, and civil police officers Febin, Praveen, and Sreejith made the arrest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-youth-held-for-assault-on-woman/articleshow/79294208.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Ex-minister V K Ebrahim Kunju arrested in flyover scam||KOCHI: The vigilance and anti-corruption bureau (VACB) on Wednesday arrested former public works minister and IUML MLA V K Ebrahim Kunju in the Palarivattom flyover corruption case. He was later remanded in judicial custody for 14 days but allowed to continue at a private hospital here from where his arrest was recorded. The vigilance had arraigned Kunju as an accused in the case on March 9 after taking permission from the government and he has been accused of awarding the tender and sanctioning an advance amount of around Rs 8.5 crore to RDS, the construction company which built the flyover, at a meagre interest, causing loss to the exchequer. The agency had earlier questioned Kunju multiple times. The day's events were marked by drama, with several VACB sleuths landing at Kunju's house in Aluva around 8.30am. They waited for a while to enter the house as there were no women personnel with them and the MLA’s wife was alone at the house. Court to consider bail plea of Kunju todayThey searched the house later with the help of local police and left on the basis of information that the former minister has been admitted to Lakeshore Hospital since Tuesday. Hospital sources said he was a regular patient at its oncology department and he was admitted to the hospital last week as well. The sleuths recorded Kunju's arrest at the hospital around 10.30am after discussion with his physicians. The remand report was submitted at Muvattupuzha vigilance court and the vigilance special judge visited the hospital around 6pm to complete the remand proceedings. The court will consider a bail application from Kunju and a custody application from the VACB on Thursday. Apart from Kunju, who is the fifth accused, there are seven other accused in the case -- former PWD secretary T O Sooraj, RDS Projects MD Sumeet Goyal, former RBDCK assistant general manager M T Thankachan, KITCO general manager Benny Paul, KITCO officials Shalimar M S and Nisha Thankachi and Manjunath H of a Bengaluru-based consultancy. Sooraj had claimed that Kunju had sanctioned the release of the advance payment. “The minister decided to accord sanction for release of advance and ordered to release Rs 8,25,59,768 without any interest... It is the petitioner (Sooraj) who ordered to charge interest at the rate of 2% excess of the rate available for saving bank deposits,” he had claimed in his bail petition filed in the high court in September 2019. Sooraj had repeated this allegation to VACB officials also while Kunju had maintained that he had done nothing wrong by giving clearance to a file. The 750-metrelong flyover bridge, which was opened to the public on October 12, 2016 and closed nearly two-and-a-half years later on May 1, 2019, is being reconstructed now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-ex-minister-v-k-ebrahim-kunju-arrested-in-flyover-scam/articleshow/79294132.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bhopal||All you need to know about country's first 'cow cabinet' in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Wednesday announced a ‘cow cabinet’, yoking together six departments — animal husbandry, agriculture, panchayat, forests, home and revenue. It’s the first such step in the country. The first meeting will be held at noon on November 22 — Gopashtami — at the ‘cow sanctuary’ set up in Agar Malwa in 2017, tweeted Chouhan. The ‘gau cabinet’ will work towards conservation and welfare of cows, the CM said. The announcement came when Chouhan had gone to offer prayers to Lord Venkateswara at the Tirumala temple. Details of the cow cabinet are yet to be announced. Five ministers will be part of this group — Narottam Mishra (home), Prem Singh Patel (animal husbandry), Mahendra Singh Sisodiya (panchayat), Kunwar Vijay Shah (forest) and Kamal Patel (revenue and agriculture). “BJP is the guardian of Indian culture. It believes that there are three means of contentment — Gita, Ganga and Gaumata. That inspired the decision to form a gau cabinet. The BJP government under Shivraj Singh Chouhan has set an example before the country,” Mishra said. BJP state chief V D Sharma retweeted the CM’s announcement. Minister for agriculture development Kamal Patel welcomed the decision. “The Congress government promised construction of a thousand cow shelters, but not a single one was built. The Chouhan government has started not only working for protection of cows but also for its conservation.” PCC chief Kamal Nath dismissed it as “just another announcement” by Chouhan. “Before the 2018 assembly elections, Shivraj Singh announced formation of a cow ministry. He had also promised a network of cow-sanctuaries and cow-shelters all over the state. Forgetting his earlier announcements, he is now talking about a cow cabinet,” Nath tweeted. Congress didn’t build 15 gaushalas in 15 months in power, says Narottam MishraThe former CM alleged that the Shivraj government had done nothing for protection of cows. “In contrast, he reduced funds for fodder, which the Congress government had raised to Rs 20 per cow,” Nath said. As CM, Nath had promised to build 1,000 gau shalas in Madhya Pradesh. Narottam Mishra took a dig at Congress on Wednesday, saying: “The Congress government kept talking but didn’t build 15 gaushalas in 15 months. Whatever progress has come in Madhya Pradesh has been under Shivraj Singh Chouhan.” The cow sanctuary — Kamdhenu Gau Abhayaranya — had come up during Chouhan’s third term as CM at a cost of Rs 32 crore. It is spread over 472 hectares in Salaria village of Agar Malwa, about 210km from Bhopal, and can hold over 4,000 cows. It shelters cows that are old, diseased or can’t give milk any longer. In 2004, the Uma-Bharti-led BJP government passed an Anti-Cow-Slaughter Act that severely restricted transport of cows through Madhya Pradesh. Cow protection returned to the poll arena ahead of the 2018 assembly elections, when Congress, led by Kamal Nath, made construction of cow-shelters in every panchayat a manifesto promise. Congress also promised a law against cowvigilantism. Congress came to power for 15 months during which time it claimed to have started construction of a thousand cow shelters. In 2019, two major incidents of cowvigilantism led the Congress government to amend the anti-cow slaughter law, making provisions for six months to three years’ imprisonment for cow vigilantism and allowing transport of cows with permission. BJP said it would endanger cows. On Wednesday, Nath said the Congress government had fulfilled its promise and started construction of cowshelters on a large scale across the state. “At least the BJP government has acquired some wisdom from the Congress government’s work for cow protection and they started taking some interest in protection of Gau-Mata,” Nath tweeted. “But if they want to work the right way for cow support, then like the Congress government, BJP should start construction of cowsheds across the state and fulfil all previous announcements made regarding cows. Only then can protection and conservation of cows be done in the right manner,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-singh-chouhan-announces-madhya-pradesh-cow-cabinet-a-first-in-country/articleshow/79294217.cms||Suchandana Gupta
November 19, 2020||Kochi||Kerala: Cases among health workers decline from 3.6 to 1.7% in 4 months||KOCHI: The state had witnessed a steady rise in Covid-19 cases from July to October but the percentage of healthcare workers (HCWs) among those infected has seen a decline over these months -- from 3.6% to 1.7%. Health experts attribute this to increased awareness and necessary precautions in place for them. The risk of HCWs getting infected is in fact more from the community rather than hospitals. In July, about 690 or 3.6% of 19,171 persons tested positive for Covid infection were healthcare workers. The corresponding figures were about 1,500 or 3.1% of 51,771 Covid infections in August, about 3,600 or 2.6% of 1.20 lakh cases in September and about 3,700 or 1.7% of 2.36 lakh cases in October, according to a Directorate of Health Services (DHS) report. Around 5% of Kerala's population of nearly 33 million are HCWs, which include doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, junior health inspectors, accredited social health activists (ASHAs) and cleaning staff in hospitals. Health experts said awareness had been the key factor in protecting HCWs. The health department, along with Indian Medical Association (IMA) and Association of Healthcare Providers (India) AHPI, worked to create awareness amongst HCWs about Covid and how to ensure safety by wearing masks, avoiding gatherings and talking in the hospital and cafeteria. Quality PPE kits were ensured for hosp staffHospitals, both government and private, provided special training to their staff on proper usage of masks and PPE kits. Quality PPE kits were ensured, along with infection control measures and regular audits, in each hospital. Patients and bystanders were tested for Covid symptoms at hospital entrances while ventilation was improved in each hospital room. There was also a helpline for HCWs in distress besides medical insurance schemes for Covid treatment in many private hospitals for their staff. Meanwhile, the government ensured regular sentinel surveillance among HCWs. "Preserving the limited healthcare workforce is part of the strategy against the pandemic. Compared to the initial months of the infection, HCWs are now more aware. Ventilation and masks have played a key role in safeguarding HCWs and now they avoid closed rooms and loud talking besides crowding," said IMA Kochi former president Dr Rajeev Jayadevan, who wrote on 108 doctor deaths in India. The first Covid death of an HCW in the state -- a doctor from Thiruvananthapuram -- was reported in September while three doctors have succumbed to the infection so far. The HCWs are exposed to the virus not only in their line of work but also in the community. "Though the percentage of HCWs infected when compared to the general population is showing a declining trend, the fact remains that the number of infected among them is on the rise every month," said Dr Jayakrishnan A V, chairman of Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Hospital Board of India. "We have to be continuously cautious; we can't let our guard down. If the infection is spreading in the community, HCWs are also at increased risk of getting infected," said Dr Joseph Chacko, president, Kerala Government Medical Officers' Association (KGMOA).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-cases-among-health-workers-decline-from-3-6-to-1-7-in-4-months/articleshow/79294171.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Kochi||Kochi: Covid-19 gives last-minute twist to candidate selection||KOCHI: Covid has given a twist in the candidature of P M Harris, a Muslim League leader and former works standing committee chairman of Kochi corporation. The party had decided to field Harris from Pottakkuzhi division of the corporation. But he contracted Covid-19 and it may take a few more days for him to recover thereby forcing him to stay away from campaign front for some time. Considering the setback it may cause, the party decided to field his daughter Sruthi Harris from the division. Harris couldn’t attend even the last meeting of the corporation council at Subhash Bose Park on November 10. “I had almost started my campaign when I contracted the disease. I had been very much active in Covid control measures as well as helping people in my ward and other areas. As a people’s representative, I had to go to different places to help Covid patients or those under quarantine,” Harris said. “The same is the case with many other councillors. Some of them got the virus during their efforts to provide help Covid patients or other residents. We can’t stay away from such activities,” Harris said. “My only worry is that I couldn’t attend the last council meeting and bid farewell to my colleagues. Anyway, I am grateful to all who supported me in the past five years in discharging my duties as a councillor and standing committee chairman,” he said. On Wednesday, Sruthi started her election campaign by meeting voters in Pottakkuzhi division “I will be filing nomination papers on Thursday,” Sruthi said. “I had never expected that I will be the candidate,” she said. On her first day of campaigning, she also attended a UDF election convention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kochi-covid-19-gives-last-minute-twist-to-candidate-selection/articleshow/79294181.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Bhopal||Bhopal Covid-19 deaths cross 500 mark||BHOPAL: Amid fear of a ‘second wave’ of Covid-19 infection in the state capital, the death toll due to the pandemic touched 500 on Wednesday. It’s grim tidings for the administration and healthcare staff bracing to tackle a possible surge in cases after Diwali and Dhanteras. The health bulletin said 27,891 people have so far been infected by the virus. Covid-19 cases are again on the rise after the festive season, with the daily count exceeding 200 in Bhopal. Thankfully, however, the daily death toll hasn’t surged. In the past six days, one death has been reported due to Coronavirus infection daily. “We are apprehensive of a second wave in the next fortnight. By that time, people who have got infected in the hustle-bustle of Diwali would be known. Efforts are being made to identify them and treat them in time. We shall also undertake a publicity campaign to warn people not to let masks go off their faces and remain in Covid discipline,” said district administration spokesperson, Arun Rathore, on Wednesday. A group of activists disputes the death figure and said names of several Bhopal Gas Tragedy victims and those, who received treatment in private hospitals have not found place in the list of deceased who died of Covid-19. “The gas tragedy relief department is already inquiring into the number of deaths that have taken place at the BMHRC. All deaths were not reported to the administration by various hospitals and therefore, the figure does not reflect the right picture,” said Bhopal Group of Information & Action co-convener, Rachna Dhingra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-covid-19-deaths-cross-500-mark/articleshow/79294260.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
November 19, 2020||Kochi||886 contact cases among 887 new positives in Ernakulam||KOCHI: Ernakulam on Wednesday reported 887 Covid positive cases, including 886 contact ones. Source of infection of the 209 are unknown. As many as 19 healthcare workers and six guest workers also tested positive for coronavirus. Most of the cases of the day were reported from West Kochi, where 56 persons turned Covid positive. It was followed by Chengamanad (34), Karukutty (28), Thrikkakara (24), Rayamangalam (23), Kalady (22) and Kizhakkambalam (22). Less than five cases were reported from 48 places. A total of 29,513 persons are undergoing quarantine in houses, Covid care centres and paid facilities. As many as 720 recovered on Wednesday when 208 were discharged. Ernakulam has 9,755 active Covid cases, including 7,312 home care ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/886-contact-cases-among-887-new-positives-in-ernakulam/articleshow/79294275.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Indore||31 staff of Indore jewellery showroom test positive for Covid-19||INDORE: Local health authorities are scrambling to trace hundreds of people after 31 employees of a major jewellery showroom tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, soon after the Dhanteras and Diwali rush. Twenty employees tested positive in the first batch, and 11 more in an evening report. The tests were carried out at a private laboratory, said chief medical and health officer Dr Pravin Jadia. “We have started tracing the infected staff and customers, who would have come in contact with them over the past week. We want to check if any of them has cough, cold or other symptoms of Covid so that we can have them tested,” Dr Jadia added. Most shoppers were seen not wearing masksIn the evening, 11 more employees tested coronavirus positive, said district Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Amit Malakar. To add to the concerns, Malakar said that they have unconfirmed reports of a sweet shop owner and his family members being infected by the virus. The jewellery showroom is being sanitised and will reopen only after fumigation is completed, the CMHO said. “The management has been asked to give us a list of customers, who visited them during the Diwali festivities,” Malakar added. These 31 employees were among 194 new Covid cases reported in Indore’s daily report. Health officials in the state’s commercial capital — the worst hit by coronavirus — are bracing for a surge in infections after the festive season. During Dhanteras and Diwali, all the markets were overcrowded, with no attention to social distancing. A majority of the shoppers were not seen wearing face masks despite repeated warnings from the district administration. In the past 24 hours, as many as 115 localities have reported new coronavirus cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/31-staff-of-indore-jewellery-showroom-test-positive-for-covid-19/articleshow/79294287.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Delhi||Women safety: Enforcement teams of DTC get 20 vans||NEW DELHI: In a move that would ensure a safer journey for women travellers, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) has deployed 20 new vans for its mobile enforcement teams, which will be the first responders in case of an emergency. On Wednesday, transport minister Kailash Gahlot inaugurated the operation of the 20 vans. Delhi government has already deployed bus marshals, including a significant number of women marshals, a statement from the minister’s office said. Gahlot said the government has been making efforts to ensure strengthening of enforcement measures and women safety. “Enforcement is a major aspect of transport, and once our command centres are fully functional, these vans specially designated for women safety will act as a Quick Response Team in ensuring swift action,” he said. TOI had recently reported about the department’s Command and Control Centre coming up in Kashmere Gate. “The transport department is upgrading itself by computerising all its bus pass sections, and moving to smart methods of ticketing like soonto-be launched contactless ticketing facility,” he said. Gahlot also inaugurated the newly renovated Pass Section at DTC’s Sarojini Nagar Bus Depot. The section has an airconditioned hall with adequate seating and provision of hot and cold drinking water. DTC’s 40 Pass Sections issue more than 1 lakh passes every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/women-safety-enforcement-teams-of-dtc-get-20-vans/articleshow/79294315.cms||---
November 19, 2020||Ghaziabad||Kalburgi second in Karnataka to get Hindon flights||GHAZIABAD: The first flight from Kalburgi in Karnataka landed at Hindon airport shortly after noon on Wednesday, with 26 passengers on board. An official of Star Air, operating the flight three days a week, said that 50% of the seats were booked on the first day and the same 50-seater aircraft left for Kalburgi at 1.10pm with 27 passengers. Passengers TOI spoke to said that the direct flight from Kalburgi has provided the much-needed connectivity for people, especially in Delhi-NCR and western UP districts. Originally from Kalburgi, Jagadevi Hiremath, who works at Karnataka House in Delhi, took the first flight to Ghaziabad. “It was always a problem for me to commute between my hometown and my place of work due to the absence of a direct flight from Delhi. I had to change flights either at Hyderabad or Bengaluru, which was time-consuming. It was a hassle-free and time-saving journey for me and my 15-year-old daughter.” Akhilesh Choudhary, a Ghaziabad-based auditor, was in Kalburgi when he came to know about the direct flight to Hindon. “The nature of my job requires a lot of travelling to southern India. As soon as I got to know about the maiden flight to Ghaziabad from Kalburgi, I wasted no time in getting a ticket booked,” said the resident of Shivpuri area. A Star Air official, meanwhile, said the flight on Wednesday was flown both ways to 50% occupancy. “As per our assessment, it is going to be a popular route, we are already operating flights from Hindon terminal to Hubli and this is the second route,” he said. Since November last year, Star Air has been operating flights from the Hindon terminal on the Hubli route four days a week and a 50-seater Embraer 145 aircraft is being used. “The same plane — Embraer 145 aircraft — is being used on the new route and we are currently offering services on the Hubli route on Mondays, Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays. On the remaining three days, the plane will cater to the Kalburgi route,” said the official. As per the timings, flights will depart from Kalburgi at 10.20am and arrive at Hindon at 12.40pm, and then the plane will again depart from Hindon at 1.10pm and reach Kalburgi at 3.30pm. “The duration of the flight is 2 hours and 30 minutes, and the minimum fare is Rs 3,799 on way,” said the official. Flight services from Hindon terminal started in October last year and the first route selected was Hindon-Pithoragarh. A month later, services began on the Hubli route. While operation on the Hubli route continues uninterrupted, services have not been streamlined on the Pithoragarh route till date. “Before March, flight services on the Hubli route went off well but due to maintenance issues, Heritage Airlines could not streamline the operations. Since resumption of services from the Hindon terminal post-Unlock in August, not a single flight has operated on the Pithoragarh route,” said Shobha Bhardwaj, director of Hindon civil terminal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/kalburgi-second-in-karnataka-to-get-hindon-flights/articleshow/79291805.cms||Abhijay Jha
November 19, 2020||Indore||Indore: Cops look for motorist who abused Acharya Vidyasagar’s disciples||INDORE: Dewas police are looking for a motorist who allegedly shouted abuses at a group of disciples walking with Acharya Vidyasagar on Indore-Nemawar Road on Tuesday. Double Chowki police station in-charge Deepak Malvi said the accused was driving his car recklessly, endangering the safety of 150 Jain community members who were walking down the road at 3pm. They were conducting Vihaar and were on their way towards Nemawar, he said. “A case has been registered under IPC sections 279 (rash driving) and 294 (uttering obscenities in a public place). We are investigating it,” Malvi said. The complainant, Ravindra Jain, told police that when the Jain monk’s followers requested the motorist to slow down and allow the group to walk across, he sped up and abused at them. “The manner in which he drove put the group’s safety at risk,” he alleged. Acharya Vidyasagar was on a visit to Indore and had left the city towards Ujjain, when the incident took place. He is one of the most respected Jain Acharyas. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat, former MP CMs Kamal Nath, Digvijaya Singh and Uma Bharti, Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath and Union minister Rajnath Singh are among the leaders who have sought his blessings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/indore-cops-look-for-motorist-who-abused-acharya-vidyasagars-disciples/articleshow/79294314.cms||---
November 19, 2020||World||Barack Obama memoir off to record-setting start in sales||NEW YORK: Former US President Barack Obama's “A Promised Land” sold nearly 890,000 copies in the US and Canada in its first 24 hours, putting it on track to be the best selling presidential memoir in modern history. The first-day sales, a record for Penguin Random House, includes pre-orders, e-books and audio. “We are thrilled with the first day sales,” said David Drake, publisher of the Penguin Random House imprint Crown. “They reflect the widespread excitement that readers have for President Obama's highly anticipated and extraordinarily written book.” The only book by a former White House resident to come close to the early pace of “A Promised Land” is the memoir by Obama's wife, Michelle Obama, whose “Becoming” sold 725,000 copies in North America on its first day and has topped 10 million worldwide since its release in 2018. “Becoming" is still so in demand that Crown, which publishes both Obamas and reportedly paid around $60 million for their books, has yet to release a paperback. As of midday Wednesday, “A Promised Land” was No. 1 on Amazon.com and Barnes & Noble.com. James Daunt, CEO of Barnes & Noble, said that the superstore chain easily sold more than 50,000 copies its first day and hoped to reach half a million within 10 days. “So far it has been neck and neck with Michelle Obama's book,” he said. By comparison, Bill Clinton's “My Life” sold around 400,000 copies in North America its first day and George W. Bush's “Decision Points” around 220,000, with sales for each memoir currently between 3.5 and 4 million copies. The fastest selling book in memory remains JK Rowling's seventh and final Harry Potter novel, “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows,” which came out in 2007 and sold more than 8 million copies within 24 hours. Obama's 768-page memoir, which came out Tuesday and has a list price of $45, had unusually risky timing for a book of such importance to the author, to readers and to the publishing industry. It came out just two weeks after Election Day and could have been overshadowed had the race still been in doubt or perhaps unwanted by distressed Obama fans if President Donald Trump had defeated Democratic nominee Joe Biden. But Biden won and his victory likely renews interest in an era when he was Obama's trusted and popular vice president. Obama himself acknowledges that he didn't intend for the book, the first of two planned volumes, to arrive so close to a presidential election or to take nearly four years after he left the White House — months longer than for “My Life” and two years longer than “Decision Points.” In the introduction to “A Promised Land,” dated August 2020, Obama writes that “the book kept growing in length and scope” as he found he needed more words than expected to capture a given moment — a bind many authors well understand. He was also working under conditions he “didn't fully anticipate," from the pandemic to the Black Lives Matters protests, to, “most troubling of all,” how the country's “democracy seems to be teetering on the brink of crisis.” Because of the pandemic, Obama will not go on the all-star arena tour Michelle Obama had for “Becoming.” But he benefits from the attention of any memoir by a former president and by the special attention for Obama, who has the rare stature among politicians of writing his own books and for attracting as much or more attention for how he tells a story than for the story itself. Obama has already written two acclaimed, million-selling works, “Dreams from My Father” and “The Audacity of Hope, which came out in 2006. His new book covers some of the same time period as his previous ones, while continuing his story through the first 2 1/2 ears of his presidency and the 2011 killing of Osama bin Laden by the Navy SEALS. Publishers Weekly praised the book as “shot through with memorable turns of phrase,” while other reviews were more qualified, calling the book all too reflective of Obama's thoughtful, even-handed style. The New York Times' Jennifer Szalai wrote that the “most audacious thing" about “A Promised Land” is “the beaming portrait" of Obama on the cover. The Washington Post's Carlos Lozada noted that in “domestic policy and foreign affairs, in debates over culture and race, Obama splits differences, clings to the middle ground and trusts in process as much as principle." “It turns out he is not a 'revolutionary soul' but a reformist one, 'conservative in temperament if not in vision.' Behind those dreams, the audacity and all that promise is a stubborn streak of moderation," Lozada wrote. Obama's book is the highlight of publishing's holiday season and for some independent bookstores the potential difference between remaining in business or closing down. Publishing sales have been surprisingly stable during the pandemic, but much of the benefit has gone to Amazon.com as readers turned increasingly to online purchases. The American Booksellers Association, the independent sellers' trade group, has warned that hundreds of stores could go out of business if holiday sales fall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/barack-obama-memoir-off-to-record-setting-start-in-sales/articleshow/79294327.cms||---
